Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Felicia Vonella — Executive Director, Investor Relations, Acorda Therapeutics, Inc.
Ron Cohen — President & Chief Executive Officer, Acorda Therapeutics, Inc.
David Lawrence — Chief, Business Operations and Principal Accounting Officer, Acorda Therapeutics, Inc.
Andrew Tsai — Analyst, Jefferies LLC
Timur Ivannikov — Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc.
Carmen Augustine — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC
Philip Nadeau — Analyst, Cowen & Company
Kevin Patel — Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC
Jay Olson — Analyst, Oppenheimer & Co., Inc.
Julian Harrison — Analyst, H.C. Wainwright & Co., LLC
Ken Trbovich — Analyst, Janney Montgomery Scott LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Hi, and welcome to the Acorda Therapeutics First Quarter 2018 Update. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. There will be a question-and-answer session to follow. Please be advised that this call is being taped at the company's request.

I will now introduce your host for today's call, Felicia Vonella, Executive Director of Investor Relations at Acorda. Please go ahead.

Thank you so much, and good morning, everyone. Before we begin, let me remind everyone this presentation will contain forward-looking statements. Our more detailed disclosures are found in our SEC filings, which are public and we encourage you to refer to those filings.

Let me now pass the call off to Ron Cohen. Ron?

Thanks Felicia, and good morning, everyone. Thanks for joining us. Highlights for the quarter included acceptance of our NDA for INBRIJA by the FDA with a PDUFA date of October 5, 2018. INBRIJA is our investigational inhaled levodopa treatment for symptoms of OFF periods in people with Parkinson's disease, who are taking carbidopa/levodopa regimens. We also submitted a Marketing Authorization Application or MAA to the European Medicines Agency for INBRIJA at the end of March.

Last week, we presented new data on INBRIJA at the Annual Meeting of the American Academy of Neurology. We had four abstracts accepted for oral presentations. Dr. Stuart Isaacson and Dr. Bob Hauser presented Phase 1 safety and exploratory efficacy data for INBRIJA in early morning OFFs which is Study 009. And Acorda's, Dr. Charles Oh, presented long-term safety and efficacy data from Study 005, our extension study – excuse me, long-term safety study. The presentations were well received, indeed enthusiastically well received.

Turning to AMPYRA. We reported revenue of $103 million in the first quarter. This was below analyst for consensus of $129 million; however, it was only slightly lower than our own internal forecast and that was primarily related to a modest expansion in inventories in the fourth quarter, although still within our contractual terms, which normalized by the end of the first quarter. Prescription demand in the first quarter was in line with our forecast as well. And second quarter sales to-date and prescription demand is also in line with our internal forecast. We are therefore reiterating our net sales guidance for the full year of $330 million to $350 million.

Regarding our AMPYRA patent appeal, we've been assigned the date of June 7th for oral argument before the federal appeals court and we are looking forward to the opportunity to argue our case in court. This table summarizes the key financials for the quarter. Of note, we ended the quarter with $333 million in cash and are well capitalized for anticipated launch of INBRIJA.

Moving to our key milestones for 2018. Most important is our PDUFA date for INBRIJA on October 5th. We're preparing for approval and launch potentially in the fourth quarter of this year. And as I noted previously, we'll also have oral argument for the AMPYRA patent appeal on June 7th with a decision anticipated in the second half of the year. We've completed and analyzed the Phase 1 data for our remyelinating antibody rHIgM22.

This was a study in 27 people with acute relapse and multiple sclerosis, and the study's primary objective was safety and tolerability of a single dose following a relapse. The data showed that a single dose of rHIgM22 was not associated with any safety signals. Study was not powered to show efficacy. We had exploratory efficacy measures, which showed no difference between the treatment groups and we're now considering the next steps for the program.

So our strategic priorities for 2018 are to achieve approval and successful launch of INBRIJA, to maximize the value of AMPYRA, including our vigorous prosecution of the appeal and continued financial discipline.

We'll now open the line for your questions. Operator?

Ladies and gentlemen, we will now conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Your first question today comes from the line of Michael Yee with Jefferies. Please go ahead.

Hi. This is Andrew Tsai in for Michael. Thanks for the questions. Maybe at a high level, if you win the AMPYRA appeal, do things resume back to normal, or what changes would you have to make? And maybe if you lose, then what happens? Are you already fully prepared for this scenario? And I have a follow-up to that.

Yeah. So, well, the – our base case on which we base our projections has to assume, as it does, there's a loss of exclusivity, unless and until we win the appeal. Should we win the appeal, we would expect to continue to have exclusivity on AMPYRA for several more years and that would be obviously a very good scenario and would allow us to accelerate development of pipeline, and it would be a very good upside scenario in terms of our ability to build value and develop additional products.

Understood. And has the FDA's medical device division reviewed your manufacturing facility that's making your drug device combo? And if not, when would that happen? And do you – I guess, do you construe that as a risk because you may have a relatively new facility? Thanks.

Okay. So we don't comment on ongoing activities with FDA and then – during the NDA review unless there's something material. So I really can't comment on an inspection question at all. In the normal course, I will just say, as a general principle in the normal course of an NDA, one would expect at some point that there would be inspections by the FDA of our manufacturing facilities.

I do want to add a thought to your previous question, which is that, of course we accept – expect a precipitous decline in revenue if we were to have generic entry following the end of July and we are going to take appropriate steps as needed with regard to that and depending on the trajectory of the loss of revenue, we would adjust expenses as needed.

Thanks, Ron.

Your next question comes from the line of Laura Chico with Raymond James. Please go ahead.

Yes. Hi, good morning. This is actually Timur Ivannikov on for Laura Chico and we had a question about your inventories. You mentioned expansion of customer inventories, they are now back to normal. Could you also characterize any potential impact or drawdown to your own inventory in the quarter? And given the setup for the remainder of 2018, could you – would you anticipate any fluctuations to occur in 2018?

I'm sorry. I'm not sure I understood your question about drawdown to our own inventories. I mean...

Yeah. Sure. Sure. It looks like your inventory is down quarter-over-quarter about $10 million?

Yeah.

Dave?

Yeah. It's just a normal flow of how we order depending on when batches come in. So there was nothing unusual about what happened in the quarter to our inventories.

Okay. Great. And then, I guess, our second question would be about your AMPYRA guidance. So we were wondering if you just walk us through the AMPYRA guidance assumptions for $340 million at the midpoint? I think looking back at historical sequential growth for 2Q over 1Q, you typically grow around 15% quarter-over-quarter and so that suggests about $120 million assumption in the back half in the second half of 2018. Are there any growth drivers in 2Q that are we are missing, could you elaborate on any – anything else? Thank you.

Yeah. We really – we don't give quarter-by-quarter guidance. So what we can tell you is that, again I'll reiterate, we were very close to our actual numbers with our internal forecast for the first quarter. The second quarter, prescription trends, inventories, and the sales are all in line with our internal forecast and we are therefore reiterating our guidance for the year.

Okay. Thank you very much.

Your next question comes from the line of Cory Kasimov with JPMorgan. Please go ahead.

Hi. This is Carmen on for Cory. Thanks for taking the question...

I'm sorry. We can't quite hear you.

Hi. Can you hear me better?

Yes.

Hi. This is Carmen on for Cory. Thanks for taking the question. So, on INBRIJA, ahead of the potential launch in the fourth quarter, have you initiated discussions with payers around pricing? And if so, could you comment on their receptivity so far? And then in general, how are you thinking about pricing of INBRIJA?

Okay. So, I'm afraid I can't answer any of your question, because we just don't give that kind of guidance in advance while we're in the stage where we're having discussions. So, I can tell you that of course we are having discussions and we're having a lot of them, and we expect to have a lot more before launch. That's all part of the process of coming to a price and a pricing strategy, and a contracting strategy and so forth. So the whole commercial team is vigorously involved in that.

I will take the opportunity to point out that we have had an extensive amount of very successful experience in doing precisely that with AMPYRA and both products share a lot in common in terms of being therapies that are addressing or aimed at addressing very important symptoms of chronic neurological diseases.

So we have a lot of experience with that, a lot of successful experience, and we're using all of that knowledge and experience and applying it to our planning now. So we expect that by the time we get to launch, we'll be fully locked and loaded. And frankly, you almost never have a final determination on price until you actually have approval and your label. And so, we would wait for that to give more color on it.

Okay. Great. And then, just one follow-up, if I could. What was kind of the reception of INBRIJA at AAN this year? Could you speak to kind of physician excitement to use the product? Thanks.

Yes, it was enthusiastic. I think that's a fair characterization. I was there. I had two full days of meetings with KOLs, myself. Our whole team – we had a full team there, medical affairs, having conversations and the overall feedback was, if I can summarize it this way, it was very consistent with our market research, which is that we need this medicine, OFF periods are our biggest single challenge with this patient population, and we also we really like L-DOPA.

It's a gold standard therapy and the frustration with L-DOPA is that the oral regimens are so inconsistent and inconsistently absorbed and so forth, we – our own research has said that 89% of doctors say that they will use a therapy like this. And from what I saw and our team saw at AM, that is consistent with the market research.

Okay. Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Phil Nadeau with Cowen. Please go ahead.

Good morning. Thanks for taking my questions. First, on the INBRIJA filing, has the FDA suggested whether an adcom will be necessary?

We would have disclosed if there were an adcom, if the FDA had suggested that. So no, we have not heard that to this point from FDA.

Great. And then, second, I guess, just back on your guidance, sorry to harp on this, but if you assume that in Q3 whatever inventory is in the channel is going to be bled out. So sales, you won't have a full month of sales. It does seem tough to us to get to the bottom end of your guidance without a massive Q2. So appreciating that you don't give quarter-by-quarter guidance, what gives you confidence? So, what should we take as a reason that Q2 will be a particularly large and better quarter?

Phil, I'm sorry, I can't give you more than I've given, which is that we have our own internal forecast. Based on what we're seeing so far, the year is consistent with those forecast. And with – by the way, with due acknowledgment that it is more difficult to forecast in the year where one anticipates a potential loss of exclusivity, that does make it more difficult because you have other assumptions you have to put in. But I can't go into it on a quarter-to-quarter basis. I'm sorry.

Okay. Thanks for taking my questions.

Your next question comes from the line of Kevin Patel with Goldman Sachs. Please go ahead.

Hi. Thanks for taking the question. Could you provide details on your plans for INBRIJA's commercial sales force? What stages and planning are you in? Will you be hiring more reps?

So, our current sales force is right-sized for the launch of INBRIJA. And if we are successful on the appeal, and we're able to keep our exclusivity on AMPYRA, we would need to increase the sales force to sell both products simultaneously. So we would anticipate a 30%, 35% or so expansion of the sales force in that case, but in the case where they were only selling INBRIJA, they are right-sized right now. And so we have the – that they would actually transition seamlessly from AMPYRA into INBRIJA.

Okay. Thanks, thanks for taking my question. [Operator Instructions]

Your next question comes from the line of Jay Olson with Oppenheimer. Please go ahead.

Well, good morning. Thanks for taking my question. With regards to the European filing for INBRIJA, is there any additional color you can provide with regards to the timeline there? And also any update you can give us on your thoughts about commercializing it yourselves in Europe versus seeking out a partner? And then any other potential filings in other ex-U.S. countries?

Right. So the MAA we submitted in late March, it's currently undergoing what's called the validation by the EMA, the European Medicines Agency, that rough – broadly speaking, it's kind of like being accepted for filing by the FDA and we anticipate that the validation process will be completed around the end of May, if it's – if it goes by typical timing. If they do validate it, then the review procedure could take approximately another year, give or take a few months depending on whether there are clock-stops and how many and so forth.

With regard to selling abroad, we are looking at a number of options. As we said earlier, we are exploring potential partnerships ex-U.S., not only in Europe, but elsewhere in the world. We are exploring whether there is a road for us to expand ourselves into marketing in certain territories. We have not, at this point, applied anywhere else. That is something that we're evaluating in terms of where and when we would versus having a partner potentially do it. And it depends on the territories, such as Japan or some of the larger markets.

Okay, great. And then just a follow-up on the data you presented at AAN. I appreciate the feedback you provided from the physicians in attendance there. Is there any additional color you can provide with regards to anything you learned at AAN about how INBRIJA will fit into the treatment paradigm with regards to other potential rescue therapies, such as sublingual apomorphine?

Yes. We can. The thrust of the approach to INBRIJA is that, this is L-DOPA, which is the gold standard therapy. It is addressing a – what is recognized by the vast majority of clinicians in this space to be the number one, and certainly one of the number one problems they have in treating people with Parkinson's disease, which is that L-DOPA is extremely effective and safe in general. But it is also poorly absorbed and subject to significant fluctuations during the day in terms of plasma levels with currently available oral therapies.

In oral – and when the plasma level drops below therapeutic level, the patient turns OFF, which means they go back to their baseline disease state and now they can be incapacitated because they're trembling and they're stiff and they're falling and they – their motor function is declining and other things are declining as well. So this is seen correctly as a bridge between the oral doses, where you have the random and unpredictable drops in plasma level, you inhale INBRIJA and fairly rapidly come back to a therapeutic level, come out of your OFF period and our studies showed that that effect lasted at least an hour.

So enough time to bridge you between the times when your oral doses are kicking in. So that is widely appreciated by what we're finding, it's widely appreciated by commissions, thinking of it as a way to optimize the impact of the gold standard therapy in Parkinson's disease.

Great. That's very helpful. Thanks for taking the questions.

Your next question comes from the line of Ram Selvaraju with H. C. Wainwright. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good morning. This is Julian on for Ram. I was just curious what the path forward is for rHIgM22, specifically are any additional safety studies necessary? And do you expect any changes to efficacy endpoints in later-stage studies? Thank you.

We don't, but we're still working on that. So I don't have a definitive answer to you. We don't expect, currently I don't expect a need for any more safety studies. Obviously, this is a single – so far, we've only done single-dose study here. So we're talking about what the – what future studies might look like.

Great. Thank you for taking my questions.

And your next question comes from the line of Ken Trbovich with Janney. Please go ahead.

Thanks for taking the questions. Ron, I got a few quick ones. First one, is there anything on the tail for AMPYRA that we should be thinking about with regard to either an authorized generic or a potential lag before the decline occurs, simply because of the method of distribution for AMPYRA?

Yeah. We can't address anything specific with respect to that. I mean, I think it's fair to say that no matter what, we're expecting a precipitous decline in sales and this is no way to get around that. Obviously, we'll do what we can with that and we'll brief you as – if we get to that point. Our goal is not to get to that point obviously. We believe that our patents are valid and that we're going to argue that in the appeal. But we're reiterating our guidance for the year and if there are changes as we go along, we'll obviously alert everyone.

Okay. Thank you. And then just with regard to INBRIJA. Can you give us a sense, I know the R&D guidance inputs it in there, there was some manufacturing cost, should we be assuming that there's a portion of that that would be inventory, that would be saleable post-approval, or could you give us a sense as to whether you go at risk for that?

Now, I'm going to ask Dave to respond.

Yeah. There would be, in the R&D expense, there is a portion of that that is related to commercial inventory.

Okay. And then last question, just with regard to morning OFF, I know there was a study presented at AAN regarding morning OFF and it didn't hit statistical significance, but certainly suggested that there may be some benefit there, is there any thought as to going back and powering up the study and doing another or could you give us a sense as to how you go forward with that material?

Yeah. So, we were encouraged by that study. Obviously, the reason for the study was safety, to make sure there was no contraindication or reason not to let people use it in the morning. And once we saw that the safety data were good, we opened up the extension study and allowed people to use it in the morning as well.

And we were encouraged by the data you pointed out, which even though it was not a – it was, by no means, was it an efficacy study or powered for efficacy, we were encouraged by some of the trends that we saw in the data. So, we are talking about what future studies might look like to look into that more deeply.

Okay, terrific. Thank you.

And we have no further questions at this time. I would now like to turn the call back to the presenters.

Great. Well, thank you everyone for joining us. And we look forward to briefing you in the next quarter. Have a great week.

Thank you to everyone for attending today. This will conclude today's call. And you may now disconnect.