corrected transcript


Acorda Therapeutics, Inc.
 
ACOR
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 24, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Welcome to the Acorda Therapeutics Fourth Quarter and 2008 Year-End Financial


Results Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. There will be a


question-and-answer session to follow. Please be advised that this call is being taped at the


company’s request.


Now I’d like to introduce your host for today’s call, Tierney Saccavino, Vice President, Corporate


Communications at Acorda Therapeutics. Please go ahead.


Tierney Saccavino, Vice President of Corporate Communications


Good morning everyone, and welcome. With me today are Dr. Ron Cohen, our President and Chief


Executive Officer; and David Lawrence, our Chief Financial Officer.


Before we begin, let me remind you that this presentation contains forward-looking statements


within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements, other


than statements of historical facts, regarding management’s expectations, beliefs, goals, plans or


prospects should be considered forward-looking.


These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ


materially, including delays in obtaining or failure to obtain FDA approval of Fampridine-SR, the risk


of unfavorable results from future studies of Fampridine-SR, Acorda Therapeutics’ ability to


successfully market and sell Fampridine-SR if approved, and Zanaflex Capsules, competition,


failure to protect its intellectual property or to defend against the intellectual property claims of


others, and the ability to obtain additional financing to support Acorda Therapeutics’ operations and


unfavorable results from its preclinical programs. These and other risks are described in greater


detail in Acorda Therapeutics’ filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Acorda


Therapeutics may not actually achieve the goals or plans described in its forward-looking


statements, and investors should not place undue reliance upon these statements. Acorda


Therapeutics disclaims any intent or obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result


of developments occurring after the date of this presentation.


I will now turn the call over to our CEO, Ron Cohen.


Ron Cohen, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Tierney. Good morning everyone and welcome. This morning, we reported our Q4 and


year-end 2008 financial results. 2008 was a year of exceptional achievement for Acorda. Today I’ll


provide a brief review of some of the key milestones from ‘08 and ‘09 to-date and then I’ll turn the


call over to Dave who will provide a financial summary. We’ll then open the call for questions.


Turning to our existing commercial products, the Zanaflex franchise performed well in 2008 with


continued increases in sales and prescriptions. Gross sales for the fourth quarter were $14 million,


up approximately 9% from Q4 2007. Total shipments were $16.5 million. For the full year gross


sales of Zanaflex Capsules and Zanaflex Tablets were $53.4 million compared to 43.6 million in


gross sales for 2007.


As we had projected, the Zanaflex franchise was cash flow positive in 2008 on an operating basis


and we expect the same in 2009. This business continues to meet our strategic goal of supporting


commercial operations at Acorda and providing us with the experience and infrastructure needed


for a successful launch of Fampridine-SR if it’s approved.
corrected transcript


Acorda Therapeutics, Inc.
 
ACOR
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 24, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


We achieved several important milestones in our development of Fampridine-SR in 2008 and early


‘09, which I’ll review with you now briefly. We filed an NDA for Fampridine-SR on January 30,


2009. We expect that the submission, if accepted, will be subjected to standard review, which


would provide a target for the FDA to complete its review within 10 months.


In June, we announced positive results from our second Phase 3 clinical trial of Fampridine-SR, the


MS-F204 trial, on walking ability in people with multiple sclerosis. These results along with the


results of our first Phase 3 study, MS-F203, were the basis for the NDA filing. As a reminder, both


Phase 3 studies were conducted under Special Protocol Assessments or SPAs from the FDA.


In January 2008, we announced the results of the successful Thorough QT study. The FDA


requires Thorough QT studies for all new drugs seeking regulatory approval. We also conducted


meetings with the regulatory authorities in four European Union member states. As a result, we


believe that the current data are sufficient to file a centralized Marketing Authorization Application


or MAA. We are preparing for an MAA as we determine the commercialization pathway that will


optimize our ability to provide the drug to patients who need it and maximize the value of


Fampridine-SR outside the U.S. In this regard, we have begun meeting with potential marketing


partners for ex-U.S. territories.


We’ve also been conducting initiatives to increase awareness of walking disability issues among


professional and consumer audiences. These activities included a partnership with the National


MS Society to sponsor 20 Walk MS programs across the country in 2008. In 2009, Acorda will be


the national sponsor of the Walk MS program with a presence at 30 of the largest Walk MS events.


On the corporate front, we added several key senior team members. Tom Wessel joined Acorda


as Chief Medical Officer. Most recently, Tom was the Senior Vice President of Clinical Research at


Sepracor where he led the Central Nervous System and Respiratory Medicine Development teams


and also served as the Medical Director for the LUNESTA development program. Tom’s expertise


will be invaluable to us as we move toward potential approval of Fampridine-SR and advance our


preclinical products toward INDs.


Ruhi Khan joined Acorda as Executive Director of Business Development and will be spearheading


our corporate partner in discussions. Previously, Ruhi was at Lexicon Pharmaceuticals, Fidelity


Biosciences, and MPM Capital Advisors, where she was responsible for numerous negotiations for


in-licensing and out-licensing of biotech and pharmaceutical products. And John Kelley, the


President and COO of The Medicines Company, was elected to our Board of Directors. John has


outstanding experience in pharmaceutical commercialization and strategy, which will benefit the


Company as we move toward the potential launch of Fampridine-SR.


Before I move on to providing an overview of Acorda’s outlook, we’ve received a number of


requests to clarify our updated guidance regarding our regulatory path and commercialization plans


in Europe and I’d like to take a moment to do that now. As we said previously, in 2008 we reviewed


with health authorities in four EU member states the existing Fampridine-SR clinical development


program and data. Based on those discussions, we believe we can file an MAA through the


centralized procedure with our existing data package.


Earlier this year, we said we plan to file the MAA in 2009. Given our current status in exploratory


discussions with potential marketing partners for EU and other non-U.S. markets, we will refrain


from commenting on a timeline for MAA submission. As potential partners may wish to participate


in the MAA process, we want to have maximum flexibility for partnering discussions and not be


prematurely anchored to a timeline.


I want to emphasize however, that we believe we have sufficient data to file at anytime at our


discretion. We believe that – we expect that Zanaflex revenue will continue to grow modestly and


that the franchise will continue to be cash flow positive on an operating basis. In late 2009, we plan