Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Felicia Vonella — Executive Director-Investor Relations, Acorda Therapeutics, Inc.
Ronald Cohen — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Acorda Therapeutics, Inc.
Michael W. Rogers — Chief Financial Officer, Acorda Therapeutics, Inc.
Michael J. Yee — Analyst, RBC Capital Markets LLC
Michael Cherny — Analyst, Evercore ISI
Cory W. Kasimov — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC
Thomas Shrader — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.
Phil Nadeau — Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC
Bill Tanner — Analyst, Guggenheim Securities LLC
Laura Chico — Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to the Acorda Therapeutics 2015 Fourth Quarter and Year-End Update. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. There will be a question-and-answer session to follow. Please be advised that this call is being taped at the company's request.

Now, I would like to introduce your host for today's call, Felicia Vonella, Executive Director of Investor Relations at Acorda. Please go ahead.

Good morning. Before we begin, let me remind you that this presentation includes forward-looking statements. All statements, other than statements of historical facts regarding management's expectations, beliefs, goals, plans or prospects should be considered forward-looking. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. For more information on these and other risks, please refer to our filings with the SEC.

With me today are Dr. Ron Cohen, our President and Chief Executive Officer; and Mike Rogers, our Chief Financial Officer. I will now turn over the call to Ron.

Thanks, Felicia. Good morning, everybody, and welcome. We will start with Ampyra today. Ampyra results continued to be strong in the fourth quarter as we continued the outstanding performance by our commercial team, which ensured that patients and their healthcare providers are educated about Ampyra. Ampyra reported fourth quarter net sales of a $122 million, which was an 11% increase over the fourth quarter of 2014. And for the full-year 2015, net sales were $437 million, which was up 19% over 2014. Ampyra has now become a standard of care for MS-related walking difficulties. For 2016, we're guiding to Ampyra net sales of $475 million to $485 million.

Regarding the ANDA litigation, we've now settled with four of our ten ANDA filers for Ampyra, most recently with Par Pharmaceuticals earlier this year. There is a Markman hearing scheduled for March 7, and that'll be followed by a trial scheduled for September. We also expect in March the PTAB's decision on whether or not to institute the four IPRs that were filed by a hedge fund at the end of last year, two of which were filings on the same two patents that were the subject of their previous IPRs that were not instituted.

Moving to our recent announcement of our acquisition of Biotie Therapies, we view this acquisition as a major step in our plan for driving shareholder value, tozadenant or toz is an adenosine A2a receptor antagonist. A2a receptor antagonists have the potential to be the first new class of drug for Parkinson's in over twenty years. Toz adds a fourth Phase 3 asset to Acorda's pipeline for a total of eight clinical stage programs. If successful, we expect to file three 3 NDAs by the end of 2018 representing an aggregate of more than a $1 billion in U.S. peak sales.

Our acquisition of Biotie also brings additional assets, most notably SYN120, which a 5-HT6/5-HT2A antagonist, that's in Phase 2 trial for Parkinson's disease, dementia, and it is Phase 2 ready for Alzheimer's dementia. Toz leverages our outstanding neurology commercial organization. We anticipate an incremental expansion of the sales force if CVT-301 is approved and no further expansion needed to accommodate toz. We expect the deal to close in the third quarter of 2016.

And we've summarized here the key aspects of tozadenant that make us excited about the opportunity. The Phase 2b trial showed statistical significance and clinically meaningful reductions in OFF time in people with Parkinson's – and this is very important – who were already being treated with multiple other Parkinson's disease therapies. The drugs also showed improvements in secondary endpoints relative to placebo and there were no concerning safety signals. The product is currently in Phase 3 and it's highly complementary to our other Phase 3 product for Parkinson's, CVT-301.

So toz is aimed at improving chronic therapy and reducing overall OFF time. CVT-301 is aimed at rapid improvement of OFF periods when they occur. So very nice complementarity and the Phase 3 design for toz is similar to the Phase 2b. It's being conducted under a special protocol assessment or SPA. And we believe that this trial, together with the Phase 2b data, will provide sufficient efficacy data to file the NDA. We expect the NDA filing by the end of 2018. On the IP side, toz has patent protection through 2025, with a potential for patent term extension to 2030.

Now regarding the safety data, some of the treatment-emergent adverse events were generally dose-related. Notably, those were dyskinesia, GI effects and insomnia. But the overall incidence of serious adverse events was generally low. There were six deaths reported within three of the four tozadenant groups. There were none in the 120 milligram group or the placebo. Causes included two cases of sepsis, a sudden death associated with Pickwickian syndrome, multi-organ failure due to head trauma, a bowel perforation, and a pulmonary embolism. The Drug Safety Monitoring Board, or DSMB, and also a second panel of experts who reviewed the data, identified no relation between treatment with toz and serious adverse events or deaths.

Now with toz, we're in a strong position of having four late-stage clinical programs: CVT-301 and toz for Parkinson's, Plumiaz for seizure clusters, and dalfampridine for post-stroke walking deficits. All of these target substantial unmet clinical needs, as illustrated on this slide. We expect important clinical milestones in 2016 for three of these late-stage programs, including completion of pivotal trials for CVT-301 in Parkinson's and – that's in Parkinson's – and for Plumiaz in seizure clusters. If successful, we plan to file NDAs for both in 2017.

We project that these two therapies alone could generate combined peak sales of over $700 million. We also expect to perform an interim analysis on our Phase 3 trial of dalfampridine for post-stroke walking deficits, as well as to have results from our development efforts on a once-daily formulation of dalfampridine. We expect to update you on the once-daily formulation by the end of this quarter.

So, here's a snapshot of what the pipeline will look like, assuming successful closure of the Biotie deal. Post-transaction, we'll have a robust, well-balanced clinical pipeline of eight clinical stage products: four in Phase 3, two in Phase 2, and two in Phase 1.

I'll now turn the call over to Mike, who can review the financials with us.

Thanks, Ron, and good morning, everyone. I want to take a couple of minutes to walk you through some of the financial highlights of the quarter and full year 2015. Ampyra net revenue for the fourth quarter of 2015 was $122 million, an 11% increase over the $109.9 million we recorded for the same quarter in 2014. For the full year 2015, Ampyra revenue grew 19% to $436.9 million from $366.2 million for the full year 2014.

Overall revenue from Zanaflex for the full year was $35.1 million, including our own sales, as well as product sales to Actavis and royalties received on Actavis' sales of generic tizanidine. Net revenue for Zanaflex for the full year ended December 31 of 2015 includes a one-time adjustment of $22.2 million, representing the cumulative impact of the company's conversion from the sell-through to the sell-in method of revenue recognition. Fampyra royalty revenue from sales outside of the United States was $10.5 million for the full year 2015.

Moving over to the expense side, total operating expenses for the quarter ended December 31 were $127 million, including $8.7 million in share-based compensation expense. This compares to $116.7 million for the same quarter in 2014, which included $8.8 million in share-based compensation expense. Full-year operating expenses for 2015 were $458.7 million, including $33.5 million in share-based comp, and this compares to $365.1 million for the full year 2014, which includes $29.4 million in share-based compensation.

The increase in operating expense this year over last year is primarily related to increased R&D cost to support our ongoing clinical development, as well as the addition of costs associated with our facility and operations in Massachusetts acquired in the Civitas transaction in the fourth quarter of last year.

Briefly on the tax line, for the full year 2015, our effective tax rate was 43%, or an $8.3 million tax provision. However, cash taxes for the full year 2015 were $4.7 million. And there are a number of factors that can cause significant differences between the effective tax rate shown in our financials and our actual cash tax position. As of year-end, we had available federal NOL carryforwards of approximately $194 million. For this reason, we do not currently pay substantial U.S. federal income taxes and we adjust for the non-cash taxes in our non-GAAP presentation.

Finally, our cash position remained strong. At year-end, we had $353 million in cash, cash equivalents and investments. Subsequent to year-end, we completed a $75 million equity offering. We also signed a commitment letter with JPMorgan on an asset-based credit facility for up to $60 million, which we expect to close by the end of March. In addition, at the time of the acquisition announcement, Biotie had approximately $80 million in cash on their balance sheet.

Following the closing of the Biotie transaction, we expected our existing cash, combined with the net proceeds from the private placement of common stock, the cash balance of Biotie, any cash flows from operations and the availability under our asset-based credit facility will be sufficient to fund our ongoing operations.

So moving to financial guidance. We provided our guidance for 2016 earlier this year at the JPMorgan Conference, and please note that this guidance does not include potential expenses related to the acquisition of Biotie Therapies.

The company expects AMPYRA 2016 full year net revenue of $475 million to $485 million. R&D expenses for the full year 2016 are expected to be $165 million to $175 million, excluding share-based compensation. And SG&A expenses for the full year of 2016 are expected to be at $195 million to $205 million, excluding share-based compensation.

Let me now pass the call back over to Ron.

Thanks, Mike. 2016 will be rich in clinical milestones expanding into 2017, and we've listed the key milestones here. We look forward to updating you as we execute on these. And in closing, our key priorities for 2016 are, first, advancing our pipeline. We see enormous potential value there and we are focused on it as a top priority. We'll also continue to focus intensively on growing AMPYRA and bringing it to appropriate patients who can benefit from it, as well as vigorously defending our intellectual property. And we're going to work to close the Biotie deal as soon as feasible. We are still active on the business development front. We believe we can continue to build value by identifying assets that leverage Acorda's competencies in the CNS space.

I'll now pass the call over to the operator, and we will take your questions and answers or questions for answers.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Michael Yee of RBC Capital Markets. Your line is now open.

Hey, good morning, Ron. I had two questions. One was...

Hey Mike, it's kind of hard to hear you, hold on.

Yeah, can you hear me okay?

Yeah. Yeah, that's better.

Yeah, great. Hey, so, on the Biotie deal really quick, can you just give a little bit of context as to, I guess the timing and why now? Strategically, how are you thinking about this because your [indiscernible] (14:54) doesn't even come till the end of the year. So just wanted to understand why now, given the overall market conditions and everything else going on, why now and what do you add to this deal by doing it now as opposed to just waiting?

And the second question was on 427, which you maybe, you hit on a little bit, but there's data coming. Can you just describe exactly what you're looking at here and what you're going to report out and [ph] what drive a decision you're going to Phase 2 (15:20)? It says update this quarter, but maybe just describe that a little bit? Thanks.

Sure. So why now? Well, that – I guess that's always a challenging question. The reality is that, at least in our experience, you never can predict when the right deal is going to coming along. So I don't think of it in terms of why now because you can look for a year or two years and not find the right deal. And in fact, that's been the case for us. We sift through dozens and dozens of opportunities, many of them we take deep dives into in the course of a year. So, when something pops up that we think is a great fit, can really synergize with the other pieces of the company and really potentially take shareholder value to the another level down the road, that's the time to do the deal. Because if you don't do the deal when you find it, you don't know when you're going to find it again.

Now, as is probably obvious, we were working on this deal before the recent market ructions, right. And it was just a matter of coincidence that we wound up closing it as things were getting more squirrelly in the market. But the reality is, I think if you look at the markets to determine when you do deals, you're going to lose time and time again. You have to do deals based on the logic of the deal, on the availability of the deal and on your conviction, that over time, because the markets come and go. They go up, they go down. But that over time, you're going to have a major value proposition and that is what our belief is about Biotie and that's why we did the deal.

Well, I guess, was it competitive, or can you add something to it between now and the data that makes sense as to why you should do it now? [indiscernible] (17:21)

So, without getting into the details about competitive or not competitive, it's – I don't think it's a question – first of all, we can add to it because we bring another set of tremendous development expertise eyes to this and infrastructure that Biotie did not have, and maybe more than anything, one of the best commercial organizations I think in all of specialty in our industry. That adds a lot of value to preparing to make it as big a product and as important a product as it can be.

So I mean that's really – the other point is, again, it's not a question of what do we add to it now in my mind. It's a question of, we're looking to add value to the company, when we find something that does that, we jump on it because if you wait, you wait a month or three months or six months, by the time you come back, likely as not, it won't be there anymore. So that's really the logic.

In terms of 427, we're just starting out with that program, it's potentially quite exciting because we're looking at getting, one hopes with our ARCUS inhale technology, a much faster absorption in PK curve that you can get through any means other than injection for relief of acute migraine pain. We're doing a single dose PK study right now. We've done a single dose PK study. We're analyzing the data. We expect by the end of the quarter to be able to say something about that analysis. Now, again, we won't be saying a lot. I think on balance, what we're looking for is, do we see enough that's encouraging that we're going to continue to the next phase?

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you. And our next question comes from Mark Schoenebaum of Evercore ISI. Your line is now open.

Hi, guys. Thanks for taking my call and for the good quarter. Just a couple of questions. Number one – I'm sorry, this is Michael Cherny in for Mark Schoenebaum. I apologize for that, but just a couple of questions. Can you clarify how much the tozadenant Phase 3 trial will cost, and if this will be sufficient for EU approval? And the second is, if you could comment on – I know you said guidance for 2016 doesn't reflect the anticipated expenses for the Biotie deal, and when we could expect any updates or more color on that for the remainder of the year?

Okay, Mike. I'll address the tozadenant for EU approval and then I'm going to turn the financial question over to Mike. So, we are still assessing the EU requirements on toz and what will be needed for that. What we know is that we have an SPA, and our strong belief is that this Phase 3 under that SPA will be sufficient, together with the existing Phase 2b data, to file the NDA in the U.S. We have more to do before we can comment on the EU. But I will tell you that we are very interested in worldwide activity with toz, in addition to the U.S.

On the – Mike, on the question about the cost for tozadenant or Biotie's operation, I'd say that, without being specific, we believe it's roughly in line with Biotie's public disclosures, that they have sufficient cash to complete the Phase 3 program and invest in their other pipeline programs. As far as an update on guidance, that is likely to be post the closing of the transaction, because we don't know exactly when the transaction is going to close, it's a tender offer, and – but once we close the transaction, then certainly we'd update guidance.

Okay, great. Thank you.

Sure.

Thank you. And our next question comes from Cory Kasimov of JPMorgan. Your line is now open.

Hey, good morning, guys. Thanks for taking the questions. Two of them for you. So I guess, first of all, with regard to the AMPYRA Markman hearings next month, can you just help us shape expectations, as far as the news flow we should anticipate out of these events? I guess, how much incremental information should we expect in March relative to the pending trial in September? And then I have one other question. Thanks.

Yeah, Cory, I'm sorry. We are not able to comment at all on things having to do with the case, other than to tell you what's going to happen. Obviously, there's going to be a Markman hearing, which is essentially claim construction, and that's – people are going to figure out what they want to from that hearing. We also have the institution decisions by the PTAB on the IPRs, on the four IPRs. But beyond that, we're really limited in anything we can say publicly because, as I know you appreciate, we're in litigation, and we want to make sure that we keep every advantage possible.

Okay. Completely understood. And then, regarding the pending QD dalfampridine update, how many different formulations would you ideally like to take forward, or is it really trying to focus on one?

So, ideally, we would like one that works really well. What we are doing is, we're doing belt and suspenders, because we don't know which one, if any, is going to be – have the ideal characteristics. So we took three of the formulations that we had developed with three different collaborators into – they looked good enough in the in vitro testing to take into single dose PK. And what we've said is that, by the end of the quarter, we will have an update on the single dose PK for those three formulations. And what we will be able to tell at that point is, whether one or more of them is adequate to then go into the more or less final stage of testing, which would be the multi-dose, stable dose testing phase. But of course, the – absolutely critical is to get the right PK curve and right food fasting effect in the single dose study. So that's what we'll be able to report by the end of the quarter.

Okay. Thanks a lot, Ron. Appreciate it.

I should remind everyone that all of the formulations have already passed muster on the alcohol dumping which was the issue we had with the previous formulation. So we are confident at this point that none of them will have an alcohol problem.

Thank you. And our next question comes from Tom Shrader of Stifel. Your line is now open.

Good morning. A little bit of a change of language I thought in your prepared remarks, Ron, is the dalfampridine look, is that back to an interim look or do you still expect to really unblind that trial and start new trials, and have thoughts changed or is it just the same?

Yeah, Tom, so I guess it's important to separate it out here. So what we have said all along is that the plan from the beginning was that we design this Phase 3 to be an adaptive design with a built-in interim analysis. So that is the original plan and that is the plan that we've taken forward. What we've said in more recent months is that we could, depending on a number of factors importantly, including the availability of QD, that we could make a decision different from the original plan, which would be to unblind the study, and there are various reasons why that could make better sense. So that's all still on the table, but when we put in our formal remarks, rather than get into that complexity, we just stick with the – what we've said all along, which is the original plan for that study. But that's still very much on the table and it's still going to depend on where we are at the time of the interim analysis.

Okay. I mean can we read that – so will you continue with patients in either way, so you'd get more safety data, longer safety data with [ph] with these new patients (26:14)?

Yeah. Well, no, we – the plan would be either way that you have those patients on drugs, you take advantage of it by keeping them on drug. And of course, there's also an ethical obligation that if people are volunteered for studies and they want to stay on drug that you supply that for them.

Okay. And then on 427, what do you need to see to convince yourself that it's better than nasal triptans, and then – and what level of – when do you expect to see that? Would you learn that in Phase 1?

We'll get – we'll certainly get good indications from the PK. If what we see is identical to nasal formulations, that's not as encouraging as if we see something faster and better.

So really the key is better than nasal or faster than nasal?

Yeah, by the way, I mean I want to say it's not a black and white here. It's a question of relative because there are still potential advantages to having a rapidly, easily-inhaled drug-device combination versus the problems that people have with the nasal preparations. So there are actually issues with the nasal. For example, they tend to drip in the back of the throat and have horrible bitter taste for people who already have a lot of nausea and vomiting, not very well accepted. So, even if it were identical on a commercial basis, we'd be analyzing that and seeing whether it still made sense as a product because there still could be advantages in the marketplace for that.

Okay. And one quick financial question, post-closing of Biotie, should we expect cash of around $200 million? Is that a fair question?

Mike?

Right. Well, yeah, I mean obviously it's going to depend on when the closing is of the transaction, but the math is pretty simple. We had $353 million, add $75 million, we have access to $60 million, Biotie had $80 million, and when you add it up and then subtract the purchase price, you can come up with a pretty good number.

So, time is relevant because right now, they're obviously a development stage company and they're spending money. So, when it's finally completed will be kind of a determinant. So we can't go much beyond that. If we had a date, certainly, we could probably give you more certainty, but we'll see how that tender offer plays out.

Perfect. Okay. Thanks a lot for all the answers.

Okay, sure.

Thank you. And our next question comes from Phil Nadeau of Cowen & Company. Your line is now open.

Good morning. Thanks for taking my questions. First on Ampyra guidance, if I simply annualize the Q4 Ampyra number, you get above the top end of the guidance. Are you assuming a big disruption in Q1 like we've seen in prior years or is there some other factor that we should consider as we model 2016?

Yeah. No other factor, Phil. We as usual expect the traditional drop-off in the first quarter. So, that's baked into our projections. The other thing about our projection is if you – it's important to also to understand that on the 11% price increase, we keep about 60% of that after D&A and so on. So, let's say that's really 6%, 6.5%, something like that. So you have to bake that in. When you do that, you see that our range calls for low-to-mid actual organic TRx growth, low-to-mid single-digit.

Got it. Okay. And then second question just on forward guidance, I appreciate that you're not in a position to give guidance post the Biotie close today, but based on kind of the numbers that you suggested for the Phase 3 cost, it does seem like R&D would have to go up pretty significantly in 2017, 2018. Is that fair or am I being overly aggressive?

No, I think it's fair to say in 2017 that R&D because of the Biotie transaction would be incrementally higher. And so, I mean I don't know if that answers your question. We're not being more specific than that on certainly for future guidance.

Yeah. I mean, not to put too fine a point on it, but we're adding a significant Phase 3 program plus a Phase 2 program. So, yeah, expenses will go up commensurately and, just by way of reminder, Biotie comes with its own balance sheet that they have publicly indicated is sufficient to complete the Phase 3 program and continue to invest in the other programs.

Okay. Then last question, just on the recruitment into the Plumiaz and CVT-301 Phase 3 trials, any specific update on how that recruitment is going? It sounds like you've reordered the timelines, but do you think you're ahead of schedule, on schedule?

As you know, Phil, I'm sure you know, we never comment on recruitment on an interim basis. We just give our targets and update them as needed or not. So, as you correctly indicated, we kept our targets.

Okay. Fair enough. Thanks for taking my questions.

Thanks, Phil.

Thank you. And our next question comes from Bill Tanner of Guggenheim Securities. Your line is now open.

Thanks for taking the question. Ron, I had one question, or a line of questioning I guess, on the BD activity. Obviously, you guys are building out a pretty robust PD franchise, but if I look at toz, I think in your slide deck, 2025 is when exclusivity ends, patent restoration possible, but let's just say 2025, so a relatively modest horizon, I guess, after the drug is actually launched.

And then, I don't know if you could remind us on CVT-301. I know in your SEC filings, there's a comment about patents going out to 2032, I think the latest, but what's a reasonable timeline? Point being, I guess, are there other assets that you see out there on the BD front that would be complementary to how you're building out the PD franchise, either thinking about it from different aspects of the disease spectrum, maybe secondly, just trying to extend, I guess, the average market exclusivity of the franchise? Or would there be opportunities for you to acquire assets to let you forward integrate into that market?

Okay. Thanks, Bill. So, a couple of points. First of all, on the toz exclusivity timeline, the current composition of matter patent goes out to 2025. We believe that we are likely to get the full five years of patent term extension, which would take it to 2030. Obviously, you can never guarantee, but there are formulas, there's historical precedent and, based on available information, we have a reasonably high degree of confidence that we will qualify for the full five years. So, that's the first point to factor in.

With regard to CVT-301, yes, the patents, I think we've said, go out to the early 2030s. You said 2032. I'd have to go back and double-check. I think that's right. What's also important to realize with that is, that there's some built-in significant hurdles for others to enter the market over and above patents, the whole drug-device combination, and in particular, the nature of the ARCUS technology is such that it requires enormous investment, not only of money, but of time and experience and very specific manufacturing plant configurations and equipment, to get it right. We think those hurdles are enormous and highly likely to give us exclusivity beyond, and maybe well beyond, anything that you'd see in a patent. So, we have a lot of confidence in that one.

To the third part of your question, yeah, we do see other products that could help us consolidate a growing position as a – what we'd like to consider a powerhouse in the Parkinson's space, and we're continuing to evaluate those.

And Mike, those then include things that are either in-market or nearer-term market? I don't know if you can speak specifically to that. I mean it would seem like that might make some more sense versus...

Well, yeah, so – yeah, so we've said strategically that, in terms of business development activity, our highest priority is actually to see if we can find an in-market product that we can put in the bag for our sales force. I mean they're terrific. Right now, they've got one product. They easily have capacity for more, while we're waiting for the pipeline to hopefully successfully declare itself.

So we're looking for that. Those are harder to come by, just full stop. But we're continuing to look for those opportunities. And we're continuing to look for Civitas or Biotie-like opportunities – late-stage products where we can still add a lot of value and hopefully get them for a reasonable or even unreasonably low price.

And then, I hasten to add that even though we are now consolidating a really interesting position in Parkinson's, we remain a neurology company. So we're not only interested in Parkinson's. Obviously, we have a dominant franchise in improving walking in MS. We're very interested in other areas of neurology as well. So that our scope is wide enough that we can entertain a lot of opportunities out there.

Great. Okay. Thanks.

Thank you.

Thank you. And our next question comes from Chris Raymond of Raymond James. Your line is now open.

Good morning. This is Laura Chico in for Chris Raymond today. Thanks for taking the question. Just wondering if we could circle back to Plumiaz. I did notice the dose proportionality study is now listed and recruiting on clin trials. Just wondering if you could talk a little bit about the communications strategy. The timing for the NDA filing looks to be on track for 1Q 2017 – and I know you don't want to elaborate on recruitment or anything like that – but what should we be thinking about in terms of the data release for the top line data? Thanks.

You know what, I don't want to tell you the wrong thing. I don't know and I just don't have in my head a timeline or specifics on that. So we're just going to have to – I'll have to defer the question. We are on track for our Q1 2017 NDA filing. And historically, when we have data analyzed and ready from a trial, we release the top line data. So that's the best I can tell you right now.

Thanks very much.

Thank you.

Thank you. And I'm showing no further questions at this time. I'd like to turn the call back to management for closing remarks.

Well, thanks very much, everyone, for joining us and we look forward to updating you next quarter.

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. This does conclude the program, and you may all disconnect. Everyone, have a great day.