Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Felicia Vonella — Executive Director, Investor Relations, Acorda Therapeutics, Inc.
Ron Cohen — President & Chief Executive Officer, Acorda Therapeutics, Inc.
David Lawrence — Chief, Business Operations and Principal Accounting Officer, Acorda Therapeutics, Inc.
Kelechi Chikere — Analyst, Jefferies LLC
Carmen Augustine — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC
Maryana Breitman — Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC
Laura Chico — Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc.
Raghuram Selvaraju — Analyst, H. C. Wainwright & Co. LLC
Silvan Türkcan — Analyst, Oppenheimer & Co., Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to the Acorda Therapeutics Second Quarter 2018 Update. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. There will be a question-and-answer session to follow. Please be advised that this call is being taped at the company's request.

I will now introduce your host for today's call, Felicia Vonella, Executive Director of Investor Relations at Acorda. Please go ahead.

Thank you. Before we begin, let me remind everyone this presentation will contain forward-looking statements. Our more detailed disclosures are found in our SEC filings, which are public and we encourage you to refer to those filings.

Now, let me pass the call over to our CEO, Ron Cohen. Ron?

Thanks Felicia. Good morning everyone. Moving right in, INBRIJA is our investigational inhaled levodopa treatment for symptoms of OFF periods in people with Parkinson's disease, who are taking carbidopa/levodopa regimen. Our NDA remains under review with the FDA and we're looking forward to our PDUFA date of October 5, 2018. During the quarter, we received validation by the European Medicines Agency or EMA for the INBRIJA Marketing Authorization Application that we submitted at the end of March. We await the next steps in that process. On the commercial side of the business, we reported AMPYRA revenue of $150.3 million in the second quarter.

July sales were also strong and we're reiterating our net sales guidance for the full year of $330 million to $350 million. On June 7, we had the oral argument for our AMPYRA patents before the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit and we are awaiting the decision. Our request for a preliminary injunction to prevent generics from launching at risk was denied by the Court, thus as of July 31, generics could potentially launch at risk prior to the court's verdict. As of today we are not aware of any such launches. Moving to INBRIJA, the FDA is reviewing the NDA and our Acorda team is preparing for launch. This includes discussions with payers, pharmacy benefit managers, increasing disease state awareness among a range of audiences and expanding our social media and online presences.

And that includes our Many Faces of OFF Facebook page and our Live Well. Do Tell campaign which we recently launched for the Parkinson's disease community. And you can check that out at livewelldotell.org. We are also training our sales force, mapping territories, preparing a wide range of launch materials and programs. Our market research also continues and reinforces our conviction that OFF periods represent a large unmet need in the Parkinson's community and that both physicians and patients have a high receptivity to INBRIJA. We conducted a survey among 226 neurologists, 175 primary care physicians, and 150 people with Parkinson's disease. The survey showed that physicians are frustrated by the lack of options specifically indicated to address OFF periods and despite their best efforts to optimize daily drug regimens their patients still experience OFF periods.

71% agree that OFF periods are the greatest unmet need in Parkinson's disease and 81% agree that therapies are needed specifically for OFF periods. A 100% of the surveyed people with Parkinson's agreed that nearly half of OFF periods were "very bothersome." In the same quantitative market research study, we did a case study simulation of Parkinson's disease patients experiencing OFF periods. In this survey 80% – excuse me, 89% of physicians stated that they would include inhaled levodopa in their treatment regimen for their patients and 79% of people with Parkinson's stated that they would ask their doctors to prescribe inhaled levodopa. Based on this and extensive additional work to-date we believe that there would be strong demand and market receptivity to INBRIJA.

Approximately 350,000 people with Parkinson's in the U.S. who are taking levodopa still experience OFF periods. Based on our market research we believe that peak U.S. sales for INBRIJA would be greater than $800 million. We have a patent portfolio that goes into the early 2030s. In addition, we have a large body of trade secrets and knowhow, which we believe gives a particularly long tail to the exclusivity on this technology and we are in the process of assessing the market opportunity for INBRIJA ex-U.S. This table outlines key financials for the second quarter. I will highlight that we ended the quarter with $392 million in cash and are well-capitalized for anticipated launch of INBRIJA.

In closing we're in a position to create substantial near- and long-term value with the potential of approval of INBRIJA in the U.S. We expect to build further value with the potential approval of INBRIJA in Europe and we plan to develop additional therapeutics that harness the power of the ARCUS pulmonary drug delivery technology. The company's strong execution year-to-date is fueling our ability to launch INBRIJA to invest in the pipeline and to remain well-capitalized throughout the INBRIJA launch. Our strategic priorities for the remainder of 2018 into 2019 are first, to attain approval and initiate the U.S. launch of INBRIJA.

We'll leverage Acorda's highly accomplished specialty neurology commercial capabilities to maximize INBRIJA's potential. Our first priority post INBRIJA launch will be to accelerate development of CVT-427 and inject an inhalable triptan for treatment of acute migraine. In an initial Phase I study the time to peak plasma levels approximated that of injectable triptans. However, as we previously discussed, some participants experienced subclinical bronchospasm and the next step is to reformulate to address this. We also have continued to evaluate business development opportunities for late stage neurology assets that would leverage our neuro development and commercial capabilities.

And with that, we will now open up the call to your questions. Operator? [Operator Instructions]

Your first question comes from the line of Michael Yee from Jefferies. Your line is now open.

Hello, good morning. Kelechi on for Michael. Just a couple of questions on my end. First, how do we know or I guess what do we – what do you know about generics launching at risk now? What would you need to be – what would need to be announced and what do you know in the channel you're preparing for? And I have another question after that?

Okay. So we can't speculate on what other companies are doing, what the generics companies are doing. We can only monitor to see if they have launched and we – at this point, we do not see any evidence that they have launched at risk. And that's really all we can say about that. Our business plan includes contingencies as you would expect for launch for – well all these contingencies. Launch at risk, no launch at risk, the verdict on the case. So our business plan is taking all of that into account and we have contingencies for all of that. I think for us the key is we've been working hard over the last year plus to ensure that we have cash in the bank, and as we said, we expect to end the year with over $300 million in cash to help move INBRIJA into launch and beyond.

Got it, thanks. That helps. Another question. Based on what you know, are you fully confident in an on-time approval of INBRIJA including what you know on human factors, manufacturing facility review and device in any potential CMC requirements? Would you be fully prepared to launch and have a full launch effort [ph] assuming (00:08:49) approval?

Well, yes. So we are in – across-the-board on everything you mentioned and beyond we are prepared to launch and we will be prepared to launch with an approval on the PDUFA date October 5. Obviously we can't speculate on what the FDA response will be on October 5 but we are confident that we submitted a robust package and we're looking forward to the date.

Got it. Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Cory Kasimov from JPMorgan. Your line is now open.

Hi, this is Carmen on for Cory. Thanks for taking the question. Just one question on the INBRIJA launch preparations. Could you talk a bit about how uncertainty around AMPYRA's prospects for the rest of the year and beyond impacting are those preparations, if at all?

So you were talking about AMPYRA, the patent case, right?

Yeah, so how the patent case is affecting your preparation for INBRIJA? You had previously mentioned I think [indiscernible] (00:10:00)?

Right. It's not affecting it at all. The sales force is highly motivated. They're doing a great job as you can see from the quarter with AMPYRA. They are still out there working to bring AMPYRA to any patient who might benefit from it and they are also – we are also in the process of transitioning them to training on Parkinson's disease and what they're going to need to know to transition into an INBRIJA launch, so none of that changes regardless of the case.

Okay. Thanks. And then a quick financial one if I could; could you provide any guidance on how we should think about tax expense over the next few quarters?

I'm sorry, how we should think about what?

Tax expense.

Dave?

No. Yeah, this is this is Dave. So we're working towards the corporate tax rate of 21% but we've got some strange things that go on with our tax calculations on a quarterly basis related to the rates and the valuation allowance that we've got in place. So I can't really give you any specifics on what it's going to look like going forward at least near-term.

Okay. Thanks, guys.

Your next question comes from the line of Salveen Richter from Goldman Sachs. Your line is now open.

Good morning. Thanks for taking the question. My name is Maryana Breitman for Salveen. I have a couple of questions. First off, what is the legal precedents for that kind of situation after the oral arguments have been heard at the U.S. Court of Appeals?

I'm sorry, the legal precedent for what?

For the patent litigation like what's – how has historically the U.S. Court of Appeals ruled in that kind of situations, do you know?

I'm sorry. I needed some specific question here. How they ruled in what kind of situation with respect to what? Are you talking about timing?

When the patent – when the patent expiration is – well, I mean with respect to timing but also with respect with how were they generally – I mean, are they more positive or negative? Like what was...?

Okay. I'm sorry. I'm not being difficult. I'm really trying to understand your question. What sort of precedent are you talking about? We had oral arguments on June 7 and we are waiting for the verdict of the court. So every case is its own case, every case is individual. I'm not sure what sort of precedent you're asking me about.

Yeah, I mean I was basically trying to figure out if the U.S. Court of Appeals is – how should I say it, benevolent in that kind of case? Let's move to INBRIJA. Quick question, given that it's an inhalation device, how does the regulatory approval process differs from oral or injectable?

Well, in terms of oral, I can't comment on injectable but in terms of versus a simple oral pill obviously you're dealing with, excuse me, a drug device combination and the major way in which that differs is that it involves the device groups at FDA as well, because you're dealing with both the device aspect of the product as well as the drug aspect. Fundamentally, it's not different in that the hurdles are the same; safety and efficacy and you have to show that you can manufacture it reliably and CMC and all that but there is the additional layer of review in which the FDA includes the device division in the deliberation. In our case because it's a pulmonary delivery, it also includes advice from the pulmonary division. So it does involve additional groups, although the fundamental precepts on which they approve are not – they're not philosophically different from any other drug.

Got it. And a quick question on the preparation for launch. Are you guys expanding the sales force and also what is the – given that it's a very large patient population, how are you thinking about – reaching out to physicians who are treating Parkinson's patients? Do you have geographical preference? Do you have like academic centers versus non-academic centers? How are you thinking about that?

Well, my geographical preference is New York, but that's personal. The sales force, in terms of the size of the sales force, it depends on the verdict on the case. So in the event that we keep exclusivity on AMPYRA beyond this year the – we would need to expand the sales force to account for detailing two different drugs even though they're all neurology and there's a nice overlap there. So we estimate that we would expand by about 35% give or take. If we lose the case and we have generic entry then it will be a straight shift from the existing sales force. We'll just move right into INBRIJA, so they are right sized as of right now to be selling INBRIJA out there. So we would not expand, but we also would not contract. It would be the exact same sales force.

In terms of geographic preference, it really is dictated by where the patients are and where the treating physicians are. And we have mapped out the country with respect to those issues both in terms of the movement disorder specialists all the way through the general neurologists and even into certain primary care who have robust Parkinson's disease practices. So that's dictated not by our preferences, but really by the data. And that's exactly the same process I think everyone goes through. We certainly have gone through it with AMPYRA in the MS space.

And what we find is there is overlap which is why we don't have to double the sales force. So there is overlap where the same practice might have a movement disorder specialist and an MS specialist or a general neurologist who treats both or if they're not in the same practice they may be in the same building or across the street from each other. Then there are other areas of the country where it's much more spread out and so you have to account for that. That's why we say it's about a 35% increase in the sales force to account for the lack of overlap across the country.

Got it. Thank you so very much.

Your next question comes from the line of Laura Chico from Raymond James. Your line is now open.

Hey, good morning and thanks for taking the question. I'm wondering if you could characterize any potential impact due to inventory during the quarter. And then just given the set up for the remainder of 2018, I'm guessing – how should we assume this will unwind over the duration of the second half and then I've got one quick follow-up?

So inventories were at normal levels. Typically we've said they have been within two weeks. I mean, they're always around two weeks or one to two weeks depending. We did see some contraction of inventories in the first quarter, which we talked about on that call. And we also predicted that they were going to normalize and they did normalize. So right now it's completely unremarkable in terms of inventory levels. And again, depending on the status of the generics that will dictate what we see going forward our assumption now is if we don't – to the extent we do not see generics in the marketplace, we don't expect any change in inventory levels that's substantive over the rest of the year.

Okay, that's helpful. And then just one follow-up around on your earlier comments you were kind of discussing the complexity associated with INBRIJA. I just wanted to clarify and just wondering if you could remind us where you stand in terms of the facility inspections by FDA. What's still remaining to complete and what's been done? And again, also where do you stand in terms of commercial supply in terms of your capacity to treat at launch and then capacity more at peak? Thanks.

Okay. So we don't comment on ongoing FDA process unless we have something material that we need to report. So we can't comment on the status of PAIs or anything else related to the ongoing NDA process. What we can say is that, at this point in the process, I guess its August and we're – so we're two months away from the PDUFA date. We're continuing to look forward to the PDUFA date and we'll see where we stand. With respect to inventories, we have planned accordingly and we are building up – continuing to build up launch stock and we fully expect to be fully stocked for a launch with an approval in October.

Thanks very much.

Your next question comes from the line of [indiscernible] (00:19:52) from Cowen. Your line is now open.

Hi. Thanks for taking my question. You'd mentioned previously that you were in discussions for ex-U.S. partnership with regard to INBRIJA. Any updates on those conversations? Do you still plan to partner that program ex-U.S.?

We're continuing to have those discussions. We are focused mainly, as you would expect on the U.S. approval in the near-term and the launch in the U.S. However, we are – we do have ongoing discussions. I wouldn't speculate at this point as to when we might have a deal, ex-U.S. but we have active discussions ongoing.

Got it. Thanks.

And your next question comes from the line of Ram Selvaraju with H. C. Wainwright. Your line is now open.

Hi. Thanks very much for taking my questions. Just with respect to qualitatively how you anticipate the sales force to be spending its time if you win the appeal or lose the appeal in terms of what percentage of time they would be spending detailing INBRIJA and what percentage of time they'd be spending, detailing AMPYRA. If you could give us some information on that, that would be helpful? Secondly I previously asked about the specific distribution channel you would be using for INBRIJA and whether this would involve a specialty pharmacy network that in anyway resembles that which [indiscernible] (00:21:22) for AMPYRA or not?

And lastly with respect to what you had said previously about potentially looking at strategic opportunities in neurology for further development to broaden the pipeline, I just wanted to get a sense of your dispositions specifically within the context of Parkinson's disease. If you would consider adding other L-dopa focused modalities to complement potentially INBRIJA or if you would look at other anti-Parkinson's drugs and especially if you have an opinion at this time regarding the use of gene therapy in Parkinson's disease as an L-dopa delivery mechanism? Thank you.

That's a hefty passel of questions, Ram. Thanks. So with respect to the sales force time to the extent that they are detailing both drugs and again pre-supposing that – that presupposes that there is not generic entry. We would expect that as of an approval of INBRIJA. INBRIJA is going to take first position for them and AMPYRA would then be in the second position in the bag. So obviously the bulk of their time would be or the majority of our time would be on INBRIJA. But they would still have time allocated to MS. The only exception to that would be when they call on specifically the MS specialist offices and obviously in that case it flips.

So overall, we would expect that the lion's share of their time would be on the launch because that's the prime directive to have a successful launch. With respect to distribution channel, we anticipate that it will be similar to what we've done with AMPYRA, which is to say a spoke and hub specialty pharmacy network. This is a drug that we think will benefit from more high touch with patients and in terms of compliance and so forth. And for that and a number of other good reasons we would anticipate it will be through that channel. On PD, you're absolutely correct. We are interested broadly in neurology assets. We have a specific interest within that broad interest in other Parkinson's assets.

Obviously, we had a Phase III product that would have been a great complement in tozadenant and unfortunately that did not work out at the end of last year. But we remain quite interested because there is a clear complementarity between novel and beneficial new daily regimens or chronic regimen type drugs together with INBRIJA, which is indicated or which is intended to address the episodic and pretty much random OFF periods that people with PD get no matter what, no matter what chronic regimen they're on. So we do like other L-dopa modalities. We are interested in other mechanism of action. We think gene therapy is very interesting. It's earlier stage in our view and a higher risk profile in our view. So, it would really depend on a level of confidence based on existing data for that because our overall – at least in the near and intermediate term our thrust is going to be for later stage assets with more risk squeezed out of them at the time we get involved.

Great. Thank you very much. And one quick question for David if I may. Could you comment on how you expect stock-based comp to trend over the coming quarters? Thank you.

I would not anticipate any changes in what you're seeing historically on stock-based comp.

Thank you.

And your final question comes from Jay Olson from Oppenheimer. Your line is now open.

Thank you. This is Silvan Türkcan on for Jay Olson. Thank you for taking my questions and congratulations on this quarter's AMPYRA sales.

Thank you.

Can you tell us a little bit more about your AMPYRA launch kit and the package size and expected utilization? And if you've learned anything new from your recent surveys?

You mean the INBRIJA launch kit? I think I heard AMPYRA.

Sorry, yeah, of course INBRIJA.

And you're asking about the launch kit preparations?

Yes, because I believe you expected to have 30 doses in the kit for one month usage. And in the trial patients used up to five doses per day. So just what do you expect in terms of usage post your survey?

Yeah, you know what, I'm not sure where that information came from but we are not prepared at this point to talk about what a kit or kits will look like. At the time that we announce pricing, we'll also talk about what the kits look like.

Okay, great. Thank you. And then just a quick follow-up is there any read across or anything from the denial of the injunction to your appeals case? Or is it completely separate court, separate judges?

Yeah. We have no way to speculate accurately or not about what that means. It was a very – it was a very quick one page denial from – and it's from the same judges who are doing the case. But it was not a detailed denial. So we have no information there with respect to reading through on the case itself.

Okay. Thank you.

There are no further questions at this time. I turn the call back over to Mr. Cohen.

Well, thank you and thank you all for being here and your questions. We're looking forward to updating you as we move into a vital and exciting I think third quarter and fourth quarter this year. Have a great weekend everyone.

This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.