Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Joe Diaz — Managing Partner, Lytham Partners LLC
Anthony S. Spier — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, AG&E Holdings, Inc.
Renee Zimmerman — Senior Vice President, Secretary, Treasurer & Chief Financial Officer, AG&E Holdings, Inc.
Roger Nedrow — Vice President-Investments, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co. LLC
Jad Fakhry — Analyst, Poplar Point Capital Management LLC
Jonathan Lichter — Managing Partner, Diamond Bridge Capital
Michael T. Melby — Founder & Portfolio Manager, Gate City Capital Management LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to the Fourth Quarter and Full Year Financial Results Conference Call. My name is Adrian, and I'll be your operator for today's call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we'll conduct a question-and-answer session. Please note that this conference is being recorded.

I'll now turn the call over to Joe Diaz. Joe Diaz, you may begin.

Thank you, Adrian, and thank all of you for joining us to review the financial results for AG&E Holdings for the fourth quarter of 2014, which ended December 31, 2014. As the conference call operator indicated, my name is Joe Diaz. I'm with Lytham Partners. We are the financial relations consulting firm for AG&E Holdings.

With us on the call, representing the company today are Tony Spier, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Ms. Renee Zimmerman, Chief Financial Officer.

At the conclusion of today's prepared remarks, we will open the call for question-and-answer session. If anyone participating on today's call does not have a full text copy of the release, you can retrieve it off the company's website at agegaming.com or numerous financial websites on the internet.

Before we begin with prepared remarks, we submit for the record the following statement. Statements made by the management team of AG&E Holdings during the course of this conference call that are not historical facts are considered to be forward-looking statements subject to risks and uncertainties. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a Safe Harbor for such forward-looking statements. The words believe, expect, anticipate, estimate, will and other similar statements of expectation identify forward-looking statements. Those statements reflect the intent, belief or expectations of the company and its management.

Readers are cautioned that the forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks and uncertainties and that actual results could differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, development of competing technologies, availability of adequate credit, interruption or loss of supply from key suppliers, increased competition, the regulatory process and legislative changes affecting the gaming industry.

Participants on this call are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which reflect management's analysis only as of today. AG&E Holdings assumes no obligation to update the information provided in this conference call or to reflect on the occurrence of unanticipated events.

With that, let me turn the call over to Tony Spier, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of AG&E Holdings. Tony?

Thank you, Joe. And thanks to all of you for participating on today's call. We appreciate your time and your continued interest in the company.

The evolution of the company continued during the fourth quarter of 2014. With the sale of our LCD business in the third quarter, we're now focused strictly on the distribution of parts to the gaming industry. We're one of the largest suppliers of gaming parts, electronic components in the country.

AG&E is strategically located in Las Vegas, New Jersey, Florida and Illinois. Our distribution chain reaches the Caribbean and Puerto Rico, Canada, Asia and Eastern Europe and Western Europe. AGE has major distribution relationships with OEMs including MEI, TPK, 3M, Pacific Illumination and others.

AG&E provides repair services for all types of monitors, bill validators and numerous other gaming related hardware. AG&E stocks a variety of repair parts and replacement products.

With the sale of the LCD business and our focus trained strictly on one business, we are right-sizing that business, cutting operating expenses, public company costs where possible and we expect to gain an operating advantage from reduced general and administrative expenses, due to lower employee compensation and benefit costs.

AG&E Holdings revenue from continuing operations for the fourth quarter of 2014 totaled $3.4 million compared to $8.3 million in the fourth quarter of 2013. Revenue for the quarter was clearly impacted by the slowdown of the Illinois VLT business. In Illinois, a large percentage of eligible establishments are now participating in the VLT market.

If the City of Chicago chooses to opt into the program, we can expect additional growth in the market. However, there are no indications that the city intends to participate in the near future at the present time.

For the quarter, expenses were reduced by 46% to $776,000 from over $1.4 million in the prior year quarter. This resulted in the company making approximately the same income in spite of sales declining in the quarter by 59%.

For the quarter, the company reported net income of over $110,000 or $0.01 per diluted share, which included earnings from discontinued operations of $173,000. And this is compared to net income of $110,000 or $0.01 per diluted share in the fourth quarter of 2013.

For the full-year 2014, AG&E Holdings revenue from continuing operations totaled $21.9 million versus $28.2 million in 2013. The maturing VLT business in Illinois being the primary reason for the decline in revenue. The company reported a net loss for the full year of $5.5 million or $0.47 per diluted share, which included a $5.8 million loss recorded for the sale of the LCD business.

This means that we generated approximately $300,000 of net income from operations in fiscal 2014. In the full-year 2013, the company reported revenue of $28.2 million and net income of $651,000 or $0.06 per diluted share, which include income from discontinued operations of $1.4 million.

I want to reiterate that our strategic review process continues in full force. The board of directors working in conjunction with our financial advisor, innovation capital continues to consider all reasonable options to enhance value for our shareholders.

That said, there can be no assurance that this evaluation process will result in any transaction. Management will report on any or all transactions that take place as the strategic review process continues.

Going forward, I believe there are three variable scenarios that could shape the future of the company. One, we could participate in a reverse merger with a privately-held gaming company, seeking the benefits of public company status to provide, among other things, an active market and liquidity for its shareholders. In this scenario, the buyer would also benefit from the $10 million federal tax loss carry-forward.

Two, we could sell the AG&E distribution business to a company looking to achieve scale and broaden their geographic footprint and acquire a roster of potential new customers. Or three, we could make an acquisition to expand our business.

We are actively considering all of these scenarios in our deliberations with innovation capital. Our goal is to generate an outcome that enhances the value of the company and more importantly benefits our shareholders.

We finished the year with $6.9 million in cash and received an additional $1.6 million in proceeds from the LCD unit sale in the fourth quarter. And we carried no long-term debt that we know we carry no debt at all.

We also have an asset in the form of net operating loss carry forward of approximately $10 million. Given the changes of the company that have taken place at this point, we will for the foreseeable future discontinue providing any level of guidance regarding future results. We lack the necessary level of visibility in our markets to provide a meaningful outlook.

Going forward, we look to expand our parts distribution business in which we're already a market leader. We have a strong capital base. We carry no long-term debt. We have a strong dedication to drive down our operating costs in order to maximize our operational and financial performance going forward. We're dedicated to prudently enhancing value for our shareholders in any manner possible.

With that, let me turn the call over to the conference call operator to begin the question-and-answer period. Operator?

Thank you. We'll now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Roger Nedrow from Stifel. Please go ahead.

Good morning, Tony.

Good morning, Roger.

Apologize for the bad cold here. So if I sound a little gravely...

Yeah. And you're from San Diego. I mean, it sounds like you're from Boston. Jeez.

Yeah. I'd be dead if I was in Boston.

I guess.

Anyway, I got a question here for you. You reported $110,000 worth of earnings in the fourth quarter but you got $173,000 of that earnings came from discontinued operations, which implies to me that the ongoing business loss of $73,000.

Yeah. I think it's $63,000. Yeah, that's about right. $63,000 basically, to me, is breakeven as you know.

Okay. Well, it's breakeven, a loss is still a loss. I guess, I've been under the impression that the ongoing business will be profitable. And this would leave me to believe that it's not profitable on the parts business.

Well, I think the reality of matter is that we're looking to do a transaction. And I think that's the important issue here. The fourth quarter was weaker because of the VLT sales was so weak. And the fact that we basically broke even in the quarter, I thought it wasn't such a bad performance from an operational standpoint. But I mean the parts business remains profitable, and is a good business.

Well, how can you say that it remains profitable when it lost money in the last quarter?

Well, the parts business didn't lose money. Basically, really where the loss really came from, was the VLT earnings were so weak as a practical manner.

But the VLT business will be gone here in a couple of quarters, correct?

Well, that's right. Basically, we have certainly planned for it to end in June of 2015. It doesn't mean it necessarily will, but our 2015 plan assumes that.

Okay. When are we going to find out if the parts business actually makes money? I mean, we'll see that...

Yeah. I mean, the parts business is profitable. And yeah, possibly the first quarter report.

Will you break that out? I mean, I'm trying to get a handle on it.

Yeah. It's hard to say. I mean, we're down to basically one business segment, which is gaming. We're not generally all that keen to break our businesses out too precisely, because frankly, we gave our competitors information we don't want to give them. And so, we have one basic segment left and that is gaming distribution.

Which you say is profitable?

Well, the game distribution has two parts. One is the parts business, and the other one causes the VLTs in Illinois. And I'm not all that keen to be specific about the two segments – or not, I should say, the two businesses. Because I'm giving our competitors a competitive information that I don't want to give them, because I don't want our competitors in the parts business to know exactly what our sales are on that business and exactly what our profits are on that business.

Well, they're going to know here shortly anyway. If you're out of the VLT business, the only thing you're going to have is...

You're right. But I mean to be honestly, I would rather expect that a transaction will be done before the VLT thing is settled.

Okay, okay. All right. Well...

That certainly is my expectation.

Okay. Thank you, Tony.

Pleasure.

And our next question comes from Jad Fakhry from Popular Point Capital.

Okay.

Hey, Tony. It's Jad. How are you?

Jad, how are you doing?

I'm good. Hey, just couple of quick questions. So the cash balance as of Q3 was 6-point-something, 6-and-change, and it only ended up at $6.9 million, even though you received $1.6 million, I think, from the remaining proceeds. So, how did cash actually go down net of that? Did your receivables and inventory go up because we didn't get a balance sheet here, but...

No. Basically, and Renee jump in if I'm misstating, but my understanding is that we paid GTECH for a lot of inventory in the fourth quarter. And bearing in mind that we are not expecting to be buying any more inventory or paying for any more inventory going forward, so the inventory we have is now getting turned into cash. So the reason that our cash balance didn't go up more is because we paid of GTECH. Renee, is that an accurate assessment?

Yeah, basically we paid out more receivables than we brought in cash in the quarter. And it was payables. And you're right, it was primarily games.

And how much of that, so the cash will end up where – so how much of the working capital build happened from the third quarter to fourth quarter? I would assume it's something like $2 million of incremental working capital build from Q3 to Q4. Is that right? That should reverse.

Well, put it this way. At December 31, 2014, we had $3.5 million of VLT inventory and about $1.3 million of VLT receivables. Yeah, we expect that will be a cash price. So you've got about $4.8 million of assets that we expect to get cash paid. And would I be right in thinking Renee that we don't owe GTECH pretty much more on inventory? Particularly on VLT inventory?

Correct.

If there is significant building...

Whether it was VLT. We don't know GTECH pretty much more money on actual VLT machines...

You think VLT payables to GTECH are low or not, they're not significant...

That is correct.

Yes. You're exactly right. Basically, we pay them off.

Okay. So there is no AP, accounts payable. Okay. Got it. So there should be a build of cash going into cumulative business lines, VLT business points now.

Correct.

Okay. Understood. And then, I mean, Tony, just with having cash of $6.9 million, if you release this working capital or collect these VLT receivables inventory that should be closer to may be $9 million or $10 million by the end of the year, or by the middle of the year, why are we sitting on all this cash earning nothing when shareholders haven't received the dividend or...?

Yes. Jad, as they know, we have considered paying a dividend. And we've concluded that we shouldn't do anything until we've done a transaction. We're deeply involved, as you can tell the Innovation Capital in looking at several transactions. And we don't think it's smart to do anything with our cash until we have actually ended up with the transaction. And obviously, we're very focused as you can tell from the first quarter on getting a transaction done in a timely manner.

Okay. And one last question, why would it make sense to invest more money? I mean, you look back at the history of the company, and this specific business, even this parts business hasn't been the most profitable business in the world. Why would it make any sense to even consider using shareholders cash to go by some adjacent or competing business to scale up in that business? Given this public company shell and public company operating costs, we'd never make it even if you double the sizes, this thing wouldn't make any sense.

Jad, I mean, we're looking at all transactions. I mean, obviously, my personal views as to which I think is more desirable. But again, we don't want to knock any transactions out of the box until we have come to one that makes sense to us. And so obviously we're looking at all possibilities.

Okay.

Okay.

Thank you.

And our next question comes from Jonathan Lichter from Diamond Bridge. Please go ahead.

My questions have been answered. Thank you.

Okay. Thank you.

And your next question comes from Michael Melby from Gate City Capital. Please go ahead.

Okay. Hi, Tony, Renee, good morning.

Hi, there.

Thanks for taking my question. Could you highlight the current SG&A run rate? Is that what we should expect going forward, or is there possibly more to cut from the future?

Renee, why wouldn't you handle this?

Okay. There are more cuts to come in the future. We have some things we need to trim down given our smaller size. We should see those cuts coming in partial in the first quarter and more in the second quarter, as we work through that.

And can you quantify where you think the right run rate is for SG&A, going forward?

I don't have those figures in front of me. Sorry.

Okay. You mentioned kind of the $10 million NOL-related asset. There've been some moving parts since your last 10-K and you helped a little bit in the Q last quarter. Is that an actual asset; that's not a $10 million operating loss realizing other valuation allowance with it? Just wanted to confirm that there is [ph] NTXL (19:46) asset, not the operating loss.

Once it's an asset, it's an asset. But I mean, it's not on the books, it's in off the books asset.

It is an NOL. It's an NOL with a full valuation allowance against it.

Right. I mean...

Understood. I guess, I wanted to be completely clear. Is it a $10 million operating loss and then you take your tax rate against that to get $10.5 million in assets or is it actually a $10 million asset? If it's been valued, has a full valuation allowance against it. If that makes sense.

Yeah, it does. It is the NOL before the tax rate taken against it. Has that make it clear to you?

Yes.

Did that answer the question?

Yeah. I mean, basically, there are two assets that the company has that's not on the books. One, obviously, the $10 million NOL and the other is the large number of gaming licenses that we have. Neither of those assets are valued on the books at all.

And could you give us a sense of what your market share was for the VGTs in Q4?

Yeah. I mean, it's around 20%. We've been around 20% most of the time. Except from the third quarter of 2014, we actually jumped up to 30% for that quarter. But in the fourth quarter, we came back to around 20%.

Got it. And just curious, realizing you've got to be kind of sensitive on this topic, but I'm curious maybe our conversations might have changed on the strategic front following the sale of the LCD business.

Well, to this way. The LCD business was a tough business to sell. The distribution business we have far more interested parties without any question. And then frankly, because of that, it is one of the reasons why I'm optimistic that a transaction will occur. Now, I can't guarantee one will occur, but I'm optimistic one will.

Great. That's all I have. Thank you.

Thank you.

And our last question comes from [indiscernible] (22:15). Please go ahead.

Hi, Tony.

Hi. How are you doing?

Fine. Thank you. Just a quick question. In reference to the parts business, is it growing at a – what rate would you call it, slow rate, medium rate or fast rate?

Well, as far as this year, it's probably going to grow at a pretty fast rate, [ph] Bob (22:38), because we're expanding into four new states; Arizona, New Mexico, Washington State and Oklahoma. We have a terrifically capable sales guy that we have hired, and hired him towards the end of last year for those four new territories. And those four new territories are going to increase our growth considerably. So in fact, we expect that business to do very well in 2015.

Right. Right. I was sorry to hear about already hear about Mr. Marshall Burman. I did business with him and [ph] Scott Weiland (23:19) over 50 years ago. And the good news, I saw that you got Michael Levin active there, and I think he's going to be a great asset to you.

The other one question I have, if any LVT business comes in Chicago or someplace else, and because of the merger of the IGT and the GTECH, which is also connected with Spielo. Will Spielo be able to give you business or will they have to turn all their business over IGT?

Well, it goes the other way. IGT is being purchased by GTECH. And Spielo is one of GTECH's brand names. So GTECH, who are our relationship and our principles, are in-charge. As I say, IGT reports now the GTECH or will be once they close the deal, which they should close in the first week or they should close sometime in April. It's hard to say where this all is going to go. We have assumed, for the time being, that we exit this business on June 15, 2015. There's no certainty that is the case, but we should certainly be getting positive cash flow from this business for the first two quarters of 2015 for sure.

All right. Great. Well. How is that going? Is there any other stage looking to move into the LTV business?

Unfortunately, firstly, there's nothing that's eminent. And secondly, I don't think that GTECH would be interested in using us as a distributor given their acquisition of IGT. So we have concluded that this is not – that the situation has changed and this is not an opportunity for us going forward.

Well, that was a nice thought. Well, keep going on and keep trying as hard as you can. I know you're working hard at it. And hopefully, we'll have some good news coming out. Thank you very much, Tony. [ph]

Bob (25:39), thank you.

We have no further questions at this time. I'll now turn the call over to Tony Spier for closing remarks.

Again, Renee, Joe and I thank you for your participation on today's call. And we look forward to talking with you again at the conclusion of the current quarter. We hope you have a great day. Thank you so much. Goodbye.

Thank you ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference. Thank you for participating, and you may now disconnect.