Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
Joe Dorame — Managing Partner, Lytham Partners LLC
Anthony S. Spier — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, AG&E Holdings, Inc.
James Brace — Vice President and CFO, AG&E Holdings, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to the first quarter 2014 financial results conference call. My name is Tiffany, and I will be your operator for today's call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, there will be a question-and-answer session. Please note that this call is being recorded.

I will now turn the call over to Mr. Joe Dorame. You may begin.

Thank you for joining us to review the financial results of Wells-Gardner for the first quarter of 2014, which ended March 31, 2014. As the conference call operator indicated, my name is Joe Dorame. I'm with Lytham Partners, and we are the financial relations consulting firm for Wells-Gardner.

With us on the call representing the company today are Tony Spier, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Jim Brace, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.

At the conclusion of today's prepared remarks, we will open the call for a question-and-answer session. If anyone participating on today's call does not have a full text copy of the release, you can retrieve it off the company's website at wellsgardner.com or numerous financial websites.

Before we begin with prepared remarks, we submit for the record the following statement. Statements made by the management team of Wells-Gardner during the course of this conference call that are not historical facts are considered to be forward-looking statements subject to risks and uncertainties. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a Safe Harbor for such forward-looking statements. The words believe, expect, anticipate, estimate, will and other similar statements of expectation identify forward-looking statements. Those statements reflect the intent, belief or expectations of the company and its management.

Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks and uncertainties, and that actual results could differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, development of competing technologies, availability of adequate credit, interruption or loss of supply from key suppliers, increased competition, the regulatory process and legislative changes affecting the gaming industry.

Participants on this call are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which reflect management analysis only as of today. Wells-Gardner assumes no obligation to update the information provided in this conference call or to reflect on the occurrence of unanticipated events.

With that said, let me turn the call over to Tony Spier, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Wells-Gardner. Tony?

Thank you, Joe, and thanks to all of you for participating on today's call. As expected, the first quarter of 2014 was a challenging quarter compared to the extremely strong first quarter of 2013, which benefited from some strong sales of major – one of our major customers to meet the demand of lottery and gaming sales in Italy. To put these sales in perspective, the company's LCD sales to this customer in the first quarter of 2013 exceeded the company's entire LCD sales to all customers in the fourth quarter 2013.

Revenue for the quarter totaled $12.5 million with earnings per share of $0.01 per fully diluted share compared to revenue of $18 million and earnings per share of $0.05 per fully diluted share in the first quarter of 2013. I do want to emphasize that earnings before tax came in near expectations.

Video Lottery Terminal sales in the state of Illinois during the first quarter were $5.3 million compared to $5.9 million in the first quarter of the prior year.

Parts sales increased by 20% and parts margin increased by 28% in the first quarter of 2014 compared to the prior-year quarter. We believe the demand for VLT units for the upcoming quarters of 2014 will be somewhat consistent to what we saw in the first quarter.

The dynamics in the Illinois VLT market have changed to the extent that we now believe that the city of Chicago will not opt in to the VLT program in 2014. We expect that 2015 or 2016 might be more realistic entry points for the city of Chicago.

The Illinois Gaming Board issues approximately 500 new licenses to 600 new licenses each quarter to thousands of our eligible establishments, give or take some minor variations from month to month. At April 30, there were approximately 4,200 live locations out of a total universe of 8,000 to 10,000 when the program is fully implemented.

While we do not expect that the gaming board will meaningfully accelerate the issuance of licenses in the foreseeable future, with the newly updated VLT product, we're ready to meet any level of demand should market conditions change.

We believe that our market share remains at approximately 20%. Illinois will continue to be a very competitive market for VLTs. However, our extensive experience in the gaming industry and our reputation for high quality and exceptional customer service positions us well to maintain our position in the market as the program becomes more fully implemented in Illinois. We have a great partnership built with our VLT manufacturer, GTech/Spielo, and we expect to continue to be one of the leading VLT providers in the state.

Market conditions in our base business continue to be challenging during the first quarter of 2014. As commented on before, while LCD sales were down 49% from an extremely strong prior-year quarter, driven by lottery and gaming sales in Italy, on a sequential basis, it increased more than 2% from the fourth quarter of 2013, showing that the company is holding its own in the soft gaming industry market.

In addition, financial results for the quarter were impacted by timing issues related to one of our major customer switching to a Vendor Managed Inventory Program that delayed sales recognition. This timing issue is now behind us, and we expect this will not impact future results. On a positive note, LCD sales to certain amusement customers increased by approximately $500,000 in the quarter.

As I indicated in our previous quarterly conference call, our wholly-owned subsidiary, American Gaming & Electronics, better known as AG&E, has entered into a Sales Representative and Distribution Agreement with FutureLogic, Inc., the leading developer of innovative ticket printing and couponing solutions to gaming technology providers and operators around the world.

AG&E will be an exclusive distributor for FutureLogic gaming printers in the outer Midwestern states including Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Wisconsin, Minnesota and Michigan. AG&E will also be a non-exclusive distributor in 15 states including California, Nevada, Arizona and Kansas.

This is an exciting opportunity for AG&E, as FutureLogic is widely recognized as a leader in the gaming-printing business with the largest full base of customers throughout the U.S. We expect to generate incremental revenue in the upcoming quarters of 2014 and 2015.

The results of the quarter indicated we've now entered the sixth consecutive year without an equipment replacement cycle in the U.S. gaming industry. Since the economic meltdown in 2008, casino operators have tremendously reduced spending on upgrading the gaming floors and upgrading their existing technology until they see that the economic conditions are sustainably improved.

While we're going to see measurable improvements throughout the economy, at large, we are not yet seeing increased CapEx spending by the consumer industry. That continues to impact our customers and our business as noted in the recent earnings report with several manufacturers, specifically IGT.

We expect that, as the economy continues to steadily improve, we will see the long overdue replacement cycle take hold. When the industry decides to forge ahead with increased CapEx, Wells-Gardner is well positioned to benefit.

Although market conditions continue to be soft, the financial foundation of Wells-Gardner continues to be strong. We continue to run the company conservatively with unceasing focus on managing expenses, paying down debt and operating our business from internally-generated cash flow.

For the first quarter of 2014, we generated positive cash flow of approximately $1.4 million. Bank debt now stands at $100,000, down from $1.6 million at December 31, 2013. Actually, we had cash of $330,000, so we were net debt free at March 31, 2014.

Engineering, sales and administrative expenses for the first quarter of 2014 were $2 million, down from $2.4 million in last year's first quarter, an improvement of 18%. We continue to focus on operating the business as efficient as possible.

With that, let me turn the call over to Jim Brace, Wells-Gardner's CFO, for a review of the financial results. At the conclusion of Jim's review, we will open the call for your questions. Jim?

Thank you, Tony. Wells-Gardner reported net income of $71,000 or $0.01 per share in the first quarter ending March 31, 2014 compared to net earnings of $549,000 or $0.05 per share for the same period in 2013.

For the first quarter ended December 31, net sales decreased $5.6 million or 31% to $12.4 million compared to $18 million in the first quarter of 2013. Monitor sales decreased $5.3 million or 49% to $5.4 million in the first quarter of 2014 compared to $10.7 million in the first quarter of 2013, which represents 44% of total sales in 2014 first quarter compared to 60% in the 2013 first quarter. This was due to the total display unit volume decreasing 46% to 17,600 units in 2014 compared to 32,900 units in 2013 plus an average selling price decrease of 5%.

Parts and VGT sales decreased $300,000 or 4% to $7 million in the first quarter of 2014 compared to $7.3 million in the first quarter of 2013, which represents 56% of our total sales in the 2014 first quarter compared to 40% of total sales in the first quarter of 2013. Parts sales increased noticeably off a small base, while VGT sales declined slightly in the first quarter of 2014 compared to the same period in 2013.

Gross margin for the first quarter of 2014 decreased $900,000 or 30% to $2.1 million or 16.6% of sales compared with $3 million or 16.4% of sales in the first quarter of 2013. Monitor gross margins decreased by $1.1 million with about 80% of the decline due to volume and 20% to lower overhead absorption and lower average selling prices for monitors.

Parts and VGT gross margins increased by $200,000 due to more favorable product mix with more growth in parts than in VGTs. Operating expenses decreased $426,000 to $1.95 million in the first quarter 2014 compared to $2.37 million in the first quarter 2013. Operating expenses decreased [ph] to $153,000 (12:31) to support LCD engineering, $95,000 to support sales, [ph] down (12:39) $98,000 for sales commissions and $79,000 for administrative expenses in the first quarter of 2014 compared to the first quarter 2013.

Notwithstanding the operating expense decreases, the lower sales increased operating expenses as a percent of sales to 15.6% in the quarter from 13.2% in the first quarter last year. Operating earnings were $119,000 in the first quarter 2014 compared to $587,000 in the first quarter 2013, resulting in $468,000 operating earnings decline. This decline was due to significantly lower monitor sales and margins, exceeding the operating expense decreases for the first quarter this year compared to the first quarter of last year.

Interest expense was $15,000 in the first quarter of 2014 compared to $37,000 in the first quarter of 2013 due to very low debt balances. Other expense was a $500,000 credit in the first quarter of this year and zero in the first quarter of last year.

Income tax expense was $38,000 in the first quarter of 2014 compared to $1,000 in the first quarter of 2013. The company has available net operating loss carry-forward of approximately $5 million as of March 31, 2014. Net income was $71,000 in the first quarter of 2014 compared to net income of $549,000 in the first quarter of 2013. For the first quarter of 2014, basic and diluted earnings per share was $0.01 compared to basic and diluted earnings per share of $0.05 in the first quarter of 2013.

Our balance sheet continues to remain very strong. Our debt decreased to $100,000 to March – excuse me, decreased to $100,000 at March 31, 2014 from a debt level of $1.6 million at year-end 2013. Cash at March 31 was $330,000, meaning that Wells Fargo was cash positive at the end of the quarter. The company's debt-to-equity ratio was less than 1% at March 31, 2014 compared with 10% at year-end 2013. It is worthy to note that we had cash provided by operations of $1.4 million in the first quarter of this year. We are in compliance with all our March 31, 2014 bank covenants with Wells Fargo Bank.

That concludes my financial review. I'll now turn the call back to Tony.

Thank you, Jim. Before we open up the call for your questions, let me comment on our strategic review and outlook for 2014.

On December 4, 2013, the Board of Directors of Wells-Gardner Electronics Corporation authorized management to explore strategic alternatives including acquisitions of certain businesses. The company has retained Innovation Capital based in El Segundo, California as your financial advisor conducted thorough review of the company's business and assets to provide recommendations for consideration by the Wells-Gardner's Board of Directors. There can be no assurances that this evaluation process will result in any transaction. Management will report results of the strategic review at the conclusion of that process.

As it relates to our outlook for the full year 2014, based on our best estimates and information available at this time, we believe full year 2014 net sales will be in the range of between $48 million and $52 million compared to $57.9 million in full year 2013 with the first quarter 2014 expected to be the most challenging quarter of the year.

The sales guidance is based on the assumption that the city of Chicago does not opt in to the VLT program in this year, 2014. And it is down – the sales guidance is down from $53 million to $57 million due partially to this change in assumptions. The company expects to be profitable in 2014.

With that, let me turn the call over to the conference call operator to begin the question-and-answer period. Tiffany, we're ready for the questions and answers.

Yes. Thank you. We will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] And our first question is from [ph] Robert Barchi (17:52), a private investor. You may go ahead.

Hi, Tony and Jim. You're doing a good job in a bad environment. I have just a couple of quick questions, and I hope I won't be cut off this time. I'd like to know how that button-deck product is going. Is it being sold? Are you getting any revenue from it? Number two is a question about the VLT in Chicago. You think it's a no-brainer for Emanuel to go ahead with it, so he would not have to increase the real estate tax. On some people's homes, you look like a hero. Going through it also will drive more income from and cost also from the additional beverage and food sales tax. So, those are the two questions and [indiscernible] (18:40) and then how long – how much longer do we have to go on this deal to the state of Illinois? Do you think it will be ending soon? Thank you.

Okay. Let me take this one at a time. In terms of the button-deck, we are continuing to develop it for two of our customers and we have not made any revenue as of yet, but we certainly have a good chance of realizing revenue from the button-deck, and I think we will know that certainly by the end of the year as to whether these two customers in the end do give us any orders.

Thank you.

On the VLT side, of course, you're right, it's a shame that Mayor Emanuel has not moved to opt in, but I think it's clear that his first priority when it comes to gaming is to get his own casino in the city of Chicago and he is using the opting in on the VLT program as one of his [ph] critical (19:44) chips to play. So, I think that we are anticipating that the opt-in on the VLT program will not happen until the mayor has a clear deal to get a license for a [ph] full-line (20:06) casino in the city of Chicago. And so, as you know, that's been a slow process. The mayor and the governor are not seeing eye-to-eye on this unfortunately. And so, we're obviously waiting until that happens. So, that's kind of where we are.

And how much longer do you think the program has to go, the way it is now?

Well, I mean I would say that it will start slowing down. I think, without Chicago, basically it probably goes through the end of 2015. And if Chicago opts in, that will give us at least another year.

All right. Thank you very much. Keep going. Thanks. You're very kind.

Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And our next question is from [ph] Ted Aloka (21:02) from Trident Partners. You may go ahead.

Hello, guys. Hi, Tony.

Hi.

Hi, how are you? Tony, I missed the gentleman prior. He was talking about the – you might have two customers for the – what was that you were talking about? I missed the whole thing. button-deck...

Button-deck is – it basically is LCDs used as buttons, which is from a high-tech way of having buttons on a game. The low-tech way is to actually have physical buttons. The high-tech way is the buttons are really now LCDs. And so, this is a program that we're working on. And I'd say we are working on it with two of our customers. We have not yet received any orders, but we are hopeful.

Okay. I mean, if they got the orders, what – roughly, what kind of business is that, like, sale-wise? Is that $1 million, $20 million? What is it number-wise?

Yeah, it is more on a $1 million arrangement...

Okay.

In the $20 million range.

Although – let me say this. It could grow to much larger. They're putting it on new platforms, which will initially have low volume. But as those platforms mature – so for the relatively immediate future, in the second half of 2014 and 2015, the numbers will be lower, but they have a much better potential in 2016 and 2017, as they'll start rolling it across the whole line of product.

Right.

I got you. Also, I have another question. On a previous call, I specifically asked you guys this question. After – what's the name – David Silk? After he left – he came from Motorola.

Right.

I asked you guys if you still had – if you had any chance to sell whatever it was he was working on. And you said, yes, the product was yours and that thing he was working on, blah, blah, blah, could result in future revenue. Has that happened to-date so far ?

The best shot we have of products that he was developing is in fact this button-deck.

Oh, that's – okay.

That certainly would be – of the various projects he has, that is easily the most commercially viable.

Okay. But I mean, to-date, his endeavors produced no revenue so far, right?

Unfortunately, that's true.

Okay. Also, did I misunderstand that the – when you mentioned the strategic alternative, exploring the options with the banking firm in June in – excuse me, this past December, did you say that concluded or...

No, that's not concluded, no. It's an everyday occurrence [indiscernible] (23:47) to our investment bankers, believe me, every single day.

Okay. Let me ask you this question because I think this is pretty serious at this point. By your own admissions, it sounds like the Illinois could, I'd just put it at could, run out the end of 2015 approximately. That's a possibility, right? Other states coming onboard I know it's been much slower than anyone...

We are working on several other states. There's no legislation that has gone through yet. But believe me, we're working on it every day. And there are about 10 states that we are looking at and trying to – we're trying to encourage them to get legislation sooner than Illinois and what we're doing is we are firm to get our presentation on how this VLT program has helped the state of Illinois from a standpoint of the revenue to the states.

Well, that's my question now because if we receive $5 million, what is it they're receiving? How much are they getting out of it, roughly?

Well, the way it works is that the states and the local jurisdiction gets 30% of the winnings of every game, everyday. The average winnings in the state of Illinois is basically $100. So, that means the state and the local township are getting $30 per day per machine. And right now, there are – how many machines are there? Was it 16,000, Jim?

Yeah, around 16,000.

Okay. So, that gives you an idea of how much money the states is taking and so on. On 16,000 machines, they're getting $30 a day, which means they're getting $480,000 a day. And so, of a period of the year, that comes to a huge amount of money, $1.7...

$175 million.

No, no, I think it's $17 million.

No, think it's $175 million.

Well, it's $480,000 a day. It's almost $0.5 million a day [indiscernible] (26:04)

Right.

$175 million a year [indiscernible] (26:08) so that's what the states and the townships are getting, $175 million a day right now – $175 million a year right now.

Year.

And of that, the state is getting 82.5% of that. So the state is getting $144 million and the township is getting the rest, $31 million. All right. That's one of the areas that Rahm Emanuel is also working on. He wants Chicago to get more than the 5% because right now the way [ph] it's set is (26:43) 25% goes to the state and 5% goes to the local township. Rahm Emanuel is trying to make it a 20-10 split instead of a 25-5 split.

My gut reaction is you will probably get very close to that. So, that's also a part of the negotiations, but it's clear that Rahm Emanuel is not willing to opt in until he clearly has a deal on his Casino.

Right, right, right. So, we did approximately $5 million in change in the VLT for the quarter. Did I read that right?

Yes.

Yes. $5.3 million, right.

Okay. So, again, what's the reason for the big decline this year in revenue that you guys were saying? The $50 million versus the $58 million from last year?

The main reason for the decline is probably the softness in the LCD business and we're seeing about a 10% decline in VLCs. And what's offsetting that is that we're selling more LCDs [indiscernible] (27:51) industry and our parts business is growing very well, in the first quarter grew 20%. Gross margin actually grew 28%. That's continuing to – that will continue.

Right. Okay. And the guys that you hired from California, I mean, a couple of different ways you could go. Obviously, one would be for you to acquire someone that has – what do you think you're going to ultimately do? I mean, this isn't – you don't have so much options...

Well, firstly, we have so many options. But obviously, we can't comment until we go public. But what I will tell you is that this is an ongoing process. As you know, old process, old deals is somewhat slow, but we are talking to our investment bankers absolutely every single day so what that tells you is that there's a huge amount of activity. But we cannot be going public until we have signed what we can go public with.

I understand, I understand. Okay. Whatever it says, I got to admit, this is disappointing at best, so I don't know what more to say at this point. I will just hang on and hope that something – I don't know what – whatever, I don't know what to say at this point. [ph]

Hugo (29:07), you know who we are, okay? We are obviously working hard with our investment bankers.

Okay. All right. Good luck with everything then. I appreciate it.

Thank you, thank you.

Okay. [Operator Instructions]

And at this time, we do not have any further questions. I will now turn the call back over to Mr. Spier for closing remarks.

Again, Jim and I thank you for your participation on today's call, and we look forward to talking with you again at the conclusion of the current quarter. We hope you have a great day. Thank you. Good bye.

Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. This concludes today's conference. Thank you for participating. You many now disconnect.