raw transcript


Wells-Gardner Electronics
 
WGA
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 27, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and Gentlemen, and welcome to your Quarter One 2005 Wells-Gardner


Electronics Corporation Earnings Conference Call. My name is Sine; I will be your conference


coordinator today. At this time, all lines are in a listen-only mode, and at the end we will take your


question. If you need operator assistance, key “*”“0”. At this time, I will turn the call over to your


host, Mr. Anthony Spier, Chairman and CEO. Sir, please proceed.


Anthony Spier, Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you. Good morning ladies and gentlemen, I would like to welcome all of you to Wells-


Gardner’s First Quarter 2005 Conference Call. My name is Tony Spier, I am the CEO, giving a


welcome to our clients, and also with me is Jim Winikates, our Interim CFO. Now, at this time, I


would like to introduce Jim to read our Safe Harbor Statement.


Jim Winikates, Interim Chief Financial Officer


Thanks Tony. Before we begin, please keep in mind that our call today will include certain forward-


looking statements, and that actual results could differ materially from the results projected in the


forward-looking statements. We refer to you our Forms 10-K and 10-Q, especially risk factors, for


information that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results projected in the


forward-looking statements. Please also keep in mind that this conference call is being


simultaneously broadcast over the Internet, and a replay will be available on our website for 60


days.


I would now like to turn the call back to Tony Spier, to cover highlights in the first quarter of 2005,


and to share his thoughts on our performance.


Anthony Spier, Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer


Hi there, well, as you can see, we had a challenging first quarter due to combination of non-


occurring items, a challenging business environment, and particularly, in terms of operating


margins, which we will discuss later. You can also see from our press release that went out before


opening the day today, we received a major PO from a major new Gaming Customer, which now


means that we sell seven of the top ten major gaming stock manufacturers.


Now, we are very pleased with the proceeding that made it work. Our revenues grew by 44% over


the first quarter to 13.2 million an increase of 3.4% over sales of 12.7 million. We reported a net


loss of $815,000 and 9 cents a share, which compares to net loss of 4 cents per share in the first


quarter of 2004.


Jim will talk about financial results in great detail in a few moments, so allow me to focus on our


sales results, to provide a prospective on the increase from last year, since that might be relevant


for future. Our gaining sells continue to drive the Company. In the first quarter, actually, our gaming


sells revenue grew by 54 percent, in spite of the fact that’s about $1 million in sales to a major


gaming company being delayed into the second quarter due to the customer changing one of its


manufacturing locations.


As you know up to today, we have sold six of the top ten global gaming suppliers and as you know,


and as I mentioned before, if you say we know, we now sold the seven of the top ten global gaming
raw transcript


Wells-Gardner Electronics
 
WGA
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 27, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


suppliers as we received our first order from a new customer, new customer that we we’ll be


working on securing for sometime.


Also I’m pleased to report you that industry experts expect three of our major gaming customers


mainly Aristocrat, WMS, GTech, to further increase market share in 2005, and this will further drive


our estimates.


In the first quarter of 2005, we started to see the record transition from based displays to LCDs. We


sold around 4600 LCDs which works out to be an annualized rate of 18,400 and this compares to


3500 LCDs that we sold in whole of fiscal 2004, I should tell you about it later 3500 primarily was


sold in the second half of 2004 nevertheless what this shows you is at the comp run rate we are


likely to sell five times as many LCDs 2005, as we sold in 2004 and candidly could be higher


because there’s some argument to say that the 4600 LCDs we sold in the first quarter of 2005, was


very well turn out to be our lowest quarterly sales all the LCDs in fact this year, but in fact our LCD


sales will increase more than five times, will increase five to six to seven times as a practical


matter. Although in first few major orders of units our margins due to several cost, the LCD


transition will eventually lead to greater revenue growth and we will drive our future profitability.


As we are now the largest global supplier to gaming stock manufacturers, I believe we’re well


positioned to capitalized on this technology transition, and hopefully with our terrific ability now to


buy a large amount of inventory, I am hoping that we can negotiate better terms from some of our


suppliers.


The global gaming industry is continuing to grow at a reasonable pace, the growth is driven frankly


right now by international sales particularly in Russia and Macau and also there is expectation in


Italy and Spain will improve for real approach this year which will be very good for Wells-Gardner,


hence we have the major supplier to the major Spanish manufacturers Hamco [ph] and Unidesive


[ph], these are the flare flex [ph] with a tremendous amount of strength obviously in Spain, also in


Italy.


U.S. as you know, we’ve to share of disappointments in 2005 mainly due to delays. Pennsylvania


will be slow, gaming candidly was disappointing at I think approval of about 9900 slots, vision voted


[ph] with the supervision with browsing up and days only count, at least we, I can, told the delays


even in new compacts in California both was as appointed and like you see, also noticed there is a


slow purchases by some of our high profile merger companies mainly due to proceeds of ahead of


the vision of their mergers with MGM and house, it was, we filled our latest news of securing one of


the top stock manufacturers and the new customer, and the new customer is even more important,


because it indicates that we are growing despite the current challenging environment, and clearly


we are. Clearly, Wells-Gardner is growing share, partly due to having a major new customer, and


partly due to the fact that three of our other major customers, and maybe five or certainly three are


growing market share right now at a very good rate, and of course, in that respect VTech helps.


And to say Spain and Italy do in fact improve videos, then you can add new investment Franco into


that mix as well.


Finally, our Company continues to invest, and this is a valuable asset, which will give full expense


and significant competitive advantage to our Company, as regards to selling our products in the


gaming jurisdictions. Also, you should know that we are also, have improved in Nevada and New


Jersey to sell up to these directly, which is a tremendous opportunity for us to not only grow


revenue, but even more importantly, in this environment, to grow margin. At this point, let me hand


the call over to Jim to provide more details on our financial results.