Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
Joe Diaz — Managing Partner, Lytham Partners LLC
Anthony S. Spier — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, AG&E Holdings, Inc.
Renee Zimmerman — Senior Vice President, Secretary, Treasurer & Chief Financial Officer, AG&E Holdings, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to the Third Quarter 2014 Financial Results Conference Call. My name is Daniel and I will be your operator for today's call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session. Please note that this conference is being recorded.

I will now turn the call over to Mr. Joe Diaz. Mr. Diaz, you may begin.

Thank you, Daniel, and thank all of you for joining us to review the financial results of AG&E Holdings for the third quarter of 2014, which ended on September 30, 2014. As the conference call operator indicated, my name is Joe Diaz. I'm with Lytham Partners. We are the financial relations consulting firm for AG&E Holdings.

With us on the call representing the company today are Tony Spier, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Ms. Renee Zimmerman, Chief Financial Officer. I'd like to welcome Renee to our first conference call as the company's CFO. We're delighted that she accepted the position and look forward to her financial leadership. We also would like to thank Jim Brace for the excellent job he has done over the past eight years and we wish him well on his retirement.

At the conclusion of today's prepared remarks, we will open the call for a question-and-answer session. If anyone participating on today's call does not have a full text copy of the earnings release, you can retrieve it off the company's website at agegaming.com or numerous financial sites on the Internet.

Before we begin with prepared remarks, we submit for the record the following statement. Statements made by the management team of AG&E Holdings during the course of this conference call that are not historical facts are considered to be forward-looking statements subject to risks and uncertainties. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a Safe Harbor for such forward-looking statements. The words – believe, expect, anticipate, estimate, will and other similar statements of expectation – identify forward-looking statements.

Those statements reflect the intent, belief or expectations of the company and its management. Readers are cautioned that the forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks and uncertainties and that actual results could differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement.

Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, development of competing technologies, availability of adequate credit, interruption or loss of supply from key suppliers, increased competition, the regulatory process and legislative changes affecting the gaming industry.

Participants on this call are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which reflect management's analysis only as of today. AG&E Holdings assumes no obligation to update information provided in this conference call or to reflect on the occurrence of unanticipated events.

With that said, let me turn the call over to Tony Spier, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of AG&E Holdings. Tony?

Thanks, Joe. And thanks to all of you for participating on today's call. We appreciate your time and your continued interest in the company. Let me say from the outset that we have been listening to our shareholders' concerns. We have sold our LCD business that was a tough commodity business, and both I and the board have taken 50% reductions in compensation to initiate the rightsizing of the continuing business with additional actions to come.

If change is the only constant, well it's fair to say we've changed. With the disposition of our LCD business, we are now AG&E Holdings, Inc. We are one of the largest suppliers of game parts and electronic components in the country. AG&E is strategically located in Las Vegas, New Jersey, Florida, and Illinois. Our distribution chain reaches the Caribbean, Puerto Rico, Canada, Asia, Eastern and Western Europe. AG&E has major distribution relationships with FutureLogic, Spielo, TPK, 3M, and others.

AG&E provides repair services for all types of monitors, bill validators, power supplies, and numerous other gaming-related hardware. AG&E stocks a variety of repair parts and replacement parts. We're also a distributor of Spielo Video Lottery Gaming Systems or VLTs in the state of Illinois where we command over 20% market share.

During the quarter, the company sold its LCD business, which includes the Wells-Gardner name, to HT Precision Technologies U.S., a Delaware corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Taiwan-based HT Precision Technologies. Total transaction-related expenses including write-offs, impairment charges, and other non-cash adjustments totaled $5.9 million.

The financial results of AG&E Holdings for the third quarter 2014 reflect the operating results of AG&E Holdings' distribution businesses as well as discontinued operations for the divested LCD business in addition to the aforementioned transaction costs and other adjustments. Previous year third quarter and nine-month comparable results are presented on a pro forma basis to reflect the changes in reporting structure in those prior year periods.

AG&E Holdings' revenue for the third quarter 2014 totaled $5.3 million, which was flat with the $5.3 million in the third quarter of 2013. The company reported a net loss of $5.9 million or $0.50 per diluted share, which included the write-offs, impairment charges, transaction costs, other non-cash adjustments, and operating losses from discontinued operations. In the comparable quarter of 2013, the company reported a net loss of $40,000 or no cents per diluted share.

The third quarter 2014 net loss included non-recurring charges of $5.9 million, made up of $2.2 million charges to continued operations and $3.7 million to discontinued operations. For the nine-month period of 2014, revenue totaled $18.5 million, a decline of 7% compared to $19.9 million for the nine months of 2013. The company reported a net loss of $5.6 million or $0.48 per diluted share, which included the write-offs, impairment charges, transaction costs, et cetera. In comparable quarter of 2013, the company reported a net income of $541,000 or $0.05 per diluted share.

The nine months 2014 net income included non-recurring charges of $5.9 million that made up as was said $2.2 million for continuing business and $3.9 million (sic) [$3.7 million] (07:22) for the discontinued business. As I said earlier, revenue from our ongoing distribution business was flat compared to last year's third quarter of $5.3 million; however, the gross margin for that business during the quarter increased approximately 300 basis points to little over 20% as we were able to operate more efficiently.

VLT sales for the quarter decreased 11% compared to the third quarter of 2014 as that business is now in a mature stage. Nevertheless, our market share increased in the quarter to 30%. As I said earlier, up to now, our market share has been around 20%. We're in the third year of the program in the state of Illinois, and the rate of VLT installation is beginning to slow as many of the early adopters have installed their equipment.

The City of Chicago has not yet opted into the program. However, the recent gubernatorial election in Illinois is expected to be a positive move by the industry, and the Mayor is now expected to obtain the casino license that he has wanted for so long. Nothing will happen until [ph] mayoral (08:27) election in February 2015, but experts are projecting that the city could receive the casino license by June 2015 and this means there is a possibility that the City of Chicago could opt in by the end of 2015. This would add about 10,000 additional VLTs to the Illinois market.

With the completion of the sale of the LCD business, AG&E Holdings has a strong financial base with cash of $6.2 million [indiscernible] (09:00) September 30, 2014. In addition, we've received approximately $1.5 million of cash on November 7, 2014, as the next stage in our transaction with HTP US, Inc. We also expect between $150,000 and $200,000 in additional cash from the buyer in the next 90 days while they're about to complete the transaction.

I should point out to you that the $1.5 million and the $150,000 to $200,000 is all additional cash that is not in the $6.2 million that we reported at September 30. This is additional cash to the $6.2 million. We have now no long-term debt and have mutually agreed with Wells Fargo to cancel our current banking agreement. Consequently, there are no third quarter bank covenants. We are in the process of negotiating a new banking agreement with Wells Fargo, and are continuing our banking relationship with them. We also have an asset in the form of net operating loss carry-forward of approximately $9 million.

Our focus now turns to right sizing the operating expense profile of our new company. We have taken steps to minimize public company costs, reduce executive salaries, and will soon gain an operating advantage from reduced general and admin expenses due to lower employee compensation and benefit costs.

We have entered a new era in the history of the company, and we look ahead with great enthusiasm. We look to expand our parts distribution business, in which we are already a market leader. We have a strong capital base, we carry no long-term debt and we have a strong dedication to drive down our operating costs in order to maximize our operational and financial performance going forward.

With that, let me turn the call over to Renee Zimmerman, our new CFO for a review of the financial results. At the conclusion of Renee's review, we will open the call to your questions. Renee?

Thank you, Tony. The financial results of the AG&E Holdings for the third quarter of 2014 reflect the operating results of AG&E Holdings distribution businesses, discontinued operations for the divested LCD business in addition to the aforementioned transaction costs and other adjustments.

Previous year third quarter and nine-month comparable results are presented on a pro forma basis to reflect the changes in reporting structure in those prior year periods.

It should be noted that both current year and prior year discontinued operations earnings did not include management, administrative, accounting and public company costs.

AG&E Holdings reported net loss of $5.9 million or $0.50 per share in the third quarter ended September 30, 2014, compared to a net loss of $40,000 or zero dollars per share for the same period in 2013. The third quarter included non-recurring charges of $5.9 million, made up of $2.2 million of charges to continuing operations, including the non-cash write-offs of goodwill of $1,329,000 and tax deferrals of $497,000. There was a charge of $3.7 million to discontinued operations.

For the third quarter ended September 30, 2014, net sales as a continuing operations were flat at $5.3 million compared to $5.3 million in the third quarter 2013. Parts sales increased 18%, while VLT sales declined in the third quarter of 2014, compared to the same period in 2013.

Gross margin for the third quarter of 2014, increased by $162,000 or 300 basis points to $1.06 million or 20.2% of sales, compared to $0.9 million or 17.2% in the third quarter of 2013.

Operating expenses in the third quarter 2014 increased by $285,000 to a $1.543 million from $1.258 million in the same period in the prior year. This quarter's operating expenses included a non-recurring charge of $365,000, primarily due to severance expenses. Without the non-recurring charges, operating expenses would have declined by $80,000 or 6%.

Operating earnings were a loss of $1,808,000 compared to a loss of $356,000 in the same period in the prior year. The operating earnings included non-recurring charges of $1.7 million, which included the write-off of goodwill of $1,329,000.

Interest expense was $15,000 in the third quarter 2014, compared to $15,000 in the third quarter 2013. Other income was $5,000 in the third quarter 2014, compared to $6,000 in the third quarter 2013.

Income tax expense was $501,000 in the third quarter 2014, compared to $0 in the third quarter 2013. This included the non-recurring write-off of $497,000 of deferred tax.

Net income was a loss of $2.3 million from continuing operations in the third quarter 2014, compared to a loss of $365,000 in the same period in 2013. This included non-recurring charges of $2.2 million.

Net income from discontinued operations was a loss of $3.6 million in the third quarter 2014. This included non-recurring charges of $3.7 million. For the nine months ended September 30, 2014, net sales from continuing operations decreased by 7% to $18.5 million compared to $19.9 million in the same period in 2013. Parts sales increased by 14%, but this was more than offset by the decline in VLT sales in Illinois.

Gross margin for the first nine months of 2014 increased by $255,000 or 260 basis points to $3.6 million or 19.2% of sales, compared to $3.3 million or 16.6% in the same period in 2013.

Operating expenses decreased by $73,000 to $4 million in the first nine months of 2014, compared to $4.1 million in the same period in 2013. Operating expenses in the first nine months of 2014 included non-recurring charges of $365,000. Without these charges, operating expenses would have declined by $438,000 or 11% from prior year.

Operating earnings were a loss of $1.8 million in the first nine months of 2014, compared to a loss of $816,000 in the same period in 2013. This operating earnings loss included non-recurring charges of $1.7 million.

Interest expense was $45,000 in the first nine months of 2014, compared to $60,000 in the same period in 2013, due to very low debt balances. Other income was $18,000 in the first nine months of 2014 compared to $5,000 in the same period in 2013.

Income tax expense is $539,000 in the first nine months 2014, compared to $1,000 in the same period in 2013. The income tax expense includes a non-recurring charge of $497,000, tax deferral write-off. The company has available a net operating loss carry-forward of approximately $9 million as of September 30, 2014.

Net loss from continuing operations was $2.4 million in the first nine months 2014 compared to a net loss of $872,000 in the same period in 2013. The total net loss for AG&E Holdings Inc., was $5.6 million in the first nine months 2014 compared to a profit of $541,000 in the same period in the prior year. This included non-recurring charges of $5.9 million, made up of $2.2 million for continuing operations and $3.7 million for discontinued operations.

Net income from discontinued operations was a loss of $3.2 million in the first nine months of 2014. This included non-recurring charges of $3.7 million.

Our balance sheet is now very strong, we had cash of $6.2 million as of September 30, 2014, and no debt. We have since received a payment of over $1.5 million on November 7, 2014, from the buyer as the next phase of our transaction. We expect to receive the final payment of between $150,000 and $200,000 from the buyer in the next 90 days to complete the transaction.

We mutually canceled our current banking agreement with Wells Fargo Bank and therefore have no bank covenants for the third quarter 2014. We are working on a new banking agreement with Wells Fargo.

That concludes my financial review, I'll now turn the call back to Tony.

Thank you, Renee. Before we open up the call for your questions, I want you to know that our strategic review process continues in full force, the Board of Directors working in conjunction with our financial advisor innovation capital, continuous to consider all reasonable options to enhance value for our loyal shareholders. That said, there can be no assurance that this evaluation process will result in any transaction. Management will report on any or all transactions that take place as the strategic review process continues.

As it relates to our outlook for the full-year 2014, based on our best estimates and information available at this time, we believe full-year 2014 net sales will be in the range of between $22.8 million and $23.2 million, with fourth quarter revenue of between $4.3 million and $4.7 million, which reflects the current decline in the Illinois VLT business due to the City of Chicago not having opted into the program.

With that, let me turn the call over to the conference call operator to begin the question-and-answer period. Daniel?

Thank you, Mr. Spier. We will now take the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] And our very first call comes from [ph] Robert Bachi (21:16). Please go ahead.

Hi, Tony. I know you're going through a difficult time, as we all are here, and I know you're cutting as much expenses as you can alleviate. The thing I would like to know is a rough estimate of the book value of the stock after you've received this recent money from – buying company that came in after November the 1st, what is a rough estimate of the book value now?

I would say it's no different, it's around $11 million. What we have done is converted receivable into cash. So it doesn't change the net book value of the company at all, Bob.

It doesn't?

No. Because we had on the books as receivable, and now that receivable has turned into cash.

So that does not increase our book value at all?

No. I mean what it does is, the receivable is always an asset with some risk and cash is an asset with no risk, so I mean that's the basic change.

All right and then for AG&E, the repair business and the parts business as one unit, that you can sort of break that away from everything else, approximately what will the sales be in that division next year...

Well, [indiscernible] (22:45)

...will it probably be the same as almost this year?

No. We think it will be frankly significantly higher. We have some new contracts that you will see in the next frankly few weeks, we will put out press releases of some of the new contracts and we are expanding our AG&E Parts business into at least three new states, that's Arizona, New Mexico, and Washington states and maybe into Oklahoma as well. So we are growing that business and growing it nicely, and this is a business with very nice margins.

And you have new reps, now you are representing different companies now?

Yeah. I mean you see ...

You are a representative for different companies and you're adding to that.

We are adding to that, exactly right. You'll see a press release very shortly about one and there are other more to come.

Well that'll be good, we'd like to see some good news.

Sure.

Keep going and do a great job, because I know you're trying to do. Thank you.

Well, thank you so much.

Yeah.

Thank you. Our following question comes from [ph] Jonathon Victor (24:00). Please go ahead.

Good morning. Well, margins remain the same in the 20% range or how will that be going forward?

We've obviously had a good margin year in 2014, and to be practical, probably margins will stay around the same. I don't expect margins to go up. As you may have heard from the previous caller, we have some exciting growth opportunities on the AG&E Parts business that we have – we're putting into place. And so, we see that will be a plus.

But the reality is that, the way we're going to increase profitability is grow the top line, I don't expect to grow the margin percentage or the gross margin percentage, and then to cost reduce the expenses. We've already taken some major stabs at the expenses, we've already basically knocked $600,000 a year out of the G&A expenses and believe me, there is more to come.

Where can you get SG&A down to on a quarterly basis?

Well, we have to work on that. We've taken big steps, I think you know that I and the board took 50% reductions in compensation. Jim Brace has retired. So we'll see his expense goes away. Those three items between them add up to about $600,000 a year. But there is going to be more, I mean, I expect our order fees to go down. I expect our insurance cost to go down. There are many other costs that we are going to be working on. But we've already right from the get-go, have taken $600,000 out.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you, [ph] Jon (26:01).

Thank you. Our following question comes from [ph] Jad Fakhry (26:10). Please go ahead.

Hey, Tony, it's [ph] Jad (26:14). I had a question. So, the $600,000 that you just mentioned in terms of G&A reductions, how much of that was reflected in Q3? Meaning how much [ph] is its (26:27) savings or is it non-reflect?

It is non-reflect.

Okay.

All these were basically effective October 1, so...

Correct. So... [indiscernible]

(26:35)

So all these...Right.

Right.

Yeah, so all that starts in Q4, but it starts immediately in Q4. So the whole $150,000 for quarter starts on October the 1st. So you have the...

Right. And then audit fees...

... [ph] $450,000 (26:47) benefit.

...Right. And then audit, insurance and other kind of overheads as you reduce the scope of your G&A infrastructure, would you imagine that – it sounds like it's a couple hundred thousand maybe on an annual basis [indiscernible] (27:00)?

I know, we're still working it out, and we also still have negotiated costs for [ph] low orders (27:03) and that type of thing. But to be [indiscernible] (27:06) that will probably be a 2015 event as a practical matter. So, but certainly Renee and I are working hard on right sizing this company to make sure that we're profitable going forward.

Okay. And then Renee made a comment about the one-time expenses in Q3 – this Q3. It sounded like, on top of the $1.3 million impairment charge, the goodwill impairment of $1.329 million, there was another $400,000 of one-time expenses, is that correct?

Well, basically, on the continuing operations, there was $365,000 one-time charge that was primarily severance costs. There was $1 million over – a little over $1.3 million of the non-cash goodwill impairment, and there was $497,000 of deferred taxes that we wrote off as a tax expense.

Got it. So the only part that was above the line was the $1.329 million goodwill impairment in that $365,000?

Well, no, [ph] it wouldn't (28:21) stay above the line, well, yeah, it was the tax...

Meaning above the operating line, I'm sorry.

Right, right. Above the operating line is the $1.3 million plus the $365,000, so about $1.7 million is above the line.

Right. So kind of on an EBITDA basis, you were close to breakeven before those operating expense reductions...

Exactly.

You've begun to realize [indiscernible] (28:42).

I'll say, they all start on October 1, 2014.

Actually, one other question I thought of, in terms of the new business, as you enter new states and win new customers, is there any way to quantify that to give us a sense for the magnitude?

Not really, I mean we will obviously figure that into our 2015 forecast, but we have some work to do. Getting these licenses in Arizona, New Mexico and Washington state could take us up to six months. So we're very optimistic. We've had a terrifically capable guy to operate those territories and we expect to do very well. But it's going to be hard to quantify for a while.

Okay. Great. Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you. Our following question comes from [ph] Michael Levin (29:46). Please go ahead.

Good morning, Tony. [ph] Mike Levin (29:50) here. I have a question about the forward-looking number. I think it was $4.3 million to $4.7 million for the fourth quarter, is that correct?

Yeah, absolutely.

What was the comparable number for 2013?

I must have missed, I'm not sure. Renee any idea?

Yeah, give me one moment.

Okay. It was higher and the reason it was higher, the parts business will be up, but the VLT business is clearly down.

Right. But while Renee is looking up that number, can you say what the split is in the forecast between the parts business and the VLT business?

I will be [indiscernible] (30:44) honestly. I'm not sure I have that number. Do you have the number, Renee?

Between parts and VLTs for which time period?

Actually, for the fourth quarter of course.

But actually for the third quarter – for fourth quarter last year actual and fourth quarter this year forecast, it'd be wonderful to know the split for both quarters.

Yeah. So quick look. Firstly, obviously we don't have the prior year information, but let me have a quick look at the current year information and see if I can see that.

Okay. So sales in the fourth quarter for 2013 comparable with $8.3 million.

Okay.

Of that, $6.5 million was VLTs.

Okay. So that was – so $8.3 million is basically – that would be – the $8.3 million would be what we would consider the continuing business today.

Correct.

Okay. And then $6.5 million was VLTs and then – and that was for last year, and you don't give those numbers on a forecast basis, do they split out in the $4.2 million to $4.7 million?

Yeah, sure, do. The AGE base business is around about $1.7 million and VGT business is around about $2.7 million. That comes to about $4.5 million and will be in the range of $4.2 million to $4.7 million [indiscernible] (32:15). So, what you can see is that the VLT business was obviously declining significantly as Chicago has not opted in, and the AGE parts businesses is continuing to be reasonably strong.

It's growing in steady. But importantly the VGT business hasn't diminished to – it hasn't approached zero yet.

No. No. It hasn't approached zero yet. But it's clearly on the decline and will continue to decline until and if Chicago opts in. There is no certainty Chicago is going to opt in, but certainly the experts are in our industry look upon the gubernatorial election – recent election in Illinois as a positive sign because there is a belief within the industry that Governor Rauner and Mayor Emanuel will do a deal together. And they will – once he has a casino license, there is a very strong belief that he will then opt in sometime in the second half of 2015, but it certainly is both by no means sudden.

Okay. I have a follow-up then related to a question that an earlier shareholder made, [ph] Jad (33:40), I think, is his name, about the new business. I'm thinking he was asking more about the new business related to parts. Can you comment on the new business prospects, say, for [ph] next year maybe states as opposed (33:52)? Right now, the VLT business is confined to Illinois. I'm wondering what other states we'll be looking positive?

Yeah, I'll answer it in a little bit of a different way. Our opportunity to be a distributor in other states was contingent on a continuing relationship with GTECH. GTECH owns Spielo. But with GTECH having purchased IGT, I don't know that GTECH necessarily believes they need distributors going forward. And so, right now, I am not projecting other states – I am not projecting for us to be involved in other states. I think the whole GTECH or IGT relationship has to work this way out and we need to see where we fit in to the new much bigger GTECH. So I am not projecting other states at the present time until I see how that works out.

Okay. So that projection is a function of what we perceive GTECH needs in a way of distributors rather than what we perceive – what we understand to be the pace of licensing and permission for VLTs in other states.

Yeah. I mean basically, our view was that we would become a distributor in other states only if a manufacturer wants us. The manufacturer that we have easily the closest relationship with and have been very successful with has been GTECH. But now, the GTECH has bought IGT, I have to – we have to recognize that they may conclude that they no longer need distributors, I don't know. I mean, they have not yet decided these things, but I have to recognize that this is a reality that we have to live with.

I understand. Right. That's it from my questions, Tony. Thank you.

Okay. Pleasure.

Thank you. And we have no further questions at this time. Mr. Spier, I'll turn the call over to you for closing remarks.

Okay. Thank you so much, Daniel. Again, Renee and I thank you for your participation on today's call, and we look forward to talking with you again at the conclusion of the current quarter. We hope you have a great day. Thank you.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.