corrected transcript


Entercom Communications
 
ETM
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 9, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning and welcome to Entercom’s First Quarter Earnings Release Conference


Call. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to introduce your first speaker for today’s call, Mr.


Steve Fisher, CFO and Executive Vice President. Sir you may begin.


Stephen F. Fisher, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President


And a happy Monday morning to all of you and thank you for joining us early here and the


temperature forecast is to be about 70 degrees for the first time in May in Philadelphia.


First this disclaimer before we begin the call, the matters we’ll be discussing here today contain


certain forward-looking statements that are based on current expectations and involve certain risks


and uncertainties within the meaning of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


Additional information and key risks are described in the company’s filings on forms 8-K, 10-Q, and


10-K filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission.


Listeners should note that these statements may be impacted by several factors including changes


in the economic and regulatory climate and the business of radio broadcasting in general.


Accordingly, the company’s actual performance and results may differ materially from those stated


or implied herein.


Entercom assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.


During this call, we may reference certain non-GAAP financial measures. We refer you to our


website at www.entercom.com, for a presentation of the most directly comparable GAAP financial


measures and a reconciliation to GAAP of each such non-GAAP financial measure used. In


addition, our website includes useful tables of prior year and prior period pro forma financial


information adjusted for acquisitions and divestitures.


I will now turn the call over to David Field, President and Chief Executive Officer.


David J. Field, President, Chief Executive Officer, and Director


Thanks Steve. And good morning and thanks for joining for us everybody. I am very pleased to


report Entercom’s first quarter results. In addition to delivering strong earnings, we continued to


make important investments in new formats, new compelling content, proprietary sales initiatives


and new technology to enhance our future prospects. We also continue to deploy our free cash


flow to buyback our stock, which we believe is highly undervalued at these levels. In sum it was a


very good quarter for the company; we made excellent progress towards both our short and long-


term financial and strategic goals.


Focusing first on our Q1 financial results; we delivered 6% same-station revenue growth and also


kept our same-station expense growth at 3%, enabling us to achieve double-digit same-station


operating income growth of 10%. Earnings per share grew 48% from 23 to $0.34 per share.


Excluding the effect of asset sales during the quarter, EPS still grew by 17%.


It is also worth pointing out that we achieved these results on top of a pretty solid Q1 in 2004, when


we also delivered 6% same-station revenue and 10% station operating income growth. We


accomplished these results by once again significantly outpacing our markets. In fact, we doubled


the growth of our markets. They grew at a rate of 3% during the quarter.
corrected transcript


Entercom Communications
 
ETM
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 9, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Our performance gains were broad-based as 13 out of our 18 measured markets grew share.


Local revenues grew 7% during the quarter while national revenues were up 4%. I think it is


important to note that our share gains were generally not attributable to the zero-sum game of out


wrestling our radio peers for ad dollars already targeted for radio.


I believe a principal reason for Entercom’s continuing success in outpacing our peer group has


been our effective focus on developing business from non-radio users. We have converted


hundreds of advertisers in markets all across the country from non-users of radio to enthusiastic


partisans of our medium. Most of these advertisers are now committing substantial shares of their


marketing dollars to Entercom and radio.


Some of you may wonder to what extent Clear Channel’s “Less Is More” program contributed to our


Q1 performance. And the simplest way to answer this is to note that our revenue growth was


precisely 6% in both the markets in which Clear Channel is a major competitor and the markets


where they are not.


I would add that we continue to applaud Clear Channel’s leadership and vision on this issue. There


is an old canard in the radio industry that listeners can’t tell the difference between 30-second and


60 second commercials. That is pure, unadulterated garbage. There is now a substantial body of


research completed in the past few months from highly respected organizations such as Burke,


Arbitron, Edison and others, that unequivocally demonstrate that listeners both recognize and


appreciate shorter ads.


Just go to Europe, Mexico, Canada, Australia or virtually anywhere else in the world where 30-


second spots are the standard and you will realize what a difference shorter commercials make in


radio’s appeal. Now at Entercom, we are achieving great success in many markets converting


advertisers to 30-second spots at rates of 75% or in some cases as high as 90 or even a 100% of


their 60-second rate. It works for our listeners. It works for our customers. It works for our


shareholders.


Some additional color on the quarter; our Q1 results were led by strong performances in Boston,


Denver, Indianapolis, Norfolk, Portland, and Sacramento. We are particularly pleased by the


Indianapolis results, where we are capitalizing on the significant upside we identified and articulated


during our 2004 acquisition.


We are looking forward to commencing operations at our recently announced acquisition in


Greenville/Spartanburg sometime during the second half of 2005. The fill-in acquisition will unite


our strong News Talk, Top 40, and adult contemporary stations with Barnstable’s leading rock


stations to form the market’s number one cluster and provide a very attractive return on investment.


We have also remained very active in our stock buyback program. During the quarter, we


completed our second $100 million buyback and announced our third. As long as the market


continues to significantly undervalue our stock, we intend to continue to repurchase shares.


We also have once again accelerated our HD Radio deployment. We now plan to have a


significant majority of our FM stations broadcasting in HD digital by the end of this year and we will


complete our HD rollout during 2006.


We have also been actively engaged in new content and format development. Many of you are


familiar with the new eclectic kids’ formats that has been launched by several broadcasters in


markets across the country under a variety of goofy names including Jack, Bob, Mike et cetera, et


cetera. We have launched our own local versions of these stations in Boston, Portland,


Greensboro, Rochester, and Madison.