corrected transcript


Entercom Communications


Corp
 
ETM
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 4, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning and welcome to Entercom's Third Quarter Earnings Release Conference


Call. [Operator instructions]. I would like to introduce your first speaker for today's call, Mr. Steve


Fisher, CFO and Executive Vice President. Sir you may begin.


Stephen F. Fisher, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you operator and good morning everybody, and thank you for joining us for Entercom's third


quarter 2005 conference call. Before we begin, I'd like to make the appropriate introductory notes.


That the matters we'll be discussing here today contain certain forward-looking statements that are


based upon current expectations and involve certain risks, uncertainties within the meaning of the


US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Additional information and key risks are


described in the Company's filings on Form 8-K, 10-Q, and 10-K filed with the US Securities


Exchange Commissioner -- Commission.


Listen -- Listeners should note that these statements may be impacted by several factors including


changes in the economic and regulatory climate and the business of radio broadcasting in general.


Accordingly, the Company's actual performance and results may differ materially from those stated


or implied herein. Entercom assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking


statements.


During this call, we may reference certain non-GAAP financial measures. We refer you to our


website for a presentation of the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and a


reconciliation of GAAP -- to GAAP of each such non-GAAP financial measure. In addition, our


website includes useful tables of prior period pro forma financial information adjusted for


acquisitions and divestitures. So with that exciting news behind us, I now turn you over to David


Field, President and CEO.


David J. Field, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks Steve and good morning everybody, and thanks for joining us. I am going to start this


morning and talk about our operating results and give you some color on that, but at the end of my


remarks I am going to highlight some important comments on where we are in acquisitions and


some of our thoughts on use of free cash flow relative to shareholders and so forth. So that will be


towards the backend of my comments this morning.


I am pleased to salute the Entercom team for their important performance under the challenging


conditions we are currently in.


Same-station revenues grew by 3% during the third quarter. This despite the dampening effect of


several recent format changes, a tough political comp and the devastating impact of Hurricane


Katrina, particularly when you consider that New Orleans represents 6% of Entercom’s revenues.


Lump all that together and you are talking about a two or three point headwind against the --


against revenue growth and so we are pretty pleased with the 3% number that we posted for Q3.


Our quarterly operating growth once again significantly outperformed the industry. In fact we


outpaced our markets by 300 basis points during Q3 as our 3% same-station revenue growth


compared to flat revenues in our markets.
corrected transcript


Entercom Communications


Corp
 
ETM
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 4, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


On the cost side, prudent expense management enabled us to expand our margins and achieve a


5% increase in same-station operating income. And the power of the radio business model was


exhibited once again by our double-digit earnings growth during the quarter as net income per


share grew by 17% to $0.48 per share. Same-station operating expenses grew 2% during the


quarter marking the 12
 
th
 
straight quarter that we have contained expense growth at 3% or less.


Local revenues grew 5% during the quarter while national revenues were up 2%.


Some additional color. Our third quarter results were led by strong performances in Boston,


Sacramento, Providence, Buffalo, Greenville and Wichita. We are generally pleased with our


summer ratings results. Most impressive was Charlie in Portland which debuted at number 1 with


adults and number 1 with women 25 to 54 with its eclectic hits format that you’ve come to know as


Jack, Bob, Dave, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. This is a classic worst to first story that should help


accelerate what is already a strong performance story in Portland in 2006.


We also had a strong book in Sacramento where ‘98 Rock’ and ‘The Eagle’ finished first and


second with adults 25 to 54. Now close to be fair, it’s inevitable that with over 100 stations we are


going to have some good books and we are going to have some bad books but overall we are


generally pleased with our results.


A New Orleans update, during the month of September, we were only operating WWL-AM which is


the market’s dominant News Talk station. We simulcast -- in the month of September we chose to


simulcast its programming across our 4 FM signals as well meaning that none of them from music


stations operated as normal during the month.


During October we put three of our four FMs back on the air but the fourth remains essentially out


of business that is it is operating at low power and is currently simulcasting WWL-AM’s content.


And for the long journey we are highly bullish on the future of the city. We are dealing with the


disruption of unprecedented magnitude to a city of this size. But the scale of the rebuilding effort is


likely to make New Orleans a boom town for the foreseeable future. And having said that short-term


business conditions are likely to remain quite choppy. But as we look ahead to ’06, ’07 and beyond,


we think New Orleans, it’s going to be a great place to be from a business standpoint.


One other update, in the last month we closed our acquisition of the Barnstable stations in


Greenville/Spartanburg and simultaneously spun out three small stations in the market. We are


very excited about our new station lineup which combines Barnstable’s strong Rock stations with


our strong existing brands. Collectively this makes us the number 1 player in the market with


significant development opportunities to improve revenues and margins.


Now turning to fourth quarter pacing, we are being adversely affected by what I’d guess you’d have


to call a perfect storm of negative events. We knew we would have a difficult political comp this


quarter. But we did not know, of course, was that Hurricane Katrina would happen. And


unfortunately the Red Sox returned to earth after their dream season in 2004, and as a result we


had only three playoff games this year versus 14 last year.


Collectively Katrina, the Red Sox and political create a $6 million negative comp for Entercom


versus last year based on our current pacing.


This creates a potential 5 to 6% distortion between our reported same station and a more


normalized same station. Thus our guidance of flat to down 2% on same station revenues is a


highly distorted figure that should be looked at as a more normalized low single digit positive growth


rate. On the cost side we have done an excellent job of managing the expenses this quarter and


expect to have -- to reduce our costs during Q4 on a same station basis.