corrected transcript


Entercom Communications


Corp.
 
ETM
 
Q3 2006 Earnings Call
 
Nov 03, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
6 4 6. 44 2 .0 2 70 •
 
Co p yr i g h t © 2 0 01- 2 00 6 C a l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning and welcome to Entercom's Third Quarter Earnings Release Conference


Call. All participants will be able to listen only until the question and answer session of the call. This


conference is being recorded.


I would like to introduce your first speaker for today's call, Mr. Steve Fisher, Executive Vice


President and CFO. Sir, you may begin.


Steve Fisher, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, operator and good morning everyone and welcome to our third quarter earnings


conference call. Let me first make a few points.


The matters we will be discussing here today contain certain forward-looking statements that are


based on current expectations and involve certain risk and uncertainties within the meaning of the


U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Additional information and key risks are


described in the company's filings on Form 8-K, 10-Q, and 10-K filed with the U.S. Securities and


Exchange Commission. Listeners should note that these statements may be impacted by several


factors including changes in the economics and regulatory climate and the business of radio


broadcasting in general. Accordingly, the company's actual performance and results may differ


materially from those stated or implied herein. Entercom assumes no obligation to publicly update


or revise any forward-looking statements.


During this call we may reference certain non-GAAP financial measures. We refer you to our


website for a presentation of the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and


reconciliation to GAAP of each such non-GAAP financial measure. In addition, our website includes


useful tables of prior period pro forma financial information adjusted for acquisitions and


divestitures.


And with that, we’ll now turn it over to David Field, President and Chief Executive Officer.


David J. Field, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Steve. Good morning everyone and thanks for joining us. This has been a particularly


active time for Entercom and so after reviewing Q3 we will provide an update on recent events and


also add some color on the current business climate.


First Q3, our results improved sequentially in the third quarter with same station net revenues


decreasing 2% versus the year ago quarter. Strong expense management enabled us to hold same


station operating expenses flat. As a result, same station operating income decreased 5%.


A few headlines on Q3. We moderately outperformed our market gaining modest share in the


quarter. We were led by strong performances in Boston, Providence, Rochester and Sacramento.


And national revenues outpaced local during the quarter. Beyond the numbers, however, this has


been a very productive time at Entercom as we have made a number of moves and made great


progress on a number of developmental fronts to enhance our future growth prospects.


Strategically we are focused on three core areas to accelerate our growth, enhancing our brands


and our content, building our business development efforts, and significantly improving and


expanding our internet capabilities. We firmly believe our future success is rooted in these three


areas.
corrected transcript


Entercom Communications


Corp.
 
ETM
 
Q3 2006 Earnings Call
 
Nov 03, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 6 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


We have made a significant investment in new brands and content over the past 18 months and


are now beginning to reap the awards to these efforts. We had a very good set of spring ratings


books and have seen continued strength at a number of key stations in the recently released


summer books. We are positioned for solid revenue and cash flow growth at a number of new and


improved brands across the country, including Mike in Boston, [inaudible] in Milwaukee, KISW and


The Wolf in Seattle, Track in Indianapolis, Bayou in New Orleans, and Charlie in Portland just to


name a few.


We also continued to invest in our business development and digital capabilities both key


performance drivers in our business model. On the acquisition front as you know, we announced in


August that we would be acquiring 15 radio stations from CBS in Austin, Cincinnati, Memphis and


Rochester for $262 million. This past Wednesday we commenced operations under a time


brokerage agreement at 11 of those stations. We have already taken a number of steps to create


value in these markets. We have trimmed expenses in each of the markets enabling us to increase


pro forma operating income in excess of a $1 million annual with additional synergies to come.


In Memphis where the three acquired CBS stations will join three existing Entercom properties, we


made a format change last week to capitalize on our newly enhanced platform in the market. And


just three days ago we reached an agreement with Cumulus Media Partners to trade two stations in


Cincinnati, giving them an oldies station which we are acquiring from CBS and receiving in


exchange Cumulus’ country station in that market. This was a classic win win for both companies


enabling us to strengthen our competitive position in the market. We will now own both of


Cincinnati’s country stations as part of our four station position in the market.


In Rochester, we have received Justice Department approval of our plan to divest some of our


recently acquired properties in CBS and moved forward a discussion to make those required


divestitures. When the dust clears on all of this, we expect the CBS transaction to be meaningfully


accretive to our company. Definitely as many of you know, two years ago we purchased an FM


station in Providence and used it to simulcast the content from one of our Boston station, WEEI


which is the highest rated sports station in the United States. The Providence station has been


extremely successful. On October 26th of this year, we added another wholly-owned affiliate to the


WEEI Boston Sports Network in Springfield, Massachusetts. The property is currently being run


under a time brokerage agreement with closing speculated this quarter and we have high


expectations for the station’s performance in the years to come.


Turning to current business conditions, we are very pleased to report that we have seen a material


improvement in business conditions over the past 60 days, demand has increased considerably in


Q4. It is worth noting that the improvement applies to all three months of the quarter, not just prior


to the election. We anticipate materially stronger results for Entercom in the fourth quarter due to


these accelerating business conditions and also growth from our investments in new branding


content and escalating business development revenues. The improving results are broad based


with significant revenue growth expected in the vast majority of our markets in the fourth quarter.


We currently expect fourth quarter same station net revenues to increase by mid-single digits


versus the prior year quarter. And there will be some speculation as to how much of Entercom’s


acceleration is related to political revenues and comparisons in New Orleans in the wake of post


Katrina. While both of these factors will make contributions, I want to reiterate that our improvement


is broad based. In fact, excluding the effects of political revenue and revenues in New Orleans, we


posted solid mid-single digit growth in October.


In sum, we are enthused by the meaningful acceleration in our performance during Q4 and believe


that we are beginning to see the pay-offs from our efforts to enhance our future growth. We remain


highly focused on creating shareholder value and anticipate continuing success during 2007 from