corrected transcript


Entercom Communications
 
ETM
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 23, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning and welcome to the Entercom Fourth Quarter Earnings Release


Conference Call. All participants will be able to listen only until the question and answer session of


the call. This conference is being recorded. I would like to introduce your first speaker for today’s


call, Mr. Steve Fisher, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Sir you may begin.


Stephen Fisher, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President


Thank you operator and good morning to everyone and a special early good morning to those of


you on the West Coast listening live. Before we begin this morning’s conference call, I would like to


make the following notes. That the matters we’ll be discussing here today contains certain forward-


looking statements that are based on current expectations and involve certain risks and


uncertainties within the meaning of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


Additional information and key risks are described in the company’s filings on forms 8-K, 10-Q, and


10-K as filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission. Listeners should note that these


statements may be impacted by several factors including changes in the economic and regulatory


climate of the business of radio broadcasting in general. Accordingly, the company’s actual


performance and results may differ materially from those stated or implied herein. Entercom


assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements. During this call,


we may reference certain non-GAAP financial measures. We refer you to our website,


www.entercom.com, for a presentation of the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures


and a reconciliation to GAAP of each such non-GAAP financial measure. In addition, our website


includes useful tables of prior period pro forma financial information adjusted for acquisitions and


divestitures. So with that very important note I will now turn the conference call over to David Field,


President and Chief Executive Officer.


David Field, President, Chief Executive Officer and Director


Thanks Steve and good morning everyone and thanks for joining us for Entercom’s fourth quarter


earnings call. I’m quite pleased with the performance of the Entercom team in the context of


sluggish industry growth during Q4. We substantially outpaced our markets during the quarter


posting 3% same-station revenue growth 200 basis points better than our markets, which grew by


1% during the period. Similarly for the year we achieved 4% same-station revenue growth, double


the 2% growth of revenues in our market. We have now outpaced our peer group in each of our 6


year as a public company and we are proud of that. Same-station operating income grew 2% for


the quarter and 5% for the year. 2004 earnings per share grew 8% to $1.50. For the quarter we


posted earnings of 46, one penny better than last year’s pro forma $0.39. During Q4 we gained


revenue share in 13 of our 18 measured markets. This is the second straight quarter in which we


accomplished this feat. We also gained share both locally and nationally for the quarter. In sum


our team did a great job of executing during Q4.


We continue to be excited about the developments going on both within our company and the


industry that bode well for the future. We are quite pleased with our progress of our new


acquisitions in Indianapolis, Providence, and Buffalo. Each of these new properties is positioned to


deliver strong growth in 2005 and beyond. We have also just launched new formats in Milwaukee


and New Orleans with high expectations for both. In Milwaukee, WSSP is now the city’s first and


only full time sports station while the Bayou in New Orleans features a unique mix of classic based


rock music. We would expect these properties to begin to contribute positively to our performance


during Q3 or Q4 of this year. We continue to believe Entercom’s ability to create compelling
corrected transcript


Entercom Communications
 
ETM
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 23, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


original programming with a strong track record of success is a powerful differentiator and an


important competitive capability for the future.


On the HD radio front we are excited by the opportunities implicit in this new technology and have


accelerated our deployment plans. Frankly, we expect to have virtually all of our significant FM


stations broadcasting digitally within 2 years.


Turning to sales we continued to achieve great success with our SHRED business development


initiative that has enabled us to generate millions of dollars in new business. At a time when some


would believe that radio is no longer a growth industry, it is refreshing to see the 100s of clients in


our markets who are converting significant chunks of their marketing dollars to radio. We remain a


medium that reaches 96% of Americans for 20 hours per week. Only television rivals this. And


what many observers are missing is that radio’s value proposition has actually gotten significantly


stronger, not weaker in recent years due to the significantly greater problems confronting several of


our key advertising competitors. And now for the first time in the industry’s history we have


powerful research from RAEL or The Radio Ad Effectiveness Lab to validate radio’s highly


compelling value proposition. We’re beginning to integrate this RAEL research into our local


SHRED efforts, this is alphabet soup here, and are expecting great things. One early sign of


success came from one of our mid sized markets which last month received a $900,000 two-year


order from a local business that had previously relied almost exclusively on newspaper and had


never used radio for their marketing.


Turning to pacings we have experienced a steady, significant improvement in business conditions


over the past couple of months and are increasingly optimistic about 2005. Q1 pacings have been


gradually increasing since early January. Entercom’s January revenues finished 7% ahead of 2004


on a same-station basis. February and March are now pacing in line with January. And while it’s


still very early, Q2 pacings are promising as well. It is also worth noting that Q1 is the most difficult


comp of the year for us. Entercom posted 6% same-station growth in Q1 ’04 on top of 7% same-


station growth in Q1 of ’03. Now what is the significance of all this? A few points here, number 1,


we believe the radio industry is starting to accelerate. It is early and appropriate caution is due, but


the tone and the activity level is gradually improving. Point number two, we think we are beginning


to see the embryonic success of some of the industry initiatives, such as the RAEL research, quota


reduction and the RAB industry marketing efforts. Like all industries, we still have our issues to be


fair; but the initiatives are beginning to gain traction. Point number three, Clear Channel’s Less is


More is clearly making a positive impact on the industry. It is still very early, but we are witnessing


a growing number of clients requesting and booking 30s and 15s. Clear Channel’s leadership on


this front has been exemplary, and the recently released Burke Study is a terrific validation of the


merit of shorter commercials. Customers recognize that shorter commercials have recall, which


according to the Burke Study equals 75% or more of 60-second spots. And in fact in some cases,


shorter spots can actually be more effective than 60s. The take-up rate for these shorter length


spots should accelerate. This is a big win for advertisers, it’s a big win for listeners, and it’s a big


win for broadcasters.


Point number four, Entercom’s Q1 success that we are currently experiencing is not, repeat not


attributable to Less Is More spillover. Yes, we are selling some additional 30s and 15s, and yes we


are benefiting a bit from Clear Channel’s tighter inventory posture. But this is not a material factor


in our current performance. In fact, to validate this thesis, we calculated our pacings in those


markets in which Clear Channel has a strong presence and compared that to those markets where


Clear Channel is void or is a secondary or tertiary player. And our pacings in each of these two


buckets is essentially equal. Finally, point number five, the Entercom team is doing a terrific job of


executing and I would be remiss if I didn’t applaud them here on this phone call. Our 7% growth


rate in January as you may have seen in yesterday’s released RAB figures compares to 3%


industry growth and in fact, in our own Miller-Kaplan data, we also experienced 3% market growth


in our markets. So we are outpacing the market by 400 basis points in the month of January and


appropriate kudos to our team for that effort. Clearly it is early, but we are pleased by where we