corrected transcript


Entercom Communications


Corp
 
ETM
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 9, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning and welcome to Entercom's Second Quarter Earnings Release


Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]. I would like to introduce your first speaker for today's call,


Mr. Steve Fisher, Executive Vice President and CFO. Sir you may begin.


Stephen Fisher, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you operator and good morning everyone. Thank you for joining us here this morning.


Before we begin our call, I'd like to make a few reminders. First, the matters we'll be discussing


here today contain certain forward-looking statements that are based upon current expectations


and involve certain risks and uncertainties within the meaning of the US Private Securities Litigation


Reform Act of 1995. Additional information and key risks are described in the company's filings on


Form 8-K, 10-Q, and 10-K filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission. Listeners


should note that these statements maybe impacted by several factors including changes in the


economic and regulatory climate and the business of radio broadcasting in general. Accordingly,


the company's actual performance and results may differ materially from those stated or implied


herein. Entercom assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking


statements. During this call, we may reference certain non-GAAP financial measures. We refer


you to our website at www.entercom.com for a presentation of the most directly comparable GAAP


financial measures and reconciliation to GAAP of each such non-GAAP financial measure. In


addition, our website includes useful tables of prior period pro forma financial information adjusted


for acquisitions and divestitures. So with that, I turn this call over to David Field, President and


Chief Executive Officer.


David Field, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks Steve and good morning, and thanks everybody for joining us. I am pleased to report


Entercom's results for the second quarter. Solid execution enabled Entercom to deliver a record-


breaking quarter of performance despite sluggish business conditions that affected all traditional


media. We also continued to enhance our future prospects by investing in compelling new formats


and programming content, proprietary sales initiatives, and technology.


Turning to the Q2 numbers, our same-station revenue grew by 4%. However, the 4% growth rate


actually understates our true performance. We noted on our Q1 call that the significant number of


format changes that we had made during 2005 would adversely affect our Q2 numbers. Absent the


effect of these format changes and a major NTR event that we canceled this spring, Entercom


same-station revenues would have grown by approximately 7% during Q2. But even at 4%, our


quarterly operating growth, once again significantly outperformed the industry. In fact, we outpaced


our markets by 300 basis points during Q2 as our 4% same-station revenue growth compared to


just 1% growth in our markets. Same-station operating expenses grew 3% during the quarter and


same-station operating income grew 5%. I think it is worth noting that we have now contained


expense growth at 3% or less for 11 straight quarters.


Earnings per share grew 13% during the quarter to $0.53 per share illustrating the powerful impact


of our stock buyback program. We have now acquired roughly 11% of our outstanding stock over


the past year. Our performance gains were broad-based as 14 out of our 18 measured markets


gained share. Local revenues grew 6% during the quarter while national revenues were flat.
corrected transcript


Entercom Communications


Corp
 
ETM
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 9, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Some additional color on the quarter. Our Q2 results were led by strong performances in Boston,


Sacramento, Indianapolis, Providence and Buffalo. We also continue to move rapidly our HD radio


deployment. We have converted several new stations during the quarter and plan to have


essentially all of our FM stations broadcasting in HD digital by the end of 2006. We've also been


actively engaged in new content and format development. As you know, during Q2, we launched


new eclectic hit stations commonly referred to as Jack, Bob, Mike, et cetera, in Boston, Portland,


Greensboro, Rochester, and Madison. While it is too early to gauge our success, we're very


excited about the potential growth of these stations and encouraged by the early trends.


We're also pleased with our spring ratings results. A few particular highlights demonstrate the


emerging success of some of our recent acquisitions and new format launches. In Portland, KWJJ,


a country station which we rebranded as the Wolf and reprogrammed shortly after acquiring the


station in 2003, hit #1 with adults 25 to 54 for the first time ever in this book. In New Orleans, we


launched a new rock station known as the Bayou just this past December, and successfully


recruited the market's #1 morning team to join us. The station surged to third among men 25 to 54


in the spring book. Other examples could be added, but I think that's just a taste of some of the


most successful stations that we – that we launched during the course of the past year or so.


During Q2, we also entered into a long-term agreement to become the play-by-play partner of the


Boston Celtics commencing this upcoming season. We'll broadcast the games on WRKO, our talk


station in Boston, as our agreement with the Red Sox effectively precludes having Celtics games


on WEEI. However, as part of the agreement we will carry other feature Celtics programming such


as the coaches show on EEI. We're excited about this deal, which further enhances our unique


lineup of proprietary content in Boston and expect it to enhance our performance in the future.


Turning to pacings, after a slow growth July, August has been strong. It is too early to make the


call in September, which will of course determine the quarter. Our Q3 results will once again be


dampened by our recent format changes plus the loss of approximately $1 million in political


advertising from last year.


Couple of additional comments and observations. It's interesting to step back and take a look at


our performance during 2005. It is fair to say that we are disappointed that the industry is not


growing more rapidly, but on the other hand we are pleased with our team's terrific execution


delivering revenue growth in both Q1 and Q2 significantly stronger than the industry. Another


important consideration in assessing 2005 performance is the delineation between local and


national revenues. We posted 7% same-station growth in local revenues in Q1 and 6% in Q2. If


you factor in the format changes during Q2, our organic local growth has been consistently in the


upper single digits for 2005. The bottom line here is that local radio, which, of course, is 80% of our


business, is fundamentally strong and performing quite well. It is the national business that has


slowed us down, and, of course, in this regard we are far from unique as other traditional media are


also experiencing slower growth rates.


While national may continue to remain sluggish for a while as advertisers shift portions of their


budgets from traditional media into Internet and other new advertising vehicles, I'm quite optimistic


about radio’s opportunity for renewed national growth. Why? Radio's value proposition is very


compelling to advertisers looking for alternatives to TV and newspapers. We are the low-cost


provider. We have powerful and extensive new research demonstrating that radio delivers


outstanding ROI, and we have demonstrated ratings resilience at a time when our principal


competitors in television and newspaper have suffered substantial long-term audience erosion.


Notwithstanding, all the noise about alternative audio entertainment sources, free local radio


listening levels have actually increased over the past year, and we remain one of only two universal


reach mediums with an enormous audience of 96% of Americans listening weekly for a staggering


19 plus hours per week.