Management Discussion Section

Question & Answer Section

Greetings, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to Axion International's 2013 year-end earnings conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A brief question and answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. It is now my pleasure to introduce Mr. Andrew Hague, managing partner of Axion Communications. Thank you, Mr. Hague, you may begin.

Thank you, Manny. I'd like to welcome all of you to Axion International's 2013 year end earnings conference call. With us today is Action President and CEO Steve Silverman. After management's statement, we will open up the call for a question and answer session. I also want to bring your attention that a replay of this conference call will be available at the phone number provided in the earnings release issued earlier today. Now, before we get started, I will take a moment to read the Safe Harbor statement regarding today's conference call.

This conference call will contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the US federal securities laws concerning Axion International Holdings, Inc. The forward-looking statements are subject to a number of significant risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ materially. Please refer to the company's filings with the SEC, which may contain and identify important risks and other factors that may cause actions actual results to differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements are made as of today, April 7, 2014, and action expressly disclaims any obligation to revise or update any forward looking statements after the date of this conference call. Please note that the filing of action 10-K has been delayed due to the company's accounting team working with its auditors on reporting the acquisition of Y city recycling assets. Now I'd like to turn the call over to Steve Silverman, Axion's President and Chief Executive Officer who will provide a review of Axion's operational results. Steve?

Thank you, Andrew, and thank you everyone for joining us on the call today. Overall, 2013 was a period of transformation and growth. We ended the year with operational and financial results that demonstrate our ability to execute all of our fundamentals successfully. More specifically, we shifted from being a company of development and proof of concept to a company undergoing expansion on all fronts, consistently delivering solid growth and quality products that solve problems for our customers around the globe.

Revenues for the year ended December 31st, 2013 were $6.6 million, up 24% over revenues in the prior period of 2012, exceeding our expectations. Sales of eagle trucks rail ties contributed approximately $5.3 million, while structured building products accounted for approximately $657,000 of 2013 revenues. This has been a result of disciplined focus and our collaborative vision of being a leader in high-quality, recycled plastic and plastic composite technologies in our two divisions.

Our engineer products and our reprocessing division. Our Engineered Products Division is very focused in expanding our revenues from our rail tie in structure mats. Our recently added reprocessing division now has two main revenue sources, which are sales of reprocessed plastic scrap and toll processing. This year for our engineers products, we saw an increase in global demand for eagle tracks and structure products and their transition from testing phase to repeat orders and new customer orders.

We diversified our customer base during the year with 40 new customers [indiscernible] were revenues and also raised the bar on our internal performance standards. In November, we made an asset purchase of Life City Recycling and launched our wholly owned recycled plastics division called Axion on Recycled Plastics. For those of you following your company, we have indicated on our last few quarterly calls that we intended to decrease our cost and increase quality controls by vertically integrating our operations with the supply of materials. This opportunity immediately added to our top line revenue and enabled reduction in our supply chain costs for each of our products.

Today, we have a variety of engineered products, while improving all facets of the business, including manufacturing, quality, material supply, sales and marketing by operating in the raw materials supply chain and processing our own materials for production. We have the benefit of enhanced quality control and consistent, reliable sourcing. Shortly after having launched this subsidy, we announced a multi-year, multimillion, multi-year contract with one of the largest thermal plastics companies in the US. This development reinforced our business strategy and strengthened our presence as a provider of reprocessed plastics. We now operate reprocessing operations in Waco, Texas and in Zanesville, Ohio. Also, during the fourth quarter, we closed our Jersey headquarters and relocated the corporate offices to Zanesville, Ohio.

We entered into 2013 with two major objectives to become a vertically integrated manufacturer, which I just touched on, and to achieve higher sales volumes from both existing and new customers. Axion has taken tremendous strides in expanding our markets with regard to continued and new customer adoption of our products. For our engineered products, we made shipments to a total of 58 paying customers in 2013 with 40 of these being new customers. We also significantly expanded market adoption of our products around the world and improved our gross margins as we continue to increase our production volume on a year-over-year basis. Our trials around the globe remain on schedule and our products continue to perform well. In early 2013, we shift our first order for installation in Europe for in-track testing after two years of laboratory testing. We are happy to report that ECOTRAX is performing very well and the in-track trial is scheduled to conclude at the end of 2014. We also shipped our first orders to Russia after lab testing for many years. Our trials and testing continue with positive results in Australia as well as just -- as well as many others, just to name a few.

Our sales and mark -- our sales, marketing and branding efforts, combined with the growing reputation of quality products, have generated a sales pipeline consisting of approximately $30 million in current sales opportunities, 57 active opportunities with 51 potential customers for our engineered products only.

Our ECOTRAX products have transformed the composite railway industry as we have delivered great value to our customers. We continue to meet and exceed American railway engineering and maintenance of Wei Association standards and all of our products have also been tested to American Society of Testing and materials standards. Rail operators are actively seeking alternatives to address the increasing, increasingly expensive maintenance and replacement issues associated with wooden pies and ECOTRAX provides them with a solution on a global scale.

We sold two major transit lines in the US which are current and repeat orders, including one class, one rail customer. We also shipped repeat purchase orders for ECOTRAX rail ties to one of the largest multinational chemical companies and multiple major domestic transit lines. Internationally, we have gained significant traction. We have competed in-track testing in Russia and received the second purchase order through in-country distributor and business partners, [indiscernible] and large international group of companies based in Moscow. As we have indicated in the past, Russia is a massive opportunity as a railway system, is the second largest rail network in the world. So there is a huge potential for widespread adoption throughoutRussia Potential for widespread adoption throughout Russia's rail network. We also began shipping to a second European railroad for interact testing through our European partners SciFi Enterprises Limited, and expect to see more opportunities for sales orders through this partnership over the next 12 months.

Additionally, Europe is a fantastic market for our products as the region is very serious about sustainability and the rail industry is very technologically advanced. Also, Europe is working against a deadline that will potentially ban the use of creosote treated wood products by 2018. So we are extremely excited about that as well. As with much of action on the technology, we have worked closely with our customers who are industry leaders to advance and improve our products to better address specific needs of the industries, which we serve. As the rail industry moves towards heavier axle load trains, and seeks to make itself a more efficient service provider, Axion has grown along with the industry using the same successful patented formulas that have served as the basis of our products.

We have further enhanced performance to better meet the rail industry's evolving needs. These enhancements are a result of the investments we have made in personnel and systems in the areas of quality management, material sourcing, and manufacturing. Our structure, infrastructure, grade building products have been generating a lot of exciting opportunities for us based on our infrastructure mass field performance and the favorable lifecycle cost to customers. We have received a high level of interest from both potential customers and distributors for this product. More recently, we have developed the in-house capability to fabricate our mats at our Waco facility. This will increase margins on our mats moving forward. The construction mat business offers a significant opportunity to structure mats are used at infrastructure construction sites and oil and gas drilling and pipeline construction sites to support heavy equipment on unpaved, wet or soft surfaces. As indicated previously, based on talks with industry participants we believe that North America the traditional -- the traditional wood construction market is over $500 million in annual sales. Wood construction mats have a lifecycle that is relatively short depending upon the length and location of use wood mats, can be considered disposable. At the end of the construction site job, they must be discarded because they have been torn up or under the heavy weight of construction equipment trends. Our structure -- our structure construction mats offer durability and long term use. In 2013, we sold structure products to counties in New York and Ohio for bridges to numerous oil and gas pipeline and drilling contractors in the US and Canada and to coal mining industry for roof supports. One of our more significant events was our strategic distribution partnership with Spartan Mat. The company produces and supplies crane mats and timber mats used for pipeline, windfarm transmission and distribution lines and through them -- and through them, we have been able to expand awareness for all of our recycled structure composite matting solutions and established a fabrication solution and a distribution supply chain to deliver mats to the market and customers through various distributors.

In early January, we reported that we received $150,000 purchase order for our 100% recycled structure heavy construction mats from Spartan Mat, which were distributed across the US and Canada to midstream and energy companies and civil contractors. Energy and civil construction projects are on the rise and we are at the trajectory of the growth. Given the demand for more environmentally friendly solutions, we also anticipate closer, larger orders similar to these moving forward. In the short period of time, we have already secured five separate orders from Spartan. We will also launch a later temporary road mat during the second quarter of 2014.

We have come a long way to where we are today. Our relentless focus on the major fundamentals of our business has generated operational achievements and financial progress. Our objective remains to and financial progress. Our objective remains to generate value creation for our shareholders and we are pleased with where we are today. By the end of 2013, we have built a company foundation from all facets, including manufacturing, quality, material supply, sales and marketing. We have a sales and marketing focus in real-time substructure math, and now our new reprocessing business that not only supports our engineered products business, but also drives incremental and diverse revenue. This is a huge undertaking for any company. We managed to do this successfully while strategically focusing on migrating away from contract manufacturing and diversifying our customer base.

Today, we can proudly say that Axion is a leader in the industry through the fostering of high value customer relationships and delivery of high quality, high value proprietary products, stemming from both our vertical integration and strong intellectual property. We have a proprietary position that protects our technology and products with over 10 years of documented, proven durability and zero failure. The technology has been built with leading scientists and engineers and we continue to test and improve our products in order to secure our market leadership in the segment that we have created. A whole new segment within our industry that promotes an eco conscious green infrastructure building material.

At Axion we believe that being green doesn't have -- it doesn't have to compromise excellence and superior performance along with global recognition and implementation proves this fact. Current backlog and sales initiatives in our pipeline are on schedule and sales opportunities give us a high degree of confidence that 2014 year end revenues will exceed 2013. We are prudently managing our operations to further improve our margins and also our operational costs through tighter controls and higher quality standards.

As we have some good visibility for the first quarter of 2014, I would like to provide you with an outlook of our financial performance for the quarter. During the first quarter of 2014 we have generated revenues in excess of $4 million. This is almost 60% of 2013 revenues and we are very confident that this is going to be a record year for the company. We are excited by our prospects for the year, and look forward to updating our investors on our progress.

Andrew?

Okay. Everyone, can you hear me?

Yeah.

Okay, great. Manny, go ahead and cue people up on how to ask questions and get in the queue. And I think we have a couple of people in the queue for questions already.

Certainly, ladies and gentlemen, we will now be conducting a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Jim Macari of Shardon Capital. Please go ahead.

Thanks and good afternoon. I see that at the end of your remarks, you said greater than $4 million of revenues for the March quarter. Is the March quarter unusual relative to the other quarters? That is, can you get at least $4 million in the other three quarters of 2014 as well?

Yeah, from a base – Hi, Jim. First of all, how are you? Thanks for joining the call. Yeah, absolutely. We from a capacity perspective and a sales pipeline perspective where we see various revenue potential from different customers and projects that are closing in our pipeline. We believe that that's a very achievable number.

Great. And do you have a backlog number for year end?

Not, not at this point that we're going to put out now. We we traditionally talk about our pipeline and the opportunities around and the number of opportunities as well as the number of customers that those opportunities will touch.

Okay. I think in paraphrasing you have talked about backlog, is that's something you're not going to talk about going forward.

Yes. You know, with the with the addition of the reprocessing business, it's a little bit different than just the Engineered Products business. So it wouldn't really be an accurate number. When you look at it, the reprocessing business really runs on a kind of month to month pricing allocation game as opposed to a longer kind of scale project.

Yeah. Okay. Well, that's fine.

I don't want to we're going to we're going to as we develop here, we're going to get our arms around how we want to actually communicate some of the reprocessing businesses that are built there. Very, very different businesses from one another.

Right. Got it, got it.

Get our arms around how we want to talk about the numbers.

And then for 2014, are you expecting any significant increases in operating expenses in order to in order to get in order to serve the sales growth that you're looking for?

Yeah, what we've what we've done, which, you know, we I think is a very, very good approach as we've kind of worked our way backwards from the ground up. So we've taken the current assets off of the old Axion, if you will, from the engineer product side. And we've taken the assets from the asset acquisition of the reprocessing company and we've built from that from the ground up. We've built it really based on capacity. So we don't see major capital investments at this point to hit what we're considering to be our baseline plan for the year.

It's purely based on here's the capacity we have. It's improving, being more efficient, getting our arms around the reprocessing business from a manufacturing operational standpoint, which we're making great strides in every day. But really, it's about maximizing the capacity that we have currently with the machines that we currently have.

Now with that said, some of the projects that we have in our pipeline are relatively large and those would be outside of work considering to be our baseline plan and those, if all of them come in at the volumes that they're anticipated to, we would need to purchase additional equipment to meet those demands. But as you know, I think that would be a good problem for all of us to have.

Right. Okay. And any timeframe on when you think the K will be filed?

Yeah, I think we're going to be -- you'll see it within, you know, this week, the early part of this week.

Fantastic. Great. Thank you very much. And good luck with everything.

Yeah. Thanks, Jim.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And the next question is from David Corrado of Wells Fargo. Please go ahead.

Good afternoon and thank you for taking my call.

Hi, David, how are you?

Fine, thank you and yourself?

I'm great.

Guestion. Regarding the revenues. I see that our couple of questions here regarding the annual revenue, you said you did or expect to do by $6.6 million.

Correct

Okay. Can you give me an estimate of the earnings per share of those revenues or because I didn't pick up on that numbers or a number out there that you can give us or give so we can advise our clients accordingly?

Yeah. John, do you want to take that.

Revenue or earnings per share for the year?

Yes.

We're at a For the year.

Yes.

We're at was, I didn't I didn't know that I was connecting to the revenue question. It's $0.86 loss.

Okay. So we're looking we're about $0.86 is an improvement from last year or pretty much in the

No, you have to wait to get into it. But we have a significant impact of change in fair value of the derivative liabilities this quarter because our stock price was trending up at the end of the quarter. So we had to increase the value of that derivative on the balance sheet. That's going to do a lot of heavy duty accounting. But it did impact in the the fourth quarter, a little over $15 million.

Okay.

That close to expenses.

All right. Very good. A second question is, I understand that there was a merger or an acquisition involved which has delayed the.

Yeah, we did a we did is we did a late year asset purchase. And, you know, we're working diligently with our auditors to get them engaged for that business. And that was that was will be in the filings.

Okay. Can you tell me a little bit about how that arrangement was made? In other words, was a done to cash, convertible debt, convertible equity combination thereof.

In regard with in the filings In short, I mean, it was really we assumed bank bank debt for assets. It was an asset purchase.

Okay. Is it is it a note of some kind.

It's bank term loan? It's 4.25%. Nothing matures in 2008. 15. 18?

Yeah, 18. I think it is.

Okay. Okay. And can you tell me how much the the note was for or the amount borrowed?

$4.5 million.

Okay. Is there any convertible debt or equity out there that we should know about?

There has been for quite some time. We had a little over 13 million in convertible notes. And we've got two convertible preferred The first stock that carried as a non-equity item because it is redeemable.

Okay.

That now, we've added to it this year, but not just now.

All right, that's all I need. Thank you very much, gentlemen. Good job.

Thanks, David.

Thank you. The next question is from Miles Slater, a private investor. Please go ahead.

Hello, Steve. How are you?

I'm well, Miles. How are you?

Great, thank you. Is it possible for you to clarify a little bit the first quarter earnings? As for ourselves, as far as what came through your traditional business and what's coming from the recycled business?

Yeah, I'm not going to – we'll have some more detail on the filing, Miles, later this week. And I'd rather just have a go at it that way. But it was relatively speaking, right on plan where we thought it would be from a – it was probably close to a 50-50 split.

Great. Thank you.

Thank you. The next question is from Pat Galvin, a Private Investor. Please go ahead.

Hey, Steve.

Hi, Pat.

We still work in three shelves Waco. And is there a possibility of putting another new line on?

Yes. The Waco facility now being 100% in our operation is a fantastic facility. It was actually an old plastics facility itself. So the infrastructure that's there gives us great ability to expand not only to the third line, but allows us to expand to a fourth line and fifth line without much struggle. So yeah, we have plenty of ability to add production equipment and facilities to support that equipment.

But we're still working around the clock.

Right now, I believe Waco is running a three shift schedule, Pat, and I think it's running six days a week.

Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And we have a question from Steve Keiser, a private investor. Please go ahead.

Hi, David. Steve here, thanks very much for a great update. A question for you in regards Axion recycled plastics. Is it correct to say that right now you all only have one very large contract for $42 million with a single client? Or do you have any other business in that pipeline that you can talk about?

So first of all, the business is not hinged on the one customer. That's a, that's a one, that's one customer. The company itself, the division itself has multiple customers that we saw, multiple different types of resins two that are reprocessed both out of our Zionsville operation and our Texas facility. So it's not a, it's just not one customer. We have started to develop our pipeline in that business. The good news about the reprocessing business is there's a ton of demand for reprocessed resins. It's a pretty geographical business from the standpoint of transportation and logistics to move both the raw material as well as the finished product. So we have a pretty good customer base diversification there. We want to improve that obviously, we do have a couple what I would consider to be small concentrations, much like we did on the railroad side that we were able to take from. I think its heyday was an 80% number, you know, and I think we're below 50% today with a major Class 1 railroad contract. So, you know, customer diversification is on customer diversification, something that's – it's always in our rearview mirror, if you will and we work hard to make sure we're continuing to diversify the customer base.

I got you and if I could ask one quick follow on. The last two quarterly calls you've mentioned contact with the Department of Defense for potential business that did not come up this quarterly call. Is there any updates there or is that fallen by the wayside?

No, it hasn't fallen by the wayside. But unfortunately, not in a negative way. But dealing with the Department of Defense or the government is kind of moves at its own pace. It's hot one minute and it's cold the next. So, you know, we continue to talk to the Department of Defense, actually have a conference call coming up later this week with the Army Corps to discuss some bridge applications. But, you know, it's just a -- it's an ongoing process. You know, it never -- how it gets through the process. It never ceases to amaze me. So.

Okay. Thanks very much.

Thank you.

Thank you. The next question is from Tom Nai, a Private investor. Please go ahead.

Hi, Steve. Just a quick question for you. I see that you've got a new Chief Operating Officer there.

Yeah.

Is that -- does that mean a signal, any kind of change in direction? Or can you comment on what he brings to the table, to the company?

Yeah. We recently announced Claude Brown coming on board. Claude has a -- I think if you look at the announcement and his background, it kind of speaks for itself. Claude has been with Dow Chemical Certainty, Alcoa, to name a few, all in ceramics or plastics or resin technology and in all areas from pattern management to patent management to technology development, to R&D, to manufacturing quality assurance phenomenal detail guy and just a huge addition to the management team and I think speaks volumes about the company to be able to recruit a guy with that type of talent and that type of experience. So we're excited to have Claude on board. I don't think it signals any sort of change in direction from our focus basically in the rail industry to now our mat our portfolio of mat products that we're developing. But you know, I think Claude brings kind of the next phase, if you will, to what we need to do as a company, which is to continue to value engineer our products, grow our production efficiencies and our operational efficiencies and Claude brings all that background. So he's a great addition to the group. We're glad to have him.

Sounds good. Thank you.

Thank you. We have no further questions in queue at this time. I'd like to turn the floor back over to Mr. Hague for any closing remarks.

I'd just like to thank everyone for their participation and interest in Axion International Holdings and remind everyone that the full financials will be filed on Form 10-K shortly with the SEC. And one of the points Steve mentioned here is that in the first quarter of 2014, the company has already achieved roughly 60% of the full year of 2013. So we're off to a great start. Congratulations, everyone. Thanks.

Thank you.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at this time and thank you for your participation.