Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Jack Lascar — President & Managing Partner, Dennard-Lascar Associates LLC
Thomas Monroe Patterson — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Basic Energy Services, Inc.
Alan Krenek — Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer & Secretary, Basic Energy Services, Inc.
John Daniel — Analyst, Simmons & Company
Daniel J. Burke — Analyst, Johnson Rice & Co. LLC
Gregory Lewis — Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC
J. Marshall Adkins — Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Greetings and welcome to the Basic Energy Services Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Mr. Jack Lascar. Thank you, Mr. Lascar, you may begin.

Thank you, Devin. Good morning, everyone. Welcome to the Basic Energy Services second quarter 2017 earnings conference call. We appreciate you joining us today.

Before we begin, I'd like to remind everyone that today's comments include forward-looking statements reflecting Basic Energy Services' view of future events, and therefore, potential impact on performance. These views include the risk factors disclosed by the company in its registration statement on Form 10-Q and 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016. Further, refer to these statements regarding forward-looking statements incorporated in our press release from yesterday. Please also note that the contents of this conference call are covered by those statements.

In addition, the information reported on this call speaks only as of today, July 28, 2017, and therefore, you're advised that time-sensitive information may no longer be accurate as of the time of any replay.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Roe Patterson, President and CEO.

Thanks, Jack. Welcome to those of you dialing in for today's call. We appreciate your interest in our company. Joining me today is Alan Krenek, our Chief Financial Officer. First, I'll cover what we saw in Q2 operationally and where we stand today. Alan will then discuss our financial results in more detail, and I'll wrap things up with some final comments about Q3 and the remainder of 2017.

The second quarter unfolded as we had previously anticipated. We delivered our second consecutive 17% increase in revenue, driven by a recovery in our oil-related services. While the 17% increase was slightly below our original expectations, severe weather interruptions and holiday impacts reduced our second quarter revenues by approximately $6.6 million or 3 percentage points.

Increased activity levels in the Permian Basin and the STACK/SCOOP plays of Oklahoma led the way for most of our improved performance. In addition, the Eagle Ford, Niobrara, and California markets also saw modest improvement for demand for our services. Drilling, completion and well maintenance were up in all of these strong oil-driven basins.

From an EBITDA standpoint, we're now clearly in the positive territory and we expect that to continue for the remainder of 2017. While pricing has improved on the completion side of the business, utilization in our production-oriented services warranted only limited rate traction and most markets remain highly competitive.

Nevertheless, increased activity and improved pricing allowed us to deliver a sequential 560-basis-point expansion in gross margin. This improved performance was led by our pressure pumping, coil tubing, and the remainder of our Completion and Remedial Service product lines.

All of our legacy frac fleet horsepower was operating during the quarter. Half of the 74,000 hydraulic horsepower we recently purchased was placed into service during the latter part of the second quarter and the remaining half will be operational during the second half of this quarter. A delay in the delivery of new software control parts from a manufacturer postponed the activation of this hydraulic horsepower.

In addition, we will have the two large diameter new coil tubing units in the field for the most of the third quarter to meet greater demand and higher utilization in our current core markets. It appears the general attrition rates of the overall U.S. frac fleet over the past two years have been deep enough that the current drilling counts have caught up with available frac capacity.

We have no newbuild horsepower plans as current margins do not support that type of initiative. So, we will maintain our current fleet size. In fact, we believe what little newbuild is occurring in the market is only keeping up with the diminishing useful life of the existing fleet, which we estimate at 12 million to 13 million hydraulic horsepower.

This reduction in life has been brought upon by high demand and service intensity being placed on the pumping equipment in today's frac market, producing higher attrition rates. We can only conclude that overcapacity in the frac market is far from being reached and demand should only increase even if the rig count flattens.

Pricing was up 7% to 10% generally in all of our pumping segments sequentially and frac sand usage was up approximately 10% quarter-over-quarter. Currently, our frac calendars and larger coil tubing spreads are sold out through the end of 2017, and we are currently booking dates into 2018.

We are also experiencing continual improvement in our Well Servicing business, with both improved utilization from longer daylight hours, as well as some improved pricing in our revenue per truck hour in most regions. We added rigs to our marketed fleet, including two newbuilds and three redeployments in the second quarter, all of which were high-spec rigs. This was done in response to modest Well Servicing rate traction in the late-first quarter and early-second quarter.

Turning to Fluid Services. We continue to see high activity levels in our Fluid Services segment and we are working to expand our pipeline network into our disposals. Currently, approximately one-fifth of our total disposed water volumes are delivered through pipeline. We expect this trend to continue with existing and new disposal wells in the future.

We have also expanded our water treatment and recycling capabilities, both in the field and at our own salt water disposal well sites. While our Fluid Services revenue was only slightly higher quarter-over-quarter, margins improved on some small pricing improvements. In fact, margins would have been up an additional 300 basis points had it not been for a one-time accrual related to an automotive incident from 2016.

Generally, we currently anticipate that overall company margin improvement will continue in the third quarter as pricing and utilization continue to rise. Longer daylight hours should also benefit our utilization levels. We continue to see wage pressure, particularly for experienced personnel, but we are controlling our personnel costs. Our fixed costs should remain in check for the most part, allowing increased operating leverage over time.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Alan.

Thanks, Roe, and good morning. I will provide some details on our second quarter income statement, as well as discuss selected balance sheet and cash flow items, and would like to cover a few components of our revenue and segment profits that were not included in our earnings release yesterday.

In the Completion and Remedial segment for the second quarter 63% of revenue was generated from pumping services, same as last quarter, 20% from coil tubing compared to 18% last quarter, and 15% from rental tools compared to 19% last quarter. The remainder was from other services.

In our Well Servicing segment, Taylor rig manufacturing generated $900,000 in revenue compared to $230,000 in the first quarter. Taylor segment operating margin was $89,000 compared to $17,000 in the first quarter. The reported net loss for the second quarter was $23.9 million, or $0.92 per share. This compares to a net loss of $38.6 million, or a loss of $1.49 per share, in the first quarter.

Special charges in the second quarter included an $8.5 million valuation allowance on tax net operating losses and $1 million of additional restructuring expenses related to our emergence from Chapter 11. Excluding the impact of the special items, Basic reported a net loss of $14.7 million, or $0.57 per share, compared to a net loss of $22.6 million, or $0.87 per share, in the first quarter.

Weighted average shares outstanding for the second quarter were 26 million. Adjusted EBITDA was $12 million, or 5.6% of revenue, compared to an EBITDA loss of $1.2 million, or 0.7% of revenue, in the first quarter.

Excluding restructuring costs associated with the bankruptcy expenses, G&A expense in the second quarter was $35 million, or 16% of revenue, compared to $31.2 million, or 17% of revenue, in the prior quarter. The sequential upturn in G&A expense was due a variety of factors, mainly increased cash and stock incentive compensation and other personnel costs. We expect G&A expense in the third and fourth quarters to be around $34 million to $35 million.

Depreciation and amortization expense was $26 million versus $25.4 million in the first quarter. We anticipate quarterly depreciation and amortization expense to be around $27 million to $28 million in the third and fourth quarters.

Net interest expense was $9.2 million in the second quarter, compared to $9.1 in the first. Interest expense in the second quarter included approximately $2 million of accretion on discounts taken to the company's term loan and capital leases. We expect quarterly net interest expense to be approximately $10 million in the third and fourth quarters.

The operating tax benefit rate for the first quarter was 36%, excluding the valuation allowance related to the temporary impairments of the company's tax NOLs. On an operating basis, we expect that the 2017 tax benefit rate will be 36%. However, the tax benefit rate for 2017 on our reported financial statements will be impacted by valuation allowances on our approximately $660 million of tax NOLs until we get to a positive pre-tax income position.

Our cash balance was $34.2 million at June 30th. No amounts were outstanding under our credit facility. We had $54 million of letter of credits outstanding for insurance collateral at June 30th, leaving $21 million availability under the facility. I would like to note that in July, we were able to reduce the amount of insurance collateral required, thus, we were able to reduce the amount of letter of credits required by $12 million.

Pro forma for the June 30th for this reduction in letter of credits availability under our revolver would have been $33 million and total liquidity would have been $67 million. Our DSO at the end of June was 63, essentially flat from the end of March. Our 90-day receivables represented 4% of our accounts receivable balance and we continue to experience good collection results.

Total debt at June 30th was comprised of $163 million for term loan due in 2021, $106 million for capital leases and other notes, for a total of $269 million, offset by $15 million of unamortized discounts and deferred debt costs, resulting in total reported debt of $254 million. $46 million of our debt was classified as current at June 30th.

During the second quarter, total capital expenditures were $40.8 million, including $26.8 million for capital leases. Spending was comprised of $23.6 million for sustaining and replacement projects, $15.4 million for expansion, and $1.8 million for other projects. Expansion capital spending was almost entirely in our Completion and Remedial segment, principally for the two new coil tubing units that were delivered at the end of June.

We continue to expect that our capital spending for 2017 will be approximately $115 million, with $45 million of that being expansion capital and $70 million for sustaining and replacement projects. As our expansion capital spending was front year loaded, spending in the second half of the year will be limited to sustaining and replacement projects.

At this point, I'll turn the call back over to Roe for closing comments.

Thanks, Alan. Looking forward to the second half of 2017, we continue to expect gradual improvement in pricing and utilization. We're also seeing a healthy level of inquiries regarding equipment and crew availability for frac and completion services, in addition to well maintenance and repair activity. These are clear indicators of future demand. However, we're keeping a close eye on oil prices. Our current view is predicated on oil pricing trading at current levels or higher.

Customers, especially those with stretched balance sheets or those that have not hedged their production, have quickly responded to fluctuations in oil prices, slowing down spending when prices linger below $45 per barrel and ramping up significantly when prices show stickiness above $50 per barrel. Likewise, for the natural gas prices, customers in gassy markets have ramped up activity when pricing stabilizes above $3 per Mcf.

As a result, in our belief, the commodity pricing will improve, but very slowly, in the coming quarters. We currently expect to generate sequential increase of 6% to 10% in quarterly revenues in the third quarter. I'd like to highlight that this guidance could change quickly, if commodity prices ramp up at a much faster pace or if commodity prices retrace their recent lows.

Should the rig count flatten from here or drop slightly, we do not expect to see an impact in the rate of completion activity until mid-2018, given the backlog of DUCs, or drilled but uncompleted wells, and the natural lag between spuds and completions. Well completions have lagged the increase in the rig count for four consecutive quarters as reflected by the building DUC inventory, and this likely provides a solid runway of increasing completion work for at least several more quarters. And as we've stated earlier, horsepower attrition serves as its own limiting factor for available frac capacity.

On the personnel front, we've been blessed to retain one of the finest workforces in the services sector throughout this downturn. Competition for experienced personnel will continue to push labor rates and serve as the primary driver for overall pricing increases. As a result, prices for our services are currently being quoted on a spot basis in order to give us flexibility to adjust our rates for increasing labor and other input cost. We've been approached to lock up some services with contracts, and we are always considering those opportunities. If we do sign any agreements, clauses for adjusting prices for increased input costs and wages will have to apply. We are determined to pass through any cost increases.

Lastly, for the third quarter and beyond, we will be changing the name of our Fluid Services segment to Water Logistics. The change reflects the growing holistic approach to water management by our entire fluids business and our customer's needs. Recycling, pipelining, fresh water sourcing, water storage and chemical treatment are growing sub-segments of this business. Our commercial salt water disposal well network, one of the largest in the country, and our best-in-class Fluid Services truck fleet finish out the nation's largest and most comprehensive fleet of assets dedicated to Water Logistics in the U.S. onshore oil and gas industry.

With that, operator, we will turn the call over for some questions.

Thank you. We will be now be conducting a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of John Daniel with Simmons & Company. Please proceed with your question.

Hey. Thanks guys and good morning. Roe, you've been doing this a long time and I'd be curious of your thoughts just as we look at the completion market right now, your views on sort of the high-spec, high-intensity workover rigs versus the large diameter coil tubing units? What did customers – what do they really prefer and where do you see the biggest growth opportunity?

John, it's by customer a lot of the time. Some customers do not like to use coil. They've had a bad experience with it in the past and they want stick pipe, and they're willing to use a higher spec rig. Some customers want the speed and efficiency that coil can bring, so we see it go kind of by customer. And one thing that does affect coil is the end of a long lateral. Most coil is very efficient up to about 8,000 to 8,500 feet. Past that, you start to run into some issues with drilling out to the end of the tow. So, stick pipe is really the fix for that.

So, I think if customers have laterals that don't exceed 8,500 feet, large diameter coil is a good fit, and that's probably what we're seeing. For most drill outs is coil application, but certainly a lot of people using stick pipe and big rigs to do the same work, because of preference or because they want to be able to reach the end of that lateral.

Okay. All right. Good. I've got two quick ones and then I'll turn it over. Roe, again, what if anything, can you say with respect to either the probability we'll see meaningful industry consolidation in your business and your desires to participate in that?

I would say the desire is high as long as we can do it in a way that creates a lot of value for our shareholders. I think every – across the space, I hear a lot of desire for consolidation, but in consolidation, there has to be some give and take, and I hear a lot of take and not a lot of give. So, I think it's – deals can be done. They're going to be tough. I expect some significant deals over the next, say, 12 to 18 months. But it's going to take some pretty constructive leadership, at the management level, and some boards that want to be conducive to getting deals done to make it happen. So, we'll see, but I do expect to see some consolidation.

Fair enough. And then one quick one for Alan. Alan, can you give any granularity in terms of the expected margin? You noted margin improvement was expected in the press release. Just some granularity on where it might be headed for some segments?

For the second half of the year?

Yeah, range bound the improvement in Q3, Q4?

Yeah. It's going to uptick with the pricing improvement that we expect, as well as the incrementals from increased revenue. It's heading – it was basically 22% margin in the second quarter. It should be upticking in increments of 200 basis points to 300 basis points on a go-forward basis if we continue to go in the direction that we think it's going.

Okay. Fair enough. Thanks guys for your time.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Daniel Burke with Johnson Rice. Please proceed with your question.

Hey. Good morning, guys.

Good morning.

Let's see, I'll start on the Fluid side – or excuse me, Water Logistics side. So, can you talk a little bit more about the pipeline disposal of water versus the one-fifth of water disposed via pipeline, where can you take that over the near to intermediate term?

Well, with our disposal wells, particularly in basins like the Permian, we have 30-plus there, that's the largest in the Permian, we are constantly allowing customers and really approaching and asking customers to pipeline to our disposal wells. It lowers their overall well costs. We're happy to do it. We have very little costs in that water that's being delivered. We'll help with that infrastructure to build that capacity to get it to our salt water disposal wells. I think it's a trend that's going to continue to increase as we see well density sort of surround our SWDs. We're getting more and more inbounds to take that water via pipe, and that's just fine with us. So, we're encouraging it and trying to help with all of that that we can.

And a follow-up on that one specifically then, Roe, does that change the optimal size of your truck fleet in anyway?

It could. Over time, it could flatten the truck feel just a little bit. Look, there's plenty of trucking capacity needed for flow back, hauling fresh water to drill sites, and to track sites, those typically never have pipe water available. That infrastructure is just not created until well after the well has been drilled and completed. So, that's not something that's ever really done early in the process. So, there's plenty of room and need for trucking capacity.

But over time, as the wells and the life of the field shifts to production, and there is less and less recycling or movement of water needed via truck, we could see the truck count flatten in those particular markets or even shrink a little bit as more of that water is built into that integrated infrastructure through pipe. That's okay, and we'll participate on whatever side of the business we can. We think that there's still going to be plenty of trucking capacity demand no matter how the market goes, but I think a flattening effect could happen. It's going to take a while for that to occur.

Okay. And then if I could cram one on, maybe for Alan. On the C&R side, can you maybe address the relative profitability at least as of Q2 in pumping versus let's just call it all other C&R?

So, on the pumping side, you've got kind of like in the high-teens direct margin.

Okay.

And then, obviously, on the coil side, you're heading in the 30% range, and rental tools, the same way.

And Alan, remind me, in the last cycle, where did you guys max out on pumping margin?

Yeah. We were like in the low- to mid-30%s.

Okay. All right, guys, I'll turn it back. Thanks for that.

You bet.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Gregory Lewis with Credit Suisse. Please proceed with your question.

Yes. Thank you and good morning.

Good morning.

Roe, just following on with Daniel's question on Water Logistics. I mean, clearly, you guys have the good SWDs, big truck fleet, stop thinking about adding pipeline. Is there anything else that we should be thinking about potentially being added to the Water Logistics business to sort of more well-rounded or is it kind of right where it needs to be?

Well, I think ours is where it needs to be. I think when you look at the overall business, we want to be able to go to a customer and offer a holistic approach, what are your water demands really from cradle to grave when it comes to a well. So, what are your fresh water demands, brine demands during drilling, what are your needs to clean that, if it's oil-based at the end of well – to take care of that oil-based mud to get rid of it or recycle it at the end of a well. And then when it comes to frac, to make sure that they have all the fresh water capacity that they need or semi-clean water that they need to frac with, whether that be through a recycled source or some other reclaimed source or just straight fresh water.

So, we want to play a part in all of that. There's also a chemical treatment piece to it. Maybe we need to preserve the water through biocide or some other treatment to make the water where it's more flexible for them when they frac with it, requiring less friction reducer or any other chemical treatment to bring down the frac cost. Anything we can do from a water treatment and water sourcing standpoint to make it more optimal for the customer, that's what we want to do.

And then once the well is placed on production, we want to participate and help with the flow back piece of that well, and then the lifecycle of the production water of that well. Whatever we can do to lower that overall field cost for our customer, that's what we're trying to do. So, we want to build an integrated system of logistics that helps them maximize the well density that they're creating within the field.

Okay. Great. And then just on Well Servicing, sequentially in Q2, you guys kind of nailed it. The revenue growth was up like, I guess, 8%, 9%. Just as you think about the back half of the year for Well Servicing, it sounds like there is some optimism around Well Servicing. How are we thinking about the back half of the year for Well Servicing, and just what's happening right there in that market?

Well, we're seeing a lot of – I think, through the early and the mid part of the second quarter, we saw a lot of workover work, especially when crude was above $50. So, as I said, our expectations are predicated on oil pricing kind of returning to those levels in the second half of the year. If it does, I think we'll continue to see some expanded workover projects. That's going to add to the utilization of the Well Servicing fleet generally.

I also think that some customers are relying now, more now than ever, on cash flow from existing production to justify their drilling budgets and frac budgets. So, they're going to need to make sure that all of their legacy production is optimized and they're getting the most out of those existing wellbores, and that's where the Well Servicing plays the biggest role.

Generally, completion work for any Well Servicing fleet is only about 15% to 20% of the overall utilization factor. So, it's not the new drills that are going to drive Well Servicing on the back half of the year, it's going to be – that's going to play a role, but the real driver is going to be workover and maintenance, which we think expands in the second half of the year, especially if crude prices stabilize above $50.

Okay, guys. Hey thank you very much for the time.

Thanks.

You bet.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Marshall Adkins with Raymond James. Please proceed with your question.

Good morning, guys.

Good morning.

Good morning.

Well, you reactivated 70,000-plus horsepower last quarter, and I know that this is stuff you just bought, but there's always cost associated with getting that out in the field, labor, maybe extra parts. How much extra cost do you think were associated with getting those things out? Was it pretty seamless in terms of having to buy stuff to outfit the crews or was there still a lot of expenses associated with them? I'm trying to get to the step up in margin for next quarter when it's going full speed.

I'll let Alan talk about what he thinks the exact effect on margin was, but definitely, we had to hire and train crews in the second quarter that we will see no revenue from in the second quarter, only in the third. We were doing that in the coil tubing space as well. We were having to hire and train crews for the two brand new coil tubing units that came in. We did have to buy and – some parts and pieces for that 74,000 horsepower.

But I think really the capital outlay for the equipment was pretty small. That wasn't a big part of the expense associated with getting this stuff ready to deploy. We did have to spend some money on software, but we're only talking about – I think $1.5 million or so in total. So, that wasn't a big number to get this stuff out and ready for work. The equipment that we purchased, we were lucky, it was in pretty good shape. So, there wasn't a huge expenditure there. But the labor part, the training of the crews, the expense of on-boarding all those people was definitely something that we had to pay for in the second quarter. And I'll let Alan speak to what you think that incremental impact was.

Yeah. Marshall, Roe's right I mean, all the cost of getting the equipment ready to go into the field were pretty much contained in the capital spending amount that we outlaid for that. So, getting the crews ready, probably a little less, it was less than $1 million probably in total to get that done, probably more around $500,000.

Okay. But obviously that greater absorption next quarter helps in margins. Plus, it sounds like, Roe, what you were saying earlier, average pricing – and I'm focusing just on the frac side now, should also drift higher over the next quarter as well.

That's what we're seeing right now. Of course, I know some of my peers have had a few frac spreads released over the last couple of days and we've seen some drilling rigs released or some announcements that some drilling rigs are going to be released over the next few weeks as a response to sub-$50 crude pricing. So, that could affect things. We'll have to wait and see. But right now, all signs are that pricing is going to continue to improve. We are getting price increases as we speak.

I want to make sure I clarify on that. The other half of that 74,000 horsepower will not be active until mid-August, primarily on customer scheduling and the need for the horsepower that we have lined up, and for them to be ready for to start racking, and then the software back order that we ended up with to get the remaining half of that horsepower ready for service. So, I just want to make sure when you're building your model that the remaining half of that 74,000 will not come on until mid-August.

Perfect. Let me delve a little deeper into something you just said there. I think you guys have as good insight and view on the Permian as anyone out there. You mentioned you expect prices to keep drifting higher, as do I. But if we stay stuck in this $50 oil world or sub-$50 oil world, do you think the rig count out there drifts lower over the next six months?

I do. I think it will drift down. I think we could see that early here in the third quarter that the rig count could react to this sub-$50 range that we seem to stuck in. If crude starts to trickle back up above $50, maybe the impact is lessened and the rig count continues to creep up a little bit. But, I think a plateauing effect or a slight drop is not out of the cards for any market, and particularly the Permian, where we are.

So, it could happen. We're already hearing about a little bit of softness. I think one thing to remember about the frac business is that the DUC inventory is going to drive frac rates at least for a while until we absorb that. So, as I said in my comments, I think it's mid-2018 – unless the rig count really falls, I think, it's mid-2018 before we really frac through that inventory, because it's been building.

In fact, it's – over the last quarter or two, it jumped about 1,000 DUCs. So, that's a big deal and it takes a while to frac that out. Especially, with the overall frac market sort of being held and checked, because every newbuild that we know about really is going to replacement, it's not an incremental add. I know there's a lot of talk about incremental adds out there, but there's not as much talk about how hard it is on the horsepower and how much we're chewing up right now.

And if you figure the useful life on a pump right now, it's been lowered to a four-year period, which is what I estimate, then you'd figure that every year, you're going to lose a quarter of the fleet. So, on a 12 million horsepower fleet, you just shelled out 3 million horsepower. If you do the math, you got to have 3 million coming back in just to keep the fleet flat and we're not building 3 million horsepower a year, so.

Right. So, let me just paraphrase what I heard just to make sure. So, it sounds like if we stayed here at $50, which again I don't think either you or I think that happens, but if it did, rig count maybe softens a little bit back half, but you have a pretty good backlog of work to be done on fracking and it's just generally a tighter market. So, we hold up and frac pretty good. Prices still move higher. Rigs could get a little bit sloppy short-term. Did I translate that correctly?

Yes.

Okay.

Pretty good. Yeah.

Last question for me on the Well Service side, you had a nice pricing increase. Was it focused more on the high-end rigs or just the standard maintenance work, pulling rods, stuff like that? Do you have a sense of – or was it just across the broad?

It was pretty much across the broad. I would say the bigger end of the price increase came on high spec rigs, but it was pretty much across the broad.

Thank you.

All right.

Thanks, Marshall.

There are no further questions at this time. I'd like to turn the floor back over to management for closing comments.

All right. Appreciate everyone dialing in. We'll talk to you next quarter. Thanks.

This concludes today's teleconference. Thank you for your participation. You may disconnect your lines and have a wonderful day.