corrected transcript


Quiksilver, Inc.
 
ZQK
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Sep. 8, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Cal l St re et .c om • 2 1 2. 93 1 .6 5 15 •
 
C o p yr i g h t © 2 0 04 C a l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the Quiksilver fiscal 2005 third


quarter earnings conference call. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. Following


the presentation, we will conduct a question-and-answer session, instructions will be provided at


that time for you to queue up for questions. [Operator Instructions] I would like to remind everyone


that this conference is being recorded. And now I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.


Chad Jacobs of Integrated Corporate Relations. Please go ahead, sir.


Chad A. Jacobs, Integrated Corporate Relations


Good afternoon. Before we get started, I'd just like to remind you of the company's Safe Harbor


language. Today's call includes comments concerning Quiksilver's business outlook and contains


forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements and all other statements that may


be made on this call that are not based on historical facts are subject to risks and uncertainties and


actual results may differ materially. Please refer to the company's SEC filings for more information


on risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations, specifically


the section titled forward-looking statements in the company's annual report on Form 10-K. With


that I'd like to turn the call over to Bob McKnight, Company's Chairman and CEO.


Robert B. McKnight, Jr., Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Good afternoon and thank you for joining us to talk about our third quarter results. With me today


are Bernard Mariette, our President, and Steve Brink, our Chief Financial Officer.


We had an exciting and productive third quarter. Here are just some of the highlights. We increased


sales by 11% to 374 million, versus last year. This growth is completely the result of our core


business as the Rossignol acquisition closed as of July 31st, and didn't affect our Q3 results.


We grew our operating income by 31% to 41 million. Our profitability remains strong despite a fairly


challenging environment, a clear validation of the strength of our brands. Earnings per share rose


25% to 20 cents.


Our inventories are in good shape in each territory, and we ended the quarter well positioned for


the fall and holiday selling seasons. But for the first nine months, sales are up 25% over last year,


and operating income is up 28%. So all in all, a great result for the first three quarters of 2005.


We're really pleased that even as we prepare to layer in the Rossignol business to our results, our


core Quiksilver and Roxy businesses as well as DC Shoes remain vibrant around the world. We've


just concluded a round of major trade shows in the U.S. and overseas and the feedback for our


product continues to be excellent.


This continues to confirm that our brands are very strong, our product is among the best in the


industry, and our powerful market position continues to grow. We also had many other


accomplishments during the quarter. First I'd like to highlight a few operational items.


We entered into a licensing agreement with Kohl's and made them the exclusive distributor of the


Hawk line in the U.S. We think this is an excellent way to target the mid-tier channel of distribution.


We acquired the Canadian distributor for DC Shoes extending our control of the brand and further


building our infrastructure. This distributor acquisition is a bit unique since we've employed the
corrected transcript


Quiksilver, Inc.
 
ZQK
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Sep. 8, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Cal l St re et .c om • 2 1 2. 93 1 .6 5 15 •
 
C o p yr i g h t © 2 0 04 C a l l Str e et
 
2


people to establish an on the ground presence with a combined business of DC Shoes, Quiksilver


and Roxy.


We also opened a unique sports megastore in Anglet, France that brings all facets of the


boardriding culture together in an updated Quiksilver retail environment right next door to our


outdoor concept store, Andaska.


There's also a restaurant, The Ono Cafe, right in the middle that creates an overall shopping and


eating environment where people will simply want to spend time and hang out. All of our brands


including our Rossignol brands are well represented in this store.


There are some key strategic items in Q3 as well. As most of you know, our greatest achievement


during the quarter was the completion of the Rossignol acquisition. We're going to talk a lot more


about this in a minute, but for now suffice to say that this will transform our company and give us


tremendous opportunity for growth.


Connected with that, we successfully completed the placement of $400 million of senior notes. The


debt offering was incredibly well received and was by many measures one of the most successful


bond offerings ever done by a company in our industry.


Finally, we created a new global management structure for our combined operations. We are now


organized to execute effectively, manage the integration project in front of us and to take advantage


of many opportunities for growth. Our management structure is strong, streamlined and places the


appropriate amount of control into the hands of the regional teams while giving our corporate


executive team excellent risk management capability and strategic control over the direction of the


global business.


As always, we had a lot happening on the marketing front also. We'll have a whole host of athletes


riding in the upcoming Winter Olympics. In addition to the scores of Rossignol and Dynastar


sponsored alpine and Nordic skiers, right out of the gate the Quiksilver and Rossignol combination


will be embodied in two of the world's leading Quiksilver winter sports athletes, Candide Thovex, a


Rossignol-sponsored freestyle skier; and Mathieu Crepel, the world champion Rossignol


snowboarder, both of which will be competing on Rossignol equipment. And we're also thrilled to


have five of our Roxy team riders qualify as well. This is a first. The presence of our brands at the


Winter Olympics is going to be second to none. We're also proud to see Kelly Slater's incredible


career continue to flourish. He leads this year's tour standings on the ASP after winning in Tahiti,


Fiji, and South Africa, and he just placed second last week in Japan.


Cleveland Golf's Vijay Singh earned his fourth PGA title of the year at the Buick Open in Flint,


Michigan and Bart Bryant, one of Cleveland's stable of top pros, won The Memorial in Ohio. And


finally, and this is just incredible, Danny Way, DC Shoes' skateboarding superstar, not only won the


gold medal at the Summer X Games, but he also used his famous mega-ramp to jump over the


Great Wall of China in front of a host of leading Chinese dignitaries and millions of TV and Internet


viewers around the world. Obviously, this was a first. If you haven't seen this, I have to say, that


some of the things that these athletes do, well, again, it's just incredible, both from a skill standpoint


and also as a cultural milestone. Hats off to Danny.


As you can see, it was a monumental quarter, there's no question in my mind that just as we


became the dominant company for the surf lifestyle, and then boardriding, we are now set to


become the unquestioned leader in outdoor sports with a strong presence in the snow and


mountain lifestyle market.


Our brands will be top of mind, our products will be second to none, and our opportunities will


continue to broaden. We have growth opportunities by category. We are preparing to be a major


force in the global outerwear market by leveraging the Rossignol brand identity. We will extend our