corrected transcript


Quiksilver, Inc.
 
ZQK
 
Q4 2005 Earnings Call
 
Dec. 16, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for standing by, and welcome to the


Quiksilver Fiscal 2005 Fourth Quarter and Year-End Earnings Conference Call. At this time all


participants are in a listen-only mode. Following the presentation, we will conduct a question-and-


answer session, instructions will be provided at that time for you to queue up for questions.


[Operator instructions].


I would like to remind everyone that this conference is being recorded. And I would now like to turn


the conference over to Mr. James Palczynski of Integrated Corporate Relations. Please go ahead,


sir.


James Palczynski, Integrated Corporate Relations, Inc.


Thank you and good morning everybody. Thank you for joining us. Before we get started, I'd just


like to remind you of the company's Safe Harbor language. Today's call includes comments


concerning Quiksilver's business outlook and contains forward-looking statements. These forward-


looking statements and all other statements that will be made on this call that are not based on


historical facts are subject to risks and uncertainties and actual results may differ materially. Please


refer to the company's SEC filings for more information on risk factors that could cause actual


results to differ materially from our expectations, specifically the section titled forward-looking


statements in the company's annual report on Form 10-K. So with that out of the way, I'd like to


now turn the call over to Bob McKnight, the company's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.


Robert B. McKnight, Jr., Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Good morning everybody and thanks for joining us to review our fiscal 2005 results. As you already


know, this was a tremendously important and exciting year for all of us. Our financial performance


for the year is at record levels and our opportunities for growth have never been more compelling.


We are going to get into some specifics about our outlook and the integration plans in a few


moments. But I would like to first review the financial highlights for the fourth quarter and for the


year we’ve just concluded. Fourth quarter sales increased 82% to a record level of 637 million


versus 350 million last year. Our earnings per share increased by 35% to $0.27 versus $0.20 in the


year ago quarter. For the full year, sales increased 41% to a record level of 1.78 billion. Our net


income increased 32% to a record level of 107 million and our earnings per share grew by 26% to


$0.86, also a record.


I think it's fair to say that our continued ability to generate outstanding results not only in the short


term but really over the whole history of our company is the result of remaining focused not only on


executing at a high level on a day-in, day-out basis but also on the future opportunities for our


business and on the power of our brands to fulfill our vision.


Operationally this year, we are proud of several important accomplishments. Obviously at the top of


the list is our acquisition of Rossignol. We have reorganized our company to properly absorb this


business and are pleased with the progress we’ve made thus far. Bernard is going to talk at some


length about the particulars of the integration in a few moments, but I'd just like to say that there is


no question in our minds that we have captured a tremendous growth vehicle.


The Rossignol brand is built on by an outdoor lifestyle that is at once easily definable and


tremendously underleveraged. We are going to not only modernize and streamline their existing
corrected transcript


Quiksilver, Inc.
 
ZQK
 
Q4 2005 Earnings Call
 
Dec. 16, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


hard goods business, but we are going to build a large, compelling lifestyle apparel collection with


this brand. We believe that the ultimate opportunity is in the several hundreds and millions of


dollars even without considering the potential that other brands in the portfolio hold on their own. As


part of that acquisition, we are very pleased to complete what we understand was one of the most


successful debt transaction in many years, as we raised 400 million to finance the acquisition and


refinance some of our existing debt. I would like to thank our bondholders for their vision and


support.


Also during the year, in the Americas we licensed the Hawk brand exclusively to Kohl’s. This is a


great way for us to serve mid-tier moderate distribution with a meaningful brand. As you know,


serving this market requires a very different operating model than we utilize, and so this was a way


to maximize our opportunity, diversify our business and to take a minimum level of risk in the


process. Kohl’s takes responsibility for production and we handle design and of course then we


earn royalty.


We also made a series of smaller deals during the year to tighten up our business around the


globe. In South Africa which is a strong territory for us we have cut a deal to buy back the license in


its entirety. We bought a controlling interest in our Belgium business and we are moving to


consolidate the business in Eastern Europe. We are also working to acquire Poland and looking for


a partner in Russia which we think is a big opportunity. We have been incredibly pleased with our


performance in Brazil where our joint venture has been very successful. We also acquired DC's


English and Canadian distributors this year, both having strong growth prospects. Controlling all the


significant markets of our brand is definitely key to ensuring that our businesses reach their


potential on a global scale.


In a similar way, we are expanding and tightening up our control of company-owned specialty retail


around the world. Vertical retail is a great opportunity to present the brand to consumers, to cement


the opportunity in local markets and to drive sales and profitability for the company. The lifestyle


which our brands represent is incredibly visually compelling. Through retail where we can use video


and store displays and music, we can make what we stand for crystal clear every day.


We ended this year with 457 retail stores including new amazing stores in London and in Soho,


New York. Not a single market is even close to full penetration for specialty retail, especially not


when you consider that we have several different concepts.


The global retail opportunity for our various lifestyle brands is very large. In addition to having


continued to open new shops in each region, as Steve will detail in a few moments, we’ve also


acquired an Australian specialty retail chain called Surfection. This deal helps give us some


additional critical mass in our retailing effort in that region and enables us to better control our own


destiny. It was not a material deal on a standalone basis but taken as part of our larger strategy to


develop a strong global business for all of our brands and properties we consider it a very important


step.


We opened our largest European Boardriders retail shop yet in Anglet, France during the year. It


incorporates nearly all of our products as well as products from other strong branded vendors in the


apparel, outerwear and equipment make markets. We are excited about our new concept and we


will be opening other similar locations during the next several years.


Communicating our brand message to consumers is no more important than instilling that same


sense of culture into our organization. That’s particularly true given the Rossignol acquisition. Not


only do we want to demonstrate to their team of managers and employees what it means to have


become part of Quiksilver, but in some sense, we think it is so very important to provide them with a


work environment and culture that is closely tied to their own lifestyle brand position. It's with this in


mind that we selected new headquarters for our wintersports businesses, both here in the US,


specifically in Park City, and in Europe in Voiron, France. These places are the epicenters of