corrected transcript


Nautilus, Inc.
 
NLS
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 27, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Nautilus Q2 2005


Results Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded


on Wednesday, July 27, 2005. And, now I would like to turn the conference over to Mr. John Mills.


Please go ahead, sir.


John Mills, Integrated Corporate Relations, Inc.


Before the call begins, listeners should be advised of the Safe Harbor Statement that applies to


today's call. Prepared remarks during this call contain forward-looking statements. Additional


forward-looking statements may be made in response to questions. These statements, including


third and fourth quarter forecasts and expected new product introductions, do not guarantee future


performance. Nautilus undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements


to reflect new information, events, or circumstances after the date they were made or to reflect the


occurrence of unanticipated events. Therefore, undue reliance should not be placed upon them.


Listeners should review the earnings call to which this conference call relates in the Company's


most recent periodic reports on Form 10-K and 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange


Commission for more detailed discussions of the factors that could cause actual results to differ


materially from those projected in forward-looking statements.


And now, I would like to turn the call over to Gregg Hammann, Chairman and Chief Executive


Officer of Nautilus.


Greggory C. Hammann, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks John. Good afternoon, and thanks for joining us. With me today are Bill Meadowcroft, who


is our Chief Financial Officer; Tim Hawkins, our Chief Customer and Chief Marketing Officer; and


Pat Warner, our Senior VP of Product Development.


Today, we are going to provide insights into the second quarter of our 2005 annual operating plan.


Our Company’s business theme this year is to drive growth and invest in the future, as we build a


solid foundation to grow our business profitably for years to come. Now on this call, we will cover


second quarter results, provide net sales from the five sale channels, plus our new Nautilus Apparel


division, and give you an update on our fast pace of product innovation. We will then conclude with


some comments and guidance for the balance of 2005.


So, about an hour ago we posted our second quarter 2005 financial results, which showed we


delivered the quarter as expected. Net sales were about a 129 million, which was an improvement


of 29% over the year ago quarter. We experienced at least 8% growth in every one of our sales


channels and we delivered earnings of 10 cents a diluted share, a 70% improvement.


This is now our 8th straight quarter of meeting or exceeding guidance. We are taking advantage of


the seasonally slowest part of the year to move a number of product innovations through


development introduction process. This gives us time to better optimize manufacturing and


shipping in advance of the high volume season that is rapidly approaching. Now you will see this


reflected in the margins for the quarter. During the quarter, we took several steps toward further


accelerating our pursuit of global category leadership. We acquired our Canadian distributor Belko


Canada, now called Nautilus Fitness Canada. This acquisition positions us for multi-channel sales


growth in Canada. We also acquired the high performance fitness apparel brand PEARL iZUMi.
corrected transcript


Nautilus, Inc.
 
NLS
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 27, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


This will help us leverage our brands, distribution, and marketing into the fast growing fitness


apparel market. We will provide some more perspective on all of this in a few minutes.


For more detail on the second quarter, I will turn the call over to our Chief Financial Officer, Bill


Meadowcroft. Bill?


William D. Meadowcroft, Chief Financial Officer


Thanks Gregg. As you just heard the second quarter marks the 8th straight quarter that our


revenue and earnings met or exceeded our guidance. Net sales for the quarter were 129 million


compared to a 100.2 million the preceding year, an increase of 29 percent. Gross profit margins


were 44.8% compared to 49.2% for the year-ago quarter. Gross margins were pressured by the


intensified pace of product introductions giving us time to better optimize manufacturing and


shipping ahead of our busiest season. Compared to gross margins, for the year-ago quarter,


product introductions and additional inventory carrying costs reduced margins by about 290 basis


points, while higher transportation costs reduced margins about a 150 basis points. We are taking


steps to mitigate these costs in the back half of the year.


Operating income in the second quarter was 3.3 million or 2.9% compared to 1.9 million or 2.7% for


the year-ago quarter an improvement of 20 basis points. The reduction in gross margin was offset


by lower sales and marketing expenditures during the quarter. Diluted earnings per share for the


quarter were 10 cents compared to 6 cents a year ago, a 70% improvement. Regarding operating


expenses, selling and marketing was 30.9% of sales, down from 36.5% for the year-ago quarter.


This reflects our ability to drive efficiencies as we regenerate greater revenue.


General and administrative expense was 7.7% of sales, up from 7.3% in the year-ago quarter. This


includes facilitating growth by making necessary improvements in our business and information


systems and continuing to protect our intellectual property.


Research and development was 2.4% of sales compared to 1.3% for the year-ago quarter, an


increase of $1.8 million reflecting our commitment to a fast pace of innovation introducing 8 new


products versus only three line extensions in the year-ago quarter.


Turning to our balance sheet, we finished the quarter with cash and short-term investments of


100.3 million compared to a 123.3 million for the previous quarter. The change is explained by an


increase in product inventory and our acquisition of Belko Canada as we gear up for a successful


fall season and deliver upon our commitment to customers. We closed the PEARL iZUMi


acquisition on July 7th, so the impact of that transaction will be reflected in the third quarter.


DSOs were 41 days compared to 40 days the previous quarter and 43 days for the year-ago


quarter. Annualized inventory turned four times in the quarter equal to the year-ago quarter.


Inventories were $70 million at the quarter’s end compared to $49 million a year-ago, putting us in


excellent position for the fall sell-in compared to last year when we experienced tight product supply


positions.


Our direct business is a strong and steady component of our business and we expect moderate


growth in the future. About 99% of our direct consumers use some form of credit, all of which is


non-recourse to Nautilus. For 8 years, we have offered a private Nautilus card that opens up a


larger addressable market through special financing programs offered by our third party finance


partners. This share of transactions involving the Nautilus card was about 67% of direct sales for


the quarter, which is consistent with 64% for 2004.


Finally, our Board of Directors has approved a regular quarterly dividend of 10 cents per common


share payable September 9th, 2005 to shareholders of record as of August 19, 2005. For a more