corrected transcript


Nautilus Group, Inc., The
 
NLS
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 2, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Welcome to The Nautilus Group Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call. [Operator


Instructions]. And as a reminder, this conference is being recorded today Wednesday, February 2,


2005.


Before the call begins, listeners should be advised of the Safe Harbor Statement that applies to


today's call. Prepared remarks during this call contain forward-looking statements. Additional


forward-looking statements may be made in response to questions. These statements including


information about markets, products, grants and channels do not guarantee future performance.


Undue reliance should not be placed upon them. Listeners should review the Company's most


recent periodic reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange


Commission for more detailed discussions on factors that could cause actual results to differ


materially from those projected in forward-looking statements.


And now, I would like to turn the conference over to Mr. Gregg Hammann, Chairman and Chief


Executive Officer of The Nautilus Group. Please go ahead sir.


Greggory C. Hammann, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks Rob. And thank you for joining us for all the listeners out there.


I have been anxiously awaiting this conference call and the opportunity to share with you the results


that we have achieved both in the fourth quarter and to forecast the future for the Company. So


today, we are going to discuss four key areas to give you a better insight to the potential of our


Company. First, we are going to cover the fourth quarter and year end results. Second, we will


provide you with some highlights of our new three-year growth plan, as we move beyond our


turnaround and into what we believe is sustainable long-term growth. Third, we are going to outline


the category leadership opportunity we are pursuing and we believe are uniquely positioned to


achieve creating a true industry leader. Fourth, we are going to give you some guidance for the


year and for the quarter.


So about an hour ago, we posted our quarterly and year-end financial statements which showed we


deliver the quarter as expected. We grew earnings by 51% in the fourth quarter on an 11%


revenue increase. We experienced a very strong direct business and excellent sell-through in our


retail business which outpaced our short-term availability of product supply. For the year, we grew


revenues by 5% achieving net sales of nearly 524 million and earnings per share of 90 cents. With


the conclusion of 2004, we wrapped up an 18 month turnaround on schedule while continuing to


increase our cash position. We believe we will continue to generate double-digit revenue and


earnings growth for the next three years as we progress forward to become the global leader in


fitness.


The business results we are achieving are a direct outcome of our commitment for our FIT 1


operating principles. They are: a financial rigor, innovation, trust and putting ourselves on a path to


become the leader in every category where we compete. We view 2004 as the year of the


turnaround not just to get our Company back on a growth track but to position our organization to


become the global leader in health and fitness over the long-term. This required a sequence multi-


faceted business plan. It included: new leadership, new strategies, integrating past acquisitions,


renewing our commitment to quality, entering new categories, forging customer relationships and


investing in innovations. All of these steps has positioned us for 2005, the first year of our new


three-year growth plan where we expect to drive growth and invest in the future.


Now before we get into that, let me introduce Rod Rice to provide a more detailed look at our


financials for the fourth quarter and 2004. Rodney?
corrected transcript


Nautilus Group, Inc., The
 
NLS
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 2, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Rod W. Rice, Chief Financial Officer and Secretary


Thanks Gregg.


As those of you who follow the category know, the fourth quarter is our best quarter of the year due


to seasonality. 2004 was no exception. The fourth quarter of 2004 marks the sixth straight quarter


our revenue and earnings met or exceeded guidance we gave at the beginning of the quarter. Net


sales for the fourth quarter were 169.6 million compared to 152.8 million for the corresponding


period last year. That’s an 11% increase.


Gross profit margins were 47.2% compared to 45.6% a year ago. Operating income for the fourth


quarter was 12.2% compared to 9.4% in the fourth quarter of 2003. Diluted earnings per share for


the fourth quarter were 42 cents and this does include a 1 cent gain from reducing the taxes or after


the completion of normal federal audit. This compares to 28 cents in the fourth quarter of 2003.


This is a 50% increase year-over-year for that quarter.


Overall, it was a very strong quarter for our direct business. We experienced considerable growth


in direct sales with an increase of 24.9 million from the prior year due to strong sales of multiple


models of the Bowflex Home Gyms, our Bowflex TreadClimber Cardio products, and the good


Bowflex SelectTech Dumbbells’ introduction.


To better focus on these growth opportunities in the future, we have decided to exit this weak


system business which had sales of about $200,000 in the fourth quarter.


Commercial and retail sales met our expectations for the quarter being down 8.1 million from the


prior year. The reasons for the decline include manufacturing supply chain constraints in the fourth


quarter of 2004 and a large sell-in-in of Bowflex products to a major retailer in the fourth quarter of


2003.


For the retail products we did deliver in the fourth quarter of 2004, our retail customers experienced


very strong sell-through. We are also experiencing manufacturing capacity constraints because of


our strong demand for our Nautilis Nitro Plus commercial strength products. We expect to be in a


better position in the first half of 2005 to meet commercial demand as a new second shift becomes


fully staffed and it starts to achieve operational efficiency.


Gross profit margin was consistent for our direct business at 69.4% in the fourth quarter of 2004,


compared to 68.7% in the fourth quarter of 2003. Our commercial and retail margins for the fourth


quarter of 2004 were 25.3%, down from 31% in the fourth quarter of 2003. The primary reasons for


the decline were: manufacturing variances, startup cost associated with the second shift and higher


logistics cost to expedite products to retailers. We expect to see margin improvements in 2005 due


to our efforts to improve manufacturing and supply chain operations.


Direct selling and marketing costs improved to 45.5% of sales. This was the lowest percentage of


net sales in one and a half years. It reflects strong consumer response to innovation and


refinements in our marketing and advertising approach. The favorable consumer response helped


to drive down our advertising expense for our direct business.


Two, 26.2% of net sales in the fourth quarter of 2004. This compared to 29.3% in the fourth quarter


of 2003, a 10% improvement. Selling and marketing expenses were 9.4% of net sales for our


commercial and retail business in the fourth quarter of 2004 compared to 9.3% in the fourth quarter


of 2003. General and administrative expenses declined to 9.9 million in the fourth quarter of 2004


from 12.2 million in the fourth quarter of 2003. The primary reason was the decline of legal costs


that we incurred in the prior year in 2003.