corrected transcript


Nautilus, Inc.
 
NLS
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 2, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Welcome to the Nautilus Incorporated third quarter 2005 Earnings Conference Call.


[Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded on Wednesday, November


2nd, 2005. Before the call begins, listeners should be advised of the Safe Harbor Statement that


applies to today’s call. Prepared remarks during this call contain forward-looking statements.


Additional forward-looking statements may be made in response to questions. These statements,


including information about the fourth quarter and 2006 estimates along with new products and


channels do not guarantee future performance. Nautilus undertakes no obligation to update


publicly any forward-looking statements to reflect new information, events or circumstances after


the date they were made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.


Therefore, undue reliance should not be placed upon them. Listeners should review the earnings


release to which this conference call relates, and the company's most recent periodic reports on


Form 10-K and 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for more detailed


discussions of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in


forward-looking statements.


And I would now turn the conference over to Mr. Greg Hammann, Chairman and Chief Executive


Officer of Nautilus Incorporated. Please go ahead sir.


Greggory C. Hammann, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks Alistair. Good afternoon and thanks for joining us. With me today are Bill Meadowcroft, our


Chief Financial Officer and Tim Hawkins, our Chief Customer and Chief Marketing Officer.


Today, we will provide highlights from the third quarter of our 2005 operating plan and our


continuing efforts to drive growth and invest in the future. Specifically, we’re going to cover the


third quarter results including net sales from five sales channels plus our apparel division. We’ll


also update guidance for the fourth quarter and provide an update on our strategic business plan.


About an hour ago, we posted our third quarter 2005 financial statements, which showed we


delivered net income for the quarter as expected, net sales of about 163 million was an


improvement of 33% over the year-ago quarter. We experienced growth in all but one of our


business channels with the retail channel growing at 80%.


Earnings per diluted share were at the high end of our guidance at $0.24, with net income


improving 32% when excluding a property sale gain in the year ago quarter. We also experienced


some obstacles during the third quarter. Some of them were uncontrollable, weather, fuel


surcharges and consumer confidence, but some of them were also controllable mainly in the new-


product development process. Although we introduced six out of seven products with quality, we


simply fell short of the world-class expectations we have for our company.


Now for more detail on the third quarter, I am going to turn the call over to our Chief Financial


Officer, Bill Meadowcroft.


William Meadowcroft, Chief Financial Officer


Thanks, Greg. Net sales for the quarter were $163.3 million compared to $123.2 million for


preceding year, an increase of 33%. Gross profit margins were 44.3% compared to 47.6% for the


year ago quarter. Our business model indicates the gross margins will decline as we diversify into


business channels other than direct, which has substantially higher gross margins. Compared to a


year ago mix shift explains about a 160 basis points of the difference. Another 160 basis points
corrected transcript


Nautilus, Inc.
 
NLS
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 2, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


can be attributed to operational costs related to our fast pace of innovation, and the higher fuel and


transportation related costs, which we began to remedy in late July.


Operating income in the third quarter was $12.5 million or 7.6% compared 11.3 million or 9.2% for


the year ago quarter. Reduction in margins is primarily a reflection of a land sale in the year ago


quarter. Diluted earnings per share for the quarter was $0.24 compared to $0.19 a year ago, an


improvement in net income of 32% excluding the land sale or 11% including the year ago land sale.


Regarding operating expenses, selling and marketing was 27.3% of sales, down from 30.9% for the


year ago quarter. This reflects our ability to achieve selling and marketing efficiencies as we


generate greater revenue from non-direct channels.


General and administrative expense was 6.8% of sales, up from 5.3% in the year ago quarter,


which was lower due to that land sale. Research and development was 1.7% of sales compared to


1.4% for the year ago quarter, an increase of $1.2 million reflecting our commitment to a fast pace


of innovation.


Turning to our balance sheet, we finished the quarter with cash and short-term investments of $7.4


million. This reflects closing of the PEARL iZUMi acquisition on July 7
 
th


, expected increases in


accounts receivable because of our growth in retail sales, improving our inventory position in


advance of the winter fitness season. And buying back 193,000 shares of Nautilus stock, our first


buyback since 2002 at an average price of $23.75 per share. Repurchase share is up until our


insider quiet period began. We have a $100 million, three-year authorization from earlier this year


and have about 95% of that authorization remaining. During the quarter we expanded our line of


credit from $10 million to $40 million. We expect free cash flow in the fourth quarter of about $15


million, combined we have about $60 million available for working capital, acquisitions, or stock


buybacks.


Compared to a year ago, we are entering the fitness season with a vastly improved inventory


position compared to last season, when we ran short on a number of key products in December


and January. Inventory were $84 million at the quarter’s end, which includes $9 million of apparel


inventory. Finally our Board of Directors has approved a regular quarterly dividend of $0.10 per


share payable December 9, 2005, to shareholders of record as of November 20
 
th


, 2005. For a


more complete overview of our business by each of our five sales channels and an update on our


Apparel Division, I would like to introduce Tim Hawkins, our Chief Customer Officer and Chief


Marketing Officer.


Timothy E. Hawkins, Chief Customer Officer and Chief Marketing Officer


Thanks Bill. We’re approaching the following winter fitness seasons in a very strong position. The


fitness equipment and Apparel categories where we compete are an addressable market of


approximately $12 billion and our share is around 5%. With five of the top fitness brands, we have


goal of growing our business over time to a leadership share of 30% or more by presenting our


brands whatever people exercise and shop for innovative fitness products.


Here are some additional insights into the business segments where we compete.


First, let’s start with retail, which includes sporting goods, warehouse clubs, department stores: a


$2.7 billion market. Third quarter net sales were 29.7 million up 80% from the year ago quarter. As


we reported last quarter we entered the fall having product on the floor in about 2,800 doors of


about 15 major retail partners and averaging about four products per door. This is more than twice


the door and SKU count compared to just one year ago, but reflects just a fraction of our business


opportunity in this channel. The differentiated assortment and merchandising approach varies by


retail partner depending upon their goals and their consumer profile.