raw transcript


Nautilus Group, Inc., The
 
NLS
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 27, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. And welcome to the Nautilus


Incorporated First Quarter 2005 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]. As a reminder,


this conference is being recorded on Wednesday, April 27, 2005.


Before the call begins, listeners should be advised of the Safe Harbor Statement that applies to


today's call. Prepared remarks during this call contain forward-looking statements. Additional


forward-looking statements may be made in response to questions. These statements including


information about our company's markets, products, grants and channels do not guarantee future


performance. Undue reliance should not be placed upon them. Listeners should review most


recent periodic reports on Form 10-K and 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission


for more detailed discussions of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from


those projected in forward-looking statements.


And now, I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Gregg Hammann, Chairman and Chief


Executive Officer of Nautilus Incorporate. Please go ahead sir.


Greggory C. Hammann, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer


Good afternoon, and thanks for joining us. With me today are Bill Meadowcroft, our Chief Financial


Officer and Tim Hawkins, our Chief Customer and Chief Marketing Officer. Today's discussion


provides insights into the first quarter of our three year plan where our consumer and brand based


business strategy is helping us growth sales and increase market share. This year our focus is on


driving growth and investing in the future, as we build a solid foundation to continue growing our


business profitably for years to come.


On this call we are going to cover our first quarter results, provide net sales by each of the five


channels as we promised last quarter. Then we are going to conclude with some comments and


guidance for the second quarter and the year.


Now, about an hour ago we posted our first quarter 2005 financial statements, which showed we


delivered the quarter a little bit, better than expected. Net sales of a 156.4 million was an


improvement of 19 percent, while earnings finished to 28 cents a diluted share [Audio Gap] channel


such as clubs, hotels and living complexes. This market is about 800 million, and we have about


an 8 share.


Net sales for the first quarter were 17.2 million up about 14% from the year ago quarter. We had


excellent results from the annual or fitness show in March, we will so had gains with key accounts


such as YMCA, local clubs and grew to the vertical market by adding commercial dealers. We


began shipping our new Nautilus commercial series Treadmills positing the Nautilus brand as the


category leader offering both the complete line of strength and Cardio products for this channel.


For the second quarter, we will begin marketing Nautilus commercial series TreadClimber Cardio


products in partnership with 24 hour fitness, it’s a world largest club chain. We also expect to


expand sales of our new Treadmills and introduce commercial series My Stride Ellipticals. Looking


towards the second half, we will continue our pace of revolutionary and evolutionary innovation with


Cardio Armstrong [ph] products.


Our next channel is specialty retail market, where people buy club quality equipment for their home,


the market is about 800 million, and, we have about a 10 share. And have a presence in about


40% of the estimated 420 doors in this category. Net sales for the first quarter were $20 million,


down about 9% from the year ago quarter. The decline was due primarily to product supply
raw transcript


Nautilus Group, Inc., The
 
NLS
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 27, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


constraints this quarter, and for which we have taken proper steps for improvement. Specifically,


collaborative customer planning and innovative vendor supply planning.


In the second quarter, we expect improvement from our March introduction of Nautilus Pro Series


Treadmills and My Stride Ellipticals, which are designed for specialty fitness customers. We also


anticipate adding some doors mid year that will strengthen sales in the back half of the year, so


despite a soft first quarter the new products, programs, and customers, leaders to expect growth in


this channel over the course of the year.


Our US retail channel, including sporting goods, warehouse clubs and department stores, is about


2.7 billion, across 8,500 doors. Our presence is in about 2100 doors which carry a couple of SKUs


on average. For the first quarter, we had net sales of 21.2 million, up about a 11% from last year.


The drivers are annualizing new doors and SKUs at current retailers broadening product


assortments and gaining an initial presence and 100 doors of Big 5 sporting goods.


For the first time we launched a new product on QBC [ph] the Bowflex Ultimate 2 Home Gym, with


excellent results and then cascaded to the balance of retail. We are also rolling our “Make Room


For Fitness” merchandizing display to another 200 sports of authority stores after a very successful


past in 15 stores in the northeast.


Looking to the second quarter, we will adding 111 doors with the Michigan based retailer Dunham’s


[ph] with a two to three skew assortments that will hit the floor in the second quarter. We are


implying to discussions with current and perspective retailers in preparation for the fall and winner


assortments, which are floored in September and October. Most retailers have these decisions


result prior to Independence Day. And we anticipate growth, by increasing the number of


customers and broadening our product assortments, as we roll into the fall season, which is built


into our annual plan.


Our direct channel involves Internet catalog and direct response to advertising. The market is


about 1.1 billion and we have 24 share. Our first quarter net sales rose to 84.9 million, up 34%


over the year ago quarter. We continued to experience strong trends in direct due to innovation.


We had healthy year-over-year growth in Home Gyms, and TreadClimber products and are


benefiting from SelectTech Dumbbells, our new catalog and Internet sales.


In addition, growth is being filled to new advertising, better placement and format mix, new


promotions such as cross channel merchandizing program with a major retail partner and minimal


competitive pressure. In the second quarter, we expect strong sales results from the March


introduction of our new Bowflex Ultimate 2 Home Gym. We will also be introducing a new 2 to 20


pound version of our Bowflex SelectTech Dumbbells targeted for women, and we will make final


preparations for the launch of our new Bowflex Home Gym that uses new resistance mechanism


different from Power Rod technology.


Later in the year, we will be introducing a 10 to 90 pounds SelectTech Dumbbells set atrial of


Bowflex TreadClimber products based upon the Nautilus commercial series TreadClimber platform,


in time for the fall and winter fitness seasons.


The lastly our international channel, include to visit outside of the Americas, which traditionally for


us is just been commercial, but it is expanding into other channels. We estimate this market to be


more than 1 billion, and we have about a six share. For the first quarter, we had net sales of 13.1


million, which is up 14% from the same quarter of last year. Key drivers include, growing business


– include growing business with large commercial customers in Western Europe such as Fitness


First and LA Fitness. And in China with Power house-gyms and new retail relationships in the UK,


Germany and Italy.