Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Joanne Keates — Director-Corporate Communications, CalAmp Corp.
Michael J. Burdiek — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, CalAmp Corp.
Richard K. Vitelle — CFO, Secretary, Treasurer & VP-Finance, CalAmp Corp.
Mike Crawford — Analyst, B. Riley & Co.
Marc W. Robins — Analyst, Catalyst Financial Resources LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good afternoon. My name is Stephanie and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the CalAmp First Quarter Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to avoid any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator instructions] Thank you.

Joanne Keates, Director of Corporate Communications, you may begin your conference.

Thank you, Stephanie. Good afternoon and welcome to CalAmp's fiscal 2013 first quarter conference call. With us today are CalAmp's President and Chief Executive Officer, Michael Burdiek and Chief Financial Officer, Rick Vitelle.

Before I turn the call over to management, please remember that our prepared remarks and responses to questions may contain forward-looking statements. Words such as may, will, expect, intend, plan, believe, seek, could, estimate, judgment, targeting, should, anticipate, goal and variations of these words and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.

Actual results could differ materially from those implied by such forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors including product demand, competitive pressures and pricing declines in the company's satellite and wireless markets, the timing of customer approvals of new product designs, intellectual property infringement claims, interruption or failure of our Internet based systems used to wirelessly configure and communicate with the tracking and monitoring devices that we sell and other risks and uncertainties that are described in the company's annual report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2012 as filed April 26 with the SEC.

Although the company believes the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions, it can give no assurance that its expectations will be attained. The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.

With that said, it's now my pleasure to turn the call over to CalAmp's President and CEO, Michael Burdiek.

Thank you, Joanne. Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today to discuss CalAmp's fiscal 2013 first quarter. I will begin today's call with a review of our financial and operational highlights and Rick Vitelle will provide additional details about our financial results. I will wrap up with our business outlook and guidance for fiscal 2013 second quarter along with some concluding remarks. This will be followed by a question-and-answer session.

Our strong financial performance in the first quarter was attributable to continued execution of our business strategy which resulted in significant growth in revenue and earnings. The Wireless DataCom segment recorded impressive year-over-year revenue growth of 44% driven by strength in several of our core industry verticals. In our Satellite business, we were particularly pleased with the gross margin improvement to 15.8% and with this segment's solid contribution to our bottom line.

Consolidated revenue for the first quarter was $43.9 million, up 27% compared to the first quarter last year with Wireless DataCom revenue increasing to $31.6 million and Satellite revenue of $12.2 million. We are in $0.14 on a GAAP basis and $0.18 non-GAAP. Both revenue and EPS results were well above our initial guidance. In the first quarter, we generated operating cash flow of $3.2 million and we ended the quarter with $7.3 million in total cash.

Now, I'd like to review our operational highlights for the quarter. The Wireless DataCom segment posted record revenue in the first quarter with continued momentum across multiple market verticals. We experienced strong demand for our MRM products and services, which accounted for nearly 70% of total Wireless DataCom revenue.

Wireless network applications accounted for the remaining 30% of Wireless DataCom revenue with significant contributions from our rail transportation products. In MRM applications, we are gaining market share for our products and solutions as we continue to exceed market rates of growth. As in recent quarters, we are experiencing strong customer demand for our core fleet management, trailer tracking, stolen vehicle recovery and vehicle finance offerings.

We continue to focus on increasing our international market penetration with the Navman Wireless supply agreement further expanding our global footprint. MRM revenue in the first quarter was much higher than we originally projected primarily due to two large contract wins that have aggressive delivery timelines. The first of these involve initial volume shipments to equip the delivery fleet of a national soft drink company while the second related to the commencement of shipments to equip the service fleet of a national telecom service provider.

At the end of the first quarter, we had almost 1.5 million MRM devices in service with our customers that are supported by CalAmp's PULS over-the-air-device provisioning, monitoring and maintenance system which is up from 1.3 million at the end of the fourth quarter. First quarter results for our MRM bundled solutions business were within range of our expectation. Our bundled network offerings for the vehicle finance and remote start market had approximately 280,000 active subscribers on our network at the end of the first quarter compared to 265,000 subscribers at the end of the fourth quarter. This subscriber base provides a recurring revenue stream that currently represents about 10% of our Wireless DataCom revenue.

In our Wireless Networks business, we had steady revenue growth in the first quarter among our broad-based customers in utility and oil and gas markets with key contribution from shipment of mission critical telemetry radios to a global energy company to equip their oilfield operations across the Anadarko Basin. And although our public safety business remained soft during the first quarter, bid and proposal activity is picking up, which suggests that we may be in the early stages of recovery in this market. Within the rail transportation vertical, we experienced a record revenue quarter with significant shipments on the final phase of the Positive Train Control pre-production contract.

At the end of the first quarter, we had $3 million of shipments remaining on our $19 million PTC development contract, which we expect to complete in our fiscal 2013 second quarter. In addition, last month we announced that we had received our first commercial production follow-on orders for the PTC program. These initial orders totaling $5 million are to supply interoperable PTC radios to two Class I North American railroads.

These initial orders should help facilitate a smooth transition from the product design and pre-production phases to full scale production. In addition to these PTC radios, we expect to extend our full suite of mobile asset management solutions to the rail market and further grow our revenue opportunities in this important market segment.

Moving on to our Satellite segment, we experienced solid performance in the first quarter with revenue of $12.2 million and a gross margin of 15.8%. The improved gross margin profile is due to the transition to a variable cost model that we completed last year and to the introduction of two new products in recent quarters. Though some degree of quarter-to-quarter revenue volatility can be expected in our Satellite segment given its high concentration of sales with a single customer, we expect the volatility could be somewhat dampened due to the expansion of our product portfolio in this market. We anticipate that our Satellite business will continue to generate double-digit gross margins and be a positive contributor to bottom line results this year.

Late in our first quarter, we announced the acquisition of the hardware business of Navman Wireless, a global provider of fleet management solutions. In conjunction with this asset purchase, we entered into a supply agreement pursuant to which Navman agreed to purchase a minimum of $25 million of products from CalAmp over a five-year period.

We also gained a 14-person R&D team and design center in Auckland, New Zealand. This acquisition, our first in five years, reflects our renewed financial strength and the momentum that we are experiencing in our MRM business.

The assets acquired include technology for mobile display terminals or MDTs that will complement and expand our existing MRM product portfolio and allow us to market enhanced platform solutions for fleet management, thereby expanding our served market. The Navman supply agreement, which was finalized just prior to quarter end, accounted for first quarter revenue of approximately $500,000.

Across all businesses, we expect that our focused R&D investments will continue to drive new and innovative products to market at an accelerating pace over the coming quarters, preserving our technology and product leadership position in mobile resource management and industrial machine-to-machine applications. We are making incremental investments in software resources as well as utilizing our recently acquired design center in New Zealand to give us increased capacity to bring innovative products to market and fuel the future growth of our Wireless DataCom segment.

The high value CalAmp brand and our state-of-the-art product portfolio positions us well to serve larger enterprise customers intent on rolling out new, secure turnkey solutions that enhance their business processes and improve the efficiency of their operations. We are now seeing larger opportunities as we continue to nurture channel partnerships with global reach and develop differentiated solutions tailored to diverse enterprise applications.

We will continue to focus our resources on those markets and applications that we believe have excellent long-term growth prospects, addressing them with products and services that we believe have sustainable competitive advantages.

The results of the latest quarter are a clear expression of the transformation that CalAmp has undergone over the past several years to once again be a growing and profitable enterprise with the strong sales pipeline and solid momentum.

With that, I will now turn the call over to Rick Vitelle, our Chief Financial Officer for a closer look at our first quarter financial details.

Thank you, Michael. I will provide a summary of our gross profit performance, income tax position, working capital management and cash flow results for the fiscal 2013 first quarter.

Consolidated gross profit for the fiscal 2013 first quarter was $13.7 million, an increase of $4.3 million over the same quarter last year, predominantly as a result of higher revenue. Consolidated gross margin increased nearly 4 points to 31.2% in the latest quarter, from 27.3% in the first quarter of last year, primarily as a result of the significant improvement in the gross margins of our satellite business.

Looking more closely at gross profit performance by reporting segment, Wireless DataCom gross profit was $11.7 million in the first quarter, or 37.1% gross margin. This compares with gross profit of $8.6 million, or 39.0% gross margin in the same quarter last year. Wireless DataCom gross profit increased on higher revenue, while the gross margin percentage declined mainly because last year's first quarter, included approximately $500,000 of nonrecurring license revenue for which there was no corresponding cost.

Our Satellite business had a gross profit of $1.9 million in the first quarter, or 15.8% gross margin. This compares to gross profit of $828,000 in the first quarter last year. These significant improvements in gross profit and gross margin are attributable to the conversion of this business to a variable cost operating model, as well as the broadening of the products base.

Now let's take a look at CalAmp's income tax situation. In the latest quarter, we recorded income tax expense of only $9,000, which represents minimum state income taxes. No federal income tax expense was recorded in the first quarter due to the existence of net operating loss carryforwards.

At the end of fiscal 2012, we had NOL carryforwards of approximately $70 million for U.S. federal income taxes and $87 million for state income taxes, which we expect will shelter substantially all of our taxable income for at least the next few years. Consequently, we expect that our actual cash payments for income taxes over this time period will be quite small, and will average perhaps 1% to 2% of our taxable income.

The tax benefits of the NOLs along with tax credit carryforwards and book tax temporary differences comprised our total deferred tax asset balance, which amounted to $51 million at the end of fiscal 2012. A deferred tax asset valuation allowance was established in prior years during periods when we were not able to demonstrate that the company could generate sufficient future taxable income to utilize all of these tax benefits. The valuation allowance had a balance of $39 million at the end of fiscal 2012.

As a result of CalAmp's return to profitability, the valuation allowance is being reduced as we generate taxable income and utilize NOLs in the current fiscal year. In addition, at the end of this fiscal year, we expect to make a substantial reduction in the deferred tax asset valuation allowance in order to recognize for financial reporting purposes; the tax benefits associated with most of the remaining NOLs and tax credits that we expect to utilize in future years. Once we get closer to the end of this fiscal year, we will provide an estimate of how much we believe this fourth quarter income tax benefit will be.

Beginning next fiscal year, we expect our effective income tax rate will revert to a more typical level of around 40% based on full federal and state statutory tax rates even though our actual income tax payments are expected to remain very low for the next few years because of the NOLs.

Next, looking at bottom line results, GAAP basis net income in the first quarter was $4.2 million, or $0.14 per diluted share. Our non-GAAP net income in the first quarter was $5.3 million, or $0.18 per diluted share. Non-GAAP earnings excludes the impact of intangible asset, amortization and stock-based compensation expense, and includes an income tax provision that reflects taxes paid or payable for the period.

For a reconciliation of the GAAP and non-GAAP financial results, please see our first quarter earnings press release that was issued today, which is available on our website.

Now moving on to the balance sheet, our total inventory at the end of the first quarter was $14.6 million, representing annualized inventory turns of 8 times. At the end of the immediately appreciating quarter, inventory was $10.1 million, which represented annualized inventory turns of 10 times. The reduction in inventory turns is primarily due to an inventory ramp up in the first quarter in our MRM business in response to increasing demand.

The consolidated accounts receivable balance was $14.4 million at the end of the first quarter. This represents an average collection period of 38 days, which is consistent with our receivables collection rates of the past few quarters.

As of May 31, 2012, cash and cash equivalents totaled $7.3 million, an increase of $1.7 million from the end of the preceding quarter. Net cash provided by operating activities was $3.2 million for the first quarter. In addition to cash generated by operations, our primary source of liquidity is the $12 million credit facility with Square 1 Bank.

At the end of the first quarter, we had $2.8 million outstanding under a bank term loan and the unused borrowing capacity on the revolver portion of the credit facility was at full availability of $9.2 million. The bank term loan is repayable at the rate of $100,000 per month.

Our total outstanding debt at the end of the first quarter was $5.9 million comprised of the $2.8 million bank term loan and the $3.1 million carrying value of the noninterest bearing note payable. That was issued as part of the purchase consideration for the Navman Wireless asset purchase.

The Navman note payable which has a face amount of $4 million is payable in the form of sales price rebates as sales are made to Navman under the five year $25 million supply agreement. Excluding the Navman note payable, we ended the first quarter with a net cash balance of $4.5 million.

With that, I will now turn the call back over to Michael for our guidance and some final comments.

Thank you, Rick. Now let's turn to our financial guidance. Based on our most recent projections, we expect fiscal 2013 second quarter consolidated revenues in the range of $41 million to $45 million.

We anticipate that our Wireless DataCom second quarter revenue will be up significantly year-over-year, and up moderately on a sequential basis. And we expect Satellite second quarter revenue will be up year-over-year, but down somewhat sequentially. At the bottom line, we expect second quarter GAAP basis net income in the range of $0.09 to $0.13 per diluted share and non-GAAP net income in the range of $0.13 to $0.17 per diluted share.

And in closing, I'd like to recap some key points drawn from our recent results and latest developments. First, the Wireless DataCom segment posted impressive revenue growth of 44%, driven by strength across several of our core verticals, with particular momentum in MRM and significant contribution from our rail transportation initiative.

Second, in the Satellite business segment, we were pleased with the revenue results and especially the gross margin improvement, which provided a solid contribution to the bottom line. Going forward, we expect this business segment will continue to generate double-digit gross margins and be a positive contributor to bottom line results.

Third, we were increasing our R&D investments, particularly in the software development to give us increased capacity to deliver innovative products to market and fuel the future growth of our Wireless DataCom segment.

And fourth, in the first quarter, we generated operating cash flow over $3.2 million and ended the quarter with $7.3 million in total cash. Our strengthening balance sheet has formed a solid foundation for further execution of our strategic growth initiative in core markets as well as in new and emerging applications.

We are now realizing the benefits of our focused strategy on key market verticals that offer attractive long term growth prospects. Our momentum is building and our competitive position is strengthening, as we broaden our product portfolio and pursue opportunities for integrated hardware and software solutions for ever larger global enterprise customers. We expect that our continued effective execution to meet growing market demand, for state-of-the-art machine-to-machine connectivity will drive profitable growth through fiscal 2013 and beyond.

That concludes our prepared remarks. Thank you for your attention and at this time I'd like to open the call up to questions. Operator? [Operator Instructions]

. Your first question comes from Mike Crawford. Your line is open. [B.Riley & Co.]

Thanks. First, Michael I'd like to talk about how you view – what portion of your business – how you view the recurring nature of your business, so you have these 280,000 Aircept subscribers that comprised about 10% of Wireless DataCom revenue, but I believe also much of your business is repeat business from repeat customers. Can you just comment on that please?

Sure. Yeah, I mean that the true recurring revenue percentage is roughly 10% of Wireless DataCom revenue as you point out. But the reality is, is that a good deal of our MRM products business is in effect recurring revenue. Once we're designed in to a fleet service provider's application. Generally speaking, those customers tend to stick with a single supplier for those specific types of application. There are fairly high switching costs once the hardware device has been integrated in to the cloud based computing platforms and the fleet service applications. So the business tends to be very sticky. So a large percentage of our MRM revenue is in effect recurring business with existing customers.

Okay, thank you. And then on the rail opportunity, so you have $3 million remaining on the high margin development contract, and then what might be a relatively smooth transition to production. But what sort of margin drop-off should we look at, at least initially as you improve costing and manufacturing of this equipment?

Well we do expect that early production business to be at somewhat lower margin than we've experienced with the recent pre-production radio shipment. But we do expect that we'll still be in the range of our Wireless DataCom gross margin profile which is roughly 30% to 50%. It's probably towards the lower end of that range, at least initially.

Over time, hopefully we'll have the opportunity to reduce cost and find additional efficiencies to help improve the gross margin profile. But also, we hope to be able to augment our current radio offerings into the rail market with other products and services that will over time accrete overall margins for the rail sector.

Okay, thank you. And then, what percent of the business in, say, the past year has been attributed to public safety versus where you think that could be going forward? And what in particular are the signs of activity pickup that you're seeing in that market that used to be a much more significant portion of your business?

It certainly did. As – was it one time, it's a more significant part of our business. In our fiscal Q1, it was very minimal. Things we're seeing now are increased demand for legacy private radio systems, which is a little bit of a surprise to us. But more importantly, we're seeing a fair amount of early demand for D Block-related LTE router platforms. And so there is a good deal of quoting activity underway for those types of products.

Okay. Thank you very much.

You're welcome.

Your next question comes from Marc Robins. Your line is open.

Thank you. Very good quarter. It's wonderful after three, four years to see such a successful run of operations. Just great job, everybody. Thank you.

Thank you, Marc.

Tell me a little bit about the Satellite business. Are we seeing any kind of new R&D work going on in that area? And I don't mean to be an ingrate. I'm just wondering if new developments are still underway.

Well, we always have product development activities underway for the business. And as you know, and we talked about on last couple of earnings calls, we've released a couple of new products that have been shipping in volume.

...and seem to have some pretty good success, I might add.

Indeed and the current focus is on really two different product development initiatives; one is a product refresh initiative that would allow us to introduce a lower cost product as a replacement for our mainstream or mainstay legacy product that we've been shipping in volume for almost five years.

And then we also have another development underway, which we hope to get into qualification sometime later this year that will help expand the served markets slightly by giving us better geographic coverage. That's essentially a brand new product development.

Okay. And then – thank you. And then changing perspective here, let's talk about the railroad arena, something that you kind of piqued my interest, you said, other products and services. Do you want to expand on that at all? I know you are trying to do more commercial oriented kind of products other than those that might be mandated by the government. I was wondering if you wanted to say a little more about what those might be and what the services might be.

Well, we still believe that there is the good opportunity for us to sell a range of MRM products into the rail marketplace, either directly or through our existing set of fleet management service provider partner. We have a nice tap into that market now through our PTC engagement. And so we believe longer term that's a good opportunity for us. But also, we believe that there will be other developing opportunities around the PTC initiative itself as that ecosystem begins to develop.

And so we're hopeful that we can do a lot more than just provide radio, potentially providing software and other engineering types of services as that PTC ecosystem develops.

And this would be still in the lines of MRM kind of classification?

Not necessarily, could be PTC focused.

Okay. Interesting. What's the two – with the two orders that you currently have received which are now added up to something over the $5 million number, has that spurred other interests from other railroad operators for equipment?

I wouldn't say those orders have spurred activity. I think each of the rail operators are operating somewhat independently, in terms of their respective PTC rollout plan. But we're involved in a good deal of quoting activity now and we hope that we can book some additional orders over the coming quarters that would result in added revenue for this fiscal year.

Okay. And then I'll get back in the queue, but I've got one more quick one. Are we still looking at what is it, December 2015 for this whole Positive Train Control system to be employed?

To the best of our knowledge that deadline has not yet changed.

Okay. Thanks. And as I said I'll get back into the queue. [Operator Instructions]

. And your next question comes from Gene Weber. Your line is open.

Hi, Michael and Rick. My congratulations again, great quarter. Love to see those preannouncements. They're not happening enough with my other companies. I've got – my one question just relates to the – to what you mentioned about the MRM business. You said it was particularly strong because you had two large wins with aggressive timelines, and then you mentioned the verticals. Could you mention a little bit more about those applications and why they were – why the timelines were aggressive?

Well, both of those opportunities have actually been brewing in our pipeline for almost a year. And as so often the case, when a customer decides they're finally going to order product, they want it right away. And we happen to have two of those hit sort of at the same time. So we had a fair amount of visibility on the opportunity, but the timing was uncertain given the length of time it took for those respective customers to make their ultimate decisions as to how they were going to deploy the product.

And did you satisfy those orders just this quarter or do they have a couple quarters to run?

Well, both opportunities will probably spill over into Q2, but the soft drink fleet application, most of that business was in Q1. The telecom service provider opportunity, that's going to be more of a steady state opportunity probably over this fiscal year but it was somewhat frontend loaded in Q1.

Okay. And could you just take a second to say what the applications were? Where these fleet tracking, telematics or just what was – what are they trying to do with your equipment, I guess, that's the easiest way to asking it?

Basically classic mid-duty to heavy-duty fleet management application. In both cases longer term, there could be some opportunities to augment the initial installation with additional asset tracking capabilities, but that's probably sometime down the line.

Okay. And you were, if you will, the prime contractor here. This wasn't through a customer of yours that this was sold or was it?

No. In the soft drink fleet case, it was through one of our traditional fleet service providers. So they were our channel partner there. For the national telecom service provider, that was somewhat of a direct engagement where they're basically selecting hardware independent of the software application solution provider.

Got it. That's very helpful. Well, good, keep those up. I assume that you'd mentioned the telecom is going to continue to run. And in you pipeline, do you have other types of opportunities like this that can pop up and surprise you every once in a while?

Well, if they are surprises, probably not. But we do have other large opportunities in our pipeline, which we hope to realize at some point in time. And I wouldn't doubt that they'd have sort of the same sort of dynamics associated with them whereby they would request that we expedite deliveries and frontend load the opportunities.

Okay. And just last question, can you give us any sense as to just what type of quantities we're talking about here, how many vehicles you're talking about or the range of vehicles that might be involved?

I actually don't know the exact quantities, but I think in both cases, it's in excess of 10,000.

A full implementation will be in excess of 10,000 vehicles?

Yeah.

Well, that's great. Okay. Well, congratulations again guys. Keep it up.

Thank you.

Thanks, Gene.

Your next question comes from Marc Robins. Your line is open.

Thank you. In the MRM arena, who might be some of your competitors that would supply equipment like that being used on the soft drink distributor or the wireless phone repair operation?

Well, there are a number of small hardware providers that sort of focus on fleet, and then we have one sort of mainstream competitor that really goes cross MRM verticals, Enfora, which was acquired by Novatel.

Okay, but mostly its smaller folks and then there is this one larger one, is that correct?

Domestically, that's generally the case, yes.

Okay. All right. Then that helps describe that. On foreign sales, with all the hubbub in the news, I was just wondering if there has been any sign of softness or change in the company's perspective on how foreign sales are being effected or viewed rather?

Nothing discernible. I mean...

Okay.

...we had relative little exposure to Europe, and of course, most people are concerned about Europe.

Right.

So in that sense, we're somewhat immune to what's going on there.

Okay. And then lastly – and please don't think of me as ungrateful but the company's cash position has much improved, the balance sheet has much improved. You're 170 some odd – running at $170 some odd million kind of a run rate, if you will, and this question was posted when we were at dinner six months ago maybe, so it's a good question to ask. Has the board thought seriously about a dividend policy? And I know that there are probably those listening on the phone call thinking what kind of crackpot question is this, but in my observation, there really seems to be a change in what kind of companies are getting attraction right now and getting traction in the market. And being a long time observer of CalAmp and shareholder, maybe it might be well considered to return something to the shareholders rather than the gains and not gains if you will, that we've experienced over the last – well, since 1993 when we start following it as a research and owned it in the earlier – late 1980s as a portfolio manager?

A question and comment all in one. We're hardly to the point from a cash perspective to consider anything like a cash distribution policy.

I'll grant you that.

We would love to be in a position where we would consider something like that, we're not there yet. I mean, our first priority, our first priority is to continue to invest in our growth initiatives. We think that there is a lot of gas left in the tank in terms of opportunities we can exploit in the markets we currently serve. So that's our first priority for use of cash.

Okay. Any other comments in that regard, are they all – are they not so much or not as much anymore organically than things that have to be done outside or...?

Well, it's any or all the above. Our objective, our fiduciary responsibility is to produce constant return for our shareholders and we probably have done a good job of that over the last year as is reflected in the current share price. So, so long as we continue to execute, hopefully the kinds of returns that we produce for shareholders will be ones that continue to improve over time.

Okay. I'll let it stand for now. Thanks, Michael. [Operator Instructions]

There are no further questions at this time.

Thank you again for joining us today. We look forward to speaking with you at the end of our second quarter.

Thank you. This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.