corrected transcript


CalAmp Corp.
 
CAMP
 
Q3 2011 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 4, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for standing by. Welcome to the


CalAmp Fiscal 2011 Third Quarter Conference Call. During today’s presentation all parties will be in


a listen-only mode. Following the presentation the conference will be opened for questions.


[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded today, Tuesday, January 4, 2011.


At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Lasse Glassen with Financial Relations


Board. Please go ahead.


Lasse Glassen, Vice President, Financial Relations Board


Thank you and good afternoon, everybody. Welcome to CalAmp’s fiscal 2011 third quarter earnings


call. With us today are CalAmp’s Chief Executive Officer, Rick Gold along with the Company’s


President and Chief Operating Officer, Michael Burdiek and Chief Financial Officer, Rick Vitelle.


Before I turn the call over to management, please remember that our prepared remarks and


responses to questions may contain forward-looking statements. Words such as may, will, expect,


intend, plan, believe, seek, could, estimate, judgment, targeting, should, anticipate, goal and


variations of these words and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking


statements.


Actual results could differ materially from those implied by such forward-looking statements due to


a variety of factors including product demand, competitive pressures and pricing declines in the


Company’s satellite and wireless markets, the timing of customer approvals of new product


designs, the length and extent of the global economic downturn that has and may continue to


adversely affect the Company’s business, and other risks and uncertainties that are described in


the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2010 as filed on May 6, 2010 with the


Securities and Exchange Commission.


Although the Company believes the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are


based upon reasonable assumptions, we can give no assurance that its expectations will be


attained. The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking


statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.


With that it’s now my pleasure to turn the call over to CalAmp’s Chief Executive Officer Rick Gold.


Rick?


Rick Gold, Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Lasse.


Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today to discuss CalAmp’s fiscal 2011 third quarter


results. I’ll begin with comments on our financial and operational highlights and I’ll then provide an


update on our Satellite Products business.


Michael Burdiek will follow with an update on our Wireless DataCom business and Rick Vitelle will


discuss additional details about our financial results, balance sheet, working capital management


and cash flow.


I’ll wrap up with our business outlook and guidance, along with some concluding remarks. This will


be followed by a question-and-answer session.
corrected transcript


CalAmp Corp.
 
CAMP
 
Q3 2011 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 4, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


Looking at our third quarter results, strong growth in our Wireless DataCom business drove


CalAmp to achieve a quarterly operating profit on a consolidated basis for the first time in nearly


four years. Wireless DataCom segment revenue grew by 17% on a sequential quarter basis and


52% year-over-year while backlog continues to expand.


Within the Wireless DataCom segment, we continue to experience strong demand for our Mobile


Resource Management or MRM products from a broad base of customers. Demand for our


Wireless Networks products is also growing, driven by projects in the public safety, rail


transportation and utility sectors that made significant revenue contributions in the third quarter.


At the bottom line, the third quarter GAAP basis net loss was $179,000 or $0.01 per diluted share.


Excluding the impact of amortization of intangible assets and stock-based compensation expense,


our adjusted basis or non-GAAP net income was $365,000 or $0.01 per diluted share. I refer you to


our third quarter earnings press release issued today for a detailed reconciliation of the GAAP-


basis pre-tax loss to the non-GAAP basis net income.


Looking at our cash flow and balance sheet, during the third quarter of fiscal 2011, cash provided


by operating activities was $768,000. Our net debt at the end of the third quarter was $7.4 million, a


reduction of $700,000 from the net debt of $8.1 million at the end of the second quarter.


Now let’s take a closer look at our Satellite business. As we have discussed in previous calls, over


the past year, we’ve been working closely with our Direct Broadcast Satellite customers to develop


several next generation products that we believe will increase our served market and improve our


gross margins.


Unfortunately, the introduction of these new products is not occurring as rapidly as we had


expected, primarily due to evolving customer requirements. In addition, demand for the legacy


Satellite products that we currently supply has been depressed. As a result, we saw lower third


quarter satellite revenues of $8.4 million, down from $11.4 million in the second quarter, and $16.8


million in the third quarter of last year.


We continue to work with our satellite customers to adapt these new products that are in


development to their evolving requirements. Our visibility for the timing of significant revenue from


these new products is still limited. That said, we do expect demand for both existing and new


Satellite products to increase in the first half of fiscal 2012.


In the meantime, we are taking actions that we believe will enhance operational flexibility and


improve profitability of the Satellite business. We have begun transitioning the Satellite business to


a more variable cost model with more functions to be performed by our manufacturing partners in


Asia. This should allow us to better respond to abrupt shifts in demand while also reducing our fixed


overhead costs and lowering our breakeven point.


In addition, we started pursuing additional business opportunities with our Satellite customers


including lower volume specialty products that command higher gross margins. We expect these


changes will have a positive impact on our Satellite business profitability in fiscal 2012.


Now let’s move on to an update of our Wireless DataCom business, which provides communication


systems, products and services for applications in the energy, public safety, rail transportation,


industrial monitoring and control monitoring and control and MRM markets. Providing comments


today is our President and COO, Michael Burdiek. Michael?


Michael Burdiek, President and Chief Operating Officer


Thank you, Rick.