Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Joanne Keates — Director-Corporate Communications, CalAmp Corp.
Michael J. Burdiek — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, CalAmp Corp.
Richard K. Vitelle — CFO, Secretary, Treasurer & VP-Finance, CalAmp Corp.
Mike Crawford — Analyst, B. Riley & Co.
Marc W. Robins — Analyst, Catalyst Financial Resources LLC
Orin Hirschman — Analyst, AIGH Investment Partners LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good afternoon. My name is Tunisia and I'll be your conference operator today. At this time I'd like to welcome everyone to the Fourth Quarter and Year-End 2012 Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator instructions] Thank you. Ms. Keates, you may begin your conference.

Thank you. Good afternoon and welcome to CalAmp's fiscal 2012 fourth quarter and full year results conference call. With us today are CalAmp's President and Chief Executive Officer, Michael Burdiek and Chief Financial Officer, Rick Vitelle.

Before I turn the call over to management, please remember that our prepared remarks and responses to questions may contain forward-looking statements. Words such as may, will, expect, intend, plan, believe, seek, could, estimate, judgment, targeting, should, anticipate, goal, and variations of these words, and similar expressions, are intended to identify forward-looking statements.

Actual results could differ materially from those implied by such forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors, including product demand, competitive pressures and pricing declines in the company's satellite and wireless markets, the timing of customer approvals of new product designs, the length and extent of the global economic downturn that has and may continue to adversely affect the company's business, and other risks and uncertainties that are described in the company's annual report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2012 as filed today with the SEC.

Although the company believes the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions, it can give no assurance that its expectations will be obtained. The company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.

With that, it's now my pleasure to turn the call over to CalAmp's President and CEO, Michael Burdiek. Go ahead, Michael.

Thank you, Joanne. Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today to discuss CalAmp's fiscal 2012 fourth quarter and full year results. I will begin today's call with a review of our financial and operational highlights and Rick Vitelle will provide additional details about our financial results. I will wrap up with our business outlook and guidance for fiscal 2013 first quarter along with some concluding remarks. This will be followed by question-and-answer session.

Fiscal 2012 was a year of solid revenue growth and long awaited return to profitability. In our Wireless DataCom segment, our revenue increased 26% year-over-year as we experienced growth in nearly every vertical market application we serve. And although the year-over-year revenue growth in our Satellite segment was a more modest 10%, we completed the transformation of our Satellite business to a variable cost operation and broadened its product base to improve gross margins and drive positive cash flow, all of which contributed to our strong fourth quarter results.

Consolidated revenue for the fourth quarter was $37.6 million, up 30% year-over-year with Wireless DataCom revenue increasing to $25.7 million and Satellite revenue more than doubling to $12 million. At the bottom line, fourth quarter per share earnings of $0.06 GAAP basis and $0.09 non-GAAP were at the high end of our original guidance.

Consolidated revenue for the fourth quarter was at the highest level since the first quarter of fiscal 2008. For fiscal 2012 as a whole, consolidated revenue grew 21% year-over-year to $138.7 million with Wireless DataCom revenue increasing to a record $99.1 million and Satellite revenue growing to $39.6 million. We generated operating cash flow of almost $5 million in the fiscal 2012 fourth quarter and more than $12 million for the year as a whole.

Strong positive cash flow throughout the year enabled us to pay down our debt by $9 million and end the year in a net cash position of $2.6 million, which is the first time in five years that we have had a positive net cash balance. Focused on de-investments across all of our operations resulted in 24 new product introductions during fiscal 2012 and we expect these products to drive continued growth in market expansion. Total R&D investment in fiscal 2012 was $11.3 million, of which more than $9 million was in our Wireless DataCom segment.

Now, I would like to review our operational highlights for the quarter. Our Wireless DataCom segment maintained a near-record revenue run rate in the fourth quarter with continued momentum across multiple markets compensating for the expected lowered revenue from our Positive Train Control development project. We continued to experience strong demand for our MRM products and services, as well as increased demand for products targeting smart grid and oil and gas applications. Similar to recent past quarters, MRM applications accounted for approximately two thirds of total Wireless DataCom revenue with wireless networks applications accounting for one third.

In MRM applications, we continued to see strong demand in market share gains for our products and solutions in a market that is estimated to be growing at about 20% per year. Sales to our core customers for fleet management, trailer tracking, stolen vehicle recovery and vehicle finance applications were very strong, resulting in full year, year-over-year – excuse me, in full year-over-year revenue growth in these segments of 25%. We are seeing steady international market penetration particularly in Latin America and we were poised for further wins in Asia-Pacific and EMEA regions.

In the emerging usage-based insurance market, as we have previously stated, we are involved in a number of product trials with Tier 1 and Tier 2 automotive insurance companies that we believe could contribute to significant unit volume growth for CalAmp in the coming years.

In MRM applications, where we provide bundled solutions, including tracking hardware, hosted software applications and cellular data subscriptions, fourth quarter results were in line with expectations, with healthy revenue from our remote car start application and the start of the seasonal ramp in our Vehicle Finance segment. We believe the high value CalAmp brand positions us well to address the larger enterprise customers looking to roll out new secured telematic solutions that enhance their business processes and streamline their operations.

We are now seeing larger opportunities enter into our pipeline in partnership with Tier 1 cellular carriers and others to develop differentiated solutions tailored to global enterprise operations.

At the end of the fourth quarter there were more than 1.3 million MRM devices in service with our customers that are supported by CalAmp's proprietary over the year device provisioning, monitoring and maintenance system known as PULS.

Our bundled offerings in the vehicle finance and remote start market had approximately 265,000 subscribers on our own network at the end of the fourth quarter compared to 235,000 subscribers at the end of the third quarter. This growing subscriber base provides an ongoing recurring revenue stream within our Wireless DataCom business.

In our wireless networks energy vertical, we saw continued steady revenue growth in the fourth quarter with a broadening base of key customers. We partnered with Syncom, a system integrator to supply communication networks for Mexico's state-owned electric utility, CFE, providing our Viper brand radios for smart grid applications. We were also selected by Elster to supply the wireless routing hardware and network services for a wide-area advanced metering infrastructure project for Tennessee's Bolivar Energy Authority again using our Viper system as the vital telemetry link for the smart grid.

In addition, during the fourth quarter, we signed a $1.5 million contract with the leading oil and gas provider to supply private data telemetry radios for oil field operations in the Anadarko Basin in North Texas in order to automate and remotely monitor oil well operations throughout the Anadarko field.

On the product side, in January, we introduced our Fusion 4G LTE router platform. This high performance multi-band product enables broadband communications for industrial application. The Fusion LTE router is now being implemented by Central Vermont Public Service and Green Mountain Power to provide communications between these electric utilities' advanced metering infrastructure.

Within the rail industry vertical, we experienced an expected lull in revenue in the fourth quarter from our positive train controlled radio development project. Subsequent to the end of the fourth quarter we began shipping the final phase of pre-production radios under the $19 million PTC development contract. Shipments for this final phase, which has a revenue value of approximately $7.5 million, are expected to be completed in the first half of fiscal 2013. With this development contract nearing completion, we have now started pursuing production phase PTC radio business initially targeting North American Class I railroads.

Over the coming quarters, we will focus on increasing our customer base within the rail industry in identifying opportunities to add further value and sell additional CalAmp product and solutions into this important growth vertical.

Turning to our Public Safety business, overall sales in this market remained soft. Despite this, we're making progress on certain opportunities in our sales pipeline and we remain bullish about our prospects in this vertical over the longer-term. As one sign of progress, we were recently selected by the Erie County Pennsylvania Department of Public Safety to install a new mobile data network for law enforcement and fire services.

This project will deploy our latest generation IP mobile data communication system to replace an older technology private radio network that was installed nearly 12 years ago. A recent national legislative action that bodes well for our public safety business is a law passed by Congress as part of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012 that makes available for use by public safety agencies the 700 megahertz D Block spectrum also known as Band 14. This legislation also provides $7 billion in funding to build out a nationwide interoperable broadband public safety communication network. The pending infusion of capital should propel technology upgrades among municipalities and help resuscitate market opportunities.

The nationwide public safety interoperable broadband network represents a longer-term revenue opportunity for CalAmp going well beyond our traditional hardware offerings. With the deployment of 4G broadband infrastructure, we believe there is an opportunity for CalAmp to provide products and services addressing a range of applications, including converged VoIP, telematics and video applications served directly and through developing channel partnerships.

Moving on to our Satellite segment we had a strong finish to the fiscal year in which we experienced 10% year-over-year growth supported by a new product launch in the fourth quarter. As a result of transitioning this business to a variable cost operating model and broadening our satellite product offerings, we expect this business to continue to generate double digit gross margins and provide positive cash flow in fiscal 2013.

With that I will now turn the call over to Rick Vitelle, our chief financial officer, for a closer look at our fourth quarter financial details.

Thank you, Michael. I will provide a summary of our gross profit performance, income tax position, working capital management, and cash flow results for the fiscal 2012 fourth quarter. Consolidated gross profit for the fiscal 2012 fourth quarter was $10.6 million, an increase of $2.2 million over the same period last year, predominantly as a result of higher revenue. This represents a gross margin percentage of 28.2%, which was essentially flat compared to last year's fourth quarter.

Looking more closely at gross profit performance by reporting segment, Wireless DataCom gross profit was $9.1 million in the fourth quarter or 35.6% gross margin. This compares with gross profit of $8.9 million or 37.9% gross margin in the same period last year. Wireless DataCom gross profit increased on higher revenue while the gross margin percentage declined due to a change in product mix.

Our Satellite business had a gross profit of $1.4 million in the fourth quarter or 12.1% gross margin. This compares to a negative gross profit of $493,000 in the comparable quarter last year. The significant improvement in Satellite gross profit and gross margin percentage is primarily due to the operational transition to a variable cost model and the broadening on the product base in this business segment. Our Satellite business now has a break-even point of about $8 million per quarter.

Now turning to our tax position, the effective income tax rate of 1% for the fourth quarter and fiscal 2012 as a whole it substantially less than statutory tax rates due to the existence of net operating loss carry forwards for U.S. federal and state tax purposes. An income tax provision of $18,000 was recorded in the fourth quarter representing federal alternative minimum taxes, which arises because under the federal AMT rules, we can only shelter 90% of our taxable income with net operating loss carry forwards.

Our deferred tax assets comprised of the tax effect of our net operating loss carry forwards, tax credit carry forwards and book tax temporary differences amounted to $51 million at the end of fiscal 2012. Of this amount, $39 million is offset by a deferred tax asset valuation allowance. This valuation allowance was established in prior years during periods when we were not able to demonstrate that the company could generate sufficient future taxable income to utilize all the tax benefits.

Under the income tax accounting rules a key prerequisite to reduce or eliminate an established deferred tax asset valuation allowance is to have cumulative positive pre-tax book income over the most recent three-year period. As a result of the company's return to profitable operations and based on our latest financial projections, we expect to satisfy this requirement in fiscal 2013. Consequently, we expect to reverse a substantial portion of the deferred tax asset valuation allowance in the fourth quarter of the current fiscal year, which would result in recognizing an income tax benefit in a corresponding amount.

As we get closer to the end of this fiscal year, we will provide an estimate of how much we believe this fourth quarter income tax benefit will be. Now the impact of the result for fiscal 2012, our GAAP basis net income in the fiscal fourth quarter was $1.6 million or $0.06 per diluted share.

Our non-GAAP net income in the fourth quarter was $2.6 million or $0.09 per diluted share. Non-GAAP earnings exclude the impact of intangible asset, amortizations and stock-based compensation expense, and includes an income tax provision that reflects taxes paid or payable for period. For a more detailed reconciliation of the GAAP and non-GAAP results, I'll refer you to our fourth quarter earnings press release that was issued today, which is available on our website.

Now moving on to the balance sheet, our total inventory at the end of the most recent quarter was $10.1 million representing annualized inventory turns up 10 times. At the end of the immediately preceding quarter, inventory was $12.4 million, which represented annualized inventory returns of seven times.

The improvement in inventory turns in the latest quarter was driven primarily by our Satellite business, which is now demonstrating the beneficial effects of the conversion to a variable cost operating model in which more of the inventory for this business is held by our offshore manufacturing partners.

The consolidated accounts receivable balance was $14.4 million at the end of the fourth quarter. This represents an average collection period of 37 days, which is consistent with our current year receivable turnover rates.

Net cash provided by operating activities was $4.9 million for the fourth quarter and $12.4 million for fiscal 2012 as a whole. As of February 28, 2012, cash and cash equivalents totaled $5.6 million, an increase of $1.2 million from the end of the third quarter. At year end, our total debt was $3 million, which represents the amount outstanding under the bank term loan. This term loan is repayable at the rate of $100,000 monthly beginning this month. The unused borrowing capacity on our bank revolver was at full availability of $9 million at the end of the fiscal year. We ended fiscal 2012 in a net cash position of $2.6 million.

With that I'll now turn the call back over to Michael Burdiek for our guidance and some final comments.

Thank you, Rick. Now let's turn to our financial guidance. Based on our most recent projections, we expect fiscal 2013 first quarter consolidated revenues in the range of $38 million to $41 million, with Wireless DataCom revenue up sequentially and Satellite revenue relatively flat.

We project first quarter GAAP basis net income in the range of $0.07 to $0.11 per diluted share while non-GAAP net income for the first quarter is expected to be in the range of $0.10 to $0.14 per diluted share.

And in closing, I'd like to recap some key points drawn from our recent results and latest developments. First, in Wireless DataCom our technology and product leadership position in mobile resource management applications and in industrial machine-to-machine verticals, it's fueling growth and increased demand for our products. We continue to focus our resources on those markets and applications that we believe have excellent long-term growth prospects, addressing them with products and services that we believe has sustainable competitive advantages. We will continue to look for opportunities to move up the value chain and offer a range of turnkey end-to-end solutions for new and emerging applications.

Second, we successfully transformed our satellite business operationally thereby improving gross margin and lowering our quarterly break-even point to approximately $8 million. Our broadening product base drove significant revenue growth and profitability in the fourth quarter. Now we will continue to manage this business for positive cash flow.

And third, more than $12 million cash generated from operations in fiscal 2012 allowed us to pay down debt by $9 million and finish the year in a net cash position for the first time in five years. Our strengthening balance sheet affords us greater flexibility to execute our strategic growth initiatives in core markets as well as in new and exciting emerging applications.

Overall, we were quite pleased with our fiscal 2012 performance, as we achieved many financial and operational milestones. We are entering fiscal 2013 with a very healthy backlog and strong sales pipeline and we believe we can build upon our recent momentum. We remain focused on the execution of our strategy to pursue opportunities in attractive in growing markets with competitive products and solutions that positions us well for growth in fiscal 2013 and beyond.

That concludes our prepared remarks. Thank you for your attention. And at this time I'd like to open the call up to questions. Operator?

[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Mike Crawford

Thanks a lot. Your Aercept units track continues to grow actually in an accelerated pace. Do you expect – how do you look at that going forward, continued 10,000, 15,000, 20,000 units per quarter [ph] tracked (0:23:41) on your network?

We don't see any reason that that trend can't continue. And I'd like to point out that we have seen accelerated growth in subscribers. That does not necessarily translate in a linear relationship with revenues, since there is an ongoing marginal ASP decline in the markets that we serve but we're quite pleased with the increase in unit subscriptions we've been seeing quarter-to-quarter.

And as you pointed out, if you compare the Q3 to Q4 increase, which this year was about 30,000 subscribers, that's an improvement over last year when we increased from Q3 to Q4 by 25,000 subscribers. So we are quite pleased with that performance.

Great. And then on the radio side – so, on the PTC, when do you expect that production run rate to start up whether you want them or someone else wants them?

Well, as we've talked about in the recent past, we don't expect to begin production of production ratios until after the development contract is compete. And as we pointed out earlier, we expect to be burning of backlog in support of the development project through roughly our Q2 of fiscal 2013. And as soon as that development contract is complete, we're hopeful that we'll receive some business and continue production for the main state radios, supply directly to the industry providers.

And that would be seamless or maybe with some delay [indiscernible] (0:25:26)?

There is possible there could be some delays depending on the timing of orders. I mean these are quite unique products. And in some cases there are fairly long lead time materials associated with the key component. So there is the possibility there could be a gap, but I wouldn't expect a long one, so long as we receive orders this quarter early next quarter.

Okay. And then, Michael, you also talked about your belief that well, it sounds like the insurance pilots they are going low on that. Do you expect this could start to be – provide some meaningful unit volumes for your MRM business? Is that something you expect with most of the companies you've been doing pilots with or just the handful, what's the dynamics are?

Well, really the dynamics are the same as they've been in the recent past. We're involved in a number of pilot projects with large insurance carriers. It's interesting because I still maintain the position that we won't see significant unit volumes related to commercial insurance deployment – I mean, I'm sorry, consumer insurance deployments until probably sometime next fiscal year. But we're seeing some dynamics to suggest that there could be some insurance opportunities with some of our mainstay fleet customers, whereby the insurance carriers who offer insurance policies to commercial fleets are considering deploying pay-as-you-drive insurance programs to those fleets and that could potentially contribute to revenue this fiscal year.

Okay. Thank you. And then, finally, maybe you could talk about how you see seasonality in the business in fiscal 2013, given there are some things like remote car start did so well in, say, October, November and just the other – with the other changes and your business, how you would expect the business to role kind of from a seasonality perspective throughout the year?

Yeah, we're – in the past we've seen some very profound seasonality effects in our Satellite business or in our MRM products business. We're seeing less of that these days. But we do expect to continue to see a degree of seasonality in terms of the bundled solutions that we sell into the vehicle finance and remote car start applications. And you saw that expressed in the uptick in subscriber counts from Q3 to Q4 as compared to any of the other quarters in fiscal 2012.

Okay, thank you. And then final question relates to D Block, so that is a huge capital pool to go out to all of these state and local public safety providers that have had demand, but no ability to buy anything for quiet a long time. So, when do you see that logjam breaking?

We're starting to see some activity now, not necessarily directly related to the $7 billion of federal funding, but we think some projects to get spurred along later this fiscal year in direct response to the resolution of the D Block matter and the prospects for some federal grant funding to support it.

Okay, great. Thank you very much.

Your next question comes from line of Marc Robins.

Hey, thank you. Very nice year guys, that's very nice looking.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Let's chat a little bit about the political backdrop to Positive Train Control. Have you seen any changes from a political standpoint, either with the government or amongst your potential customers as to what's happening or what seems to be happening between now and the supposed completion date? I think that's still too early, it has been 2015?

Yeah that deadline hasn't been changed.

Okay.

However, there have been some discussions and potential inclusion of a push-out criteria, in a long stalled transportation bill that's in Congress. And there is the possibility that that bill if it's passed would enable the Department Secretary to, based on his judgment or her judgment, depending on who is in that position after the election, to give them the ability to push the deadline out, as necessary, depending on the readiness of the technology for the application.

We've talked on previous calls about our expectation that the deadline will get pushed out. That – I think our outlook on that matter hasn't changed. But we do believe even if the deadline is pushed out even at some point in the near future, there will be business between hopefully this year and in subsequent years by those early adaptors who based on capital deployment efficiency criteria want to deploy this when they're ready to deploy it.

I guess you are shipping some units and so they're getting to some small extent deployed into the rail system. Is that sparking any signs of innovation in the railroad industry at all to kind of follow in the foot steps of the trucking industry a little more closely or is it still really pretty much contained in the PTC arena?

I think for now it's mostly contained within the PTC arena, but there are some interesting discussions and concepts being sort of bantered about on ways that that network or that deployment could be leveraged for other applications.

Okay, so it's beginning to gel up just a little bit.

Perhaps a little bit, yeah

Is this an opportunity for CalAmp representative engineers to do a little more work in helping the industry solve their problem for them? What I really mean is read, lead them by the nose to the holy land? Or are we still just struggling along with a couple hundred year old industry that's not willing to change all that quickly.

I'm not going to add much color to the color you just gave.

Okay. We've got a van Gogh portrait as it stands okay. So I think we've said enough there.

No, I think there is a tremendous opportunity for CalAmp to be a leader and an innovator in terms of deploying technology that makes their operations more efficient. And we've had an interesting opportunity enter the industry in a big way through our PTC development contract. That's opened a lot of doors for us. It's giving us some audiences with the appropriate people to discuss some of these concepts.

Okay. Let's switch on over to the Satellite business and I apologize I was in between a couple of calls. Now we've got this new unit out and that was – just give me – if you would be so kind as to give us kind of an update on the technological developments that are going on there at CalAmp, in that realm?

Sure, so we actually issued two press releases over the last 90 days or so related to two different product introductions, both of which are shipping now. One shipped in volume in our fiscal Q4. And these devices are basically whole home video distribution or interconnect devices for our customers' whole home video solution.

And those two products have added another layer of revenue to our mainstream legacy product revenue stream, which we think will add a degree of stability, reduce quarter-to-quarter volatility to an extent. So we expect those to be nice contributors to revenue from this point forward.

Does the more aggressive stance by John Malone and Sirius XM, does that give you any better kind of inkling as to what's going on with your particular customers?

Not necessarily.

Not necessarily, okay. I'll get back in the queue. Thanks and again a tremendous quarter. It's wonderful to see the stock acting so well.

Thank you.

[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from Orin Hirschman.

Hi, congratulations on the progress.

Thank you.

Just a little additional color in terms of the – what's going on in the insurance side. You've mentioned that you might see more commercial customers early on. Will those customers just be buying hardware from you or are those customers also going to ask you to manage it similar to your current operations in terms of the [ph] ongoing (0:35:47) revenue?

Well, we believe that the insurance applications primarily are hardware opportunity for CalAmp.

Hitting both commercial as well as...

Both the commercial and consumer.

Okay. And in terms of actually the consumer side, just to go back, when do you see even small but commercial shipments, so to speak, as opposed to sort of test shipments on the consumer side?

Right now, there are test commitments. We've sort of seen two sort of tiers of piloting activities thus far, very, very small quantities of devices, in a very controlled setting. We've seen some of the pilots expand to a larger number of vehicles. And also what's interesting, for a specific insurance carrier opportunities, often times we're working with multiple service providers as partners, pursuing the same opportunity. So we sort of get them surrounded. And that's tended to drive up the unit quantities associated with specific insurance carrier pilot projects.

If you had to summarize in a couple of minutes, just what you're seeing in terms of these insurance pilots and what they're feeling, happy, not happy, [ph] where permit is (0:37:17) needed, what would you say? Can you just give a summary on that?

I'm not sure I can describe it as happy or unhappy, somewhat tentative because again insurance carriers aren't used to or familiar with deploying technology as part of their service offerings. And so to rollout a nationwide mainstream program requires a lot of logistics and a lot of planning that is background work that has to be done even if the pilots are going perfectly. And in most cases I'd say the pilots have gone well.

Have you seen the work being done to support those rollouts ready based on the pilots?

To a limited extend, yes.

Okay. And just to turn for a minute to the utility side, I mean, it looks like there's a little bit of a break in the logjam finally, it's been going on for such a long time. Would you characterize it as really a break in the logjam or just it's going to continue to be very slow?

I think it will be slow and steady. I mean we expect ongoing growth in that segment but it's not going to be blockbuster incremental quarter-to-quarter 20% sort of growth. We – our expectation is it will be ongoing and steady for a long period of time.

Okay. Anything that would – will change that steady but sure trajectory [ph] winning (0:38:52) one or two large contracts [indiscernible] (0:38:55) all around, so to speak [ph] we're in the (0:38:56) in the high growth rate or that's not the way we should view that?

We do see a couple of large opportunities in our pipeline but to realize full deployment against those opportunities, is a multi year project. So even for the larger ones, it would be very, very difficult to discern that project being a major needle mover in terms of consolidated revenues for CalAmp.

Maybe that will give you a long visibility, correct?

Excuse me.

It would give you a lot of visibility.

Sure, sure.

Okay, great. Okay, thanks so much.

You have a follow-up question from Marc Robins.

Actually, Orin asked the questions I had anticipated on asking. Thank you, though.

Sure.

You have a follow-up question from Mike Crawford.

Thanks. I was hoping you could delve a little bit deeper into your international opportunities, so you partnered with Syncom to get into that large state utility in Mexico. And I think in part, they chose you because of your 400 UHF band radios but what's your growth strategy for your international markets?

Sort of really three prongs to the strategy; number one it's direct business development initiatives, we built a team of international business development sales people and channel management folks over the last couple of years. And that team brought Syncom to CalAmp. That was one of their major wins. And they're filling the pipeline with additional opportunities cross market whether it's MRM applications or it's more traditional wireless networks energy applications. That's one prong to the strategy, it's direct efforts.

Second is really related to partnerships. And so we're building very strong relationships with the Tier 1 cellular carriers who have global aspirations to pursue large global enterprise customers who have fundamental global operations, which need a partner to support their M2M initiatives of whatever form they are.

And so that's a fast developing part of our strategy. And we think that's one that's going to bring us some significant opportunities over the coming quarters. And then in terms of other channel partners, I mean, Syncom is a great example of a regional partner but we work with others. Elser is the good example of this, who have global footprint and really can be leverage platforms for us to expand, let's say, from the energy markets and opportunities in United States into other opportunities that those partners address around the world.

Okay, thanks. So maybe what percent of revenues are international today and where would you like to see that? And whether it's one or two years from now?

For fiscal 2012 it was roughly 12% of consolidated revenues. And that was up from the previous year as a percentage of revenue. In terms of our long-term objective, I think, I've mentioned this before but we believe given the nature of our business in the markets we serve, the 25% of revenue is a reasonable target for us, a few years down the road.

Okay. Great, thank you very much.

You are welcome

There are no further questions. Burdiek, do you have any final comments.

I do, thank you. Thanks again for joining us today. We look forward to speaking with you at the end of our first quarter.

This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.