corrected transcript


CalAmp Corp.
 
CAMP
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
May 6, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for standing by. Welcome to the


CalAmp Fiscal 2010 Fourth Quarter Conference Call. During today’s presentation all parties will be


in a listen-only mode. Following the presentation the conference will be opened for questions.


[Operator Instructions].


This conference is being recorded today, Thursday, May 6, 2010. I’d now like to turn the


conference over to Lasse Glassen with the Financial Relations Board. Please go ahead.


Lasse Glassen, Investor Relations, Financial Relations Board


Thank you, good afternoon everybody. Welcome to CalAmp’s fiscal 2010 fourth quarter earnings


call. With us today are CalAmp’s Chief Executive Officer Rick Gold and the company’s Chief


Financial Officer Rick Vitelle.


Before I turn the call over to management, please remember that our prepared remarks and


responses to questions may contain forward-looking statements. Words such as may, will, expect,


intend, plan, believe, seek, could, estimate, judgment, targeting, should, anticipate, goal, and


variations of these words and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking


statements.


Actual results could differ materially from those implied by such forward-looking statements due to


a variety of factors including product demand, competitive pressures and pricing declines in the


company’s satellite and wireless markets, the timing of customer approvals of new product designs,


the length and extent of the global economic downturn that has and may continue to adversely


affect the company’s business and other risks and uncertainties that are described in the


company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2010 as filed today with the Securities and


Exchange Commission.


Although the company believes the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are


based upon reasonable assumptions, we can give no assurance that its expectations will be


attained. The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking


statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.


With that, it’s now my pleasure to turn the call over to CalAmp’s Chief Executive Officer Rick Gold.


Rick?


Rick Gold, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you Lasse. Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today to discuss CalAmp’s fiscal


2010 fourth quarter and full year results. I’ll begin with comments on our financial and operational


highlights and I’ll then provide an update on several of our key business activities.


Rick Vitelle will next discuss additional details about our financial results, balance sheet, working


capital management, and cash flow. Then, I will wrap up with our business outlook and guidance,


excuse me, along with some concluding remarks. This will be followed by a question-and-answer


session


We had a strong finish to fiscal 2010 with consolidated fourth quarter revenues of 34.5 million, an


increase of 62% from the prior year and 12% sequentially. During the fourth quarter production


volumes of our Satellite products continued to ramp resulting in the second consecutive quarter of


operating profitability in this business segment. In addition our wireless datacom business, which
corrected transcript


CalAmp Corp.
 
CAMP
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
May 6, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


has been impacted by the global economic downturn, stabilized over the course of the fiscal year


and generated double-digit percentage growth in revenue in the fourth quarter.


Looking at the bottom line, results of operations included a GAAP net loss of $1.3 million or $0.05


per diluted share. Excluding the impact of amortization of intangible assets and stock-based


compensation expense, our adjusted basis or non-GAAP net loss was $0.5 million or $0.02 per


diluted share. I refer you to our fourth quarter earnings press release issued earlier today for a


detailed reconciliation of the GAAP basis pre-tax loss to the adjusted basis or non-GAAP net


income or loss.


Looking at our cash flow and balance sheet, in fiscal 2010 we generated cash flow from operations


of $2.5 million and reduced our debt from $21.1 million at the beginning of the year to $10.1 million


at year end. During the fourth quarter, we announced a refinancing of our maturing bank debt,


which was funded by a new credit facility with Square 1 Bank and by gross cash proceeds of 9.25


million from the private placement of common stock and subordinated debt. Completing this


refinancing was an important milestone as it enhanced our financial flexibility, improved our liquidity


position, and eliminated the uncertainty associated with the maturity of our previous bank loan.


I’ll next provide updates for our satellite and wireless datacom businesses. During the fourth quarter


satellite product revenues increased to 18.7 million, up 11% sequentially and 130% on a year-over-


year basis. The satellite business also achieved operating profitability for the second quarter in a


row. That said gross margin percentages remain below historical levels due to lower revenue run


rates resulting in lower overhead absorptions, as well as supply chain inefficiencies associated with


the rapid ramp in production volume in the second half of fiscal 2010. We have now substantially


completed the shipment of refurbish satellite products under our product warranty program for a


key customer.


We continue to work closely with our direct broadcast satellite or DBS customers on next


generation products that we expect will increase our market share and improve our gross margins


over the course of fiscal 2011. In total we are currently developing four next generation products,


two for each of our DBS customers. For the product with the largest revenue potential we are well


into the product qualification process with that customer. And expect shipments to begin in our


second fiscal quarter. We are making good progress on the remaining products and expect two


additional products to enter the customer qualification process within the coming weeks.


Although the introduction of these important next generation products has not occurred as rapidly


as we had anticipated last year, I am encouraged by the continued progress of our development


team.


Now lets move on to an update of our wireless datacom business which provides communication


systems products and services for applications in the utility, public safety, industrial monitoring and


controls and mobile resource management or MRM markets. After being significantly impacted by


the economic downturn our wireless datacom business stabilized in fiscal 2010 and we believe that


a recovery is now underway. During the fourth quarter the wireless datacom business generated


revenues of 15.8 million which was up 14% on a sequential quarter basis and 20% year-over-year.


This improvement was across the board with sequential revenue gains in each wireless datacom


product area. We also made good progress on key new product and business initiatives. Our entire


MRM product line was refreshed, incorporating latest generation technologies and lower cost


components. We introduced two core wireless network products the Viper 200 and the Phantom II,


which are optimized for smart grid infrastructure applications.


And we leased 100 kilohertz of nationwide spectrum to offer in conjunction with our wireless


networks products for licensed mission critical wireless infrastructure applications.