corrected transcript


CalAmp Corp.
 
CAMP
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 13, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the CalAmp Fiscal


2009 Third Quarter Conference Call. During today’s presentation, all parties will be in a listen-only


mode. Following the presentation, the conference will be opened for questions. [Operator


Instructions] This conference is being recorded January 13, 2009.


I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Lasse Glassen, with FRB. Please go ahead.


Lasse Glassen, Vice President, Financial Relations Board


Thank you and good afternoon everybody. Welcome to CalAmp’s fiscal 2009 third quarter earnings


call. With us today are CalAmp’s President and CEO, Rick Gold and the company’s Chief Financial


Officer, Rick Vitelle.


Before I turn the call over to management, please remember that our prepared remarks and


responses to questions may contain forward-looking statements. Words such as may, will, expects,


believes, estimates, could, and variations of these words and similar expressions are intended to


identify forward-looking statements. Actual results could differ materially from those implied by such


forward-looking statements made today due to risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to


fluctuations in market demand for CalAmp’s products and services, general and industry economic


conditions, increased competition, continued pricing pressure in the DBS market, supplier


constraints and manufacturing yields, the timing and market acceptance of new product


introductions and approvals, new technologies, the risk that the ultimate cost of resolving a product


performance issue with one of the company’s DBS customers may exceed the amount of reserves


established for that purpose. The company’s ability to obtain a wavier from its banks under its credit


agreement of an event of default arising from a financial covenant violation that arose at the end of


December 2008. The length and extent of the US market downturn stemming from the recent


tightening of credit markets that may impact the company’s business and that of its customers and


which may constrain the company’s ability to refinance its bank term loan by the December 31,


2009 maturity date. And other risks and uncertainties that are described under the heading “Risk


Factors” in the company’s fiscal 2008 annual report on Form 10-K as filed with the SEC on May


15th, 2008.


Any projections as to the company’s future financial performance represents management’s


estimates as of today, January 13, 2009. CalAmp assumes no obligation to update these


projections in the future, due to the changing market conditions or otherwise.


With that it is now my pleasure to turn the call over to CalAmp’s President and Chief Executive


Officer, Rick Gold. Rick?


Rick Gold, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Lasse. Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today to discuss CalAmp’s fiscal 2009


third quarter results. I’ll begin with comments on the financial and operational highlights from this


past quarter and then I will provide an update on several of our key business initiatives. Rick Vitelle


will then discuss additional details about our financial results, balance sheet, working capital


management and cash flow. I will wrap up with our revenue and earnings guidance for the fourth


quarter of fiscal 2009, along with some concluding remarks. This will be followed by a question-


and-answer session.


In looking at our third quarter financial highlights and overview, total revenue for the third quarter


was 25.8 million, representing an increase of 11% on a sequential quarter basis and driven by the
corrected transcript


CalAmp Corp.
 
CAMP
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 13, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


resumption of volume shipments to our historically largest Direct Broadcast Satellite or DBS


customer. Despite the strong sequential growth, consolidated third quarter revenue was slightly


lower than the revenue guidance range of 26 to $30 million that we provided last quarter, with the


shortfall primarily due to Wireless DataCom demand weakness.


Looking at the bottom line, results of operations included a GAAP loss from continuing operations


of $1.8 million, or $0.07 per diluted share, which was inline with the guidance that we provided last


quarter. Excluding the amortization of intangible assets and stock based compensation expense


our adjusted basis or non-GAAP loss from continuing operations was $741,000, or $0.03 per


diluted share. This was also inline with our previously provided guidance range.


I refer you to our third quarter earnings press release issued earlier today for a detailed


reconciliation of the GAAP basis loss from continuing operations to adjusted basis income or loss


from continuing operations. And looking at our cash flows during the quarter we generated strong


cash flow from operating activities bringing total operating cash flow to $3.3 million through the first


nine months of fiscal 2009. Rick Vitelle will expand on this in his remarks, but suffice it to say I am


pleased with our ability to continue generating cash flow from operations under these difficult


economic conditions.


I’ll next provide updates for our Satellite and Wireless DataCom businesses. Our Satellite business


is back on a growth path with third quarter revenue of $7.4 million, more than double the revenue in


the second quarter. Shipments to our historically largest customer continue to ramp up, with


revenue in the fourth quarter expected to increase sequentially from the third quarter. In an


important development, last week we announced the settlement of our litigation with Rogers


Corporation that we had initiated in 2007. Rogers paid CalAmp $9 million in cash to settle all


outstanding claims. The settlement materially improves CalAmp’s financial strength and we believe


is the best outcome for our shareholders. With this litigation behind us, we can now focus on new


challenges and opportunities.


As a further sign of the improving fundamentals of our DBS business, our engineering team is


making progress on several new product development initiatives to address opportunities with next


generation DBS products. In short, we are now well on the road to recovery and expect our DBS


revenue to be materially higher in fiscal 2010 as we continue to ramp up our production lines for


existing products and introduce new products.


Now let’s move on to an update of our Wireless DataCom business, which provides communication


systems, products and services for applications in the public safety, mobile resource management


or MRM, and industrial monitoring and controls markets. During the third quarter, the Wireless


DataCom business generated revenues of $18.5 million, which is a 22% decrease on a year-over-


year basis and down 8% on a sequential quarter basis. While we did see strong year-over-year


growth in our MRM products, the decline in Wireless DataCom revenue is not attributable to any


one product line but is instead indicative of a very sluggish global economy that has resulted in a


number of customers delaying purchase decisions for our products.


As an example of the difficult economic conditions that we currently face, last month we announced


that we have been awarded a contract by Ansaldo, initially valued at $2.5 million, to supply our


mobile data communications network for a driverless 1300-kilometer private railway system in


Australia to be operated by a major international mining company. However, we were just advised


that the mining company has postponed this project because of economic pressures on their


business.


In light of the weakness in demand, last week we took certain actions to reduce the costs and


expenses of our Wireless DataCom business and realign its structure. We reorganized our Public


Safety Mobile and Industrial Monitoring and Controls business units into one operating unit, by


combining R&D groups, merging sales management and consolidating manufacturing operations.