raw transcript


California Amplifier
 
CAMP
 
Q4 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 5, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good Afternoon, my name is Cassandra and I will be your conference facilitator today.


At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the California Amplifier, fourth quarter, fiscal 2005,


earnings call. All lines have been opened – all lines have been placed on mute to prevent any back


ground noise. After the speakers remarks, there will be a question and answer period. [Operator


Instructions] thank you. Mr. Coulson, you may begin your conference.


Crocker Coulson, Partner, CCG Investor Relations


Well thank you, Cassandra, good afternoon everybody welcome to California Amplifier's, fiscal


2005, fourth quarter and full year earnings call. With us today are California Amplifier's President


and Chief Executive Officer, Fred Sturm and the company's Chief Financial Officer, Rick Vitelle.


But before I turn the call lover to them, please remember that management prepared remarks this


after contain forward-looking statements, which are subject to risks and uncertainties. And


management may make some additional forward-looking statements in response to your questions.


Therefore the company claims of protection or for the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of


1995 Safe Harbor protection for forward-looking statements. These statements are subject to risks


and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed today.


And this is included but not limited to risks and uncertainties related to fluctuations in market


demand for CalAmp's products and services, general and in economic conditions, competition,


development factors and operating costs, continued pricing pressure in the DVS market, supplier


constraints, and manufacturing yields; to the company's ability to manage the cost volatility of raw


materials, timing and market acceptance of new product introductions and new technologies, the


company's ability to achieve profitability in its solutions division, risks related to the acquisition and


integration of Skybility; and the company's ability to maintain and/or expand its relationships with


key customers.


Examples of forward-looking statements include statements related CalAmp's anticipated or


projected revenues, gross margins, expenditures, and liquidity needs. We therefore encourage all


our listeners to review a more detailed discussion of these forward-looking statements, risks, and


uncertainties, which is contained in the company's filings with the SEC. Any projections as to the


company's future financial performance represent management's estimates as of today May 5,


2005. CalAmp assumes no obligation to update these projections in the future due to changing


market conditions or otherwise.


Well, with those formalities out of the way, it's now my pleasure to turn the call over to CalAmp's


President and Chief Executive Officer, Fred Sturm.


Fred Sturm, President and CEO


Thank you, Crocker. Just a housekeeping item that there may be some people having difficulty


getting web access and those that are having that difficulty should turn off their pop-up blocker.


We'll get that out of the way.


So, good afternoon, everyone. I'm glad that you're able to be here with us today. I will begin with


the highlights of the fourth quarter and full year, provide an overview of the company's


performance, and give an update on our key strategic programs. Rick Vitelle will then talk about


our gross profit performance, working capital management, and cash flow for the fourth quarter and
raw transcript


California Amplifier
 
CAMP
 
Q4 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 5, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


full year, and discuss the future outlook for fiscal 2006, first quarter and full year. After my


concluding remarks, there will be a brief question-and-answer session.


Now for the financial highlights and overview. Revenue for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 was


$67.1 million, up 61% compared to $41.6 million for the fourth quarter of last year. Robust sales of


our new products and support of our customers' multi-satellite and digital video recorder offerings


continue to support solid top-line performance. Net income for the fiscal 2005 fourth quarter was


$3.2 million or 14 cents per diluted share compared to net income of $3 million or 18 cents per


diluted share for the fourth quarter of last year. It is important to note that the effective income tax


rate was 36.1% in the latest quarter compared to a negative 1.2% in the fourth quarter of last year.


For the fiscal 2005 full year, revenue grew by 71% to $220 million compared to $128.6 million for


the prior year. Net income during fiscal 2005 was $8.1 million or 36 cents per diluted share versus


net income of $5.7 million or 37 cents per diluted share in the comparable period last year. It


should be noted that the effective tax rate was 1/2 of 1% in fiscal 2004, due mainly to the reduction


in that year of having deferred tax asset valuation allowances. The effective tax rate in fiscal 2005


was 37.5%.


We are pleased with the revenue growth reported for both the fourth-quarter and full-year periods,


which was primarily driven by continued strong demand of our satellite products and our success in


introducing more advanced products that have been well-received, enabling us to build on our


leading market share position in that market. While our solutions division had an adverse impact


on earnings during fiscal 2005, we are seeing early indications of progress in getting this business


back on the path to profitability. We are therefore encouraged about the outlook for our solutions


division at fiscal 2006.


Now for a business update: Our products division closed out the year with a substantial increase in


revenues and profits. These increased sales were driven by the introduction of two new products in


the fiscal third quarter that support our customers' multi-satellite and integrated DVR service


offering. With the wider availability of high definition television sets and the introduction of set-top


boxes with integrated DVRs, these advanced satellite products normally sell at higher average


selling prices that earlier generation DVS outdoor reception equipment, creating an ongoing


opportunity for our revenue growth. While the DVS market is highly competitive, we know what it


takes to excel in our space. The satellite and cable TV operators fighting for greater market share,


our customers need our products, value-added features, and capabilities to continue attracting new


customers and maximizing their average revenue per subscriber. Most industry estimates predict


steady incremental growth in the size of the U.S. DVS market. In 2004 alone, analysts estimate


that the size of the U.S. DVS market grew by 15% from 21.6 million subscribers to approximately


24.8 million subscribers. As this U.S. direct for broadcast satellite subscriber base continues


expanding, we will continue to differentiate ourselves from other suppliers with superior product


performance at a competitive price.


Fourth-quarter sales were benefited by the success of our DVR capable reception equipment,


which substantially reduces the cost and complexity of installing DVRs for the direct broadcast


satellite customers. We are the primary supplier of this product to one of our key customers, which


we believe is a reflection of our ability to successfully execute on a product development strategy.


We are currently working on the development that will support both KA and KU satellite frequency


bands in a single unit. This capability will give one of our DBS customers more available spectrum


to offer local programming in HDTV, which requires more band width than traditional broadcast


television and is growing in subscriber popularity. Again, our focus is on continued enhancements


to our products that enables [indiscernible] effectively with cable and develop additional customer


revenue strains.


As we indicated in our latest press release, the customer order rate for our satellite products slowed


significantly in our fiscal 2006 first quarter, as our key customers began adjusting their inventory