corrected transcript


CalAmp Corp.
 
CAMP
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 7, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the CalAmp’s Fiscal


2010 Third Quarter Conference Call. During today’s presentation, all parties will be in a listen-only


mode. Following the presentation, the conference will be opened for questions. [Operator


Instructions]. This conference is being recorded today, January 7 of 2010.


And I’d now like to turn the conference over to Lasse Glassen of FRB. Please go ahead, sir.


Lasse Glassen, Financial Relations Board


Thank you. Good afternoon everybody. Welcome to CalAmp’s fiscal 2010 third quarter earnings


call. With us today are CalAmp’s President and CEO, Rick Gold, and the company’s Chief Financial


Officer, Rick Vitelle.


Before I turn the call over to management, please remember that our prepared remarks and


responses to questions may contain forward-looking statements. Words such as may, will, expect,


intend, plan, believe, seek, could, estimate, judgment, targeting, should, anticipate, goal and


variations of these words and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking


statements.


Actual results could differ materially from those implied by such forward-looking statements due to


a variety of factors including product demand, competitive pressures and pricing declines in the


company’s satellite and wireless markets, the timing of customer approvals of new product designs,


the length and extent of the global economic downturn that has and may continue to adversely


affect the company’s business, and other risks or uncertainties that are described in the company’s


Annual Report on Form 10-K for Fiscal 2009, as filed on May 12, 2009 with the Securities and


Exchange Commission.


Although the company believes the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are


based upon reasonable assumptions, it can give no assurance that its expectations will be attained.


The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements,


whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.


With that, it’s now my pleasure to turn the call over to CalAmp’s President and CEO, Rick Gold.


Rick?


Rick Gold, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Lasse. Good afternoon, and thank you for joining us today to discuss CalAmp’s fiscal 2010


third quarter results. I’ll begin with comments on the financial and operational highlights from this


past quarter and I’ll then provide an update on several of our key business activities. Rick Vitelle


will next discuss additional details about our financial results, balance sheet, working capital


management and cash flow. And I will wrap up with revenue and earnings guidance for the fourth


quarter of fiscal 2010 along with some concluding remarks. This will be followed by a question-and-


answer session.


During the third quarter, we generated strong top line growth with a 28% sequential revenue


increase. This was driven by a sharp ramp of our satellite products business, which delivered


significant revenue growth and generated operating profitability. While revenues from our wireless


datacom business were flat on a sequential-quarter basis, I believe recent new order bookings and


an increase in backlog have laid the foundation for a rebound in this business over the next several


quarters.
corrected transcript


CalAmp Corp.
 
CAMP
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 7, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Looking at the bottom line, results of operations included a GAAP net loss of $1.3 million or $0.05


per diluted share. Excluding the impact of changes in the deferred income tax asset valuation


allowance, amortization of intangible assets and stock-based compensation expense, our adjusted


basis or non-GAAP net income was $0.2 million or $0.01 per diluted share. I refer you to our third


quarter earnings press release issued earlier today for a detailed reconciliation of the GAAP basis


net loss to the adjusted basis or non-GAAP net income.


Moving on to our cash flow statement and balance sheet. This was the fifth quarter in a row in


which we generated positive cash flow from operations. Net cash from operations totaled $0.8


million in the third quarter, bringing the fiscal year-to-date total to 4.2 million. Also of note is the fact


that during the third quarter, the company paid in full the outstanding balance of the note payable to


a Direct Broadcast Satellite or DBS customer.


I’m also pleased with our completion of the recently announced refinancing of our bank debt that


occurred after the end of the third quarter. Obtaining the new credit facility with Square 1 Bank was


an important milestone as it enhances our financial flexibility and eliminates the uncertainty


associated with the maturity of our previous bank loan.


I’ll next provide updates for our satellite and wireless datacom businesses. Demand for our satellite


products grew sharply in the quarter and we made good progress toward re-establishing our


leadership position in this market. During the third quarter, satellite product revenues increased to


$16.8 million, up 69% on a sequential basis. In addition to the strong revenue growth, the satellite


business also achieved operating profitability during the third quarter for the first time in nearly three


years.


While the financial performance of our satellite business has improved significantly, we’re


continuing to work through production issues typical with this growth. Due to the rapid ramp in


volume, we’ve experienced some operational inefficiencies mostly related to material shortages


within our supply-chain. This has led to higher cost expedite materials and for payroll overtime


premium.


We continue to work closely with key suppliers in an effort to mitigate these component shortages,


but we expect these issues to also impact margins in the fourth quarter as we continue to ramp the


volume of our DBS products.


We group our DBS products into three categories based on ASP or average selling price ranges.


Low ASPs, which are $25 or less; medium ASPs, which are between 25 and $45; and high ASPs,


which are $45 or more. During the fiscal 2010 third quarter, low, medium and high ASP products


represented 17%, 36% and 47% respectively of our satellite revenue. This compares to low,


medium and high ASP products that accounted for 3%, 58% and 39% respectively of DBS sales in


the third quarter of last year.


The year-over-year increase in the proportion of revenue generated by sales of low ASP products


is attributable to sales of an older generation product in the latest quarter that is deployed by the


service provider outside the U.S., while the year-over-year increase in the proportion of revenue


generated by sales of high ASP units was driven by sales of the latest generation product used for


high-definition video programming.


We also continue to ship significant quantities of refurbished satellite products to a key customer


that, although not generating revenue, increase our market penetration and decrease our remaining


product rework commitments to this customer. To-date, we’ve reworked and shipped back


approximately 80% of the two principal products returned to us for refurbishment under our product


warranty program. Based on our current projections, we expect to substantially complete reworking


these returned products during the first calendar quarter of 2010.