corrected transcript


CalAmp Corp.
 
CAMP
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
May 12, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the CalAmp Fiscal


2009 Fourth Quarter Conference Call. During today’s presentation all parties will be in a listen-only


mode. Following the presentation, the conference will be opened for questions. [Operator


Instructions]. This conference is being recorded Tuesday May 12, 2009.


I would now like to turn the conference over to Lasse Glassen with Financial Relations Board.


Please go ahead.


Lasse Glassen, Vice President, Financial Relations Board


Thank you. Good afternoon, everybody. Welcome to CalAmp’s fiscal 2009 fourth quarter earnings


call. With us today are CalAmp’s President and CEO, Rick Gold, and the company’s Chief Financial


Officer, Rick Vitelle.


Before I turn the call over to management, please remember that our prepared remarks and


responses to questions may contain forward-looking statements. Words such as may, will, expect,


intend, plan, believe, seek, could, estimate, judgment, targeting, should, anticipate, goal, and


variations of these words and similar expressions, are intended to identify forward-looking


statements.


Actual results could differ materially from those implied by such forward-looking statements due to


a variety of factors including product demand, competitive pressures and pricing declines in the


company’s satellite and wireless markets, the timing of customer approvals of new product designs,


the length and extent of the global economic downturn that has and may continue to adversely


affect the company’s business, the company’s ability to refinance or extend its bank term loan prior


to the December 31, 2009 maturity date, and other risks or uncertainties that are described in the


company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal 2009 as filed with the Securities and


Exchange Commission. That 10-K was filed today.


Although the company believes the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are


based upon reasonable assumptions, it can give no assurance that its expectations will be attained.


The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements,


whether as a result of new information, future events so otherwise.


With that, it’s now my pleasure to turn the call over to CalAmp’s President and Chief Executive


Officer, Rick Gold. Rick?


Rick Gold, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Lasse. Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today to discuss CalAmp’s fiscal


2009 fourth quarter results. I’ll begin with comments on the financial and operational highlights from


this past quarter, and I’ll then provide an update on several of our key business initiatives. Rick


Vitelle will then discuss additional details about our financial results, balance sheet, working capital


management and cash flow. I will wrap up with our revenue and earnings guidance for the first


quarter of fiscal 2010 along with some concluding remarks. This will be followed by a question and


answer session.


In looking at our fourth quarter financial highlights and overview, total revenue for the fourth quarter


was 21.3 million, which was slightly under our revenue guidance range of 22 to 26 million. Our top


line performance reflects the challenging economic environment that has resulted in key customers


delaying projects and postponing orders for our Wireless DataCom products.
corrected transcript


CalAmp Corp.
 
CAMP
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
May 12, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


However, our ongoing efforts to rebuild our competitive position in the direct broadcast satellite or


DBS market is making good progress despite the difficult economic climate. During the fourth


quarter, unit volumes of our satellite products to our historically largest DBS customer continued to


ramp resulting in a 10% sequential quarter increase in satellite product revenues.


Looking at the bottom line, results of operations included a GAAP loss from continuing operations


of $45.8 million or $1.85 per diluted share. Included in the GAAP loss from continuing operations


are impairment charges in the aggregate amount of 44.7 million.


I want to stress that these are non-cash charges that were significantly influenced by our stock


price and market capitalization as of the December 31, 2008 impairment test date. Rick Vitelle in


his remarks will provide more details on the impairment charges as well as income tax effects.


Excluding amortization of intangible assets, stock-based compensation expense, the non-cash


impairment charge, and the increase in the deferred income tax asset valuation allowance, our


adjusted basis or non-GAAP income from continuing operations was $3.8 million or $0.15 per


diluted share, which was $0.01 better than the high end of our fourth quarter guidance range of


0.10 to $0.14.


I refer you to our fourth quarter earnings press release issued earlier today for a detailed


reconciliation of the GAAP basis loss from continuing operations to adjusted basis income from


continuing operations. Fourth quarter GAAP and non-GAAP operating results both include a $9


million pre-tax contribution from the legal settlement with Rogers Corporation.


Looking at our cash flows and balance sheet, we have significantly improved our liquidity position


and enhanced our financial flexibility. During fiscal 2009, we generated net cash from operating


activities of $13.8 million including the $9 million settlement with Rogers. The positive operating


cash flow allowed us to pay down our bank term loan balance to $17.5 million as of the end of fiscal


2009, a reduction of $10 million compared to the bank loan balance at the end of fiscal 2008.


In addition, we paid down the subordinated note to a DBS customer by $1.5 million in fiscal 2009.


Rick Vitelle will expand on this in his remarks, but suffice it to say, I continue to be pleased with our


ability to generate cash flow from operations and improve our liquidity position even during these


challenging economic times.


I’ll next provide updates for our Satellite and Wireless DataCom businesses. We continue to make


progress in our Satellite business, which generated revenues of $8.1 million in the fourth quarter or


a 10% sequential improvement compared to the prior quarter. Shipments to our historically largest


customer continue to ramp, with Satellite revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2010 expected to


increase sequentially for the third quarter in a row.


In addition, we continue to ship significant quantities of refurbished products to this customer that,


although not generating revenue, increase our market penetration and decrease our remaining


product rework obligation.


As another sign of the improving fundamentals in our DBS business, our engineering team is


making good progress on several new development programs involving next generation products


for our two principal DBS customers, which we expect to begin shipping late this fiscal year.


Overall, we expect our satellite product market share to be materially higher in fiscal 2010 as we


continue to ramp up our production lines.


Now let’s move on to an update of our Wireless DataCom business, which provides communication


systems, products and services for applications in the public safety, utility, mobile resource


management or MRM, and industrial monitoring and controls markets.