corrected transcript


CalAmp Corp.
 
CAMP
 
Q3 2006 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 5, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the CalAmp Q3 2006 Conference


Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Following today's presentation,


instructions will be given for the question-and answer session. [Operator Instructions]. As a


reminder this conference is being recorded today Thursday, 05 January 2006.


I would now like to turn the conference over to Ms. Amy Cozamanis of the Financial Relations


Board. Please go ahead, ma’am.


Amy Cozamanis, Financial Relations Board


Thank you, operator. Good afternoon, everybody. Welcome to CalAmp’s fiscal 2006 third quarter


earnings call. With us today are CalAmp’s President and CEO, Fred Sturm and the Company’s


Chief Financial Officer, Rick Vitelle.


Before I turn the call over to management, please remember that their prepared remarks this


afternoon contain forward-looking statements, which are subject to risks and uncertainties and


management may make some additional forward-looking statements in response to your questions.


Therefore, the Company claims the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 Safe Harbor


Protection for forward-looking statements. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties


that may cause actual results to differ materially from statements made today; and this includes, but


is not limited to risks and uncertainties related to fluctuations in market demand for CalAmp’s


products and services, general and industry economic conditions, competition, development factors


and operating costs, continued pricing pressure in the DBS (Direct Broadcast Satellite) market,


supplier constraints and manufacturing yields, the Company’s ability to manage cost fluctuations in


raw materials, the timing and market acceptance of new product introductions and new


technologies, the Company’s ability to eliminate operating losses and achieve profitability in its


Solutions Division and the Company’s ability to maintain and/or expand its relationships with key


customers.


Examples of forward-looking statements include statements related to CalAmp’s anticipated or


projected revenues, gross margins, expenditures and liquidity needs. We therefore encourage all of


our listeners to review a more detailed discussion of these forward-looking statements, risks and


uncertainties, which are contained in the Company’s registration statement on Form S-3, filed with


the SEC on October 20th 2004.


Any projections as to the Company’s future financial performance represent management’s


estimates as of today, January 5th, 2006. CalAmp assumes no obligation to update these


projections in the future due to changing market conditions or otherwise.


With that, it’s my pleasure to now turn the call over to CalAmp’s President and Chief Executive


Officer, Fred Sturm. Go ahead, Fred.


Frederick M. Sturm, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Amy. Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today to discuss CalAmp's fiscal


2006 third quarter results. I will begin my remarks with the financial and operational highlights from


the third quarter, including an overview of the company's performance and then give you an update


on key business initiatives that we are working on. Rick Vitelle will then provide additional details on


our financial results, balance sheet, working capital management and cash flow for the third
corrected transcript


CalAmp Corp.
 
CAMP
 
Q3 2006 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 5, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


quarter, including our current outlook for the fiscal 2006 fourth quarter. I will then wrap up with


some concluding remarks, which will be followed by a question-and-answer session. With that, I will


begin with our third quarter financial highlights and overview.


Our third quarter results reflect an anticipated seasonally strong revenue performance in our Direct


Broadcast Satellite (DBS) business and continued progress in improving gross margins in both the


Products and Solutions Divisions. The combination of higher revenue and improved margins


resulted in attaining operating income of $8.9 million, which is the highest in the company's history.


This represents more than three times the operating income reported in the third quarter of last


year. We are very pleased with the execution of the business during the course of this year and in


particular the most recent quarter. Total revenue for the third quarter of fiscal 2006 was $64.5


million, a 13% increase over the third quarter of last year. On a sequential quarter basis, total


revenue increased by $6.8 million or nearly 12% over the prior quarter.


As has been the case in past quarters, the Products Division continues to comprise a substantial


majority of our total revenues. At $59.6 million, the Products Division revenue was up more than


18% from the third quarter of last year. This year-over-year Products Division revenue improvement


was the combined result of organic growth in our core DBS business; the contributions of our


Machine-to-Machine or what we refer to as “M2M” product line, that was acquired mid-way through


the first quarter of this fiscal year; and our product supply agreement with EF Johnson, a customer


we added as a result of the Vytek acquisition.


We continue to make progress in diversifying our business to help dampen revenue fluctuations


and reduce our reliance on a small number of key customers. As a point of reference in fiscal 2004,


our satellite products accounted from 94% of our total revenue. By comparison, for the nine months


ended November 30, 2005, satellite products as a percentage of consolidated revenue represented


79%.


Our Solutions Division revenue for the third quarter of fiscal 2006 was $4.9 million compared to


$6.6 million for the same period last year. The reduction in revenues from the Solutions Division is


primarily due to our previously stated strategy of being more selective in our pursuit of business for


the Solutions Division, focusing on higher margin opportunities and foregoing non-strategic and low


margin business. Although we have not yet turned a profit at the Solutions Division and we still


have a lot of work ahead of us, from an operational and financial perspective, we are continuing to


make progress towards profitability. On a sequential basis in the third quarter, the Solutions


Division operating loss of $373,000 was reduced by 27%, compared to the second quarter


operating loss of $513,000.


As these results indicate, we are closing in our near term target of achieving operating profitability


at the Solutions Division. We believe that the Solutions Division’s cost structure is about where it


needs to be and our ability to achieve profitability in this division is now primarily a function of


generating new business so that our revenue run rate reaches about $6 million per quarter or


higher. We also believe that we have the infrastructure in place, including the sales force and


management team along with the potential new business opportunities in the pipeline to achieve


operating profitability in this division in the near term future.


We are also pleased to report that CalAmp's net income for fiscal 2006 third quarter, more than


tripled to $5.5 million or $0.23 per diluted share, compared to a net income of $1.8 million or $0.08


per share for the third quarter of last year. On a sequential basis, third quarter net income


increased nearly 50% compared to $3.7 million in the second quarter.


Now let's move to an update on several of our business initiatives. Within the Products Division,


third quarter sales continued to be driven by DBS products that support our customers multi-


satellite and integrated digital video recorder service offerings, referred to as DVRs. These products