corrected transcript


CalAmp Corp.
 
CAMP
 
Q2 2011 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 6, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for standing by. Welcome to the


CalAmp Fiscal 2011 Second Quarter Conference Call. During today’s presentation all parties will


be in a listen-only mode. Following the presentation the conference will be opened for questions.


[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded today, Wednesday, October 6th, of 2010.


And I would now like to turn the conference over to Lasse Glassen of Financial Relations –


Relations Board. Please go ahead, sir.


Lasse Glassen, Vice President, Financial Relations Board


Thank you. Good afternoon, everybody. Welcome to CalAmp’s fiscal 2011 second quarter earnings


call. With us today are CalAmp’s Chief Executive Officer, Rick Gold along with the Company’s


President and Chief Operating Officer, Michael Burdiek and Chief Financial Officer, Rick Vitelle.


Before I turn the call over to management please remember that our prepared remarks and


responses to questions may contain forward-looking statements. Words such as may, will, expect,


intend, plan, believe, seek, could, estimate, judgment, targeting, should, anticipate, goal and


variations of these words and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking


statements.


Actual results could differ materially from those implied by such forward-looking statements due to


a variety of factors including product demand, competitive pressures and pricing declines in the


Company’s satellite and wireless markets, the timing of customer approvals of new product


designs, the length and extent of the global economic downturn that has and may continue to


adversely affect the Company’s business, and other risks and uncertainties that are described in


the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2010 as filed on May 6th, 2010 with the


Securities and Exchange Commission.


Although the Company believes the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are


based on reasonable assumptions, we can give no assurance that its expectations will be attained.


The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements,


whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.


With that it’s now my pleasure to turn the call over to CalAmp’s, Chief Executive Officer Rick Gold.


Rick?


Rick Gold, Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Lasse. Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today to discuss CalAmp’s fiscal


2011 second quarter results. I’ll begin with comments on our financial and operational highlights


and I’ll then provide an update on our Satellite Products business.


Michael Burdiek will follow with an update on our Wireless DataCom business and Rick Vitelle will


discuss additional details about our financial results, balance sheet, working capital management


and cash flow. I’ll wrap up with our business outlook and guidance, along with some concluding


remarks. This will be followed by a question-and-answer session.


Looking at our results, we made significant progress in the second quarter, with consolidated


revenue increasing by 23% year-over-year and 12% on a sequential quarter basis. We’re


continuing to experience strong growth in Wireless DataCom with Mobile Resource Management or


MRM product revenues have record levels in the quarter. In addition, recent new orders have
corrected transcript


CalAmp Corp.
 
CAMP
 
Q2 2011 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 6, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


pushed our wireless networks backlog to an all time high at the end of the quarter. Our Satellite


Products business also posted improvements in the second quarter in revenue and operating


profitability, on both the sequential and a year-over-year basis.


At the bottom line for the second quarter, the GAAP basis net loss was $0.9 million or $0.03 per


diluted share. Excluding the impact of amortization of intangible assets and stock-based


compensation expense, our adjusted basis or non-GAAP net loss was $153,000 or $0.01 per


diluted share. I refer you to our second quarter earnings press release issued earlier today for a


detailed reconciliation of the GAAP-basis pre-tax loss for the adjusted basis or non-GAAP net loss.


Looking at our cash flow and balance sheet, during the second quarter of fiscal 2011, cash


provided by operating activities was $0.4 million and our net debt position was $8.1 million


unchanged from the first quarter. Moving onto our Satellite business, revenues of $11.4 million


were up 15%, compared to the same period last year and up 8% compared to the first quarter. The


gross margin percentage for satellite products improved to 10% in the second quarter, but remain


below longer term historical levels, due in large parts to the lower revenue run rate resulting in


lower absorption of manufacturing overhead costs.


As we’ve discussed in previous calls, over the past year we worked closely with our direct


broadcast excuse me Direct Broadcast Satellite or DBS customers to develop several next


generation products. These next generation products are important for our Satellite business


because we believe they will increase our addressable portion of the market and also improve our


gross margins. During this past quarter, we made progress in the ongoing qualification process for


these products and have began low volume manufacturing of one product.


However, the introduction of these new products is not happening as rapidly as we had expected


with delays partly due to technical issues, but primarily due to changes in the timing of our


customers’ plans. As a result, we do not expect our Satellite segment revenue to show the level of


growth we had previously expected in the third and fourth quarters. We’re continuing to work


closely with our customers and to support them as they launch these new products.


Now let’s move onto an update of our Wireless DataCom business, which provides communication


systems, products and services for applications in the utility, public safety, transportation, industrial


monitoring and controls and MRM markets. Providing comments today is our President and COO,


Michael Burdiek. Michael?


Michael Burdiek, President and Chief Operating Officer


Thank you, Rick. During the second quarter, the Wireless DataCom business generated revenues


of 18.1 million, which was up 14% on a sequential quarter basis and up 29% year-over-year. In


addition, after nearly two years of operating losses, our Wireless DataCom segment is solidly


profitable in the second quarter. The sequential and year-over-year revenue improvements were


largely driven by our MRM business. We are also seeing some indications that our Wireless


Networks business is beginning to recover with several recently announced large new orders and a


healthy pipeline of opportunity in the utility sector for smart grid infrastructure applications. In fact,


we ended the second quarter with Wireless Networks backlog at an all time high.


The revenue breakdown within our Wireless DataCom segment this quarter was roughly two-thirds


for MRM application and one-third for Wireless Network application. This compares to roughly


50/50 split in the second quarter of last year and a 45/55 split favoring Wireless Networks in the


second quarter of fiscal 2009.


Similar to recent quarters, customer demand for our MRM products remained very strong. Second


quarter revenues for our MRM products were at an all time high easily surpassing the previous