corrected transcript


CalAmp Corp.
 
CAMP
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 8, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for standing by. Welcome to the


CalAmp Fiscal 2010 Second Quarter Conference Call. At this time, all parties are in a listen-only


mode. Following the presentation, the conference will be open for questions. [Operator Instructions]


As a reminder, this conference is being recorded today, Thursday, October 8, 2009.


I will now turn the conference over to your host, Mr. Lasse Glassen with the Financial Relations


Board. Please go ahead, sir.


Lasse Glassen, Financial Relations Board


Thank you. And good afternoon everybody. Welcome to CalAmp’s fiscal 2010 second quarter


earnings call. With us today are CalAmp’s President and CEO, Rick Gold, and the company’s Chief


Financial Officer, Rick Vitelle.


Before I turn the call over to management, please remember that our prepared remarks and


responses to questions may contain forward-looking statements. Words such as may, will, expect,


intend, plan, believe, seek, could, estimate, judgment, targeting, should, anticipate, goal and


variations of these words and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking


statements.


Actual results could differ materially from those implied by such forward-looking statements due to


a variety of factors including product demand, competitive pressures and pricing declines in the


company’s satellite and wireless markets, the timing of customer approvals of new product designs,


the length and extent of the global economic downturn that has and may continue to adversely


affect the company’s business, the company’s ability to refinance or extend its bank term loan prior


to the December 31, 2009 maturity date, and other risks or uncertainties that are described in the


company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for Fiscal 2009, as filed on May 12, 2009 with the


Securities and Exchange Commission.


Although the company believes the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are


based upon reasonable assumptions, it can give no assurance that its expectations will be attained.


The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements,


whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.


With that, it’s now my pleasure to turn the call over to CalAmp’s President and CEO, Rick Gold.


Rick?


Rick Gold, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Lasse. Good afternoon, and thank you for joining us today to discuss CalAmp’s fiscal


2010 second quarter results. I will begin with comments on the financial and operational highlights


from this past quarter and then I’ll provide an update on several of our key business initiatives. Rick


Vitelle will then discuss additional details about our financial results, balance sheet, working capital


management and cash flow. Then I will wrap up with revenue and earnings guidance for the


second half of fiscal 2010 along with some concluding remarks. This will be followed by a question-


and-answer session.


Overall, I continue to be pleased with our ability to grow revenues and generate operating cash flow


in spite of the challenging economic environment. During the quarter, consolidated revenues


increased 4% sequentially to 23.9 million, which is within our expected guidance range of 23 to 25


million.
corrected transcript


CalAmp Corp.
 
CAMP
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 8, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


The top-line was driven by both ramping unit volumes in our Satellite products business and a


continued rebound of our Wireless DataCom business. With two sequential quarters of revenue


growth and a solid outlook for the remainder of fiscal 2010, we believe that the recovery of our


business is well underway.


Looking at the bottom-line, results of operations included a GAAP net loss of 4.2 million, or $0.17


per diluted share. Excluding the impact of changes in the deferred income tax asset valuation


allowance, amortization of intangible assets and stock-based compensation expense, our adjusted


basis or non-GAAP net loss was $2.3 million or $0.09 loss per diluted share.


Included in the second quarter GAAP and adjusted basis net loss is a pre-tax loss of approximately


$1 million related to the sale of preferred stock in a privately held company. This non-operating loss


on sale of an investment represents $0.04 per diluted share on a GAAP basis and $0.02 per diluted


share on an adjusted basis.


Second quarter per share results were also negatively impacted by the sales mix change in which


revenue from our lower margin Satellite products came in over our forecast, and revenue from our


higher margin Wireless products came in lower than forecast. I refer you to our second quarter


earnings press release issued earlier today for detailed reconciliation of the GAAP basis net loss to


the adjusted basis or non-GAAP net loss.


Moving on to our cash flow statement and balance sheet. We continue to generate positive


operating cash flow and reduce our debt. During the second quarter, we generated net cash from


operating activities of $2.9 million and paid down total debt by 3.6 million. As of the end of the


second quarter, the principal balance of our bank debt was down to $14 million and the


subordinated note payable to a direct broadcast satellite, or DBS, customer stood at only $410,000.


I will next provide updates for our Satellite and Wireless DataCom businesses. Our Satellite


business has entered a period of accelerated growth driven by customer demand. During the


second quarter, Satellite products revenues increased to $10 million, up 8% on a sequential basis.


Looking ahead, we expect Satellite revenue to increase sharply in the second half of fiscal 2010.


In September, we added a second shift at our main assembly plant in Oxnard, California, to


increase our production capacity, and we are working closely with key suppliers in an effort to


achieve a smooth ramp in volume to meet the increased demand.


We also continue to shift significant quantities of refurbished products to a key customer that,


although not generating revenue, increase our market penetration and decrease our remaining


product rework commitments to this customer. To date, we have reworked and shipped back


approximately 60% of the products returned to us for refurbishment and expect to substantially


complete reworking the returns by the February 2010 quarter, one quarter earlier than we had


previously projected.


Overall, the underlying fundamentals of our Satellite products business continue to improve. Our


next-generation satellite product developments for our two principal DBS customers remain on


track. We continue to expect initial shipments of these products to begin late in fiscal 2010, with


material contributions to revenue beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2011.


Now, let’s move on to an update of our Wireless DataCom business, which provides


communication systems, products and services for applications in the mobile resource


management, or MRM, public safety, utility and industrial monitoring and controls markets.


During the second quarter, the Wireless DataCom business generated revenues of $14 million,


which is a 2% increase on a sequential quarter basis. We experienced stabilizing or increasing