corrected transcript


CalAmp Corp.
 
CAMP
 
Q2 2006 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 6, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the CalAmp Second Quarter


Fiscal Year 2006 Conference Call. [Operator instructions].


I would now like to turn the conference over to Ms. Amy Cozamanis with Financial Relations Board.


Please go ahead, ma’am.


Amy Cozamanis, Financial Relations Board


Thank you operator. Good afternoon, everybody. Welcome to CalAmp’s fiscal 2006 second


quarter earnings call. With us today are CalAmp’s President and CEO, Fred Sturm, and the


Company’s Chief Financial Officer, Rick Vitelle.


Before I turn the call over to management, please remember that their prepared remarks this


afternoon contain forward-looking statements, which are subject to risks and uncertainties. And


management may make some additional forward-looking statements in response to your questions.


Therefore, the Company claims the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 Safe Harbor


Protection for forward-looking statements. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties


that may cause actual results to differ materially from statements made today; and this includes, but


is not limited to risks and uncertainties related to fluctuations in the market demand for CalAmp’s


products and services, general and industry economic conditions, competition, development factors


and operating costs, continued pricing pressure in the DBS market, supplier constraints and


manufacturing yields, the Company’s ability to manage cost fluctuations in raw materials, and the


timing in market’s acceptance of new product introductions and new technologies. The Company’s


ability to eliminate operating losses and achieve profitability in its Solutions Division, and the


Company’s ability to maintain and/or expand its relationships with key customers.


Examples of forward-looking statements include statements related to CalAmp’s anticipated or


projected revenues, gross margins, expenditures and liquidity needs. We therefore encourage all


of our listeners to review a more detailed discussion of these forward-looking statements, risks and


uncertainties, which are contained in the Company’s registration statement on Form S-3, filed with


the SEC on October 20th, 2004.


Any projections as to the Company’s future financial performance represent management’s


estimates as of today, October 6th, 2005. CalAmp assumes no obligation to update these


projections in the future due to changing market conditions or otherwise.


With that, it’s now my pleasure to turn the call over to CalAmp’s President and CEO Fred Sturm.


Go ahead.


Fred M. Sturm, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Amy. Good afternoon, and thank you for joining us today to discuss CalAmp’s fiscal


2006 second quarter results. I will begin with the highlights from the second quarter, including an


overview of the company’s performance and then give you an update on several business


initiatives. Rick Vitelle will then provide additional details on financial results, balance sheet,


working capital management and cash flow for the second quarter, as well as the current outlook


for the fiscal third quarter of 2006. I will then wrap up with some concluding remarks, and after that


open the call up for a question-and-answer session. Let’s begin with the financial highlights and


overview.
corrected transcript


CalAmp Corp.
 
CAMP
 
Q2 2006 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 6, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


We are now seeing tangible results from the initiatives we have undertaken to diversify our


business and increase our profitability. This is best illustrated by the operating income we


generated during the quarter of $6.1 million, an all time quarterly record for the company and more


than two times the amount of operating income we generated during the same quarter last year.


Over the past year and a half, we have also made solid progress in diversifying our business. As a


frame of reference, in fiscal 2004, our satellite products accounted for 94% of our total revenue. By


comparison, during the first six months of fiscal 2006, satellite products represented 77% of our


overall revenue. Total revenue for the second quarter of fiscal 2006 was $57.7 million, up more


than 13% compared to $50.8 million for the second quarter of last year. On a sequential quarter


basis, total revenue increased by approximately $10 million, or more than 21% over the prior


quarter.


Revenue from our Products Division comprised a substantial majority of our total revenues at $52.6


million. Products Division revenue was up more than 22% from the second quarter last year. This


year-over-year Products Division revenue improvement, with a combined result of organic growth in


our core Direct Broadcast, or “DBS,” business, the revenue contributions of our Machine-to-


Machine product line, commonly referred to as “M2M,” that was acquired mid-way through the first


quarter of this fiscal year, and our product supply agreement with EF Johnson, a customer we


added as a result of last year’s Vytek acquisition.


On a sequential quarter basis, Products Division revenue increased approximately $11.4 million, or


28%. This sequential increase was due to higher demand from our primary DBS customers, both


of whom returned to more normal levels of ordering activity in the second quarter, after purchasing


reduced quantities in the first quarter of this year to adjust their inventory holding levels. Also


contributing to the improved sequential results in the second quarter revenue were the ramp in


shipments of radio modules to EF Johnson, and the revenue contributions from the M2M product


line for the full quarter compared to the preceding quarter, which included shipments for roughly


half that period.


Moving on to the Solutions Division, revenue for the second quarter fiscal 2006 was $5.1 million,


compared to $7.8 million for the same period last year. This reduction in revenues from the


Solutions Division is primarily due to our previously stated objective of being more selective in


pursuit of business for the Solutions Division, focusing on higher margin opportunities and forgoing


unprofitable, non-strategic Solutions Division business.


To this end, I think we’ve done a good job during the last several quarters in either eliminating or


renegotiating business relationships with customers that were either not strategic to CalAmp, or


were only marginally profitable. Although we have not yet turned a profit in the Solutions Division,


and we still have a lot of work ahead of us in order to get the division where we'd like it to be


financially, we are continuing to make progress towards profitability.


On a sequential basis, in the second quarter, the Solutions Division operating loss of $513,000 was


reduced by more than $600,000, or 50%, compared to first quarter operating loss of $1.1 million.


Furthermore, the Solutions Division operating loss in the latest quarter was down 75% from the


$2.1 million operating loss it incurred in the second quarter of last year.


As we have previously stated, we are targeting the Solutions Division to achieve operating


profitability in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006. In order to achieve this objective, we will need to


increase our quarterly revenue to nearly $6 million. We believe that we have the sales organization


employees and potential opportunities to achieve this objective.