corrected transcript


CalAmp Corp.
 
CAMP
 
Q4 2011 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 28, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


PARTICIPANTS


Corporate Participants


J. Czajka Lasse Glassen
 
– Vice President-Finance & Investor Relations


Rick Gold
 
– Chief Executive Officer


Michael J. Burdiek
 
– President & Chief Operating Officer


Richard K. Vitelle
 
– CFO, Secretary, Treasurer & Vice President


Other Participants


Mike Crawford MBA
 
– Senior Analyst, B. Riley & Co.


Ilya Grozovsky
 
– Research Analyst, Morgan Joseph & Co., Inc.


Marc W. Robins
 
– Founder & Managing Partner, Catalyst Financial Resources LLC


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Welcome to the CalAmp Fiscal 2011 Fourth Quarter Conference Call. During today’s


presentation, all parties will be in a listen-only mode. Following the presentation, the conference will


be opened for questions. [Operator Instructions]


This conference is being recorded today, Thursday April 28th, 2011. I’ll now turn the conference


over to Lasse Glassen of the Financial Relations Board. Please go ahead sir.


J. Czajka Lasse Glassen, Vice President-Finance & Investor Relations


Thank you and good afternoon, everybody. Welcome to CalAmp’s fiscal 2011 Fourth Quarter and


Full Year Results Conference Call. With us today are CalAmp’s Chief Executive Officer, Rick Gold


along with the company’s President and Chief Operating Officer, Michael Burdiek and Chief


Financial Officer, Rick Vitelle.


Before I turn the call over to management, please remember that our prepared remarks and


responses to questions may contain forward-looking statements. Words such as may, will, expect,


intend, plan, believe, seek, could, estimate, judgment, targeting, should, anticipate, goal and


variations of these words and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking


statements.


Actual results could differ materially from those implied by such forward-looking statements, due to


a variety of factors including product demand, competitive pressures and pricing declines in the


company’s satellite and wireless markets, the timing of customer approvals of new product designs,


the length and extent of the global economic downturn that has and may continue to adversely


affect the company’s business, and other risks and uncertainties that are described in the


company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2011 as filed earlier this afternoon with the


Securities and Exchange Commission.


Although the company believes the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are


based upon reasonable assumptions, we can give no assurance that its expectations will be


attained. The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking


statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
corrected transcript


CalAmp Corp.
 
CAMP
 
Q4 2011 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 28, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


With that it’s now my pleasure to turn the call over to CalAmp’s Chief Executive Officer, Rick Gold.


Rick?


Rick Gold, Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Lasse. Good afternoon and thank you, for joining us today to discuss CalAmp’s fiscal


2011 fourth quarter and full year results. I’ll begin with comments on our financial and operational


highlights and I’ll then provide an update on our satellite products business.


Michael Burdiek will follow with an update on our Wireless DataCom business and Rick Vitelle will


discuss additional details about our financial results, balance sheet, working capital management


and cash flow. I’ll wrap up with our business outlook and guidance, along with some concluding


remarks. This will be followed by a question-and-answer session.


Looking at CalAmp’s operational highlights, we returned to profitability on a GAAP basis in the


fourth quarter for the first time in four years. Our Wireless DataCom business continued its strong


momentum, with quarterly revenue increasing 48% year-over-year. This growth was driven by both


our Mobile Resource Management and Wireless Networks products.


As Michael will discuss in more detail in a few minutes, we’re seeing strong demand for our Mobile


Resource Management or MRM products from local fleet management, vehicle finance, asset


tracking and stolen vehicle recovery verticals. Our Wireless Networks products also showed strong


growth, with contributions from projects in the public safety, railroad, and energy sectors. We’re


making significant investments in R&D to expand and strengthen our footprint in wireless Data and


we’re encouraged by the traction our new products are getting in the market.


At the bottom line, we generated steady improvement over the course of fiscal 2011 and returned


CalAmp to profitability. GAAP basis net income in the fourth quarter was $303,000 or $0.01 per


diluted share. Excluding the impact of amortization of intangible assets and stock-based


compensation expense, our adjusted basis or non-GAAP net income was $668,000 or $0.02 per


diluted share. I refer you to our fourth quarter earnings press release issued today for a detailed


reconciliation of the GAAP and non-GAAP basis financial results.


Looking at our cash flow and balance sheet, net cash provided by operating activities during the


three and 12-month periods ended February 28th, 2011 was $51,000 and $857,000 respectively.


Our net debt at the end of the fourth quarter was $7.7 million, up slightly compared to the net debt


of $7.4 million at the end of the third quarter.


Now let’s take a closer look at the satellite business. Fourth quarter revenue was softer than


expected. During the quarter, we began the initial production ramp of a new product as well as a


production ramp of one older product that is experiencing renewed demand. However, these ramps


did not begin until late in the quarter.


Consequently, we recorded fourth quarter satellite revenue of only $5.6 million, which was


sequentially lower by $2.8 million and was down substantially from $18.7 million in the fourth


quarter of fiscal 2010. We expect that volume shipments of these two products should drive


significantly higher satellite revenue during our fiscal 2012 first quarter.


In addition, we’re on track with the plans we discussed last quarter to enhance the operational


flexibility and cost structure of our satellite business. We are transitioning the satellite business to a


more variable cost model with more functions performed by our manufacturing partners in Asia.


This will allow us to reduce our fixed overhead costs and lower our break-even point, while also


improving our ability to respond to rapid shifts in demand. We expect to complete this transition


during the second quarter of fiscal 2012.