corrected transcript


CalAmp Corp.
 
CAMP
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 8, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for standing by and welcome to the


CalAmp, fiscal 2011 first quarter conference call. During today’s presentation all participants will be


in a listen-only mode. Following the presentation the conference will be open for questions.


[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded today, Thursday, July 8, 2010.


At this time, I like to turn the conference over to Lasse Glassen with the Financial Relations Board.


Please go ahead sir.


Lasse Glassen, Vice President, Financial Relations Board


Thank you. Good afternoon, everybody. Welcome to CalAmp’s fiscal 2011 first quarter earnings


call. With us today are CalAmp’s Chief Executive Officer, Rick Gold and the company’s Chief


Financial Officer, Rick Vitelle.


Before I turn the call over to management, please remember that our prepared remarks and


responses to questions may contain forward-looking statements. Words, such as may, will, expect,


intend, plan, believe, seek, could, estimate, judgment, targeting, should, anticipate, goal and


variations of these words and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking


statements.


Actual results could differ materially from those implied by such forward-looking statements due to


a variety of factors, including product demand, competitive pressures and pricing declines in the


company’s Satellite and Wireless markets, the timing of customer approval of new product designs,


the length and extent of the global economic downturn that has and may continue to adversely


affect the company’s business and other risks and uncertainties that are described in the


company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2010 as filed on May 6, 2010 with the Securities


and Exchange Commission.


Although the company believes the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are


based upon reasonable assumptions, we can give no assurance that its expectations will be


attained. The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking


statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.


With that, it’s now my pleasure to turn the call over to CalAmp’s Chief Executive Officer, Rick Gold.


Rick.


Rick Gold, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Lasse. Good afternoon, and thank you for joining us today to discuss CalAmp’s fiscal


2011 first quarter results. I’ll begin with comments on our financial and operational highlights and I’ll


then provide an update on several of our key business activities.


Rick Vitelle will then discuss additional details about our financial results, balance sheet, working


capital management and cash flow and I’ll wrap up with our business outlook and guidance, along


with some concluding remarks. This will be followed by a question-and-answer session.


First quarter operating results were in line with expectations. Revenues of $26.3 million increased


15% on a year-over-year basis and were driven by improving fundamentals in both our Satellite and


Wireless Datacom businesses. During the quarter, we experienced continued strong demand for


our Mobile Resource Management or MRM products, as well as contribution from key wireless


network projects introduced earlier this year or announced earlier this year.
corrected transcript


CalAmp Corp.
 
CAMP
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 8, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


In our satellite business as anticipated, first quarter revenues declined, compared to the fourth


quarter of fiscal 2010, but were up on a year-over-year basis. We expect next generation satellite


products that are currently in the customer qualification process, along with normal seasonal


demand patterns in this market will help drive growth and improve profitability during the remainder


of fiscal 2011.


At the bottom line, results of operations included a GAAP basis net loss of $2.5 million, or $0.09 per


diluted share. Excluding the impact of amortization of intangible assets and stock-based


compensation expense, our adjusted basis or non-GAAP net loss was $1.1 million, or $0.04 per


diluted share. I refer you to our first quarter earnings press release issued earlier today for a


detailed reconciliation of the GAAP basis pre-tax loss, to the adjusted basis or non-GAAP net loss.


Moving on to our cash flow and balance sheet, during the first quarter of fiscal 2011, cash used by


operating activities was $0.5 million and our net debt position stood at $8.1 million. I will next


provide updates for our Satellite and Wireless Datacom businesses. Looking at our Satellite


business, revenues of $10.5 million were up 14%, compared to the same period last year. The


gross margin percentage for satellite products remain below historical levels, due in large part to


the lower revenue run rate resulting in lower absorption of manufacturing overhead cost.


We are continuing to work closely with our Direct Broadcast Satellite or DBS customers to develop


next generation products that we expect will increase our addressable portion of the market and


improve gross margins over the remainder of fiscal 2011. We are currently developing four next


generation satellite products, two for each of our DBS customers. We are well into the production


qualification process for the first of these products, with revenue shipments expected to begin late


in the second fiscal quarter or early in the third fiscal quarter of this year. We expect two other


products to enter the customer qualification process this quarter, with one more in Q3.


Now let’s move on to an update of our Wireless DataCom business, which provides communication


systems, products and services for applications in the utility, public safety, industrial and mobile


resource management markets. During the first quarter, the Wireless DataCom business generated


revenues of $15.8 million, which was up slightly on a sequential quarter basis, and up 15% year-


over-year. The year-over-year improvement was driven by our MRM business. We are also seeing


encouraging signs in our Wireless Networks business, where we have been devoting significant


resources to the utility sector for smart grid infrastructure applications.


These areas of growth in the quarter were partially offset by the continued weakness in the public


safety sector, where, despite an increasing level of bid activity, state and local governments are still


proceeding very cautiously and remain slow to commit to capital spending. The revenue breakdown


within our Wireless DataCom business this quarter was roughly 60% for MRM applications, and


40% for Wireless Networks applications. This compares to a roughly 50/50 split in the first quarter


of last year.


Also comparing Wireless Networks revenues in the latest quarter to a year ago, we have seen a


significant shift towards utility and energy customers, compensating for a decline in revenue from


public safety customers.


Strong customer demand for our MRM products continues to lead the recovery of our Wireless


DataCom business. First quarter revenues for our MRM products were at near record levels and


were driven by the strength of our local fleet management and school bus tracking verticals. In


addition, new mobile tracking products that we launched earlier this year are driving our penetration


into the emerging verticals of cargo tracking and auto insurance.


The traction our MRM applications are gaining in the marketplace is due in large part to the return


on investment end users can expect to realize by deploying one of our MRM solutions. To illustrate,