corrected transcript


CalAmp Corp.
 
CAMP
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 9, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the


CalAmp fiscal 2010 first quarter conference call. During today’s presentation, all parties will be in a


listen-only mode. Following the presentation, the conference will be open for questions. [Operator


Instructions]. This conference call is being recorded today, Thursday, July 9, 2009.


I would now like to turn the conference over to Lasse Glassen of the Financial Relations Board.


Please go ahead, sir.


Lasse Glassen, Vice President, Financial Relations Board


Thank you and good afternoon, everybody. Welcome to CalAmp’s fiscal 2010 first quarter earnings


call. With us today are CalAmp’s President and CEO, Rick Gold and the company’s Chief Financial


Officer, Rick Vitelle.


Before I turn the call over to management, please remember that our prepared remarks and


responses to questions may contain forward-looking statements. Words such as may, will, expect,


intend, plan, believe, seek, could, estimate, judgment, targeting, should, anticipate, goal and


variations of these words and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking


statements. Actual results could differ materially from those implied by such forward-looking


statements due to a variety of factors including product demand, competitive pressures and pricing


declines in the company’s satellite and wireless markets, the timing of customer approvals of new


product designs, the length and extent of the global economic downturn that has had – that has and


may continue to adversely affect the company’s business. The company’s ability to refinance or


extend its bank term loan prior to the December 31, 2009 maturity date and other risks or


uncertainties that are described in the company’s annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year


2009, as filed on May 12, 2009 with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


Although the company believes the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are


based upon reasonable assumptions, it can’t give no assurance that its expectations will be


attained. The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking


statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.


With that it’s now my pleasure to turn the call over to CalAmp’s President and Chief Executive


Officer, Rick Gold. Rick?


Rick Gold, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Lasse. Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today to discuss CalAmp’s fiscal


2010 first quarter results. I’ll begin with comments on the financial and operational highlights from


this past quarter and will then provide an update on several of our key business initiatives. Rick


Vitelle will then discuss additional details about our financial results, balance sheet, working capital


management and cash flow. I’ll wrap up with our revenue and earnings guidance for the second


quarter of fiscal 2010 along with some concluding remarks. This will be followed by a question and


answer session.


Despite the continued challenging economic conditions, consolidated first quarter revenue of $23


million increased 8% compared to the previous quarter and was within our expected guidance


range of 22 to $24 million. The sequential topline growth was driven primarily by the continued


ramp of unit volumes in our Satellite products business.
corrected transcript


CalAmp Corp.
 
CAMP
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 9, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


I was also encouraged by the rebound in revenues from our Wireless DataCom business on a


sequential quarter basis. There are increasing indications that conditions are beginning to improve


in several of the vertical markets we serve and we are cautiously optimistic that our Wireless


DataCom business is in the early stages of a recovery. Looking at the bottom line, results of


operations included a GAAP net loss of $4 million or $0.16 per diluted share, which was within our


guidance range of 0.15 to $0.19 loss per diluted share.


Excluding the impact of changes in the deferred income tax asset valuation allowance, amortization


of intangible assets and stock-based compensation expense, our adjusted basis or non-GAAP net


loss was $2.4 million or $0.10 loss per diluted share which was also within our first quarter


guidance range of 0.06 to $0.10. I refer you to our first quarter earnings press release issued earlier


today for detailed reconciliation of the GAAP basis net loss to adjusted basis or non-GAAP net loss.


Looking at our cash flows and balance sheet, we continue to generate positive operating cash flow


and pay down our debt. During the quarter we generated net cash from operating activities of $0.6


million and reduced our debt by $3.1 million.


As of the end of the first quarter, our bank term loan balance was $15.7 million and the


subordinated note payable to a Direct Broadcast Satellite or DBS customer was $2.2 million. Rick


Vitelle will expand on this in his remarks, but suffice it to say I am pleased with the fact that we had


generated positive operating cash flow in each of the last three quarters.


I will next provide updates for our Satellite and Wireless DataCom businesses. We continue to


make steady progress in our Satellite business, which generated revenues of $9.2 million in the first


quarter for a 14% sequential improvement compared to the prior quarter.


Satellite product revenues have now increased sequentially three quarters in a row. We also


continue to ship significant quantities of refurbished products to a key customer that although not


generating revenue increased our market penetration and decreased our remaining product rework


commitment to this customer.


To date, we have reworked and shipped back to the customer approximately 40% of the products


returned to us for refurbishment. In addition our engineering team continues to make good progress


on several new development programs involving next generation products for our two principle DBS


customers, which we expect to begin shipping late this fiscal year.


Overall, the underlying fundamentals of our DBS business are improving and we expect our


satellite product market share to be materially higher in fiscal 2010 compared to fiscal 2009.


Now, let’s move on to an update of our Wireless DataCom business, which provides


communication systems, products and services for applications in the mobile resource


management or MRM, public safety, utility and industrial monitoring and controls markets.


During the first quarter the Wireless DataCom business generated revenues of $13.8 million, which


is a 32% decrease on a year-over-year basis. This reduction occurred across all of our Wireless


DataCom vertical markets, and is primarily attributable to the global economic downturn.


That said, we have seen business stabilizing during the first quarter with Wireless DataCom


revenues increasing 4% sequentially after five consecutive quarters of decline. Based on our


current forecast, we expect Wireless DataCom revenues to continue to increase throughout the


remainder of fiscal 2010. Contributing to this expected turnaround is strong customer demand for


our MRM products and services.


As we announced earlier this week, during the months of May and June, orders for the company’s


MRM product lines exceeded $7.5 million, the highest ever for a two-month period. These recent