raw transcript


Chinadotcom Corporation
 
CHINA
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 9, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator:


Good day everyone and welcome to your Chinadotcom fourth quarter 2004 earnings conference


call. [Operator instructions] It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to your host Craig Celek. Sir


the floor is yours.


Craig Celek, Vice president, Investor Relations


Thank you operator, good morning and good evening this conference call and our press release


include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the United Sates Private securities


Litigation reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management’s current expectation


and are subject to risk and uncertainties and changes in circumstances, all forward-looking


statements included in this presentation and in our press release are based upon information


available to management as of the date of this press release and at the time of this presentation.


You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward looking statements which speak only


as of the date of this press release or the date of this call. The company assumes no obligation to


update or alter the forward looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events


or otherwise. Further information on risks or other factors that could cause results to differ is


detailed in filings and submissions with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission


made by Chinadotcom in it’s annual report for the year ended December 31st 2003 on form 20-


F(A), filed on July 8th 2004.


Please note, the financial information included in today’s press release and within today’s


presentation is un-audited and preliminary, at this time the company’s independent auditor, Ernst


and Young has not completed it’s audit of all of the company’s consolidated financial statements


and related notes. The financial information included herein is subject to adjustments pending the


completion of such audit, adjustments to the financial statements and the information may be


identified when the audit work is completed which could result in significant differences between the


financials audited consolidated financial statements and the preliminary un-audited financial


information set forth in this press release and in this call and prior press releases as related to the


company’s 2004 financial information. The audited consolidated financial statements and related


notes will be included in the company’s annual report on form 20-F for the year ended December


31st 2004. All of these documents are available on pour corporate website at www.china.corp.com.


Now let us begin our results with senior management. Raymond, please begin.


Raymond K.F. Chien, Chief Executive Officer


Thank you Craig and a warm welcome to everyone joining us today. 2004 marked a year of positive


change and transformation for Chinadotcom, we acquired two enterprise software companies, and


added a mobile value added services company. These investments have significantly extended our


global reach and broadened the products and services we offer. As I assume CEO responsibilities,


I do so with a strengthened management team, a broad set of first class mid enterprise software


products and in China, a new momentum in mobile value added services driven by 2.5 G


networked base products and a portal that is being repositioned with superior special interest


channel content.


Let me give you some corporate and financial highlights, and hand over to our CFO, Keith Oliver to


discuss these in greater detail.
raw transcript


Chinadotcom Corporation
 
CHINA
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 9, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


I will then conclude with our tasks for 2005.


Our total 2004 revenues were $182.7 million, an increase of 135% from %77.9 million in 2003. In


the fourth quarter we generated $54.2 million in total revenue, up 13% from the third quarter.


Software revenue in 2004 totaled $107.9 million compared to $12.9 million reported in 2003. The


big rise in software revenue is attributable to a four month contribution from our ERP unit Ross[ph]


and a ten month contribution from our CRM unit Pivotal. Pivotal continued it’s third consecutive


quarter of positive operating results with double digit growth in total revenue driven by a healthy


increase in new customers. In addition to holding three well attended customer conferences


through the quarter, Pivotal also won several prestigious industry awards including the CRM Select


excellence award from Infotek Research Group. Divesh Sisodraker, Pivotal’s CEO will be available


for the Q & A portion of today’s call.


Our ERP unit, Ross added new customers in the US, China, United Kingdom, Spain, Russia and


Poland. Ross launched iRenaissance 5.9 which incorporated a CRM module powered by pivotal.


Ross also launched a new product iRenaissance supply chain management their first product


release from our software development center in Shanghai. The Ross sales team have successfully


demonstrated their ability to cross sell other CDC software products, with a notable example being


a major joint SCM and ERP license ell to UK based Thurber [ph] foods. Ross CEO Pat Kinley is


with us today on the call and will be available for Q & A.


CDC software Asia pacific launched a new version of it’s business Analytics tool, executive Suite.


It’s software development center based in Shanghai achieved CMM level 4 certification. In addition


to expanding our sales capabilities in China, the division began to establish a sales and marketing


infrastructure in Japan. CEO of CDC Software Asia pacific James LaLonde [ph] will be available for


Q & A.


Turning to our mobile and portal business in China, the operating environment for the NVAS


industry turned harsh in the second half of 2004, with many sanctions and new restrictions imposed


by the regulator and mobile operators, our SMS business was seriously affected. However, from a


longer term perspective, we view this as a positive development which helps to raise the standard


of industry practices and create a more open and fair playing filed for service providers. We expect


regulatory volatility to remain a characteristic of China’s mobile communications industry for some


time to come so being nimble and able to pro-actively manage risk are essential factors of business


sustainability.


Total mobile and applications revenue in 2004 was $23.7 million, up 40% from $16.9 million in


2003. While we saw all our continuing advertising and marketing businesses grow in 2004,


advertising revenue for our portal network showed an encouraging turn around in late 2004. Total


advertising and marketing revenue for 2004 was $11.7 million, up 32% from $8.8 million in 2003.


Fourth quarter 2004 revenues were $3.6 million, up 18% from the third quarter. We expect to see


further improvement as we implement a repositioning strategy of the Chinadotcom portal with a


sharpened vertical focus and extending our comparative advantages in channels such a military,


automobile and sports.


Significant investments will be made in 2005 in content development, developing strategic


partnerships and sponsorship programs, in the process the Chinadotcom portal will become


increasingly symbiotic with our mobile services and online games businesses. Rudy Chang, CEO


of HongKong.com is also here for Q & A.


2004 saw the companies geographic scope expand markedly, today we have over 1,800


employees in 14 countries with more than 350 R & D professionals and over 400 sale sand


marketing related specialists. Our strategic vision is to be internationally the leading specialist mid


tier enterprise software provider. And in China the most innovative mobile value added service


provider come new media company. On a US GAAP basis principally due to restructuring charges,