corrected transcript


Chinadotcom Corporation
 
CHINA
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 19, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the CDC Corporation First Quarter


2005 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants have been placed on a listen-only


mode, and the floor will be opened for questions following the presentation. It is now my pleasure


to turn the floor over to your host Craig Celek. Sir, you may begin.


Craig Celek, Vice President – Investor Relations


Thank you. Good morning, good evening everyone. This conference call and our press release of


CDC Corporation include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the US Private


Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current


expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties and changes in circumstances.


All forward-looking statements included in this presentation and our press release are based upon


information available to management as of the date of the press release and at the time of


presentation, and you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements


which speak only as of the date of this press release or today’s call.


The company assumes no obligation to update or alter the forward-looking statements whether as


a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Further information on risks or other factors


that could cause results to differ is detailed in the filings or submissions with the United States


Securities and Exchange Commission made by CDC Corporation in its Annual Report for the year


ended December 31, 2004 on Form 20-F/A filed on July 8, 2004.


Also please note financial information included in this press release and within today’s presentation


is un-audited and preliminary. The quarterly financial information included herein is subject to prior


adjustment pending the completion of the 2005 full year audit by the company's independent


auditors, Ernst & Young. Adjustments to the Q1 financial statements may be identified when the


full 2005 year audit will be completed and could result in significant changes, which may need to be


made to the company's preliminary Q1 un-audited financial information set forth in the press


release and in this presentation. The 2005 audited consolidated financial statements and related


notes will be included in the company's Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ending December


31, 2005.


With that said, I’ll now turn it over to Raymond Ch'ien, our Executive Chairman and CEO.


Raymond?


Raymond Ch'ien, Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you Craig. This quarter, CDC Corporation focused on organic revenue growth and making


astute investments in product and service innovations, and expansion of our sales force, and


channel partnerships. As we hope you are aware, the company changed its name from


Chinadotcom Corporation to CDC Corporation a few weeks ago. We believe CDC Corporation


better reflects our transformation into a larger and more diverse enterprise. The new name without


dotcom signals the shift of business away from the sole reliance on the Internet sector and without


the "China" component symbolizes a more geographically diverse revenue and customer mix.


Our Q1 total revenues were $56.2 million, an increase of 58% from 35.5 million during the same


period of 2004.
corrected transcript


Chinadotcom Corporation
 
CHINA
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 19, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


In software, revenue totaled 37.2 million for the first quarter of 2005, up 121% over the same period


a year ago, primarily due to the consolidation of results of newly acquired software businesses.


Our CRM software subsidiary Pivotal added 25 customers and just yesterday launched marketing


activities for its latest product suite Pivotal 5.7.


Our ERP subsidiary Ross Systems added 11 new customers with over half of which were within


one of Ross Systems key verticals, the Consumer Packaged Goods vertical. Now Ross Systems


has launched a number of applications during the quarter including Sales Analytics, the first


application in its iRenaissance Enterprise Performance Management suite.


At CDC Software Asia Pacific, we expanded sales headcount in our Japan, Australia and New


Zealand offices. We achieved Microsoft Gold Certified Partner status in Hong Kong. China and


Japan. Our strategy continues to be establishing CDC Corporation as a global company that’s


building a solid enterprise software product platform for the mid-market customer that quickly


delivers value.


We remain focused on continually refining our current product line and will boost R&D investments


to fund new products and services development. We will continue to build our software sales


organization to drive revenue growth and capitalize on market opportunities where we believe


makes the most sense and build out our channel partnerships further.


Business services revenue this quarter was $9.4 million. In Australia, we added 5 new business


services customers and engaged in a significant project with Optus and Amalgamated Holdings


Ltd.


In Korea, we began projects with 2 local telecom operators and in the US, new large-scale


engagements for an airline and a major theme park operator have commenced. As a result of


significant senior management attention to our business services companies in 2004, they have all


become costable and are poised for organic growth in 2005.


In tandem with CDC Corporation’s renaming, our Mobile Applications and Internet Media


Subsidiary was renamed Chinadotcom Incorporated. We believe the new subsidiary name better


reflects that the underlying operations, revenue mix, customer base are predominantly in China and


takes better advantage of the brand awareness built by the Chinadotcom portal since beginning


operations in 1999.


Total mobile services and applications revenue for the first quarter of 2005 was $7.3 million, up


13% from 6.5 million from the same period last year. We are beginning to see encouraging signs of


a sustainable recovery for the mobile value added services industry in China. Our strategy to


diversify our product revenue mix has started to see initial results for a more stable revenue base.


Non-SMS revenue continues to trend higher, SMS revenue now accounts for only about half of our


total MVAS revenue, in contrast to over 90% just 1 year ago.


In particular, some of the newer mobile platform products such as WAP and IVR grew over 100%


last quarter. Even MMS, a product class which industry-wide hasn’t grown much as a result of


continuing operator and regulator policy changes, had a respectable 20% quarterly growth.


While regulatory and operators’ policy changes may have abated in the near term, we believe


volatility to be a market characteristic of China’s mobile communications industry.


We believe being nimble and being able to quickly adapt to changes in the mobile industry in China


to be essential success factors. We believe our focus on delivering innovative products and


services through the newer mobile platforms will help shield us from volatility better and position us