corrected transcript


CDC Corp.
 
CHINA
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 21, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


PARTICIPANTS


Corporate Participants


Monish Bahl
 
– SVP-Business Development, Mergers & Acquisitions


Hak Yung Peter Yip
 
– Vice Chairman, Chief Executive Officer & Founder


John A. Stone
 
– Chief Financial Officer


Kwong Chi Simon Wong
 
– Director


Bruce Cameron
 
– President, CDC Software Corp.


Chung Kiu Wong PhD
 
– Vice Chairman, CDC Software Corp.


Other Participants


Brad A. Zelnick
 
– Vice President, Macquarie Capital (USA), Inc.


Vijay Kori
 
– Associate, Raymond James & Associates


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day and welcome to CDC Corporation’s Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2010


Results Conference Call. Today’s call is being recorded. For opening remarks and introductions, I


would like to turn the call over to Monish Bahl, Senior Vice President of M&A and Corporate


Development.


Please go ahead, sir.


Monish Bahl, SVP-Business Development, Mergers & Acquisitions


Thank you. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today to discuss our results for


the fourth quarter and full year of 2010. With us today is Mr. Peter Yip, Chief Executive Officer of


CDC Corporation; and John Stone, CFO of CDC Corporation. Please note that the conference will


be recorded and available for playback on the Internet by visiting our corporate website at


www.cdccorporation.net.


As is customary, before we begin, I would like to remind you that certain statements made during


this conference call and webcast may constitute forward-looking statements, which are based on


management’s current expectations and beliefs and which are subject to a number of risks and


uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially, including risks that may be beyond


the company’s control. Further information on these risks or other factors that could cause results


to differ is set forth in our filings or submissions we make from time to time with the United States


Securities and Exchange Commission. All forward-looking statements made today are based upon


current information available to management and you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on


any forward-looking statements.


Please also refer to our earnings press release for additional information on forward-looking


statements and risks as well as a description of the non-GAAP financial measures used herein and


reconciles thereto. We assume no obligation to update or alter the forward-looking statements,


whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Historical results are not


indicative of future performance.


Now, it’s my pleasure to introduce Mr. Peter Yip, Chief Executive Officer of CDC Corporation.


Peter, please go ahead.
corrected transcript


CDC Corp.
 
CHINA
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 21, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


Hak Yung Peter Yip, Vice Chairman, Chief Executive Officer & Founder


Thank you, Monish, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining our call today. As I do on


each call, I would like to briefly go over our corporate structure for those who [ph] aren’t (1:56)


familiar with our company.


So, now on slide number four, as you see here, CDC is a value-added operator of and growth


investor in hybrid enterprise software, IT consulting, and new media businesses. Let me now briefly


list our growth-oriented core businesses for you.


As you see on the chart, our largest public-listed businesses is CDC Software, which is listed on


the NASDAQ, which CDC [ph] own (2:34) approximately 87%. In addition, CDC Corporation also


owns 100% of CDC Global Service, a China-focused IT and consulting businesses, our new media


businesses including CDC Games and China.com businesses. Under China.com, we have so


called private equity fund investments, one of them is a China-based PE Fund and the other one is


a leading U.S. new media PE and VC Fund.


Now, let me briefly list our minority investment, which we will discuss in more detail later in this


presentation. CDC recently, as you know, announced plans for investment in a [ph] Renminbi


(3:29) Fund, which is a Chinese currency for a Chinese local government in Foshan. CDC also hold


a 20% equity interest in Menue, which is formerly known as Bbmf, a 3G mobile content and mobile


Internet company based in China and in Japan. We also have minority interests in two other


companies. They are part of CDC Software Strategic Cloud Investment Partner Programs.


Now on – let’s flip to slide number five. Let’s take a look at CDC Corporation financial result of Q4


and full year 2010.


In 2010, CDC Corporation maintained very stable revenue and much improved gross profit, and


very, very healthy cash generation from operations. For example, in Q4 2010, we see increasing


cash generation from operation, 65% in Q4 2010 to $8.9 million as compared to $5.4 million, a very


nice 65% increase as compared to the same period a year ago.


For the full year 2010 result, non-GAAP total revenue was $322.5 million compared to $320.8


million. The GAAP gross profit in 2010 of full year was $142.9 million compared to $135 million a


year ago. Adjusted EBITDA margin in 2010 was 10% compared to 13% in 2009. Overall, we are


very pleased with our full year result and improvement in revenue and gross profit margins.


Let’s move to slide number six, let me give you a quick update on our value-added partnership and


investment in various technology and China-focused private equity funds.


We’re expecting an outstanding four-times return from our $14 million committed investment in a


China-based PE Fund, which mean we’re expecting a return on capital of approximately $60 million


over the next several years. This return is not reflected fully in our financial statement. As a result of


this superior performance, we plan more co-investments with China PE Fund as well as partnership


with the portfolio company in China.


Additionally, we have made a strategic investment in a U.S.-leading new technology and new


media PE Fund and we are in discussion for a number of potential co-investment opportunity as


well as partnerships in the China market.


Let us turn to slide seven. Let’s talk about our cash on hand, which we see a very healthy balance.


As of December 31st, 2010, our non-GAAP cash and cash equivalent were $111.8 million, on a