Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Moshe J. Greidinger — Chief Executive Officer, Cineworld Group Plc
Nisan Cohen — Vice President-Finance & Deputy CFO, Cineworld Group Plc
Israel Greidinger — Deputy Chief Executive Officer, Cineworld Group Plc
Richard Stuber — Analyst, Numis Securities Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, everyone. Thank you for coming and joining us for the interim result. I'm just doing the welcome announcement. We will go – if this would work – to the first slide just as an introduction. During 2015, we clearly continued to deliver our strategy and to go along our strategy, I believe, in a good way. We have expanded our estate not only organically this time but following the end of the six months also by an acquisition that you're all aware to and we will talk about it at a later stage, enhancing our existing estate.

It's not the first time that we are saying that Cineworld has many great cinemas that are a bit old, very well-maintained but still has huge potential. And we are now refurbishing them already in second year in a row and the reaction from our customers is extremely good. And we're happy with it as well. We are installing leading edge of technology and of course delivering value to our shareholders.

We will start today the presentation with the financial review that will be given by Nisan Cohen, our Deputy CFO. We'll go then to talk about the Empire deal which will be presented by Israel Greidinger, our Deputy CEO. And then I will talk a little bit about the business updates. And Nisan.

Thank you, Mooky. Good morning to everyone. Thank you for coming. Let's start with the financial highlights of the six months. We are announcing today a set of solid result meeting the management expectation. And it's really giving us a good base for the second half of the year in order to meet really the market expectation in the year end.

If we dive into the numbers, we see that from a statutory point of view, revenue went up by 8.4%, EBITDA by 9% and the adjusted EPS 5.2%. And the board of Cineworld has decided to increase the dividend by 4% to £0.052.

Moving into the next slide, into the performance summary. Here we look at the numbers on constant currency with some breakdown between the territories. Definitely we see here the stress of the rest of the world territories. Seems like Cineworld did a great [ph] sort of (03:27) action two and half years ago entering to seven important territories.

Rest of the world territories performed strong. In the first half, we see close to 14% increase in revenue in rest of the world and EBITDA up by 27%. We see also a very positive impact on the margin. And this will compensate some weakness that we saw in the first six months in the UK mainly in the second quarter as a result of the [indiscernible] (04:01) the euro. And definitely the strong result in those territories help us to achieve, first, a growth in the EBITDA at the level of 27.2% on a constant currency basis and maintain similar EBITDA margin of close to 20%.

If you look at the UK and Ireland, the EBITDA margin, we see some fall by 1.6%. And this is only because of the fall in admission of 4%. If we implement the same level of admission on a same store, we'll see that the trend of improving the margins in the UK is kept and we see some improvement in the EBITDA margin. I think as all of you are aware, we are a fixed cost business. First, we need to cover our fixed cost like rent, payroll and other costs. And then we are enjoying from an admission that brings the profit. And that's why any movement in admission up and down has some effect on the margin. We see it in the opposite way in the rest of the world territories.

If we move to the next slide into the box office and retail performance; in the left, we see that the Group admission level has reached 46.1 million admission. It's 2.7% up in last year period. Definitely the UK market represent the largest market of Cineworld. Approximately 55% of our revenue and business is laying in this market.

And then rest of the world territories on top of the Polish market and the Hungarian market, as I said before, performed very strong [indiscernible] (05:52) deals involved that we see really a strong performance in those territories in admission point of view and also in a result point of view.

If you look on the right side on the chart and I'd like to look on those charts, they're really showing us really the potential that we have in the rest of the world territories in ticket price and retail spend per person. We see the mature market like Israel and UK where you see high average ticket price and high spend per person.

On the other hand, territories like Bulgaria, Hungary, Romania are still behind. It's not that we believe that we'll see in the short term that Bulgaria or even Hungary can sell tickets in the same level as the UK is selling. But definitely we'll see some gap closing here, which really have a material effect on our profit, on EBITDA. This is coming really on top of the cost and have a major impact on the result.

Moving into the other income slides. And the other incomes is really a combination of four main elements, the advertising, the distribution, the booking fees and the other revenues. In all those items, we managed to increase the result and it's coming into effect on the number close to 24% increase on constant currency base.

The on-screen advertising act very strong [ph] and huge (07:21) media in rest of the world. And this year, here in the UK, performed strong. And this is also supported by good movies. Together with success in the Distribution segment, we distribute key titles like Star Wars, Zootopia and The Jungle Book. And Distribution is also an important segment in our business, more strategic, I would say, importance and less on margins. But there are some benefits we are getting from running such a business.

We see continued trend of customers using online sale, more booking fees and that [indiscernible] (08:02) have a positive impact on our numbers. And there's some more increase in non-core cinema activities, so more event, conference. We are investing a lot of time and thought to increase this stream lines in our cinema. And definitely we see some improvement in this line as well.

If we look on the Group income statements and here we are really trying to explain the reconciliation between the statutory base into the adjusted basis. And if we start on the top, the revenue and the EBITDA, we see similar numbers. There are no adjustment. The main three lines we are adjusting is the depreciation, amortization. There are £3 million similar to last year, maybe adjusted, that relate to the acquisition of Cineworld Cinema City.

There is exceptional cost. You see the breakdown in the right. Let's get to it now, but we are – also this final adjustment. And then we have the foreign exchange movement that's affecting really two lines. One affecting the trading movement that we see here again that we have £1.6 million that we are adjusting. Last year, it was the opposite, £1.3 million.

And there is also a loss of approximately £6 million that's coming from a balance sheet item. [indiscernible] (09:36) with 20% of our debt is held by euro loan. And after the Brexit and the sharp movement of the euro-pound, this create some loss on the euro loans we have. Again, it's only a translation loss. It's not impacting our cash flow.

And I would mention here because I was asked in the morning about this, in all the territories we are acting – out of the UK, we are acting in local currency. Most of our cost and revenue in local currency. We are not really having any impact of movement in euro-pound on our cost base. And the loss that we see here, it's only a translation on the euro loan. Last year, by the way, we had the opposite effect. And we gained some [ph] 8.3 (10:23) profit, so we are adjusted as well. On the bottom line, we see that the adjusted diluted EPS increased by approximately 5% to £0.122.

Moving into the cash flow and into the net debt position. We started the year with a £245 million net debt. And in the end of the six months, we are approximately in a similar level of £250 million. We managed to invest close to £40 million on new sites, on refurbishments, on maintenance, also on other material. And we expect the net debt in the end of the year to be a bit higher probably on the level of £260 million to £265 million after taking into account the Empire transaction that will have some effect here on the net debt.

We need to take into account some working capital movements here, the strength of the movies. In the end of the first quarter last year, Star Wars and Bond and also the fact that we are also acting as a distributor to those movies create some surplus in the working capital last year. This year, we see some opposite trend. But I think we'll judge it in the year end. And as I said before, Cineworld is maintaining, I will say, a good level of net debt. We're paying dividend. We're paying our investment. And I believe this will remain in similar level this year and also next year.

If I look over the financial outlook, I think this set of result together with the result that we see in July and in August, which we are very happy to see that people are – a lot of them coming back. People are coming all the time to the cinemas.

But after a bit, some weakness in the second quarter of 2016 in the UK, we see strong result in August and July. I don't want to jump into conclusion in the middle of August and say that this is the trend we'll see in the end of the year. But definitely we are happy to see that people are back into the cinemas, good film slate. And all these factors giving us really the optimistic to meet the market expectation. We estimate to spend approximately £75 million on CapEx.

We opened four sites. We plan to open more six sites in the coming months in front of us. And as I said before, the net debt will probably, in the short term, will go up to another £990 million because of Empire. But if we look on the year end with a cash flow that will produce the dividend and the CapEx, I believe we'll reach the level of £260 million, £265 million. And the tax rate, we estimate to be on a 17% effective tax rate similar to the level we see here in the six months result.

We'll move now to Empire deal. Israel.

Hi, everyone. Good morning. When Mooky and me came to Cineworld about two and a half years ago, we came to the big room of the CEO. There was a big cabinet with files. So we had to start looking through the files. Yes, it's a new place. So we saw two, three files which were titled Empire.

And then Tony Bloom, the Chairman, said to us that one of the tasks he want us to achieve is he wants us to buy a cinema in Leicester Square because if you look around in Leicester Square, there is a Vue and there is an ODEON. And there is a missing Cineworld. And Cineworld was trying for a few years to negotiate a deal to buy the Empire, Leicester Square. And Tony said to Mooky and me that he believes in us that we'll be able to achieve it.

So it took us a bit longer. It took us about two and a half years. But at the end of the day, we succeeded two weeks ago to sign a deal with the Empire Group to buy their, I would say, four leading cinemas in the UK plus an extra cinema in Bromley. The deal is going to close tonight after the cinema close. And from tomorrow, the cinemas are going to become Cineworld cinemas.

It sounds easy to say. It's a very big operational path for Cineworld tonight. We have teams of people which are going to the five cinemas. They're now supposed to, overnight, to replace all the systems and really make the cinemas overnight Cineworld and not Empire. But all the team in Cineworld is very excited about it and many, many people in the company are going to be involved in this process tonight.

In this transaction, we bought really, as I said, four major cinemas which are Empire, Leicester Square, Basildon, Poole, and Hemel Hempstead. And we bought a smaller cinema in Bromley which we were planning to become a Picturehouse cinema.

The consideration that we paid for the cinemas is £94 million plus we gave our cinema in Haymarket which was not a positive performance cinema in the Cineworld Group and Empire wanted to stay with some presence in the West End. So we're relatively happy to give them this cinema.

Out of the £94 million, 50% will be paid in cash and 50% will be paid in shares. Anderson family, the owners of Empire, is in many ways similar family to us and is very long-term players in the cinema industry that really has a very strong control on the cinema industry in Ireland. And we were very happy to see that they really trust us in Cineworld and happy to invest really 50% of the money we have giving them in Cineworld shares believing on the way that Mooky and me are leading the company.

The EBITDA for the last 12 months of this cinema to March 2016, based on the management account, is approximately £9 million. But it's really not the number that represent a lot because as I will show you, at least one or one and a half cinema there which didn't have a full-year contribution. And if we're calculating an estimated full run rate of these cinemas, we're talking already on £11 million.

The transaction will contribute to the earnings this year not materially. But will already contribute to the earnings from day one. And next year, we're definitely expecting a high single digit earnings contribution into the big Cineworld from these five cinemas. This is really more illustration to show the five cinemas. In the center, you have Empire, Leicester Square, which is a flagship theater.

By far, by the way, if I can say, the best theater today in Leicester Square. It's the quality of the big screen in Leicester Square, which is an IMAX Laser. It's a very, very special quality of cinema. Together with this, we see the two big cinemas on the left in Hemel Hempstead and Poole and Basildon, which is the largest out of them, and the smaller Empire in Bromley, which is expected to be, as I said, Picturehouse.

If we go quickly throughout the cinemas – so like I said, Empire, Leicester Square. The old Empire, Leicester Square, that was – the Empire Group has spent a lot of money and effort to renovate this cinema. And they make nine screen out of it. If you remember Empire, Leicester Square, until four years ago, I think, three years ago; I think it was three or four screens. And they really made nine screens out of it and installed in this a big IMAX Laser. That was the first IMAX Laser that was installed in the UK. The second one, as I hope you all know, is in Sheffield in a Cineworld cinema. This IMAX Laser was installed and started operating in July 2015. So even this screen didn't have a full-year contribution when we were looking on the March figure.

On top of this IMAX screen, they also have an IMPACT screen. IMPACT is Empire's version of Superscreen that Cineworld have, which is again a high-quality screen which is not IMAX but have sound and projector systems which are closer IMAX and to a regular cinema screen.

Basildon is the best cinema, I think. If I can start giving the cinemas title between the five that we are buying. It's a cinema which is generating revenue of approximately £10 million a year. It's 18 screens. It's a big cinema, performing very, very well. I assume that based on Rentrak, it's somewhere between the top 20 multiplexes in the UK. And it features both an IMAX screen and an IMPACT screen.

So Empire is doing which we have not ever done, I think. Mooky will correct me if I'm wrong. That they put in the same project not only an IMAX screen but also an IMPACT screen, so really have two major screens which are driving these 18 screens around them.

The second cinema is the cinema is Poole, a bit older but again a successful cinema. Over £7 million of revenue, 16 screens, 2,100 seats, a very successful cinema. The third one and maybe the most interesting to talk about is the one in Hemel Hempstead. Hemel Hempstead was an old nine or eight screens. That was an old cinema. And they spent big efforts to renovate these cinemas throughout 2015 and mainly in the second half of 2015 and made it really a cinema which can definitely compete with Poole and Basildon on the quality.

Now it have 17 screens. We are adding an extra screen into the cinema because they even haven't completed their construction work. So we are adding an extra screen into the cinema. It will have, at the end of the day, one IMAX screen and two IMPACT screens or one Superscreen if we'll make already the IMPACT screen a Superscreen.

This is a cinema with a huge potential. If you're looking on its revenue of £3.5 million compared to the £7 million and £9 million that we see in Poole and in Basildon, so you see the potential of that really to take much more out of the cinema. And already on the first half of 2016, this cinema is performing 50% better than last year. So last year, it was really – most of the year, it was like a renovation site. Yes, and it was very difficult to operate a cinema there. So definitely, we have a very big belief in the potential that this cinema can contribute into Cineworld.

Last is the cinema in Bromley. This is an old Empire cinema. It has four screens many, many years ago. Small cinema with 800 seats with great potential to become a Picturehouse. The neighborhood, the area is a great area for Picturehouse. We are going to open it tomorrow morning as a Cineworld cinema, but going very soon to start renovation and making it a Picturehouse which is exactly what such a project needs. And I believe it will be a very successful Picturehouse cinema.

If we are talking about the numbers and what we are going to do next – so as I said at the beginning, yes, the last 12 months EBITDA of the cinemas to March was about £9 million. If we are trying to calculate the run rate taking into account the term and really the [ph] internal full-year contribution in Empire, IMAX, the internal (23:00) full-year contribution; so we are getting to a basic number of annualized EBITDA of approximately £11 million.

And on top of this, now we have the task in front us, what can we do more in Cineworld to make this £11 million more. We're going to incorporate our Unlimited membership program into this. We are going to improve the screen advertising and other income performance of these cinemas. We're going to install some of our premiums offering into some of the cinemas, definitely going to make for the [indiscernible] (23:39) part of some of these cinemas, Starbucks, VIP experience. We have a lot to do in these cinemas in order to take more out of them. And also work more on the expense side and it's time to use their strengths and our experience.

And as you know, we came here two and half years ago. We said we don't like to talk too much about synergies. So we are saying it now also. We don't like to talk too much about synergies. But we believe in our management team that we'll definitely succeed to improve the performance of the cinemas above this £11 million annualized EBITDA. Mooky.

Okay. So we'll go now through more the general things. So really, at the end of June, we see that we have a very similar number of sites and a quite similar number of screens between the UK and Ireland and between what we call rest of the world.

We have 17 IMAXs in the UK before the Empire deal and 13 IMAXs in the rest of the world. We are by far the biggest partner of IMAX in Europe. Difficult to compete with China where one deal a month ago was for 150 new IMAXs for Wanda. But we still don't have the Chinese size. But in Europe, we are by far the biggest and the most important partner for IMAX.

Same goes for 4DX. We have already four 4DXs in the UK and 14 4DXs rest of the world. By the end of year, we'll have already almost either nine 4DXs or 10 4DXs in the UK. Superscreens, Israel mentioned it, is our large format. We just started with it. First one was in Milton Keynes. We have already two in the UK and one in rest of the world.

We are developing now the VIP segment or the VIP offer, you can call it, in those sites. Rest of the world is a little bit older, so we have six there already. The first VIP that we have opened in Sheffield at the beginning of the year is doing very well. And next month, we're opening the second one in Glasgow Renfrew Street.

CapEx, again same line. Something around £60 million were invested in the UK in 2015 and £42 million in rest of the world. Average age, we talked about this point again a few times already. Naturally, the age or the average age of the rest of the world is [ph] great (26:42) because of Central Europe is much younger. In the UK, we have an average age of site of almost 14 years. 53 sites are over 15 years old. And this is the main reason why we are shifting some of our resources into the refurbishment. And they are really coming out nice and very successful.

45 new screens we already opened this year, 14 screens in the UK, another 31 screens in rest of the world. Number of screens at the end of June 2016 is 2,053 screens. We have celebrated at the end of December the mark of passing the magic number of 2,000. And we are moving forward with this number almost every month.

We have already 19 Starbucks at the end of June. I think that tomorrow we are opening the 21st Starbucks in Fulham Road. So we wanted to bring you one Starbucks close to you in London. So we are really very happy with the partnership with Starbucks and we are moving ahead with more Starbucks to come.

And major refurbishments, good progress. Crawley is already behind us, we can say. Stevenage, almost. Glasgow Renfrew Street will be finished at September. And also, some refurbishments in the rest of the world. One thing that I would just point out if we're talking about refurbishments is that you see this situation of this – I think it's the Superscreen in Glasgow, this photo here. We do all the refurbishments without closing the cinema even for one day.

So we always have – Glasgow is, for example, 18 screens. And all the time, we are closing up to four screens, sometimes five. But the cinema continue to operate and we continue to have good income from it, much more difficult than to come and close the cinema for six months and reopen it. But we don't want to lose the income and to lose the market in this time. So our team is really very, very professional in doing it while the cinema continue to operate.

IMAX, it produced a special new sound system for the laser system. They are now allowing it also to the regular IMAX. It's a very, very advanced sound system. We already installed the first one which is not with laser in Crawley. And this is really driving our strategy to be leaders on technology. We see it is a very strong point for us and very important.

Third 4DX in Slovakia. Slovakia is our smallest territory. We have only three cinemas there. But Slovakia is a very mature market in Europe already. It's the only one in Central Europe that already trades in euro. And we have just installed our first 4DX there. And the fourth 4DX, as I mentioned, in the UK in Glasgow already opened last week. It was a huge success by the way. And we will have eight or nine 4DXs in the UK before the end of the year.

So second half, we expect additional 47 screens to be opened, 16 screens in the UK, 31 screens in the rest of the world. Four 4DXs, as I mentioned, in the UK. Glasgow is already done. Birmingham, Cardiff, Wandsworth and maybe another month more in Basildon because we'll see now Basildon is already a Cineworld from tonight. So we want to do there quite early, the 4DX. Two additional Superscreens, second VIP experience as I mentioned already and five new Starbucks coffees. One of them is opening tomorrow.

Planned site opening. We try to keep this number at the level of around 500. I think this represents our commitment for growth and for development. As you can understand, it's not the same 500 every presentation that we do. But we open and we try to sign new deals in order to have a good lineup of projects all the time whether it is in the UK or in the rest of the world. You see the number, including the Empires in the UK, we are having additional 80 new screens which will be very significant for us.

And as much as we do a good job and as much as we try hard, we still have a lot do with the movies of course. The old saying in this industry that you're as good as your next movie is still alive. As Nisan already mentioned, July and August started very strong mainly thanks to Dory and to Suicide Squad, also Secret Life of Pets and some other – BFG. Some other movies had significant contribution for July and the beginning of August.

But if we look towards the end of the year, we have the new Bridget Jones on the way. Magnificent Seven which is a remake of a very, very famous Western from the 1960s, just chosen to open Toronto Film Festival and to close the Venice Festival, which is quite rare to be done within 10 days, opening one important festival and closing another. But it is full of fun as I hear. We are distributing this movie also in the rest of the world. So we have high hopes for this one as well.

And as much we go and we look all the way, a very promising product and Fantastic Beasts which is in the Harry Potter genre. It's supposed to be a very, very big. And what can we say more than there's no better way to end the year with the first spinoff of the Star Wars series, which is Star Wars: Rogue One.

And I don't know if everybody here is aware, but Star Wars, we have three chapters to go. We had Star Wars VII last year. We have Star Wars VIII next year in the end of 2017. And at the end of 2019 will be Star Wars IX. Between Star Wars VII and Star Wars VIII and between Star Wars VIII and Star Wars IX, there will be spinoffs of the story with the heroes concentrating about the heroes of the movies. And the feeling today in the studio as we hear that they're going to be maybe not as big as the real Star Wars but very, very big. Probably the number one movie of the year, still, although it's not really a part of the series.

If we look at 2017, we could remain optimistic. We'll not go through all the movies. But from Universal Studios, for example, we get a similar lineup of blockbusters that there was in 2015. Everybody remembers Fifty Shades of Grey – and Fifty Shades of Black which are now turning to be Fifty Shades Darker, Despicable Me and of course Fast and the Furious which is one of the most successful series in the cinema history, a new Pirates of the Caribbean, a second installment for Guardians of the Galaxy 2 which is now considered to be the hottest superhero team.

And what can we say if we look at Dunkirk. Dunkirk is a huge movie directed by Chris Nolan, the guy who brought us Interstellar, Dark Knight and many other big movies, considered to be one of the leading directors by far in the world today. And what a way to end 2017. Star Wars VIII is already in production and we can be happy when we are looking towards 2017.

Any questions? We will be very happy to answer. [Operator Instructions]

Not all of you in one time, please. Yes.

Could you talk about the Unlimited cards and the progress that you've made this year and how far that card should grow and what you've done in pricing and how your international or ex-UK experiment has gone?

Okay. Unlimited is a very important tool for us as everybody knows. It is continuing to grow in the UK in the manner that it is. It's not jumping in two-digits numbers, but it grows solidly. And we are very happy with result of the Unlimited in the UK. We just launched it towards the end of 2016 in Poland. Numbers are looking very good. Unlimited is a way or a marketing tool which needs long run. And the numbers in Poland are going a bit over our expectations, not dramatically. But we see a good turn-up from the Polish audience. And we would be able to analyze it more deep, I would say, at the end of the first year. But the results are promising. Yes.

Just on your UK business. Obviously, you're opening a lot of sites. Can you talk a bit about the kind of general supply outlook in general for the UK cinema market? And what do you see from your competitors in terms of new openings? Is the pipeline growing? Are a lot of shopping centers being converted into cinemas and things like that?

I think that there are a few points that I will mention. Let's start with shopping centers this year. There was a trend about four years, five years, maybe six years ago that was saying shopping centers are taking the cinemas out of the shopping center. There was no base for that saying at that time also. But it is clear now that shopping centers fully understand that at the era of Internet sales and home shopping, what we can call it, there is a real need from these big centers to have some attractions that will bring people there because I can buy my H&M or my Hugo Boss through the Internet at home. I cannot see a movie at home. I can see it on the TV. But it's not the cinema experience, what we call.

Restaurants need the cinema as an anchor. But the walking through the window or window shopping, what we call, and coming to the mall; the cinema experience with the good projects is becoming more and more important. And we feel it from the biggest developers are taking very seriously the cinemas. They're not, I would say, only interested in the level of rent that we are offering, which is of course a very important thing for them and also for us. But they're also interested in what cinemas they're going to get, who is going to operate it, why, how, what technologies we're going to implement in their special project et cetera. So I think from this point of view, there is a demand for cinemas now in big projects. Not every project can afford a cinema or afford a cinema in the size that we are interested in.

Second thing they say, I would say, is that in the UK, still most of the state of cinemas in the UK is quite old and in a very conservative way of cinema buildings from the even 1960s, I would say, 1970s and 1980s. And there is a room for new things, for new sites, so much more exciting and we see it. And we see the reaction from the customers when we refurbish a cinema. And when we are talking about refurbishments, it's like opening a new cinema. The excitement and the welcome that we get from our customers is very high. So on one side, we have the refurbishment. On the other side, we have new cinemas. There is a potential in the UK bigger than we expected – I think we said it already last year – for growth. And this is why we invest in the UK. Our competitions are opening new cinemas as well. We are not alone in this market, trying to get – at least for what we think, we are trying to get the best locations. And we have some great cinemas that we have signed already, potentially great cinemas that we have signed for the pipeline of 2017 and 2018.

Yeah, morning. Just a question on the rent. Do you have any rent negotiations in the half? And given what you said about land more positions, have you managed to negotiate any discount in rents when you're doing reviews or is there still some inflation on rent?

Look, I think every case is a different case. And there are places that, from the nature of the deal, we might need to [ph] improve a bit of (41:58) rent. There are some cases that we can get some kind of a discount. And there are cases that will continue as they are. It's very rare that we have cinemas that we are leaving, but there are also cases like this. We just closed our old, old estate in Hammersmith a few months ago. We're going to close also Staples Corner, I think, in two weeks. But these are really old, old cinemas from the oldest estates that have no potential for growth, no potential for refurbishment. And as much as we like to see the number of sites and the number of screens growing, there are some cinemas that, although we'll miss them, we need to say goodbye.

Morning, guys. [ph] Michael Goldsman (43:00) from Citi. I know you don't like talking about synergies. But when we think about the Empire Cinema's acquisition, how does the average revenue per admission compare to the average for Cineworld [indiscernible] (43:13)?

I think that we see potential there. But I will not go into many details.

Okay, that's what I thought.

Hi, morning. Richard Stuber from Numis. In terms of your sort of M&A aspirations post Empire deal, are you particularly looking at – other geographies where you'd be interested in having a footprint? Second question is I know you talk about how many cinemas you have over 15 years old. Is that generally what you regard as that's when you need to stop refurbishing them and that after 20 years or something, they just really aren't viable? And third question is could you remind us what the contribution of Star Wars is into H1 this year?

Difficult questions. The first one, my brother will answer. I think it will be better.

The last one or the first one?

The first one.

What was it? Remind me again, please. But I loved it.

[Question Inaudible] (44:20).

Look, M&A's opportunities – and many people have asked us if the fact that we have done the Empire deal in any way change our aspiration. Are we now saying we have done it and we're not going to do this anymore? I think nothing has changed. I think that we remained interested to buy good businesses that we can make good money out of them. We are continuing to say that Europe makes a lot of sense for us because at the end of the day, there is this gap between – if you look on the math, between Central Eastern Europe, which we are very strong, and between the UK. But on the other hand, as we said all the time, we are only interested in good acquisitions. We have a very strong balance sheet that can definitely allow us to make such acquisitions. But we don't want to make acquisitions because of this balance sheet, yes. And we are looking all the time and I want to believe that consolidations of cinemas is going to continue. And if it will, we are definitely in a very good position to play a good part in it. And our aspirations have not changed at all.

Second question was -

[Question Inaudible] (45:31-45:41).

Yeah. No, not at all. The cinemas what we consider that are over 15 years are, as we say, always very well-maintained. There is a big difference in the way you operate a circuit. And in Cineworld, we're doing it very, very well for all the years not only because we came in but even before. Cinemas are well-maintained. And you will hardly see a broken seat or broken toilets or some damage. So the situation is not of urgency, but it looks old. And we are doing this. Each big refurbishment represents something like between £3 million to £5 million but takes also a lot of time and a lot of attention. There is a limit to what the construction team can do. So we are going step by step.

We started really with our big, big successful cinemas, not necessarily the ones that were in the worst condition. But Milton Keynes is done. Sheffield is done. Glasgow is almost done. Crawley is done. So the top five are already done, let's say. Once we finish Stevenage and Devon, we move forward. So there is no issue of urgency on one hand. But we don't want to delay, one, because we see an increase in the income. While we're refurbishing, we are introducing new technologies, new offering. Now Sheffield has now a VIP. Glasgow will have a VIP. So we're trying to do it as quickly as we can but in a normal way.

And your last question for Star Wars, a very difficult question from the point of view that you never know instead of what Star Wars – Star Wars was not shown in cinemas that otherwise would have been closed. And this was a very good season. Anyhow, it is a good season, Christmas, New Year holidays. So you can't say on one hand what is expected contribution, what Star Wars did over the best movie of the year before. But on the on the other hand, the numbers are there. Star Wars is the biggest ever grossing movie in the UK. If I'm not mistaken, close to £120 million. It's almost the biggest ever grossing movie in the world. Still behind Avatar, but over $2 billion. So if you ask me if we have any objection to have two Star Wars a year, we don't. But really to give the exact number, I think it's difficult to say. It's not [indiscernible] (48:22). Yes.

Have you received all the green lights that you need from the monopolies commission on Empire? And secondly, what's the impact on the currency deflation on the price of renting films? Do you expect a reaction from the studios?

So according to the law, we don't need to submit such a deal into the CMA. But we do submit it on voluntary basis just to be sure. If you look around at the cinemas, they're completely new market for us. And so we don't see any reason we don't have nothing close to Basildon, nothing close to Poole. We don't have any cinema in Bromley. Hemel Hempstead is surrounded but a lot of competitive. But our closest cinema, I think, is the one in [indiscernible] (49:32). So it's not an issue there. Leicester Square, Israel already mentioned. In the Square itself, there was presence of and there is presence of ODEON and Vue and Empire and now it is us. We have [ph] fun (49:48) cinemas in the surrounding. We are giving away one of them, which is Haymarket. So we don't see any issues with CMA. But just to be on safe side, we are submitting documents. But we are not withholding the closing because of this. So it is done. From the point of view of rent and currencies, you asked, yes?

[Question Inaudible] (50:16).

Cinemas. And we don't see any big change that the markets are in the cinema distribution way are very, very conservative. There might be a few points in favor for us or not. But we are analyzing it, but it's not dramatic.

Okay. Guys, thank you very much.