Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Moshe J. Greidinger — Chief Executive Officer & Director, Cineworld Group Plc
Nisan Cohen — Chief Financial Officer & Director, Cineworld Group Plc
Steve Liechti — Analyst, Investec Bank Plc
Alexander Mees — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc
Richard Stuber — Analyst, Numis Securities Ltd.
James Wheatcroft — Analyst, Deutsche Bank AG
Mark Irvine-Fortescue — Analyst, Panmure Gordon (UK) Ltd.
Michael Goltsman — Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd.
Jeffrey Harwood — Analyst, Stifel Nicolaus Europe Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, everyone. We're very happy to have you here in our Picturehouse Central. I will just give a brief opening. I think if you look at our first slide. Well, is it – Nisan, you're moving it?

Yeah.

Yeah. Okay. We made it easy for you this year so we went around the number 12% all around. If you can see, group revenue have grown with 11.6%. If we look at the adjusted diluted EPS, it's 12.1% and then we have another 12.7% at the adjusted EBITDA, and we have 12.6% on the full year dividend increase. So, we made it easy. Everybody can remember the number.

I will hand over to Nisan to talk about the finance, and I'll be talking about the business once Nisan is over with the financial issues.

Okay. Thank you, Mooky. I'm trying to convince Mooky to move to the finance department because it's look like he know the numbers very well. Thank you. So, we'll start with the financial highlights. I think that we are really showing today a very strong set of result of 2017 with a revenue of £890 million and EBITDA of £198 million. We talk about the margins in a second. And the adjusted diluted EPS in the level of £0.389, which after the rights issue adjusted. I know that there are a lot of formulas around, but at the end of the day after they take into account the bonus, this is £0.173.

The net debt reduced slightly to a level of £278 million, which is giving us a ratio of net debt to EBITDA of 1.4, and we'll talk about the cash flow in a second. And the cash dividend increased by 14.5%. So, by the end of the day, I think we are very happy with the numbers.

And I'll take you through the territories; if you look on the UK, admission grew by 2.3% above the market, the market itself in the UK grew by 1.4%. And I think that this reflects really our investment in the refurbishment, in the renovation, in the acquisition that we did in the last two years, and definitely this is reflecting in the number.

The adjusted EBITDA in the UK is close to £100 million. It's 3% above last year. A slightly decrease in the EBITDA margin, so it's standing now 19%, mainly because of the VPF, the Virtual Print Fee. We are still getting VPF in Rest of the World. In the UK, 2016 was the last year that we got VPF and this is the main reason for the slight decrease in the UK.

Rest of the World, I think another strong year for all the territories starting from Poland, our biggest territory, Romania, Czech Republic, Hungary, I think we're really enjoying in the last three years in rows from very impressive results in those territories. And I like to say really we are, call it, cutting the fruits of the investment that we did in the last years in those territories.

Margin is very strong, reaching almost 27%, and we improve it compared to last year. From group point of view, as I said before, EBITDA reaching £198 million. And the margin, there is also some improvement, we are reaching 22.3%. This is a very strong margin for a cinema operator business. I think all of you know more or less what are the peers. And I think by the end of the day, we are very happy with the results.

If I'm looking on the box office and retail performance and the calculation – or the division between the territories, UK is the leading territory, 53 million admission, tickets sold last year. Poland is our second largest territory, almost 18 million tickets. It's even breaking record here. In the Polish market, I think economy plus the new cinemas that we open, we open very big impressive cinema in Poland. One in Wrocław, you'll see picture later on, and one in Warsaw, in Białołęka, all performing well, supported by the Unlimited program we are running in Poland the second year and we really managed to generate a very strong result in Poland.

We can look also Hungary, Romania, Israel, Czech Republic, I think the numbers are talking by themselves, strong set of results and look like those territories will keep performing good. UK, admission as I said, 2.3% increase reaching 53 million tickets. ATP and SPP are growing, 4% ATP, 4.4% SPP. This is the UK.

In Rest of the World, we see also increase in admission 4.7%, in constant currency the average ticket price still growing, we are saying all the time this is a huge potential in our business, the ability really to increase prices in Rest of the World, together with the growth of the economy, territory like Poland, Romania, Czech Republic. We see strong GDP. In the moment, we face such, I'd say, performance in the economy. It's aligned us also to increase the prices, again in a level that our customers also will be happy.

SPP growing, I think this is another important, I will say, KPI or important factor by 13.4%. We are doing a lot of activity around the SPP. Mooky will talk about it later on. But definitely it's a very important segment in our business coming with high margin. And I think showing you such increase is a very encouraging performance.

If I'm moving to the other income, which include advertising, distribution and online booking fee, overall, we see increase of close to 10%, this is another very important segment in our business. It's coming on top of the box office and the concession, coming also with a high margin. It's very important to us, we're investing a lot of time and effort to improve, I will say, the other income lines. In the UK and in the Rest of the World, we see increase both in advertising, online booking. Distribution is also a very strategic business for us and largely was in line with the last year performance.

If I'm going now a bit more into the number, the group profit and loss, you can see I think we spoke about the adjusted EBITDA. If we look on the depreciation and amortization, we see a increase compared to last year due to the investments that we are – and the CapEx we are investing in the last year. There is also impact here on the exchange rate in Rest of the World, which have some, I will say – this is increasing a bit the depreciation and amortization.

The exceptional cost is really a mix and we see here the impact of the Regal transaction, almost half of this relate to Regal transaction. Probably, we'll see higher number next year relating mainly to the cost around the deal, but also some other impact on the onerous lease, some credit relate to impairments, some cinemas outperforming, some cinemas in the past we impair and went into renovation.

We're starting to see the results, more profit and this is allowing us really to reverse some of the impairments of cinemas that we did in the last year. There is a one-off gain relating to disposal of Picturehouse Entertainment. This was a small distribution arm of Picturehouse that we disposed last year. By the end of the day, the exceptional cost is reaching £1.9 million.

Financial expenses, I think most of the cost here really relate to the interest. We less also see impact like last year of the exchange rate from the euro-pound. Also, we less suffered this year from this. probably the debt, as you know, we look different or starting to look different from two weeks ago. We'll talk about it in a second. Tax charge, effective tax rate, more or less in line with last year, 16.5%. Also this probably will look different from now on. And I think adjusted profit after tax reaching £106 million of profit.

If we look on the growth in adjusted diluted EPS, 12%, we see here the items that we are adjusting. So, it's really by the end of the day, we are adjusting really the items in the exceptional cost reaching the amortization, the exceptional item, the foreign exchange rate with last year, and the profit on disposal from Picturehouse Entertainment. After the impacted of the tax, the total post adjustment is reaching the £5.6 million, compared to £11.8 million last year.

Cash flow, it was an important year, I think, from cash flow point of view. We invested £110 million on – I will say, in investing activities, CapEx. Some of this relate to some project that we opened in the end of 2016 and the cash expense in 2017. But I think by the end of the day, it's a good sign. I think we all the time say that we have many cinemas in the UK that we want to renovate and the fact we are – we see some increase in the CapEx and [ph] it is (00:11:47) showing that it's the best ROI for us, yes, the return on investment on the renovation is clear. We are very happy with the number that we see after we renovate a site and definitely it's important to keep doing it. Mooky will talk about the plan in a second.

By the end of the day, the net debt reduced slightly and standing on 1.4 time. Probably if Regal deal was not happened, this probably level will reach 1 time in 2018. Again, it will look different in 2018 after a post-Regal deal. But I think, by the end of the day, if you also look on the EBITDA and the EBITDA and the net cash compression, you see that most of our EBITDA is really, we can say, linked to cash. And this is, I think, very important going forward for our plan to reduce the net debt to EBITDA after the Regal transaction.

Financial outlook, strong film slate for 2018, encouraging performance. We are seeing it really in January, February across all territories. I think in both sides of the Atlantic, we see a really strong result. In the U.S., January, February, definitely, I will say, very encouraging number. The markets there grew by 11% year-to-date. So, definitely, we are very happy to start the year as is.

Capital expenditure for Cineworld, I will say, before – for UK and Rest of the World, approximately £80 million. Again, this number can be a bit lower, a bit higher, it's depending really on the progress of the renovation and the cinema opening. We'll focus – I think it's one of our really top priority is really to reduce the net debt to EBITDA. I think we said, prior the deal, we'll start with the ratio net debt to EBITDA of 4 time.

And definitely, we want to see a reduction two years from now to be more on the level of 3 time. And this, one, by reducing the debt probably from $4 billion to the level of $3.2 billion, $3.3 billion, plus we will see increase in the EBITDA which, by the end of the day, our goal is to reach really the 3, 3.2 time net debt to EBITDA in two years from now.

Cost of debt expected to be approximately 4% after all the process with the agency and we got good rating. And definitely this is, I think, a good level to be in. And we'll keep analyzing it going forward, but that's probably where the cost of debt will look like.

Okay. Business update, Mooky?

Anybody can control this light there? Oh, it's not under – you can control the light or not because it's just direct in my eyes, but if you can't, never mind. Good. So, good morning, again, everyone. We'll start with what we call the key achievements. I think that when you look at the slide, we are here putting a few of the main things or the main points that happened in 2017.

But we need to remember first that, for this year, we ran in our cinemas something like 3.5 million shows, which in the region of about 10,000 shows every day. This is the main business. We sell the tickets. We sell the popcorn. People are coming daily to the cinemas and all this operational thing needs to run. And this is not only operation department, but all the other departments that are around are doing this day-to-day thing before we think about acquiring a new business or going into a new technological innovation or doing anything else.

The first and foremost thing is really to run this circuit in a way that our customers will be happy, that the sales will be good, the right movies will be shown on the right auditoriums, et cetera, et cetera. And with having 103.8 million admission in a year, we hope that most of them came out satisfied and happy with the service that they got in our cinemas.

I think if you look at this slide, you'll see something which is characteristic to Cineworld and characteristic to the management, to the team that is leading this company. On one side, you have here the completion post year end of the Regal Entertainment acquisition, a huge deal taking us over to the biggest market in the world. We are adding 7,500 screens approximately into the estate. And on the other side, you see the acquisition of the Empire Newcastle, and I think this is only symbolic because we are all the time saying to the team and we're saying to the guys, we need to look after the small details and we'll need to look for us. The acquisition of Newcastle is a deal that we'll need to concentrate on. We'll need to pay attention. We'll need to do the good thing.

When we move to the other side and we look at Regal, which is only 500 – over 550 cinemas, most of them in the size of Newcastle, by the way. I think it gives a good symbol this slide of how we pay attention to the bigger things and also to the smaller things, and this is very important. Nine new cinemas opening is an amazing number. I know we had a year that we opened even more, but the whole process around opening a new cinema is a very, I would say, complicated process.

It has a lot of environments inside the developer from the beginning, the real estate deal from the beginning, and thereon the construction and after that, the marketing and really first time inviting our customers into the cinemas. These nine new openings were very good. Some of very significant cinemas, we'll see it in the next slide. Leading technological innovation, we move forward with this all the time and, of course, the refurbishments that we are talking about.

So, 109 new screens, four projects opened in the UK and Ireland. Three of them of a significant size, 11 screens and another 11 and another 12, Ely is a little bit smaller as a project, and we are having now in our pipeline some very big guns which are coming at Speke, York, Plymouth, Warrington, Rushden. So, we have a lot of upcoming cinemas in the UK that will become more and more significant and bigger in comparison to the cinemas in the past.

If we look at Rest of the World, again, in Israel, a very successful project that was opened. Galata in Romania which is only eight screens, but it's the only show in town. It's doing very, very well. Białołęka is in Warsaw and a very successful cinema in the north side of the city.

And then are coming two big ones, Chodov is the biggest multiplex in the Czech Republic, 18 screens. It's already the number one cinema after six months. This cinema is the number one cinema in the Czech Republic. In Wrocław, Poland, a 20-plex; this is the biggest multiplex in Poland and it is already on the top five cinemas in Poland every week; in my opinion, should become the number one cinema within a year or two in the country. What is great also about Wrocław, it was a market that we had very small presence here. So, all these admissions are new admissions for us.

If we look at the refurbishments, I think the best thing is just to look at the photos, but if we look at the list, we are going – we started with the top cinemas of Cineworld when the beginning was Sheffield and Glasgow Renfrew Street. Thereafter, Stevenage, Crawley and all the big guns. These are still very successful cinemas that we are doing. We're already on a level of cinemas that are doing about 700,000 admissions a year. And the reaction from our customers and the return on investment, as Nisan said, is very, very high.

Not forgetting this, you see here two cinemas in Poland. Arkadia is our best cinema and the best cinema in Poland as a whole. And Mokotow where we mentioned that it opened in 1999, this is a cinema that we renovated after about 18 years, and it shows that when you build with a high quality and you pay attention to the details, even a busy cinema can hold for quite a longer time because we are saying all the time, we need to refurbish somewhere every 10 to 12 years. If we do it on a good quality, not a full refurbishment is needed and some of the cinemas can hold longer. And this is a busy cinema, because the cinemas that are less successful for sure holding for a long time.

Technological innovation, we are great believers in this. We already have 35 IMAXs. We are today, if we exclude China, we are the biggest partners of IMAX in the world with Regal. Superscreen, we have already 11 Superscreen. This brand, we only started when we arrived to the UK which was four years ago. I think the first Superscreen was opened in Milton Keynes three years ago. So, within three years, we have already 11 Superscreen, they are doing – working very well and adding attraction to the customers and also we are getting some nice surcharge for them. Huge success in the UK and in Europe is the 4DX and we have already 38 4DXs, really good supplier, great service for the equipment, and good business on this side.

In the retail offering, we are continuing to grow our Starbucks estate. It is successful. It is doing very well. It's a nice addition to the cinema. And, of course, we cannot do a Starbucks in every Cineworld that we have. But we are trying to get good space for Starbucks in either the refurbished or the new sites that we do. VIP, another growing segment in our activities; this is more the high-end, full-serviced food and everything and you'll see a good growth in this business as well.

So, if this covered more or less 2017 for Cineworld, here we have the new Cineworld what we said, next year it will be one company, Cineworld Group working in 10 territories instead of 9 and the 10th territory, of course, is the U.S. So, the acquisition completed 28th of February 2018. Cineworld Group is now the second largest cinema chain in the world by number of screens. This is the way our industry works. Maybe there are some parameters that we are already number one, but this is not really the issue and the important thing. We need to work on our EBITDA, we need to work on our debt, and we need to work on developing the business and creating value for our shareholders for the future.

January and February started very well in the U.S. I think everybody in this hall, at least, is aware to the cinema business. We are going on a kind of a ride which is influenced by the product. Product for 2018 looks good; for 2019, looks amazing. We'll get to it soon, but the start of 2018 is very encouraging and Black Panther really is the movie that led it, with the movie surpassed already $1 billion box office worldwide. It is amazing. And the big news for us, because the public when they go, they go to the movie, they laugh, they enjoy it, really an amazing movie, very, very good and very entertaining. But for us, the good news is that we are already seeing Black Panther 2, 3, 4 and whatever Disney will decide to do and this is meaning for the business that we have a new franchise underway and this is the way our business goes.

The integration plan is progressing as expected. It takes time, but we are, I would say, even ahead of schedule a bit. If we can say something about schedule, things are taking time, we need to negotiate, we need to check, we need to learn, but the preparation that the team has done were very, very good. And really since the 28th of February, when we can also take decisions, things are moving in a good way and we are satisfied with what we see.

So, next year, we are going to open 19 new sites, 3 out of them are already opened. We'll add 176 screens and 27 of them are already opened. And this is now including also the U.S., as you see, 10 sites are planned in the U.S., 6 in the UK, and 3 sites in Rest of the World. I always say and I just want to remind you briefly here that in these numbers, we are more on the hands of the developers.

We invest money only when we really take over the cinema, not earlier. So, on one hand, we have no investment. We have no burden of these contracts that are a little bit delayed from time to time. But on the other hand, the developers are struggling with permits and with all the issues around it. It's becoming more and more difficult in the world to build big projects and important projects and sometimes there are some delays.

This is a very good year. 19 sites is a number I'm ready to agree on for every year in the future. But there are some years that are up and some years that are down. And we just got now that Essex which is a new project for Regal in Manhattan, a very important project, will not be opened in June, but will be opened in September. In the magnitude of the business, it's insignificant, but still we would have loved to see this cinema already running in June. It will run in September and for sure will be – this is amazing location by the way.

Further refurbishment planned is going according schedule. We know exactly where we want to refurbish, how much we want to refurbish. We know already the results of the refurbishments and we will start also refurbishing in the U.S. as well quite soon, again subject to permits and to other agreements with developers, et cetera.

And in one sentence I would say, we are continuing – our strategy is very, very clear. And everyone now, whether he is on this side of the ocean or the other side of the ocean understands that our target is always to be The Best Place to Watch a Movie. And here we talked about movies, so we are in the movies. 2018 key titles, we are facing now four blockbusters which will open one after the other. There are also other good commercial movies, but right now when we talk about the next two months, we have Avengers which shows now according to expectations, let's say, that the U.S. would open with the biggest opening ever.

Anyhow will be over [ph] $200 million (00:30:11) in the first weekend. We have Deadpool 2; Deadpool 1 was a huge surprise and a success. Exactly what I said, by the way, about Black Panther; so Black Panther will bring now 2, 3. Deadpool was also a surprise. It's a much more light superhero story, but once it was successful, we are getting now Deadpool 2 and I'm sure there are more on the way.

It will be followed by Solo which is another spinoff of Star Wars. People said that Star Wars – the last Star Wars was a little bit under what was expected. Don't be confused guys. When Star Wars is less than expected, it is doing only £1.5 billion instead of £2 billion. So, I'm ready to be disappointed like this every time. Good buzz on Solo. Solo is a spinoff. It's not a full Star Wars.

And then we'll still have in 2019 or 2020, I think, the last Star Wars 9, which is today considered to be the most highly anticipated movie in the industry. And Solo will be followed by Jurassic World. Everybody said why Universal are doing Jurassic World two years ago and it became an over £1 billion movie. So, we get another Jurassic now of the new generation.

And many other big movies are on the way, just to mention Fantastic Beasts 2 was very big in the UK. No doubt Mary Poppins in the UK and worldwide, Mary Poppins Returns will go through the roof. Mamma Mia!, if I'm not mistaken, it's still in the top five for the UK, will be amazing in the summer. And on and on we can talk about all of the movies here, but we don't have too much time, and I want to talk about 2019 and beyond.

So, 2019 and beyond, I think this slide just show the belief of this industry, the belief of the studios in this business. There have been a lot of talks about windows, but all these things calmed down. If we look on what the studios are preparing, there are two new Avatars that are really on production. There are two more Fast and the Furious in the series, which are coming. Bond 25, huge event in the UK always, but worldwide also. Bond is very, very big all over, although considered to be the biggest in the UK naturally.

Toy Story 4, again a very big movie, but this is in line with all the Pixar movies that are coming around. And buzz on some of these projects that we hear now from Hollywood. A huge Frozen 2 underway. Frozen until today is the biggest animation movie worldwide ever, and Frozen 2 probably will be somewhere around this number. So, if we look at this, we can be optimistic and see that the studios are behind the industry in full power.

We'll be happy to answer, the three of us, any questions that you have.

<<[06GQXW-E Steve Liechti]> Morning. It's Steve Liechti from Investec. Three questions, please. One, can you just give us a number for the UK for the effect of the VPF and the new business rates? So, what the negative effect in the full year 2017 was from those two items? That's the first. Do you want to answer that?

Approximately £5 million.

And can you recall what the split was between the first half and second half within that?

On 2017?

Yeah.

I mean it's split, I think, equal.

Okay. Thank you. Also, are you able to give us a UK GAAP equivalent for EBITDA for Regal in 2017 because we've got the 10-K with all the U.S. GAAP figures, but it would be really helpful to have a UK GAAP EBITDA number for Regal?

So, first, Regal published their 10-K already.

Yeah.

So, the number are in the website. Yes. If talking about adjusted EBITDA, Regal finished with $607 million of EBITDA.

So, just to be clear, is that U.S. GAAP or is that UK GAAP?

It's a U.S. GAAP.

U.S. GAAP. Can you give us a UK GAAP figure?

UK GAAP figure, almost the same. There's no big difference from EBITDA point of view.

Great. Thank you. And then last question, on the Regal debt, you said about 4% interest there. Can you confirm, have you locked in a rate there or is it all floating still?

Not yet. We didn't hedge currently the rates. In general, I can tell you this is something that we are still analyzing. But I will say that within our business, there is what we call a structural hedging because by the end of the day we have the ability, if inflation will go up and interest rate will go up accordingly, we have the ability to increase ticket prices in order to compensate some increase in the rates. Again, this is what we call inside hedging within our model. We are still analyzing it and we'll see really if there is a need to hedge some of the interest going forward.

Thank you.

Hi. Just on the U.S., I mean could you give us a little bit more of a timeline of what you're expecting to do this year in terms of the refurbishment, the initiatives you're opening up to?

I think from point of view of refurbishment, if we are okay, we will start in the last quarter. Moving ahead with it, we are working now on many plans. We're analyzing which cinemas to do, which to do first, which to do afterwards. We are very advanced already with – because we did a lot of research and a lot of visits to the cinemas prior to the closing of the deal. And I believe that realistically fourth quarter, we might start something already on the third quarter, but this is going to be and the new sites are opening according to the plan. So, we are just adjusting a little bit the design, trying to change things that we like less and learning from the things we like more.

And are you going to go for the full recliner seating formats or are you going to copy what you've done more in the UK?

We will probably not go to full project of recliners unless we are committed. Contractually we are analyzing this point. We believe that the recliners cost a lot of number of seats and people like the recliners on one hand. But on the other hand, I believe that if you give a high quality cinema, even without recliner or partially reclined, this can also be a very good solution. We see it here in the UK. Some of our competitors are reclining. Our cinemas in various locations that are opposite recliners, but fully refurbished, all new build are giving excellent results.

And just finally, obviously, the net debt is creeping pretty high even to what you're used to in Cinema City. Is there any adjustment to the CapEx or your thoughts on what you plan on deploying with cash just to make sure you don't reach on the net debt to EBITDA?

We think that we are generating enough cash in order to invest in the cinemas, to reduce the debt, and to pay dividend. And that's what we have done here, and that's what we'll continue to do so. We don't think we need to make any adjustment. We don't want to make any adjustment. We believe in investing in the business.

Thanks.

Morning. It's Alex Mees at JPMorgan. Four, if I can. The first one is just with regard to CapEx. You gave guidance for the UK and Rest of the World. I wonder if you could possibly give guidance for the U.S.

So, look, in the U.S. I think – in general, I think the total CapEx in the UK, we say £80 million – in Cineworld, by the way, UK and Rest of the World, we are estimating £80 million of CapEx, which is approximately $100 million of CapEx. In the U.S., the net CapEx after we take into consideration some landlords contribution and so on, we're talking about $160 million to $170 million, so altogether is the level of $260 million to $270 million, 2018, yes.

Great. Thank you. Then on the Virtual Print Fee, once again, I just wonder if you could tell us when it rolls off in the Rest of the World, and also if there are any...

Yeah. We still have two years to enjoy from VPF.

Okay.

Not fully by the way. Some of the contracts are going to end 2018, some in 2019. Probably by the end of – or late 2020, probably the VPF also will be, I will say, ending also in the Rest of the World territories.

Thank you. Thirdly, the spend per person in Rest of the World was particularly impressive, up 13%. I wonder if you see any further growth potential for that in 2018.

Definitely. I think we say all the time that from the ticket point of view and the concession point of view, the fact that the starting point in Rest of the World [ph] is very low, look (00:40:47), on the average ticket price and average concession in Poland and compare it to the UK, not to talk about the U.S., by the way the gap is really almost double. There is still potential to increase.

I'm not sure we'll be able to show every year 13% increase in SPP. But definitely the long term, and I'm looking all the time on long term, not it's going to be what this year or next year. Long term, the potential still in the ticket prices and the concession prices in Rest of the World exist.

Thank you. Just finally on Unlimited, I wanted to comment on the performance of Unlimited in the UK, Poland as well in 2017, and whether you plan to launch it in the U.S. in 2018?

So, Unlimited is a very successful scheme, as you all know, working very solid and effectively in the UK. The launch in Poland was successful. The business there is growing. We said at the beginning to grow an Unlimited business takes at least three to four years in order to reach maturity, and it continues after that to grow. But we are doing good income and good results with the Unlimited in Poland as well. In the U.S., there are few tweaks between Europe and the U.S. with regards to the studios, with regards to the habits of the Americans as they are going more to the movies. We are thinking in the direction there, but to say that we will start next year, it's too early for us to say.

Thank you.

Hi. Richard Stuber from Numis. Three questions, please. The first is, could you give an update in terms of the management structure in the U.S. at the moment, who's sort of in charge there and also just more generally about the morale of the sort of Regal employees there since you've taken over?

Second question is just any more updates in terms of initiatives, what you can do in the U.S., particularly I think online sales penetration is pretty low and [ph] how good if you (00:42:45) think if you go towards the UK levels? And the third, if you can give some guidance in terms of the effective tax rate we will see in the combined group. Thank you.

Okay. So, from point of view of management, the changes in Regal were not so or very important because the top four guys have left the company. But if we talk about numbers that on the day of the closing, 19 employees have left the company out of about 400 people in head office. We said from the beginning that the savings and the integration plan and these are not heavily based, let's say, on cuts in the head office.

This is not the direction. Probably there will be changes because there are some things we put more focus on, something we put less of a focus on, but this was quite a big change on one hand, and I believe that if today – I just came this morning back from Knoxville, the atmosphere in the office is good. People know what is our strategy. People, I believe, like the strategy.

Very happy to see that the cinema is becoming more into the focus, the cinema itself, the operation and the way the cinema looks and the message that we do. We are looking at the Regal brand, which is also divided in the U.S. to many other brands. So, I think in general if you look at it, the morale and the atmosphere in the office is relatively good, people will go through this and I believe that we'll be fully on track within a few months. It will be okay.

As for the day to day, we have our COO, Matt Eyre, who is very experienced, 35 years veteran in this industry. He is moving to the States and will be living in Knoxville and will head the operations in Regal. We are moving another two or three people to Knoxville, but not more than this. We, as management, are going to put a lot of attention to Regal as well. I believe that, personally, I will be in the U.S. now every other week.

And we are really working at the same system as we were doing in Rest of the World, which is like one big territory for us, although it's seven territories. The UK is another segment and now the U.S. In each group like this, we have what we call the table which is the executive tables, which are meeting once in two weeks and consist of all the head of the departments. We are taking part in these meetings. I take part in these meetings, on all of them.

And I believe that the whole management of Regal is getting in line, there's a very good team there, very experienced people there and they are already finding themselves around the table and in the decision process and really in the way that we want to move. So, this was for management and [indiscernible] (00:46:36).

The question who is in charge, we can say we are in charge here. So, that's a simple answer.

Yeah.

Second one was around...

Online sales penetration.

Online.

Yeah. So, online sales presentation, for sure, is in line of growing in the U.S. We will push it much more aggressive now. The main thing that holds down sales on the website is the fact that there are many cinemas in the U.S. that do not have reserved seating. It's much less of an incentive for the customer to book seat in advance and to pay also a booking fee if he doesn't know where he's going to sit at the end. And it is clear. All the other exhibitors see this now in the U.S.

Many, many years, the U.S. exhibitors were reluctant in reserving seats. It is clear now that every cinema that starts to have reserved seating – doesn't need to be recliners, by the way, it needs to be reserved. The sales on the website are growing. We are dealing with the issues there. We are looking also on the several deals that Regal have with suppliers in this area and there will be a significant change there. We don't see any reason to change our assumptions that this will be one of the contributors to the growth of the business.

The tax question is too difficult for me, so Nisan will...

Yeah. About the effective tax rate, I think if you look on 2017 before Regal transaction, the effective tax rate is standing on 16.5%. And I think post-Regal transaction because of the reform that the U.S. faced in the last months, which took their corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%. It probably will lead us to a level of between 19% to 20% effective tax rate going forward. Still lot of work to do. We are analyzing it. The U.S. market is huge. Every state have different – some tax regulation. We are learning it, analyzing, and might improve it here and there. But probably for the next year or two, this probably will be the effective tax rate.

Morning. James Wheatcroft, Deutsche Bank. Couple of questions from me, please. You've only owned the business in the U.S. for a couple of weeks. So, I was wondering whether sort of conversations you've had with suppliers, et cetera, has given you a deal more comfort around some of the savings you were hoping to extract and what you can give us in terms of an update there, please.

[ph] They all give us 25%, this is confirmed now (00:49:29), but we ask for more. So, that's a – and that's only two weeks.

I think the conversations with our suppliers are in the direction that we expected. Naturally, we are not getting into details with regards to the deals specifically with our suppliers. But we are satisfied with all the conversation. We talked to the main ones already, all the conversation that we had.

What should we be thinking about MoviePass and what kind of conversations may Regal have had with MoviePass?

Regal have not talked to MoviePass. Best of my knowledge, the other players have not done so as well. MoviePass is a model which cannot be explained at least at this stage, other – if we don't understand something in this business. But when you sell in $10, the opportunity to go to the cinemas as much as you want once a day, so you can go only 30 times for this $10, and the ticket price in Union Square in Manhattan is $17. So, the minute customers goes to Union Square, MoviePass are already in a loss of $7. And this is if you will not go in every week. If you go every week, they will lose $60,000 or $70,000. There's no doubt that the business is bleeding.

I don't know what is the agenda there exactly. I cannot understand it even if they get a lot of data, even if they get – in $10 you cannot see as many movies as you want. It will not work with the studios. It will not work with the cinemas. And I believe that, in general, this is something which is around and we'll need to see what these guys are up to. I have no idea.

Thank you. And then just last one in terms of sort of current trading. First half last year was stronger, benefited from Beauty and the Beast. I mean, would it be your view that with the lineup you've got ahead of you, the first half of 2018 could be every bit as good as the first half of 2017?

I think I was told when I started heading this public company, I know that I cannot talk about the future. I think we could look at the lineup, I think it's quite self-explanatory. The lineup for the first six months of 2018 looks stronger, in my opinion. The movies need to reach the screen in order to know it. Beauty and the Beast was a March movie and Black Panther was a February movie, but at the end of the day there is no huge difference worldwide. I'm talking between these two movies.

And it comes in timing and it goes around. The four movies that I mentioned that are coming as of the end of April every two weeks, it's Avengers and then Deadpool 2 and two weeks later is Solo and two weeks later it's Jurassic World, is something that I wish we would have every year.

Thank you.

Mark Irvine-Fortescue from Panmure Gordon. Can I just ask the first part of James' question in a slightly different way, specifically on film buying. I think before you've been a bit wary about overpromising the benefits of scale on film buying. Now, where you are as a new enlarged business, do you think there is scope from having better negotiating power with the studios to improve gross margins on film buying or not?

Improving gross margin on film buying is not part of our business. We are taking the assumptions that there will not be a change. This is a very conservative industry and terms are going per territory in a very traditional way for many, many years. This is the general statement. Saying that, there is a lot of other activities we do with the studios. The studios today understand very well that the potential of marketing and advertising in the cinemas is very, very important. This cooperation and partnership is growing and means also money.

So, if you look directly at payment per movie, it's not part of the business plan. We might gain something, but if it is a very strong year, you pay a little bit more, sometimes it's better in a year that you pay a little bit more because it means that they were huge movies. The scales are adjusted in most of the places according to the results. This is not on our agenda to reduce the film rental, but it is in our agenda to increase the cooperation for marketing. We already do very good numbers, but we can do better and we will do better with this, for sure.

Thank you. A couple of questions on MoviePass again and then something – and then another question. What sort of – do you have a sense of how much business is coming via MoviePass at present? And do you have to wait for MoviePass to perhaps stop before you can launch Unlimited in the States? And then secondly, you clearly get quite big landlord contributions in the States, have you had any – the contributions in the UK or Rest of World or is that an opportunity that you can learn [ph] from mistake (00:55:26) from the Americans?

Okay. So, we'll start with MoviePass, I think, and again saying – we are not following or this is not so easy to follow exactly what is the level of business that MoviePass gives Regal in the U.S. But for us, it doesn't matter. They are paying the full 2D price for every movie that a customer is going. If anybody thinks it can be canceled significant in a way that they would be pushing us, I don't see it as something which is going to happen. They might try, but I don't see something is going to happen.

Don't forget they are committed to the customers. They are very proud now of saying we have already 1.5 million, now they say 2 million. I don't know if they really have 2 million, maybe they have less, maybe they have more. But at the end of the day when you have 2 million people that are paying you $10 a month, you are committed then to supply the tickets and the movies. So, the fact of there was in some news that they boycotted 10 AMC cinemas. The feedback they got back from the clients, I guess if you are a customer of AMC in Manhattan and you come with your MoviePass and suddenly it doesn't work, you probably will be very angry. So, their front is with their customers, not with us.

How do you pitch Unlimited against $10 a seat, $10 a month?

We don't pitch it. $10 is unrealistic. And people that understand it – if there would be an offer, there was already someone now said that they are going to come to the UK. If someone can supply this in $10, we will not be able to supply it in £18. But it's not realistic, it doesn't work, [ph] because (00:57:29) you need to pay full price in the cinema.

And the opportunity to increase landlord contributions ex-States?

We get landlord contributions in the UK and we get almost full fit-out cinemas from the landlords in Central Europe; in a way, better deals than the deals in the U.S. So, I think the only thing we can try is to improve the landlord contributions also in the U.S.

It's over here. Michael Goltsman from Citigroup. Just two questions from me. Firstly, can you – what's the exact share of online tickets sold in the UK and Rest of World? And secondly, in the U.S., National CineMedia reported the results a few days ago, they're guiding down on profitability this year. How active are your discussions with that organization around their advertising programs for the upcoming year?

With what, with NCM you said?

NCM, yeah, National CineMedia.

Look, the advertising business in the cinemas is a very good business. It has a huge potential. NCM is a bit complicated structure that was created by the three founders which were AMC, Regal and Cinemark. We're getting into this now. We don't think that it's going to have any significant impact. We believe that this business can also be growing and has a growth potential in the U.S. and this is part of the task that we need to deal with. And your first question was?

Online ticket share. What percentage of your tickets are booked online in the UK and Rest of the World?

I don't – I'm not sure, Nisan. [indiscernible] (00:59:37) that we are not revealing it, I think, so openly yet.

Well, yeah.

It's about double in the UK, the ratio, than in the U.S. to give an indication where we can go.

Yeah.

And it's different from one territory to another, so it's very hard to answer.

Yeah.

Yes. Jeffrey Harwood from Stifel. First of all, are you planning any pricing changes at Regal? And secondly, could you give us your view on the Fox deal, how that might change things for you?

Making price changes unless there are some places here and there that need to be adjusted, I think that are not planned on the short time. Cineworld is not basing its business, as you see also in the UK, on price increases, not on blockbuster tax, not on all these kind of things. But we believe that once we renovate and once we improve the service and the experience to our customers, they are ready to pay more. And this is working very well for us, so we will go with a similar philosophy in the U.S. Here and there, there is inflation and changes like this, but it's not something that we are basing.

Okay. And then Fox and Disney. So, Fox and Disney, I think, in general, is a deal that, first of all, shows Disney belief in this business. And as far as we understand, this will take the deal to close at least another six to nine months, I believe. But I think, in general, one of the immediate effect of these deals is that Disney are great supporters of the window, of the theatrical window. Fox were on the other side. Not that I was worried when Fox were alone of shortening the window. I don't believe in this as a real change that this industry really wants to do. The theatrical business is growing. The income from the theatrical business per movie is now in around 50% and over coming from the cinemas. But this is a different issue. But having now Disney with Fox, from this point of view, is good news.

In general, if you have six big suppliers and now you have five, it might not be the best news from point of view of negotiations. But as I said before, the same as we do not expect terms to go down because now Regal is together with Cineworld. I do not expect changes. I hope that Disney and what we hear is that Disney are having big plans for the Fox slate.

We need to remember that they have all the X-Men franchise which belongs to Marvel, in a way, belongs to Disney already today. They have Avatar which are coming on the way which is a huge asset for Disney. Disney are looking at it as we understand from the interviews. On a big picture, Avatarland like Disneyland is something that we will see probably in the coming years. And this deal is a big strategic deal for them. I think, in general, for the industry it's a good deal.

Hi. Just two quick questions on admissions. Firstly, Regal in the U.S. on a sort of three- or four year-view, it looks like that business is underperforming the market in terms of admissions growth. Is there any reason to believe that they won't perform in line with the market this year? Is there anything structural in the business that is more about you needing to change over time?

And then just on the UK business, the 2.3% admissions growth in the sort of last 18 months, you've done the Empire deal that annualized the new cost of acquisition. You've opened a lot of new sites. Is there a reason that that business isn't growing more in terms of admissions? Is there a tail of underperforming site in the U.S. – in the UK that's dragging that down? That means it wouldn't be doing a bit better.

Look, I think in general, we see the openings and we see the acquisitions, and we don't see sites which are coming down or sites that competition opened close to us, cinemas that impact us or any other things. So, usually we see the upper side, we don't see the other side. So, this is balancing this in a way, but mainly is the slate of the movies. So, if you would have had a very strong movie last September in the UK or last August where we had some quiet period, this number would have been high.

One of the ways to growing this business is opening and acquiring new sites and to do with them the right thing. So, if we look at admissions, it's not only admissions, it's also the ticket price, it's general box office. If you talk in the U.S., by the way, in admissions, they almost don't take it into consideration. The whole industry talks box office, box office and box office.

If we look at Regal standing, I think Regal is very well positioned in the market, amazing cinemas, amazing sites. But as we said also, so all the way some of them are very tired and some of them are not really giving their experience, not all of them. Of course, there are some amazing cinemas and some very tired cinemas that are still doing amazing business. But this is what we are there to deal with. And I believe that as we saw in Cineworld, we will see a similar story or even bigger in the U.S.

Good.

Good.

Okay.

Thank you very much.

Thank you very much.

Thank you very much.