Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Moshe Joseph Greidinger — Chief Executive Officer & Non-Executive Director, Cineworld Group Plc
Nisan Cohen — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director, Cineworld Group Plc
Alistair Ross — Analyst, Investec Bank Plc
Ali Naqvi — Analyst, HSBC Bank Plc
Richard Stuber — Analyst, Numis Securities Ltd.
Michael Goltsman — Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd.
Jeffrey Harwood — Analyst, Stifel Nicolaus Europe Ltd.
Owen Shirley — Analyst, Joh. Berenberg, Gossler & Co. KG (United Kingdom)

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, everyone. Welcome to Picturehouse Central.

The nicest cinema in the West End of London.

After the Cineworld West End. It's the second now. Nobody from Picturehouse here, yes? Okay. So, this is one of the two best cinemas in the West End, and we are happy to start the Presentation for Six Months Results. It's the first time that we are going with the results, which are including the U.S. And if we really see and look at the key highlights, we can say, first of all, the transaction was completed as you all know. As of 1st of March, we are officially running the U.S., the Regal [ph] estate (00:01:05). Total of the acquisition was at the end $5.8 billion. We went, sold the rights issue of $2.3 million (sic) [$2.3 billion] (00:01:16). And the integration process is going well. We are happy with the time and we are happy with the results. And as we said before, it's not a one-day process. It's not also one-month process. But we believe that we are on track. Even in some cases, we are ahead of schedule. And in 2019, we'll see already most of the synergies and the integration results on board.

From financial point of view, we have a 10.8% increase in revenue. The group pro forma EBITDA is 14% up, and we are very satisfied with this result. Strong performance in the U.S. market is the main contributor for this. The U.S. didn't have a great year in 2017. Also, it was, in my eyes at least, very exaggerated. And at the end of the day, we see today that the business is good. First six months were the biggest six months ever in the U.S., and this was a good result.

This was accompanied with a solid result in the U.K., and we'll talk about the territories more in details in a minute. And in Central Europe and in Israel, we had small drop, but this is normal. We need all of us to remember that in these territories, the importance of local product is much more important for the business and a lack of local product can change or move the numbers.

Some of these territories, and we see it also in the U.K. always, the first six months are always lower than the second six months, and we'll see this also in the results. We are continuing our investment in technology. We'll talk about it later in the presentation. ScreenX is the new technology that we are bringing into the market. What happened to the slide? Okay. We'll continue. And the rollout across the new sites whether it is in the U.S., U.K., are going according to the plan.

If you change the slide – we still don't have it.

People have the presentation. So they can...

Yeah. It never happens when we show a movie, guys. It's only in the presentation. It is amazing if you think today that every day we are running within the group something in the region of 50,000 movie shows every day, about 10,000 screens, five to six shows a day. Every day, we are running 50,000. So, I guess in a few of them, there are some problem with the projection from time to time, but not many.

So, we go back to where we are. You see clearly the size of the U.S. About 75% of the screens are in the U.S. The numbers in the U.K., Central Europe, and Israel have not changed dramatically. In the last six months, we had some few new cinemas. And altogether, we have today 130 IMAXs across the territories, 121 either Superscreen or RPX as we call them in the U.S., which is Regal Premium Experience, and 43 4DXs, and we are going forward with the 4DX, which is a big success on a very big way.

I'll turn it now to Nisan.

Thank you, Mooky. We'll go to the financial review. And first, I will just make some description before the first slides. We'll talk about the pro forma performance. When I'm saying pro forma performance, meaning we are comparing here apple-to-apple, meaning the six full months of Regal, plus full six months of Cineworld compared to the same period of 2017.

So, if we start with the group result, you can see on the left that post deal, United States, the U.S. represents 76% of our business from revenue point of view, the U.K. 15%, and Central Europe and Israel, what we call rest of the world, represent 9% from the revenue.

From product and service portfolio, this is more or less very comparable to last year's performance. The box office represent over 60%, the retail, the concession what we call, 28%, and the other income, which contain mainly advertising, online sales, and some other elements, contain 10%.

On the right, we have the flesh numbers that I will go in details in the later slide, but we definitely see the increasing of admission in revenue and the adjusted pro forma EBITDA plus margin above 22%.

If we move to the H1 pro forma by geography, we definitely see the strong result in the U.S., starting from admission and down to revenue. EBITDA is up by 20%. We produced in the first six months in the U.S. $441 million of EBITDA, which reflected also by the way in the cash flow, very nice, I will say, percentage on free cash flow and EBITDA. And we see also a nice improvement in the EBITDA margin, reaching 23.5%. Again, if you compare apple-to-apple here, it's another 1% in the margin. The group level is close to 1%, a level of 22.5%.

In the U.K., like we said before, a slight decrease in admission mainly because of the movie release, the timing – the dates some of the movies were rescheduled from June to July. However, we managed to perform good level of EBITDA and contained a similar margin of 16.3%, very typical results, very similar to last year when H1 is usually on this level. H2 usually is in higher level, 22% or 23%, which by the end of the year, we are lending more or less on the level of 20% in the U.K.

Central Europe, we see some reduction in admission. But if we look on the – what's happening in the last four year, the [ph] saga (01:09:21) growth of admission was approximately 5%. So, I think that we need to remember it, but it's coming really after very strong comps, and we'll talk about it in a second.

Going to the territories themselves, in the U.S., we see the breakdown of the revenue of box office retail, other income, all of them strong results, supported by some increase in the ATP, in the spend per head. This is helping also to the revenue line, and I think that by the end of the day, we are very happy with the performance in the U.S.

If we move to the next slide, the performance in the U.K., I mentioned before there is some reduction in admission. However, in the box office, in the retail, and in the other income, which contain also our advertising business, which performed well, and some other elements like the online, I think it was performing good in the U.K. And by the end of the day, it has helped us really to maintain a 2.5% revenue growth in this segment.

If we move to the KPIs in the U.K., the ATP and SPP, there is a growth of 4% and 3.8%. The main reason for increasing the ATP is inflation increase, and there is also the impact, we are talking about it a lot, of the type of the movies. If we have more kids' movies, less kids' movies, there is some impact on the average ticket price.

You have also to remember the premium...

And the premium, yeah, format.

Formats, which are more expensive, like more IMAXs, more 4DX, are also influencing the average ticket price.

The average ticket. Moving to Central Europe and Israel, so here we see the slight decrease in revenue to $229 million of revenue. We are saying all the time this is a business of fixed cost base. So, decreasing admission, we sometimes see a bit more impact on the EBITDA. However, we believe that this is not really reflecting the overall attitude of the market. We are very confident with this market, with the growth potential in Central Europe. We'll have some more local production in the second half and we are very confident on those territories.

The KPI in Central Europe and Israel, ATP, 2.5% increase, concession, SPP, 8.2% increase. I think it's also related to the fact that in the last year, we didn't go up dramatically in the concession prices. Here, we have some improvement in some of the territories. By the end of the day, this is a very good result.

If we look on the statutory group profit and loss, again four months of Regal and six months of Cineworld. This is mainly to calculate the net profit and the EPS. The adjusted EBITDA of statutory basis is $414 million and we see operating profit $213 million, by the end of the day giving us a profit after tax of $128 million. There are some adjustments which I will explain in the next slide, which reaching adjustment profit after tax of $152 million, and this was the base of the calculation of the earnings per share.

If we try to break down here the exceptional of course and other, I think the main big items here are really the transaction cost, the deal cost, that – we have the [indiscernible] (00:13:35) most of the money we need to pay to them in order to finalize the deal. In the next final cost, we've mentioned there is also a onetime gain of approximately $37 million. This relate to the euro loan that we took out of the debt or structure of the debt. Then Cineworld contain also approximately €600 million loan. The exchange rate here compared to the dollar creates a positive, but it compensates some of the finance cost.

If we move to the next slide, and breaking down the $24 million of adjustment from the statutory profit after tax to the adjustment profit after tax, I will mention here two really important line. One is the transaction cost, approximately $50 million. On the other hand, we are adjusting the FX, which is $35.5 million. There are also some other small elements that are netting off to a $24 million adjustment, which giving us by the end of the day adjusted diluted EPS of $0.132.

Looking on the net debt analysis, I'll try here really to take you through to build a bridge from 1st of January through the deal in February till the end of June. And I think we are, in general, happy with where we are. We started with a net debt EBITDA of 4.1. We managed to reduce it with a strong cash flow to 3.8. You need to remember that in the second half of the year, there are some cash elements like one, we acquired some shares of National Cinema Media (sic) [National CineMedia] (00:15:41) approximately $80 million. There is some payments of dividend. However, we believe that if all goes well, there is also a potential to reduce the net debt to EBITDA further. Difficult to assess exactly where it will land, but I think the bottom line is that, as we said, we are reducing the net debt, and we are happy with this.

Some technical, I would say, a slide about the interim dividend. Cineworld is declaring today [ph] $0.0485 (00:16:16) of dividend per share. The declaration is in the U.S. dollar. However, we are giving an option to our shareholder to select the currency till September 14. And there is a technical way to do it. It's, by the way, on our website. We announced also in the release today about the way to do it. On September 21, we'll decide about the exchange rate between the pound and the dollar. In the first week of October, the payment of the dividend will be done.

And the default currency for people who will not select will be pounds.

Financial outlook, before we are moving to the business side, we're seeing business on track to deliver synergies planned for 2018 and 2019. We'll have some slides about it in a second. The total capital expenditure for the year is expected to be between $220 million to $240 million on a statutory basis. We'll start to see some more investment in the second half, start to renovate cinemas. Mooky will discuss about it, but it will have some impact on the CapEx in the second half.

Normalized tax rate expected to trend towards 19% to 20% as we expected prior the deal. And focus on cash generation, we're delivering (sic) [deleveraging] (00:17:43) profile on track. I think looking on the cash flow, we managed to produce operating cash flows close to $400 million on statutory basis, which is very close to the EBITDA. I think it's a good sign really of the business, which is contributing cash and will help us also to reduce the net debt.

Group to maintain historical dividend payout. I think we have said it also prior the deal. Our goal is to maintain the 55% of EPS dividend, and that's part of our, I think, policy and we are going to maintain it. That's the financial outlook.

I will move it to Mooky for the business update.

Okay. So, the integration update, I think if we start with the team, I would say first and foremost, we found a very professional team, a lot of people that have been many years in the industry with a lot of knowledge in the U.S. Saying that, we of course needed to do some significant changes mainly on the top position. On day one, the new management team according to us took its place, and we really respect the contribution of the old management to the company and to what they've done in Regal. And on the day one, this was changed.

Later on, in the next coming weeks, we made some other changes in some of the departments. Some of the departments did not have big changes. And we are going still on analyzing always of integration between the teams, who are making some changes of activities into the U.S. Some of the things are being managed more from Europe.

We moved some people. Our COO has moved into the U.S. He's concentrating only on operating the cinemas on the day-to-day in the U.S., which was an important move.

We already made some operating structural changes there with dividing into new regions into a different way a bit of how we run the cinemas. All this was taken place. We're still in the process, again, as I said, especially when you deal with people. Things are not being done overnight, but we are in a good way there.

The global head office remains in London, and the Regal offices, of course, became a big part of our management. We are positioned in Knoxville. I didn't know that Knoxville exist maybe a year ago. I knew about Tennessee, but not about Knoxville.

Today, every two weeks I'm there. Every other week, Israel and Nisan are there. So, we really almost all the time have a presence of top management in the U.S. and things are moving good.

Senior management team is really now integrated. We have people that had group tasks and took over also these responsibilities for the U.S. Departments like construction, department like HR. Some of the departments remained separate in view of the geographical gap, I would say.

But in general, if we look today the management really of Cineworld Group, you might look at it as more as a really United Nations management. We have people from all over. And I think that we can be proud about our management team. We have a great team, which is really taking a big part in the new activities in the U.S., not forgetting for a moment our basic activities here in Europe.

The strategy, so best practice sharing is clear. We are dealing a lot with alignment of the IT and the reporting system. The whole group will talk probably by the end of the year the same language in all these aspects, corporate, expense optimization, needless to say even.

The rollout is allocated [indiscernible] (00:22:44) allocated seating is taking place. We have already changed 10% of the cinemas in the U.S. into reserved seating on top of what Regal had before, and we are pushing this. Also, it has an effect on the service to the customer, much better service when you have allocated seating. And we are getting more online penetration with the seat also of course brings more income. People are more relaxed. They have more time in the lobby to use the concession, and they don't have to run into the hall in order to get your seat.

Marketing and advertising is also in full force of change. We are going to introduce within the next 10 days the new logo of Regal, which is going to be there.

I remind you that Regal was operating under four or five or maybe six brand names, different brand names, some of them big like United Artists, like Edwards in California. It is, at the end of the day, going to be, all of them are going to be Regal. We are not going to do it overnight because it's a heavy investment. But every new refurbished cinema, every new opening, some of our big guns are going to get the new logo and the new look very soon.

NCMI, which is the advertising, similar to what we have here in the U.K. with DCM. Because of regulatory issues, AMC had to sell their shares. This company was founded by AMC, Cinemark, and Regal. Similar to what we have here, DCM is owned by Odeon and Cineworld, but has also a special agreement with Vue. So, this was the situation. At a certain time, this company became public in the U.S., and because of the Carmike acquisition, AMC were told by the Justice Department that they should sell their shares in NCM. We felt it is on one hand an opportunity, and on the other hand, something that will be also good for us to get us more involved into NCM. We greatly believe in the potential of screen advertising in the cinemas. And together with Cinemark, we invested the money in order to buy the AMC shares, and today we have approximately 25% in Cinemark market (00:25:32), approximately 25%, and we see improvement in NCM already in the first six months of the year and we have plans in order to improve more of this line of income.

Plans for the first cinemas refurbishment are progressing well. I believe we will start, hopefully, if all goes well with permit, somewhere in September to do the refurbishment of one of the first cinemas.

It will take time a little bit to ignite it, but after – probably in 2019, we'll be already full force ahead with the plan. We need to discuss it with the landlords. We have different agreements that we are doing with the landlords. So, it takes some time really to prepare and also to design. But the plans are good and you'll see some first designs in the coming slides.

So, expected combination benefits. 2018, we're aiming at anywhere between $40 million and $50 million. We will be there. 2019, we are planning to get into $100 million. I think we have already achieved significant savings until today. You know that we are going on a conservative way with what we say, and we believe that we are on track with the synergies and aiming for even a higher result.

Business continues. It's not the U.S., U.S., and only the US. We opened three new cinemas in the first six months, two of them in the U.K., one of them in Romania, which added to our offer and to our position in these markets. Every opening is important, and we are there continuing and having plans. We'll talk about it in a minute for the second half of the year.

United States, meanwhile, another three cinemas were opened since we took over. So, since the 1st of April, we opened one cinema in New York, one in Florida, and one in California. All these cinemas, we didn't have a lot of impact on the design of them. It was all ready and almost one of them opened just when we arrived, the Delta Shores in California. But we are getting more and more into changing some of the designs, creating what we call the Cineworld Experience, and we believe that we are on the right way.

Refurbishment plan, which is a big part of our activity. I don't know how many of you have been already to Cineworld Leicester Square, by far today the leading cinema in London. We have still the biggest IMAX in the U.K. We have an amazing Superscreen there. And just recently, we opened with great success the 4DX. This is the first 4DX in Central London, and was a big day for the 4DX activity. And soon, we are going – we have already one in Wandsworth, and we are going to open early 2019 the third 4DX in the London area in the O2. Dublin also had a new 4DX. We made some renovations there.

If we look at the next slide, just a taste. This is one of the leading cinemas of Regal in the U.S., in a project called Irvine Spectrum, and really an amazing project there. This is 22 or 24 screens. It's not going to look [ph] out (00:29:57) though. It's not going to look this way because it will get the new logo of Regal. Currently, this cinema is called Edwards, but it will be a full Regal as of the end of the refurbishment, and you can have a first look at the lobby that we are planning there.

If we move to the next slide, this is Union Square, New York. This is the best Regal Cinema today in the U.S., very tired, old, still performing very, very well. This is just a peek into the new look of the Union Square in Manhattan.

Technology investment. Part of our strategy is clearly to invest in technologies and in new technologies. We are today only buying laser projectors. We are not doing xenon projectors anymore. The xenon projectors are good, but the laser projectors are better and also more efficient and saving costs quite significantly in OpEx, which is important for us.

We have signed new deals with 4DX for 80 4DXs in the U.S. It's a big breakthrough for 4DX and a big breakthrough for us. In Regal, we have today already five 4DXs, and we are growing this business. IMAX, 55 screens. Some of them will be only a change from a regular into a laser. Some of them will be new. But our relationship with the IMAX Group are also very strong and important.

And the newcomer to the family is now what is called ScreenX. ScreenX is a 270-degree panoramic film viewing. It is effective not through all the movie. It's not like the 4DX, where you have the effect for all the movie. It covers something like 30 to 40 minutes out of the movie. It needs much more involvement of the studios. And I would say [ph] there was zero (00:32:14) situation in a way of a little bit the chicken and the egg.

The studios love the technology and wanted to invest in it. It's a big investment. On the other hand, on our side of the world, ScreenX was looking really for a strong leading partner that the studios were asking them to show. There are already more than 200 ScreenXs in China and in Korea, and they are very successful. And this gave the studios already the push to make some of the big movies on ScreenX.

The deal with us, I think, is really now, let's say, strengthening a lot of the commitment from the studios. Warner have signed with them already a deal. Disney have signed with them a deal, and it's going to develop nicely.

If we move to the next slide, I would say that last night, we opened. We are talking about the business continuing also on this side. We opened one of our most prestigious projects in the U.K., which is in Speke. This is the third – or the second strongest power center in the U.K., in Liverpool. We opened there an amazing project of 11 screens. And tonight or tomorrow night, we are opening there the first ScreenX in the U.K., together with the ScreenX that we are opening on the O2. So, two ScreenXs will be opened tomorrow to the public in the U.K. It's a big event for us. So, this is where we are standing with the new technologies that will go all over in all the territories. And we think we are bringing here something new to our customers. And we'll share with you a short clip that explains what is the ScreenX better than I do.

[Video Presentation] (00:34:15-00:34:52)

Good. So, I think that – I don't think I know, but the movies that are opening ScreenX in the U.K. tomorrow will be Meg (sic) [The Meg] (00:35:05), which is the new shark movie coming from Warner Bros. And we would be also showing Ant-Man, although Ant-Man is already here on the third, starting I think the third week. But we wanted to give a variation. Black Panther was a movie that was already in ScreenX, so many big blockbusters which are coming this way. And let's see then what is coming.

So, we have 12 cinemas to open before the end of the year, 111 screens altogether. Eight of them will in the U.S., four of them will be in the U.K. We have further refurbishment plans. In the U.K., we are currently on four sites, and in Central Europe, we are only on one. I'll just remind in general that the estate in Central Europe is much younger, so refurbishment there is not something which is so common as in the U.K. and now in the U.S.

First cinemas of refurbishment will start in the U.S., as we said, and further integration benefits opportunities from the combination are being reviewed all the time by management, and we are moving step-by-step. Naturally, some of the [ph] points (00:36:30) that we are touching are taking a little bit more time and involvement of third parties, negotiations, et cetera. Everything is on schedule, and we are confident in the direction where we are going. And we are of course continuing to emphasize and continue to go again and again with our team and also with our customers to our main point in strategy, and this is being the best place to watch a movie. And I think once everybody in the team understands this, we are giving a better service and a better experience to our customers.

And last but also not least are the movies. We have here a look at second half of 2018, some of the movies, Mamma Mia! working very, very strong in the U.K., but also performing well in other countries. Mission: Impossible was one of the most successful Mission: Impossible in the series, number 6. We still expect Wreck-It Ralph from Disney which is coming, and the rumors are saying it's very, very big. There are some other big movies like Fantastic Beasts, of course. The Incredibles is right now on the screen, doing very well, and more and more. The rumors, by the way, of Mary Poppins that's going through Mary Poppins Returns with Emily Blunt this time are really very, very high, and this will be probably the last blockbuster in the year, which will release towards Christmas.

Six months of 2018 and then 2019 and beyond, I think most of you are aware to the product, which is coming. Hollywood believes in this business. We believe in the cinematic and the theatrical business, and I think if you look for the movies that are coming up, there is a lot to wait for in 2019 and afterwards.

And I think we will move from here to the Q&A.

Morning, guys, Alistair Ross from Investec. Just a quick one in terms of net debt to EBITDA, and taking into account the NCM step-up dividends, and refurbs. I'll take these questions one at a time. Where do you think we can see net debt to EBITDA getting to at the end of the year? Do you think 3.8 times is sort of where we should take it or do you think it could be lower than that or higher?

Okay. I think as I said before, we started the year with 4.1. We managed to reduce it to 3.8. There are some elements that we need to consider when we are thinking about H2, which is the NCM, like you said. It's approximately [ph] $18 million (00:39:46) to dividend payments. But if all goes well, then the performance would be fine. I see some potential to decrease it a bit more. I don't think it will be a big decrease, but a level of 3.7, 3.8, I think, is achievable.

Fantastic. Thanks, Nisan. Just a quick one. In terms of consensus, and I'm working this out on your dividend, I think consensus for the full year looks like it's something like about $990 million. If I deduct the pro forma – if I deduct the H1 pro forma of the $554 million, I'm getting to a very sort of low implied number for full consensus for H2. Given what you've said in terms of openings, refurbs, obviously combination benefit should start coming through in H2 more strongly, I guess. Just in terms of that consensus number, how do you see that moving?

Look, I think I discussed it in the morning with most of you. It's too early to come and to judge now and to focus how the full year will look like. We have a very good set of result in the first half, like you said, $550 million of EBITDA. I suggest to wait a bit to see how the Q3 will perform. To remember that not like Cineworld before which usually we used to see first half represent approximately 40% or 45%. In the second half, it used to represent 55%, 60%. If you look and analyze the results in the U.S., not just for Regal, overall in the market, you'll find [ph] a bit (00:41:31) different ratios between first and the second half.

That's why I think in this business we know it's not our first time, we're not focusing really at the year-end. We need to be a bit patient and to see how the Q3 will perform. July was good, just the beginning of the second half. And I believe that in the coming two, three months, we'll have much more clear view how the year-end will look like.

Thank you. Just on debt, the interest charge on the debt and how you see that progressing in future.

Look, we started with, as I said before, first debt of $4.1 billion and margin of 2.5% plus LIBOR. I think we are all aware there is some increase in the LIBOR. Saying this, I think, we said it also in the past we believe that in our business model there is a built-in hedge that allowing us to compensate some potential increase in the interest rate.

We are monitoring it all the time. It's not we are saying this and we are not looking on this. We are monitoring very carefully on a weekly basis and following this. But again, we think that today we don't see it as something that needs to be done in order to hedge it. We believe that, as I said before, there is a built-in hedge that protecting us I think from some future increase in the interest rate.

And just on NCM, you commented on the performance and obviously that step-up has recently occurred. The run rate, how should we think about that sort of in terms of 2019 and possibly even H2 2018.

Look, NCM, it's an important part of our business, it's contributing nice level of advertising revenue in few lines by the way, some – you'll see it in the other income, some we see it in the profit we are generating from the subsidiaries. We increased our shares, yes, so definitely it will increase also the profitability of this business, and I think this increase of share also will help us to trying to improve the results there. And we need to wait a bit and to see how the year-end will look like. And then maybe we'll be able to get more clear picture how to, let's say, analyze and get to the exact contribution of NCM in the future.

Many thanks. Thank you.

Hi. Ali Naqvi from HSBC. Just two for me, if I may. On the synergies, you've historically given a bit of detail on the $100 million you're trying to achieve, but in terms of the further integration benefit opportunities, could you give us a little bit more color on where that's going to come from, what you've identified so far and I guess, yeah, what kind of quantum we might be looking at?

It's a bit early. We are working to achieve the $100 million. A lot of opportunities that we see, we are working very hard on them. I think it will not make sense to go into details here because the details are complicated [ph] at the end of the day (00:44:51). Like Mooky said, we are – when we came at the beginning, you acquired a public company you really don't know much, and we came with these estimates of $100 million achievable on 2019. We are much more comfortable today than we were four months ago in achieving it, but I think that for now it's enough for us as a target. And that's what we're going to work toward. Of course, there are more opportunities that we see all the time, but it's very early to try and assess them or see what it was.

On the refurbs, it looks like you've brought some of them forward into Q4. Do you have targets on what kind of returns you're expecting on the refurbs in the U.S. and maybe thoughts on whether comparing to the U.K. and whether they're defensive or sort of first-mover advantage in terms of returns?

Just to clarify, first, I don't think we will see a lot of refurbishments in second half of 2018. We might start these processes in these big cinemas will take something like four to six months each. I'll remind you that we are not closing the cinema which is very important. We are not closing the cinemas for refurbishments of competition.

If you look, for example, here now to the [indiscernible] (00:46:08) Leicester Square is closed for about eight months for refurbishment. We did Cineworld there. We had to close for one month because of asbestos issues, and this was really an issue of health and safety. Otherwise, we don't close the cinemas through the renovation. So, it is not going to be a dramatic move in 2018. If we get into the process, I believe it will be refurbishing on an ongoing basis all the time something like five or six cinemas.

And if we look at the return on investment, it's very, very difficult, I think, we said it already in the past, to estimate, because on one hand while the cinema is better, you have the possibility to charge a bit more. We are not running dramatically, but I would say in the U.K. the experience shows us that we are getting about something like another £1 for a ticket.

We are implementing the new premium formats, if you can call it, into these refurbishments. So, of course, if you have an IMAX now that you didn't have before, or a 4DX that you didn't have before, it's also generating additional income. The concession income is growing because the concession is more inviting and is more [ph] rich (00:47:28). In the U.S., we'll also generate from the issues of the reserved seating, income online, et cetera. So this is one side of the refurbishments.

On the other hand, we need to remember that it is in a way also partially a defensive move because, first, maybe our competition are also either refurbishing or opening new cinemas in the surrounding of the cinema, so you need – if you will not do anything in the cinema, the cinema at the end will die.

And second thing, there is a limit to how much a cinema, which is 30 years old, even if it is well maintained, and even if it is well run, can hold with these more narrow roads, with the old seats, with the whole facility being in a way quite tired, I would say.

So, if you take the two sites together, I think the return on investment that we are getting on the refurbishments, [ph] accounting (00:48:29) experience is very good. In some of the cases, goes over 25%, over 30% of this. It's very difficult to really go and say what is per site. Every site has its own story, but, for sure, that we have proved that this policy is paying back in a good way. And we decided not to renovate everything together. So we are not starting 600 renovations [indiscernible] (00:48:49) to examine the numbers and see how it works.

Thanks. And just one follow-up from me, what's the online penetration across the group in the different regions? Thanks.

I think it's hard to say exactly how it is. I think it's definitely much more in the [ph] U.K. and no event (00:49:20) in the U.S., and we want to increase it in the U.S. But specific numbers are difficult to say.

Hi. Richard Stuber from Numis. Two questions please. The first is on U.S. margins. They were up 1.1%. Could you say how much of that is due to sort of operating leverage and how much of that is due to synergies, or to put that in another way I guess is how many millions of dollars of synergies have you already realized in the first half?

I think, look, as I said before, first, the increase in the EBITDA margin is really comparable to last year. That's, I think, the first point. Second, as much as I want to take the glory of the EBITDA increase in the first six months and say it's all because of us, I think we should be reasonable and say that it's mostly coming from the increase in admission. There are some footprint that we manage to do in the first four months. It's not six months because we are just onboard from 1st of March. I think it's only good news because by the end of the day, this is the margin and before I would say, our material footprint, we just need to expect some improvement in the future.

Okay. So you're saying that the vast majority of the synergies in the first half in year one would be H2 weighted [ph] very much (00:50:38)?

Probably [ph] much (00:50:39).

Thank you. And the second question is, could you give us some sort of idea in terms of strategy given MoviePass and the demise of that and, in particular, when you expect to rollout Unlimited in the U.S.?

So, MoviePass, I think, as was discussed a lot on the press and the media and everything, had some substantial issues with regards to how a project can work in a way where you are collecting $10 from your customers. And even if they go once to the movies, they are already in profit especially if you do it in New York. In Union Square, the cinema that I showed you, ticket price for regular movie on the weekend is $18. How can you give an Unlimited or a MoviePass as they called it, for $10 a month? Didn't make a sense. I think that they were considering that they will get income from other sources, like advertising and this was the story. I never got deep into this and not to all the details. But it looked as something which was not so reasonable. MoviePass is still there. They are changing the conditions of the program every week now. They took the price up to $14, then they took it back. Now, they are saying it's only three movies a month. There is a kind of a struggle there. I'm not the one to sit here and to say how long it will last. But, I believe, it is a negative cash flow business, so we'll need to see how it is.

Unlimited is a completely different program. If we will look at MoviePass, and we'll look in some of the other programs which are looking more as a bargain program, come and see and do, Unlimited, part of the success of Unlimited that this is directed into people that really love to go to the movie.

If you go to a movie once a month, which is a lot, you don't need to buy Unlimited. There is no gain there for you. If you go two times, you're on the edge in a way because some months as maybe you'll go a little bit more. You're already considering Unlimited. And if you like to go three times a month, so you like to go every week and there are people – these people, I think, we should embrace, these people I think we should give them the opportunity to see the movies on a much better conditions. They are committing to us for 12 months. So, it's also meaningful in the way where they do it, in MoviePass there was not – this element did not exist.

I think MoviePass – I think Unlimited will reach the state it takes time how to position it. It is, of course, not so natural to come with a program which is serious and solid as Unlimited when there is a program which is saying pay $10 and see as many movies as you want, but we are all getting prepared for this. We need to agree with the studios also because we should remember they're our biggest partners in this and business. I will say again, Unlimited is a big success in the U.K. We believe very much in the plan. We think it has a big benefit in the U.S. It will take a little bit more time, and we will come with a plan that our customers will love and also our suppliers.

Thank you.

Hi. It's Michael Goltsman from Citi. Just one question. On the progress of the allocated seating, you've done 10% of cinemas in Regal in just about four months. How should we think about that conversion for the rest of these [ph] estates (00:54:48)?

I think that, today, we have already more than 25% of the cinemas, which are allocated seating, because cinemas at Regal reclined, what they call, and changed seatings there. We're already on reserved seating, and this is what drove the online usage. For that, we did now, within three to four weeks, 45 cinemas. We are doing now the second batch. We are starting now the second batch of 50 cinemas. I'm not sure that we will go to reserved seating in all the 600 cinemas, maybe 50 or 60 will stay as they are for various reasons, but I believe that somewhere in the middle of 2019 most of the [ph] estates (00:55:46) will be allocated seating.

Good morning. [ph] Richard Setler (00:55:58) from Barclays. A question on NCM [indiscernible] (00:56:02) increased the shareholding there. You got [indiscernible] (00:56:05) from the board. Has that allowed you any great influence or control as yet in terms of what you're going to do in terms of upside on advertising income?

The structure of NCM is an interesting structure, I would say, but there are two kind of shares there, there are what is called the shares that are held by the founders and what is called the shares that are held by the public. It is a very complicated system that was structured about 10 years ago there. I think we clearly made a big improvement of the influence of the founders which are now Regal and Cinemark in the company.

I think we see eye to eye with the other shareholders or with some of the other shareholders. There's changes that need to be made in the strategy and in the way we sell screen advertising there in order to improve and to grow the cake for all sides. But definitely without getting into too many details – technical details there, the influence of Regal four months after we have entered into Regal and sold that into NCM. And the influence of Cinemark with us is much bigger than it was four, five months ago.

Thank you. And then just a quick follow-up on this point on, mostly, it's been bookable online. Historically, it hasn't been the case as much in the U.S. So, are you seeing any cultural differences? Are customers over there happy to pay the booking fee to get the seats in advance?

I think that unlike the situation that existed in the U.S. maybe 30 years ago where U.S. exhibitor would almost kill you if you will offer him to reserve seats. Today, there is a big change in the habit, the big change in what people are expecting a service.

There is no doubt at the end of the day even if you are not used to it that this is much better service and much better way. You book [ph] Star Wars (00:58:20) months in advance. You don't look at the end of the day to sit in the first row in the side.

So, there are some here and there customers that are talking mainly, I don't want to even say complaining, but asking questions in smaller [ph] sites (00:58:40) that we did now. But the whole reporting from the cinemas are coming within two to three weeks, people are just praising the move, happy with the move, and I believe there is no issue at all.

Jeffrey Harwood from Stifel. Two questions. First of all, could you update us on the opening program for the rest of the world? And secondly, on the dividend policy, how do you determine the interim dividend and how should we think about the dividend going forward?

About the dividends, I would say we are continuing, as we said, to maintain the policy of aiming to pay 55% of our EPS' dividend. Historically, we are paying an interim dividend which is one-third of this expected dividend. And the way that the board – our board is doing it without just looking on analyst forecast and forecasting – and paying one-third of this, so we're not forecasting it about ourselves. We are following you guys, and our board is following what the analysts are saying. And usually, at the end of the year, we pay a bit more. And so, we hope this year will be the same.

If we talk about the opening in U.K. and rest of the world, I think that in general, we have, as usual, I will say, delays. This is not in our hands. I'll remind you that we are in this case in the hands of the landlords, in the hands of the developers. They have their own issues. So, sometimes, things are a bit slowing down. On the other hand, we need to remember that we do not invest except in the design which is, I would say, something in the region of £100,000.

We do not invest anything in the cinema until we are really four or five months prior to opening. So, there's delays, although we are [ph] sorry (01:00:43) to have them because I wish we had already these cinemas on the [ph] estate (01:00:46), but they are coming. And we are waiting now for some very big guns in Speke was the one that opened last night.

But we have underway amazing projects which are in York, in Plymouth, in places where we don't have today business. Rushden is, I think, the biggest power center today in the U.K. and many more on the way. In addition, if we talk about the refurbishments [indiscernible] (01:01:17) going to cities that we have old cinemas like Newcastle is under construction now. Middlesbrough is going to go underway. So I think we are there.

Same goes for Central Europe. The nature of the new projects in Central Europe is that a lot of them are now much bigger. We opened last year 18 plex in Prague, 20 plex in [ph] Vrostlav (01:01:42). We are about to open in [indiscernible] (01:01:45) in a year another 20 plex, but there are many more cinemas. The potential – the gross potential in Central Europe is still there. We are going good development there. It's tough to beat. The economy is now back on track, so we see more projects coming up. But we are in a good way with new openings and also with refurbishment.

Thank you. Just one back on your net debt. As you've kind of got into the business and learnt about what you think you need to invest in the CapEx levels, are you still comfortable with by the end of next year being around 3 times levered or do you think that sort of [ph] stood up for the bank (01:02:39)?

I think that we said we want to get close to 3 times. I don't think we said 3 times. And we're still comfortable [indiscernible] (01:02:48) that we go. I don't think anything have changed in the last four months in our way to look to this. To be honest, I personally don't think we'll reach 3 times but I think we'll get close to that, that's what we hope.

And just on a more general big picture point, can you comment on how you think the big transactions going on the U.S. with Disney, Fox, things like that will kind of impact the relationships with studios or the level of content, things like that?

I think in general, the Disney-Fox deal which is a very important deal in the industry, have good signs for us. We need to remember, first of all, Disney is the biggest player today. And they are very, very committed to big budget theatrical movies, and this is what we need. Fox is a great suppliers of us. Our company exists now almost 90 years, and Fox have been there all the way. And they will continue. From what we hear right now, Fox Searchlight, which is the specialty movie side will be kept. Of course, all the Marvel stuff that Fox have will be continue to be produced, like the X-Mens and the others. Avatar is of course on the plan. So, we don't think they are going to be major things.

You need two to tango. So, we are on the other side. Disney, with all the quantity of movies there, and they still need cinemas to show the movies. The relation with them is very good. And I would also add that last year, just maybe 12 months ago or maybe 14 months ago, the biggest topic was the [ph] Windows (01:04:36) and what's going to happen to the [ph] Windows (01:04:39). In this case, Disney is maybe the most committed company into the [ph] Windows (01:04:45) and taking over Fox to their side is also, I think, in a way for a while for at least close the issue of the [ph] Windows (01:04:55) discussion.

Thanks. So, just one another question for me. Do you have any sort of comments on the Supreme Court decision about the vertical integration in the U.S. sort of exhibitors owning studios, and what the implications could be for you?

No studio bought us until now. So in the last 48 hours, we didn't sell the business to any studio. So – and they even didn't get in touch yet.

I would say that it comes – the historical background of this was that the studios were owning many cinemas in the U.S. To a certain stage, the Justice Department decided not to allow it anymore. There were a lot of arguments, it was good or bad for the industry. I think that in general, it's something that we need to observe, we need to look at it.

We need to remember, for example, that the studios were very much involved on the multiplex revolution, mid-1980s and 1990s, in the international market and pushed very strong markets that had some – even the U.K., Warner came here and opened cinemas. UCI which is Paramount and Universal opened cinemas. Warner went to Japan. They went to different markets and I think they were a kind of an accelerator of developing this market. We need to see what it means, we need to see how it goes.

I am sure that if certain studios or some of the studios will decide to invest on the theatrical, because it's not an initiative that came from the studios, but if they will decide to invest in the cinemas, it will in a way make them to understand even more the [ph] side (01:06:52) of this exhibition, the business of the exhibition, it's a very big investment to go into the exhibition. It will support issues probably like Windows and like other points that are incorporating the – but it's very, very early stages in this and we are still looking at it and trying to learn what it means. And if it's going to happen, it's not going to happen, probably will be a big debate around in the U.S., and we'll see.

Good morning. Owen Shirley from Berenberg. Just three questions, if I may. Firstly, I think your net debt to EBITDA would only have been 3.6 times if it wasn't for $200 million provision. It looks like it has something to do with litigation so if you could just sort of give us some idea on what that relates to...

In the U.S., you litigate everything. And one of the shareholders of Regal didn't accept the price of $23 that we agreed to pay with the board of Regal. It's a process which is common on almost any acquisition of a public company in the U.S. And they are debating this amount with us, and that's why we're not paying them. And it's a very common process, which is happening, like I said, in almost every acquisition of a public company.

Okay. Thanks. So, is it plausible that could reverse if that – if you don't ultimately have to pay that?

Look, it's in a legal – it's in a court battle, so I don't think that it wouldn't make sense of me to comment about what I think.

Okay. Thank you. And secondly, I think the U.K. admissions, you are just slightly behind the market. Do you think that's the case? Could you comment, was there any refurbishments that affected that?

I don't think – maybe it's an influence of some new cinemas. Some of the – our competition have gone into quite aggressive price cuts in certain markets, which increase number of admissions not necessarily increasing box office. But Cineworld is leading the market share in the U.K. market and intends to stay in that position.

And our market share remain in the same level as last year. So there is no impact on the market share.

Thanks. And just finally on MoviePass, if that does go to zero which it looks like it will, would you consider buying their subscriber list out of administration?

No.

Is that even possible?

No, we will not consider this. If we'll do, we'll go to Unlimited – the Unlimited way, the Cineworld way, We'll start from scratch. We'll build our clientele with a very clear message, with a very solid message. I don't think we have any interest in MoviePass assets or lists or whatever.

Thanks.

Okay. So, I think we'll...

Yeah, any other questions?

I think we're done. I may be [indiscernible] (01:10:18). Maybe before the trailer, I just want to say one word of thank you to the good finance team of Cineworld who went through a very complicated process, as you would imagine, on the first time of consolidating together Regal into our group together with the fact that [ph] Claire (01:10:37) that was heading the department is on maternity leave. So, there were good people who stepped in and really [ph] Lawrence, Emir and Manuela (01:10:43), which is our new [ph] joiner (01:10:46), all the U.K. team worked very hard. And, Nisan, of course. And we are generating the good numbers there to show it. So, they've done it well. And thank you for the efforts, all of you. Yeah.

We have some trailers, yeah?

Yes. So, the best part of this presentation, with all the respect to our show here, is the trailers. So, we'll go ahead and see them. Yes?

[ph] Obviously, we have to go down (01:11:11).