Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Moshe Joseph Greidinger — Chief Executive Officer & Non-Executive Director, Cineworld Group Plc
Nisan Cohen — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director, Cineworld Group Plc
Richard Stuber — Analyst, Numis Securities Ltd.
Ali Naqvi — Analyst, HSBC Bank Plc
Alexander Mees — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc
Julian Easthope — Analyst, RBC Europe Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Hi. Good? Good morning, everyone. Thank you very much for coming. I think that, if I have to start by saying two words, I would summarize this year as exceeding expectations. I think this is approximately what we feel. What we felt already through the year was a very challenging year. It's only 12 months since we have acquired Regal. For us, it looks like it is already five years.

And really, the acquisition was completed March 1 – February 28 last year, $5.8 billion acquisition. We had a record deal of admissions, 308 million admissions for the year. And really, as I stated, exceeding expectations, this is the way to describe where we are today.

Synergies are greater than what was originally expected, and we are very happy to show a number today of $150 million of synergies that really were delivered from so many directions, so many aspects on the side of the revenue, on the side of the cost and many other things.

If we are talking about the financial reviews, so the revenue, $4.7 billion is up 7.2%. The group EBITDA which [ph] is usually now is (00:02:05) the main number of – is over $1 billion for the group. And I think that mainly was driven by strong performance in the U.S. and really solid performance [indiscernible] (00:02:22) this year in the UK and Rest of the World. And we are really looking forward as we are on track and according to what we expect to have in 2019.

We have – we will talk in this presentation about the new business initiatives mainly about our strategy, which continue to be same as it was before. Part of it is really introducing best technology. We have a new technology onboard since this year, which is ScreenX. We have the 4DX, which really became a phenomenal proven success story; and, of course, our IMAX agreements which are going across the two sides of the ocean now.

The rollout continues. We opened 13 new cinemas in the U.S., UK and Rest of the World last year. This is another big important part in our strategy. And in addition and maybe the most important aspects of the activity is really refurbishing the cinemas, the amazing sites that we now have in the U.S., doing the same what we have done and still doing in the UK.

So, Cineworld today. You see the map has changed since the acquisition of Regal, 70 – something like 75% of our cinemas. So, our screens are now in the U.S. UK is our second largest territory, followed by Poland, then Romania and all the other territories, all together, 10 territories across the two sides of the ocean.

We'll move it now to Nisan.

Thank you. Good morning, everybody. So, if we move to the financial section – financial highlight, as Mooky mentioned before, it was really a very impressive year for us after the Regal acquisition and the record performance in terms of admission, revenue and pro forma EBITDA.

Revenue of the group grew to $4.7 billion, which is more than 7% increase compared to last year. And our EBITDA of the group reached the level of $1,072,000,000 million, an increase of over 9%. We'll get into the margins in the territories in a second.

I just want to mention we are showing here the pro forma number, meaning, including the two months operation of Regal. The acquisition was on February 28. In order to compare apple-to-apple, we are doing it on a pro forma basis.

If we move to the pro forma performance and looking on the group, we mentioned the admission. We mentioned the revenue growth. You can see that the EBITDA margin of the group reached 22.8% which is an increase of 0.7%. And the main part which is coming really from the U.S. segment, we can see a very strong level of EBITDA margin of 23.2%. Part of this is coming from the fact that – U.S., we see the admission level grew almost close to 5%. And part of this is really the acceleration of the synergies and the successful implementation on the synergy level. We'll talk about the synergies in detail in the next slides.

The revenue in the U.S. also has increased of 8.6%. I was asked in the morning if we can [ph] – if the (00:06:30) footprint of the management of Cineworld in this level? And the answer is yes. I think that, as we said before, the synergies are coming also from the revenue side. The synergies are coming also from the cost side. But definitely, there is a footprint of the Cineworld management in these lines. And you can see also strong level of EBITDA in the U.S., $870 million, which is also reflecting really the successful year we had last year. We'll come into the territories in a second to give more light on each territory itself.

Again, in the U.S., I think we discussed about it. If we look on the table on the right, we see the breakdown of box office, retail, which is also a very important segment in our business. Retail grew by 8.2%. We did a lot of things in the U.S. on the side of the retail, starting from the [ph] M&A (00:07:30) and giving more offers, adding some more concession, I will say, alternative to our customers.

The seat reservation project is also moving ahead with some good impact on the concession, which performed really according to our expectation. The other income line in the U.S., I think also a very important part of our business coming also with strong margin. We see a nice increase here of 18%. It's included many, many, I would say, streams of income starting from events online advertising business. So, all together, I think we are showing a really strong performance.

Moving into the KPI of the U.S. We can see really the increase – the nice increase in admission. It was a good year in terms of movies. And we reached close to 207 million visitors in the U.S., a very impressive number.

ATP and SPP also grew. ATP is around the level of $10.3 average ticket price. And I think we discussed a lot about average. There are many impact – or many factor that by the end of the day impacting the average ticket price, starting from the type of the movies, location, where we are – where our cinemas are located and so on

And the SPP [ph] the spare in the (00:09:00) concession, how much a person spending in the concession considered in the U.S. the number close to $5. We reached $4.9 per person. Its increase of 3%, also a very important segment in our business which performed well in the U.S.

If we move to the UK and Ireland representing today 15% of our business. It was an interesting year in the UK and with some, I would say, long period of hot weather and some sports event that had some impact on the admission. We see a slight decrease in admission of 2.6%. All the other lines of box office, retail, other income, we performed well. We have a strong level of EBITDA of $126 million with a margin of 18%. Again, the margin here affected by the admission, there is no structural things that happened that reduced the margin. It's a matter really of admission. And revenue grew by 3.3%. Again, the UK is a very important territory for us. We managed to maintain our leadership in the market share in the UK. The refurbishment program is moving well and very successful in the UK, and we are very happy with the result.

If you look on the KPI, again, on constant currency so we spoke about the admission. ATP grew by 1.2% in the UK and SPP by 2.5%. Also, important element for us no doubt that our target to take the SPP from 3.3% to 4.9%, we just need to convince people to buy bigger popcorn in the UK. But that's our goal.

Nevertheless, I think the KPI in the UK are strong. And definitely, we – our aim is to welcome this and to improve it in the coming years. Rest of the World, very important territories for us, a lot of growth stories still exist in Rest of the World, representing today 10% of our overall business. We managed to produce close to $130 million of EBITDA with very impressive margin of 26.4%, a slight decrease in the margin of 0.5%, mainly because of our VPF contracts. It's coming into end. Again, it's something that we all know and was expected. Box office, retail, other income, strong results. No doubt that Rest of the World and mainly the KPI which we see now, we can see really the – where is the ATP in territories like Poland, Hungary, Romania standing into the slide that we showed before UK and U.S. we are saying all the time. Maybe to reach the level of the U.S. of $10 will be hard. But definitely, our target is to increase the ATP and – to see some increase in the ATP and to see some increase in the SPP. And if there are territories that there is a growth potential, definitely Rest of the World is – the territories in the Rest of the World are part of them.

If we move into the statutory group profit and loss. Here – just to say statutory, meaning, only the 10 months of Regal without the first – without January and February, adjusted EBITDA of $925 million, exceptional cost of $84 million. And you see the breakdown, the main part of the exceptional are the transactional costs. We did a huge deal in the U.S. involving many bankers and – fees and that's the result of these. And some other lines of exceptional which if I'm going down below to the net finance cost, $170 million.

It's – also, if I need to break it into two parts, there is the cash element of the interest of the 10 months which is approximately $150 million and there is also noncash elements that's mainly coming from the accounting, I will say, changes of IFRS 15 that we have some non-cash interest on top of this – on top of the cash interest.

On the other hand, we, I will say, benefited from some FX gain on the euro loan. Remember, our debt is divided into a U.S. dollar loan of $3.3 million and around €600 million. And there is some FX impact here. The bottom line is the adjusted profits – profit after tax of $345 million, which giving us an EPS growth of over 20%. No doubt that this deal is an accretive deal for us from day one [indiscernible] (00:14:21) what we expected, by the way, when we initiated [indiscernible] (00:14:25) our model. In [ph] pre-deal (00:14:29), we are very happy with this level of EPS and the EPS we'll come to this in a second.

You can see that the breakdown of the things that have been adjusted. We saw it before. And the big parts are really the transactional cost and the FX, which we are adjusting in order to come from the statutory profit into the adjusted profit. EPS – adjusted EPS is $0.272. Again, I think it's a strong number reflecting the overall results of Cineworld.

If I'm moving into the debt profile. So, I think the result of the EBITDA and also the free cash flow that we produced in the last 12 months helped us to reduce the debt into a net debt to EBITDA of 3.7 times. That was the net debt to EBITDA that we have forecasted also in the beginning of the year. Saying this, we need to remember that we bought shares of National CineMedia, and we invested $80 million that – plus all the other elements of cash, which are CapEx, interests, stocks. We managed really to reach the level that we planned. And our goal is I think we said it also prior to launching the deal is to be on 3 times net debt to EBITDA in 18 months from now. And if all goes well, we'll be in this level in this time period.

I want to mention here that, two weeks ago, we repaid $150 million from the term loan B without withdrawing the revolver, which will impact the net cash interest in 2019. I think it's a good move, showing really the strength of – in the management of the cash flow that we are all the time trying really to achieve best results for us. And again, I will just mention that our target is to be on the level of 3 times in 18 months from now.

If I'm moving into a more accounting [ph] I will say (00:16:58) IFRS 16 update – I think, very important to mention, IFRS 16 impacting many companies around the world. For us, while we are leasing most of our sites, 90% of our sites are leased. There are also some accounting impacts on us. However, there is no impact on operation. There is no impact on economic and there is no impact on cash. And if I were to summarize this, really, there is no impact on the day-to-day of how we run the business or how, we as a management, look on our gearing of net debt.

I think the slide before, when we mentioned the 3 times, this is really the, I would say, cash debt that we are looking. IFRS 16, I'm not saying not important. We are looking on this, analyzing it. We are working also with our rating agents that are looking on this also before the IFRS 16 came into this. But by the end of the day, there is no impact really on our day-to-day operational business.

I will say, if we look on the financial statements, how we think it will look like the first time we'll implement it will be on the interim – in the coming interim on August. So, I think, as all of you know, debt and asset will grow. EBITDA and margin will grow as well because we are no – it will not show our rent expense here and the EBITDA anymore. And probably PBT and EPS will have some decrease. We are working to gather the exact number. We'll probably come into the market soon with the – how it will look. But that's – probably will be the impact on the financial statements going forward. We are estimating today that the IFRS at least adjusted of 2018 [ph] – on 2018 number (00:18:47) leverage will be between 4.2 times to 4.4 times compared to the 3.7 times, I will say, net debt to EBITDA on cash level.

So, that's our estimation now. There is no change in delivering profile and financial plans. IFRS 16 statement to be published first on the interim result on 2019. And I think the conclusion is really that there is no bearing on our plans or financial ambition.

Dividend payment. We are declaring today morning a dividend – a full year dividend of $0.15, increase of 17.6% compared to last year. It's a final dividend of $0.1015. We already paid interim of $0.0485. In October, the full year dividend will be paid in July this year. From 2018, in all notes, the Board of Cineworld has decided to move into a quarterly payment of dividend very similar to our peers, to other big cinema operators, public operators across the world. We are moving in line to this approach. And the first three quarters of the year will be equal to the 2018 EPS or DPS, which is $0.0375, which is 15 divided by 4. And the last dividend – or the Q4 dividend will be based on the final results of the year 2019.

If I – moving to the financial outlook. So, business is on track to deliver revised synergies plan for 2019, and we'll talk about the synergies in a second. We are expecting to invest approximately $300 million on CapEx across both sides of the Atlantic, approximately $200 million in the U.S., $100 million in the other territories. It's including new opening, including refurbishments, including some other elements in the CapEx. Tax rate, expected to be on the level of 19% to 20%. We are focusing on cash generation in order to reduce the leverage. It's one of our main targets as a management – as a company and we're going to maintain the historical dividend payout of 55% of adjusted EPS as last year's.

IFRS 16, again, no impact on our operation, economic and cash flow going forward. And trading for the current full year remains in line with our expectation. Last week – and we have an amazing movie in the U.S., Captain Marvel. A lot of good movies in front of us in the coming months.

Mooky will give some more light on this in the coming slides.

Thank you, Nisan. Okay. So, I'm going to talk now a little bit about the business update. I think that we chose to start this part of the presentation by saying I don't know how many of you are aware to it. But when we arrive to Regal in the U.S., Regal was created in a way if we can say in the end of something like in the early 90s where there was a wave of Chapter 11s in the U.S. cinema industry.

And the Phil Anschutz at the time bought Regal and bought together with it a few amazing other circuits, United Artists, Edwards, Hollywood. And for the years, Regal was really building an amazing group of theaters all over the U.S. We currently operate in 48 States in the U.S. All of them, when we arrived, we saw continue to carry their brand. There was no really integration from point of view of how we are presented to our customers.

And we decided that one of our first moves although it's not the synergy and it's not a business immediate, doesn't have any business immediate reaction. We said we should come with a new logo. We want the whole cinemas to be behind this logo. This is not a project that will take one year. No. It's also a big investment. But every new one year. It's also a big investment.

But every new cinema, every refurbished cinema, every important cinema at the beginning will grow under the new legal Regal brand. And every customer that comes into our cinemas in the U.S. will see a new recognized brand on the screen prior to the beginning of the movie. Cineworld, Cinema City in Central Europe, Yes Planet in Israel are very well recognized leading brands. And Regal within not a long time will be the leading brand of cinemas in the U.S. So, we decided to stop by representing to you just what everybody is seeing on the screens today on the U.S. when he enters a Regal Cinema.

[Video Presentation] (00:24:27-00:24:53)

Okay. So, the integration started with restructuring first day on the Regal Estate were ready, were changes in the management, new operating structure, we can say that in a very short time, we have created a great synergy between the management teams on both sides of the ocean. You know us already that we are very hands on management. We are traveling between ourselves senior executives of the company. We are almost every two weeks in the U.S. And really together with an amazing U.S. team that we found in Regal, really, we've done this restructuring very quickly.

If we talk about management and we'll talk about it, leadership of course is in a very important world. And every one, a lot of activities of U.S. managers is done in Europe and vice versa. A lot of the people from the UK and from Poland and from other countries are traveling into the U.S. I think we are really utilizing very well the skills of the management team of the group.

Cost optimization, very important, two main lines, of course, the OpEx and the CapEx. In both regions and in both aspects, we really found good ground to work. This – as you know, this morning, went beyond our expectation in a big way. And we are sure that this is not the end. We can do even more. And we feel very confident about the moves that we have taken and the changes that we have implied in the company.

Revenue, very important. Premium formats have been always – a very big growth potential for us in the Cineworld Group. We have gone far and you will see it in the coming slides with the 4DX implementation in the U.S. Regal had four 4DXs. We will have, at the end of this year, and we will close to 40 4DXs. And really the results are good, ScreenX, the new technology and others. Seat renovation – or reservation, which also affects the online income, also affects the concession income. People do not have to rush into the auditorium to grab a seat. It is also another very big revenue contributor. And of course, best practices across sales and marketing.

Refurbishments, big part of what we are doing, we'll talk about it in the next slides, of course. The plans are progressing well. We have already two cinemas that are under refurbishment in the U.S. Not to mention, of course, the new cinemas that are being opened all the time across all the territories.

If we are talking about the synergies, just to remind everyone, we're all talking and we're expecting somewhere in the region of $45 million integration benefits in 2018. We ended up with $70 million, this is a number which is now are ready and done.

2018, we were planning $100 million...

2019.

In 2019, sorry. We were planning a $100 million and we are now confident about a number of $150 million to be done in this year. The strategy – so, our strategy in general says the best planning of the cinemas, the best technology, best service and best marketing.

Here, if we look at it, we are really talking about enhancing the customer value, which is, I think, self-explanatory. The refurbishments of the cinemas in the U.S. and the UK, is a big part of this strategy introducing really new generation of cinemas into the U.S. Regal same as Cineworld had five years have amazing sites, great locations, huge buildings. But most of them are a bit tired. They are 30 years old, 25 years old and really with the refurbishments, we see already the enthusiasm of our customers and we are not expecting anything less than the success we had in this refurbishment in the UK.

Expanding the revenue opportunities. This is also big on the agenda. I mentioned already the 4DX, the IMAX, the ScreenX, better facilities also increase income from concession, new food offerings. Our big success story in the UK of Starbucks is going to have a similar, not with Starbucks story in the U.S. and many other initiatives are going there.

And finally great loyalty program that we already have in Regal. Regal has 14 million members in their loyalty program and I know everybody is asking about subscription, subscription. This is planned. We are analyzing which is the best way to do it in the U.S. It's not exactly the same market as in the UK. But I would say that we are running the best subscription program in the world in Unlimited in the UK. And we are analyzing and preparing ourselves of what would be the best offer to our customers in to U.S.

Cost control. Really effective planning and procurement whether it is on the OpEx side, whether it is on the CapEx side is a very, very important part of the strategy.

We are continuing the rollout. We opened six new cinemas in the U.S. last year, six new cinemas in the UK. We have two cinemas in the U.S. which are completely ready and will be opened in the next, I think one is opening next week and the other one in another three weeks. The other one that I'm talking will be the first new big multiplex to be opened in Manhattan which is a very, very difficult to get location. This is a place which is very, very difficult to get, as you can guess a location there and many others to come also this year. Rest of the world this year opened only one site. Next year, it's going to open more.

I think continuation of the refurbishments, you can look here some of the locations that we have just done, naturally Cineworld Leicester Square which is really, I would say, the flagship in the UK at least from location point of view and really this cinema had a great look now. Most of you probably have seen it already. If you don't, it's just around the corner here. You can go and have a look at there and getting really the huge amount of world or European premieres of the movies in our Cineworld Leicester Square.

We have already over 25 deals signed and agreed with landlord. When we are talking about refurbishments in the U.S. or anywhere else, it is very important to, first of all, choose which cinemas we are doing then make the right plans, then get an agreement with the landlord first for landlord consent, but also getting his participation in the project. The situation today in the shopping mall markets is well-known. The cinema as an anchor became much more important than it was five or seven years ago. The change in the retail culture moved the shopping mall owners, most of them, to understand how important is the cinema for them and for all the offer around us of restaurants, coffee shops and even fashion. So, dealing with the landlords and of course later on to go get building permits and make the changes.

You see here pictures of how the two cinemas that are under construction now, Union Square is in Manhattan, one of the leading cinemas of Regal. And Irvine Spectrum is on Ontario on the other side of the U.S. on the West Coast. This is how they're going to look, and I'm sure it will appeal in a big way to our customers. Hacienda, a cinema in San Francisco, just showing a little bit of the picture, you can see the look of today and the new look, which is planned for this cinema in the near future. Atlantic Station, Atlanta, just a little bit letting you to see the refurb plans which are going.

All these cinemas, I believe, will be under construction within the next two or three coming months. It's only up now to permit the deals with the landlord, as I said, are done, and the planning is done. We are only waiting for permits from the authorities to move forward. Sawgrass, Florida is one of the biggest mall in the U.S., Warrington. And here, we have the two cinemas which are ready. These are not designs picture, these are really pictures from the cinemas. Essex, Manhattan, New York and Bricktown in Staten Island. Some other new sites. These are not refurbishments that are planned to be opened this year.

And finally, we put here and now we're talking a lot in our presentation about this icon cinema in Israel, which is the Yes Planet, South of Tel Aviv, which is the number one cinema and admission in the circuit. And really have a stand-alone building, with other offerings as restaurants. This is what we call the big projects, if you recall from our presentation of last year.

The plans in Regal is to do anywhere between 10 to 20 big project like this. This is the first one, which is already under construction in Houston, Texas and going to be a 24-plex, with activities for conferencing, with a lot of places for events. Having all our offerings across the broad from IMAX to Superscreen to 4DX to ScreenX to VIP. And a big section of restaurants and kids' activities outside of the cinema.

Technology investment, a change in the world of the projectors. We are moving now for xenon lamps into laser. This is a higher quality, a different quality of picture on the screen, again, a good upgrade for the industry. But the good news here for us, which we are talking about numbers, is that there is a huge saving in these projectors. They cost a bit more but the saving there that we don't need to change lamps almost every three or four months, and the saving in electricity cost is amazing. We have been running now laser projectors in about six cinemas already for more than a year, some in the UK, some in Central Europe. This is a very positive development for us that will save us also a lot of money.

New 4DXs, we made – extended our deal with 4DX from Europe into the U.S. growing and targeting 80 new screens. IMAX 55 screens. Some will be upgraded to lasers. Some will be new IMAXs, also very important place and what we call the new baby in the family, ScreenX, 270 degrees on the screen, very, very warm welcome successful here today in London, I think we can see it in the O2 and also Wentworth is already opened. Good success, good reaction. But the most important thing is to understand here the case of the chicken and the egg in a way the studios are the ones that need to provide the movies in these formats. So once 4DX became a proven success, if we had in the first year in 4DX 8 or 10 movies, we have now almost every week a new 4DX release.

And the ScreenX was the same, huge success in China and in South Korea, but it was not enough in order to trigger the studios to supply with product which cost them more money, of course. And really, our deal with our partners from Korea, CJ, that provided us also with the 4DX really gave a push to the studios and we see now Disney are onboard, Warner are onboard and many other studios are already joining.

Bohemian Rhapsody, for example, on ScreenX was outstanding and we see this as a big advantage for us, for our cinemas and it's being implemented very quickly – it's more simple to implement, by the way, than 4DX – implemented very quickly across the U.S., the UK and all of our other territories.

Digital posters. Every refurbished cinema today in Cineworld Group whether it is in the U.S. or in Europe is what we call a paperless cinema. Good for the environment, good for the operation, and also income-generating because a lot of the distributors of the studios are interested in buying most significant, I would say, recognition for the upcoming movies in our digital offering including the large format LED screens.

So, what's coming? We are expecting 7 new cinemas to open this year in the U.S., 6 in the UK and another 4 in Rest of the World. This is a very big task for our very busy construction team because the refurbishment are in much bigger numbers than this. And we are really going just – because we are here in the UK, we're going to gain some significant markets for Cineworld where we are not – where we do not operate today. So, the new cinema in Plymouth is coming, new cinema in York is coming, [ph] Rushton (00:41:09) and many others which are not only places where we've been operating, some of them are really brand new markets for us in the UK which shows, as we were saying in the last five years, that the potential in the UK market is still existing and still we can grow our business in the UK.

Finally, I would say, last but not least, the movies. The lineup of the movies is very important. And really, this year, we have a very unique year. We have just had what we can say biggest opening ever for March we had, all the titles in the world we're giving to Brie Larson and to Captain Marvel. In the last weekend, the movie have grossed already until now worldwide $500 million. This is amazing number, and really going up very, very big. This will be followed by Dumbo, Shazam, which is a very promising title, which is coming, Avengers, supposed to become – Avengers supposed...

[indiscernible] (00:42:32)

We lost the screen? Okay, never mind, I'll keep telling you about the movies without the photos of them. But Avengers supposed to have the biggest opening ever in the history in the U.S. The rumors are now somewhere north to $260 million for the first three days of this movie. And on and on, we have prepared a short clip for you that will give you the taste of the product which is coming, including the end of the year. I think this is now being presented as the most anticipated movie by cinema lovers ever, which is Star Wars IX, supposed to be the last chapter of Star Wars. This is a nine-movie saga until Disney will decide that they are doing X, XI, XII. But right now, this is the last chapter. This is how it's been.

Looking a little bit beyond 2020, we have Avatar finally is done and will be released in December. The movie is not done 100% but it's going – it's in change production, will be released December 2020. We'll have a new Jurassic World chapter, a new Indiana Jones chapter, the 25th Bond is going to start production after a lot of issues probably in the next months. We'll have a new Bond there, a new Wonder Woman.

And really to summarize it I would say that if you need any proof that the Hollywood Studios are 100% behind the theatrical business. They are investing more and more money in the movies and they are generating a bigger and bigger income all around. So, we'll move now and we'll show you the clip and then we'll move to Q&A.

[Video Presentation] (00:44:53-00:48:58)

Good. So, if we can have a little bit light in the hall. We will move into Q&A.

So, who's the first?

Hi. Richard Stuber from Numis, please. Can I ask three questions? The first one in terms of online ticket sales in the U.S., what percentage are you at the moment? Where were you 12 months ago and where do you expect to be in 12 months' time?

The second question is on the UK and the competitive environment. I think you have been particularly aggressive in terms of cinema in terms of ticket pricing. What do you see there? Do you think that's sustainable and what can you do about it?

And the final question is just on the interest charge calculation. I think [indiscernible] (00:50:12) if your net debt-to-EBITDA falls below 3.5 times. I've seen that on the pre-IFRS 16 metric and that was inclusive run rate of synergies. Can you just confirm that and what your interest guidance for this year would be? Thank you.

I think we'll start – the interest charge is a difficult question, so Nisan will answer this one. And then I will answer the other two.

[indiscernible] (00:50:37) Okay. The interest charge is – I will break it into two. As I said before it's – one part is a cash, the cash interest charge and second part is non-cash interest charge. We are estimating an interest charge – cash interest charge in 2019 to be in the level of between $160 million to $170 million. And the non-cash interest charge probably in the level of approximately $60 million.

Regarding the covenant, I think that with our banks, so, first we need to fulfill our full-year result which we are doing right now, and then we can apply really to the covenants. But all the numbers are showing and that it will be below the 3.5. So, we'll manage really to look on the interest again with our banks.

Okay. From the online tickets, I think the main growth potential in the U.S. in this field comes from the fact that there is no really a big reason why to order tickets in line unless you have reserved seatings. Because you can reserve tickets two months in advance and then find yourself sitting on the first row on the night that Star Wars opens.

So, the U.S. started a bit of reserved seating before we arrived, of course, which was something new for the U.S. market. We have accelerated it in a big way. And this really, in every cinema where we are doing reserved seating, even if it is before refurbishment, we immediately see an increase of the number of tickets that are being ordered in line, and this is growing the revenue stream from this activity.

Second thing is that we have launched the independent, I would call it, Regal website just a few months ago, which giving us also a bigger share in the booking fee that we are getting. Still we are working with third-parties in this. The U.S. is big, and there are very big companies that are dealing with online booking. And so, part of the tickets are sold only by us, part of them we are sharing the booking fee with some of the suppliers. But I think the main message is that this is a very important part of the service and by reserving more and more seats while also increasing the level of the experience that we give to our customers, more and more people are using it.

And apart from the booking fee, as we said before, we are also enjoying higher income in the concession because people do not have really to rush the minute they arrive to the cinema to grab a seat. They can stand in the lobby for a little bit more, maybe have a coffee and of course never go into the cinema without popcorn and Coke.

The second question is the competitive market in the UK. Look, each circuit have their strategy and where they go. We were never believers of aggressive pricing unless in special cases or special occasions. We believe that the customer at the end of the day value the whole package that he's getting, the quality of the cinema, the location, of course, the movie, the technology which is around.

And one of our competitors took the road of being much more aggressive in the prices. I would not say that it doesn't have any impact where we are close to them but it doesn't have a significant income impact on this. And in some I think one or two cases we needed also to make some move from our side. But in general, I would say that our strategy of keeping solid pricing, you'll need to remember that we have another competitor in the UK which is selling more expensive than us and having this famous blockbuster tax, et cetera. I think that we are giving a clear message to our customers, we are not judging the movies, which movies should cost more and which movie should cost less.

And people that really want to go a lot to the movies have our unlimited solution, which gives them the affordability to go even twice a week, even more than twice a week into the movies without going into – this entertainment needs to be affordable. And if you go once a month, you don't really care so much if you pay £10 or £7. But if you want to go a lot, you need to get some offering and this is what we do with the unlimited. So, I think we are in a good place.

Hi. Ali Naqvi from HSBC. Just wanted to understand what drove the synergy beats in FY 2018 and then how we should think about the synergies in terms of cost and revenues for 2019? And what is the more medium-term outlook either for synergies or margins?

Yeah. I think that as we said in the presentation, the synergies were driven from both sides of the map, I would say, from the cost side, saving in costs and on the other hand, increasing revenues. So, this was done, I think we were talking about the proportion of something like 60/40. Although the number have grown, this is coming in the same level or the same way.

Naturally we cannot go into too many details because it deals with our suppliers and the old environment which is around us. But in general, I think it's coming from the same sources we expected it.

I think we have also a very pleasant surprise from the – surprise is a big word. We knew that we will have also CapEx synergies, but the CapEx synergies are bigger than we expected, which is also is not part of the $150 million but also will have an impact on the whole refurbishment plan. We will need less capital probably or we will be able to do more cinemas in the capital that we plan to invest. But in general, I think this is coming from same sources, but we either went deeper. [ph] We understand more things is (00:57:44) very difficult when you sit outside [ph] this much as (00:57:50) due diligence that you will make really to analyze how is the potential there. The potential we found out to be bigger, and I think the team of Cineworld together with Regal team made really a great job in the first 12 months and this is why we are where we are with a 50% increase in our synergy number for 2019.

And just finally, in terms of your U.S. peers, are you being impacted by their move subscription offers or are you seeing more competition around that side and how do you propose to think about that going forward?

I think that our both – two big competitors have different schemes. We're analyzing both of them. We know what we feel is the right scheme, and we believe anywhere that will be similar to the unlimited scheme in the UK is the right way for us to move. We are talking to our partners, the studios. We believe that we have to have the studios onboard with us. It might be taking a little bit more time.

It is not impacting dramatically the business. Here and there, there might be some people. The U.S. is so big. That moved because of separation plan from one cinema to another. But it's not something that we really see in a big way. And I'm sure that we will come with the right solution on the right time for the U.S. market. There is for sure a need or a wish from our customers to have some kind of a program from us.

Thank you. Good morning. It's Alex Mees from JPMorgan. Three please. Just firstly on admissions in the U.S., a really strong performance in 2018 given obviously a very positive slate. I wonder if you would expect to see further positive growth in 2019, clearly the slate looks good but very difficult comps.

The second one, I wonder if you can comment on your ATP expectations particularly in the U.S. for 2019 just given that the slate is I suppose very heavy on family films. Would you expect that to have a dilutive effect?

And thirdly, I wonder if you can just give some color on where you think the reclining seat program is for you these days? Thank you.

So, the growth for 2019, I think that we are still on track on the optimistic side of continue growing number of admissions in Regal. It's not a secret January and February were, as expected, not great months for two reasons. In 2017 December was the release of Star Wars VIII, and the overflow to January and the big success of Showman – The Greatest Showman effected January.

In February 2018, Black Panther became one of the biggest movies ever. And now, Captain Marvel opened bigger than Black Panther. I don't know if it will be bigger at the end of the day, but opened bigger. So, it's a matter of scheduling. Here in March already, Captain Marvel is turning. And the scheduling of the movies have a lot to do with what is going, but we are still very optimistic. I mentioned already, Avengers, is the end of April. We have there Aladdin, the live action version. We have a new X-Men. We have a new Life of Pet, Lion King. Some people in Disney would say that probably it will going to be the biggest movie of all times. Who knows? But it will be a big movie for sure, and so on and so on. So, I don't think that 2019 has any issue with the growth. I think it's going to be an amazing year.

ATP, on one hand, it's true. Family movies sometimes are impacting the average ticket price, but it depends how we consider family movies. And Avengers is not – doesn't have any change from Avengers that we had last year. Star Wars probably will sell less family tickets than Mary Poppins. So, there are movies that are coming on this side and that side. I think that the premium formats are impacting at the end of the day, the screen, the ATP. So, I don't think that there would be a huge change in the ATP in the U.S., probably a little bit going upwards. We also looked a lot through the special programs, special promotions that Regal had, cheaper days, we made some changes there as well. So, I think in general, ATP will be on the positive side.

The last question that you had was the recliners. There are people in the U.S. that believe a lot in recliners. There are some people that believe less in the recliners. I believe that we are in this camp. I think that the big difference that the recliners made at the beginning in the U.S. came because they were coming instead of 30- or 25-years old seats in huge cinemas that were really, for a long time, underperforming.

I think the more you get to the better cinemas which we did in Cineworld and this is the reason we didn't go to recliner direction, because we cannot afford to losing a cinema like Sheffield, which is doing about 1.5 million admissions a year, to lose 50% of the seats. And recliners means losing 50% of the seats. And in the era of huge blockbusters, like we had last weekend, you clearly immediately see in the markets, recliners might be sold out, but they have 80 seats in the auditorium.

And if you have a high-quality cinema, look at this auditorium, I don't think that you're coming here really to lie down and sleep. You have a comfortable seat, you have a good legroom and you have a great picture and a great sound, this is what really counts. So, I think that the recliners had an effect. Regal have some reclined cinemas which are doing well. But I think at the end of the day, if we look at the potential and the way this industry is going to, we don't need only the recliner as a gimmick, I would say, but we need really comfortable cinemas with capacities to get the big number of audiences that are rushing in this first weekend, second weekends of these huge movies.

Thank you.

Yeah. Good morning. So, Julian Easthope from RBC. Three questions as well, if I may. First of all, in terms of the U.S., you've now obviously had a good time to look at the portfolio. Do you have many loss-making cinemas, will it be [ph] closest this year (01:05:54)? And what leverage – I don't know if you're in quite a strong position now with the landlords. What leverage do you have in terms of rents and sort of having benefits on rents?

And the other two questions are more industry-based. Looking at the film slate for this year, there's obviously an awful lot of sequels and prequels and whatever. Do you think that the film industry has de-risked the business that they're now doing film that they're never guaranteed success and that actually makes your forecasting far more predictable and as well gives you greater confidence in your CapEx?

And the third question comes to [ph] other non-revenues (01:06:37) from feature films. I think I've at least heard gossip that there's going to be Game of Thrones – last two episodes of Game of Thrones being put on mainstream cinemas and other things that you wouldn't normally expect. Do you this as being an important source moving forward recognizing of course that it's actually relatively small now? Thank you.

Okay. So, let's start with loss-making cinemas. I think we have some like 20, maybe 25 loss-making cinemas across the state. I think we closed, last year, in Regal, about seven- nine of these cinemas. But there are some that are coming on. I believe that anywhere when we are around 800 locations worldwide, we will always have some 20 loss-making cinemas. And loss-making also need to be defined, some of them are losing $50,000 and some of them are losing $200,000, but it's not really significant. There's no impact on the business. This is part of the new neighborhoods, people are moving, new competitors coming. In the U.S., they like to build one on top of the other, and it happens. I think this is in a good way, in a good place. There's not an issue there.

Leveraging the rent with the landlords, I guess we have here and there a leverage. I guess some of the locations that we feel that we must have are costing us more. There's no really trend in this. I think there's much more openness from the landlords to-date to participate in our capital investments. They also want to have the new formats or the new line of cinemas in their shopping malls. It is important to them. A lot of them are investing a lot of money in the shopping malls themselves, and with this also creating a bigger traffic of customers not only from the cinema but also from the mall side. But I think we're in a very good place with the landlords.

Sequels, naturally it's very easy on the slides if we are talking to show you the sequels because this is something everybody knows what is Star Wars IX and what is Bond 25 and what is Avengers 6 or whatever. So, this is good for creating like you said I think – we know what to expect of these movies, of course, with some up and downs.

But it doesn't say that the original product or the original movies are not there. Nobody would have guessed that Black Panther would gross over $1 billion worldwide a year ago. Nobody expected the success of Bohemian Rhapsody. Nobody expected the success of The Greatest Showman. But these movies if I would put the name of Bohemian Rhapsody a year before, on the slide everybody was saying what is it Bohemian Rhapsody the new movie about Queen. But if you take it today everybody knows what is Bohemian Rhapsody one of the best movies of the year.

So, I think there is a lot of original product which is coming. The most successful of them will become sequels and we'll see them. Black Panther 2, I guess, is on the way although I don't know, but I guess it's on the way same as a Captain Marvel 2 which is probably on the way. So, every new original movie which is successful is good news for the industry.

And the last one I didn't hear the rumor about Game of Thrones. I think that showing the first chapter or first two chapters in one night event in the cinema can be a good gimmick, a good PR. Money wise, it's not a big source of income. It's not significant. It's great PR and it could be a nice initiative [ph] being on the launch (01:10:43) on the big screens, giving the people opportunity really to enjoy the quality of the big screen. But it's not something which is going to become significant in the income.

We have a lot of activity of alternative content, what we talk, what we call, which we are showing live operas, concerts, theater, in the UK also in the U.S. It is nice to have. It gives another angle. It can fill up your Wednesday nights sometime. But if we look at the business plan, it's not something which is becoming significant. It is important but not so much from the money point of view.

Okay. Any other question? Last question, yes?

Hi. It's Richard again from Numis. Just on leverage again. In terms of priority, if you were to deliver synergies again faster than expected, would you prefer to put that money into additional CapEx into the U.S. or pay down debt more quickly?

We'll always be happy to invest good investment and to reduce the debt if we can. So, it's not – first of all, I'm not talking about a material amount of money from this point of view. But at the end of the day, I think our first priority will always be to invest.

Okay. Guys, thank you very much.

Thank you very much. Thanks a lot.