Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Moshe Joseph Greidinger — Chief Executive Officer & Director, Cineworld Group Plc
Nisan Cohen — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director, Cineworld Group Plc
Richard Stuber — Analyst, Numis Securities Ltd.
Ali Naqvi — Analyst, HSBC Bank Plc
David Holmes — Research Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Julian Easthope — Analyst, RBC Europe Ltd.
Harry J. Gowers — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc
Richard Taylor — Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd.
Owen Shirley — Analyst, Joh. Berenberg, Gossler & Co. KG (United Kingdom)
Natasha Brilliant — Director & Head of Pan-European Small & Mid Cap, Citigroup Global Markets Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Okay. Good morning, everyone. Thank you for coming. We are going to take you through our presentation for the Interim Results of 2019. Before we start and I'm taking you into the slight of the highlights. I think it is important to say that in our industries, the results are very much dependent on the product. We saw it clearly in 2018 where the first six months were amazing. Reminding you just of the huge breakout of Black Panther, for example, and the second six months in a way we're a bit slow in comparison. But at the end of the year, the year results were good.

I think that 2019 would be characterized by a relatively slow six months, mainly January to March. But also after that, it's funny to say it, because in these six months, we had the biggest movie of all time which is Avengers Endgame, which shows the potential of our industry, which just cost $2.8 billion worldwide. But in general, the first six months were a bit slower. And if we look already, we can say also in July that we have already the results, huge success for Spider-Man and for Lion King. But if we look forward and we will talk about it and we'll show you the product which is coming, we are expecting a strong six months. And in general, we can say with strong confidence that we are looking to have same results as we expected for the whole year of 2019.

So, if we start with the strategic progress. I think that synergies from the Regal deal, as you recall, we said that we are expecting $100 million synergies within the first two years. And we are now showing, after 15 months, $150 million, and we expect even to improve this according to things that are going on in the company.

Successful launch of the Unlimited program. We'll talk about it in the later slides, but really everybody was expecting us to come. I remind you that Cineworld is operating one of the more veteran, solid, and sustainable subscription program in the world and we have now implemented it into the U.S. after long preparations and really the welcome that we got from our customers on the first 10 days is beyond what we expected.

The U.S. refurbishment program, strong really important tent-pole for our strategic progress. We have already six sites currently under refurbishment, 60 deals with landlords already, and we are really looking to do 100 cinemas in the first three years. And first reactions that we get for the style of the cinemas from new cinemas that we are opening and all, we get a very positive response from our customers. And, of course, continuing expanding the premium formats.

Financial reviews, we see here an 11% drop in revenue and in EBITDA. I think that where you can feel the synergies and the work which is being done on the side that we can control more, we always say that we control in a way, but in a limited way the income line, but we are much more in control with the expense line. So, you see that despite the drop and the fixed expenses that we have, our margin went slightly up.

And as I said already, the trading of the six months was not a surprise to us, it's according to expectations and we're looking forward for the next six months. We have declared a special dividend in view of the sale and leaseback deal. And one of the points which is really under focus of management is all the time the issue of the debt, and we are on track there and even ahead of schedule I would say and we'll talk about it later.

The operating development, so rollout continues, seven new sites, nine additional sites to be opened in the second half of 2019. I mentioned already $556 million proceeds of the sale and leaseback, which was very important. And we continue investing in technologies, when you look at investing in the projectors Christies and Barco, which are coming now with the laser generation. I think it's important to point out it is not just giving a bigger or a more impressive quality on the screen, but it is also saving big costs once the projector is installed, because of the change of the light system from regular Xenon bulbs into laser things.

And finally, as I said when I started, strong performance of Lion King and Spider-Man have given us a very strong July, and we'll wait for the coming months. Where are we today? 786 sites with touching 9,500 screens, and we are operating, as you all know, in 10 different countries with different brands.

And I think that I will turn it now to Nisan and talk to you a little bit more about the business in a few slides.

Good morning everyone.

Yeah.

Good morning. I will start and say it before jumping into the slides that similar to other companies worldwide that we need to implement the new standard of IFRS 16, Cineworld also is impacted. Now we are operating more than 750 leases across the world; more than 500 in the U.S. So, we need also to adopt the new standard. And we're keeping the finance department, I guess, in the many other companies in the world busy. On the other hand, most of the slides that you will see here are on a comparable basis. So, like pre-IFRS 16. That will help us to really compare the results of last year before the adoption to the results of 2019.

Saying this, there are some slides that will show really the impact of IFRS 16, and there is some specific disclosure in the financial statement which are showing really the bridge between in the pre-IFRS 16 number to the IFRS 16 result.

If move into the H1, I think highlight admission, revenue, EBITDA, I think Mooky mentioned it before, there is a reduction in admission, impact the revenue, EBITDA, mainly because of the timing of the release of the movies. That was the main reason for the reduction in admission. Saying this, strong implementation of synergies help us to maintain really good level of EBITDA. We'll come also look on the margin in a second, but this is supported and compensated. Most of the reduction that we – have been impacted by the admission.

If you look on the geographical, the U.S. similar to I think last year, represent 75% of the revenue; UK and Ireland 15% and the Rest of the World, 10%. And I believe this chart probably will look more or less the same. It depends where we are opening sites, where we're now closing sites, but we expect more or less this chart to behave in a very similar way.

Looking on the product and service, I will highlight here maybe one thing. We look on the other income, and it's represent today 12% of our total revenue compared to 10.5% in the end of last year. This is the result of I think all improvement in the all other income line, which is the advertising, booking fees, events and so on and lines which are coming with a high margin than the other – than the box office and the retail.

If I move into the H1 performance and I think from group point of view, we can say here that [indiscernible] (00:09:58) really the margin which is reaching 22.7%, slightly increased in the period of last year. We can look on the margin in the U.S. grow by 0.4%. This is a direct impact of the margins. I think in this light, I can say that things that was in our control which are the cost and some initiative things, we managed to implement it fully. Things that are behind our control say, like, the movies, we're not producing the movies, we can see the impact on the admission and on the revenue.

If I'm move into specific territories and going to the U.S., I will say here first that in the last 12 months in the U.S., we closed approximately 20 sites. So in one hand there is an negative impact on the revenue because we closed the sites. On the other hand, those sites – by the way, we plan to – it was part of our initial plan to close them. Those sites didn't generate profit into the EBITDA, into the net profit. So there is maybe negative impact on revenue, but there is a positive impact going forward and also on the six months on the EBITDA.

I think it's important to see here the retail results which, if you look on the SPP, went down by close to 11%. It's purely results of all the new initiative things we did, like the seating reservations that create more traffic on the concession. And the more offering in the concession, we'll talk about it in the next slides. Other income despite the reduction, despite the reduction, we managed to keep similar level of other income. As we saw in the last year, again, the result of full implementation of the synergies and I think this is a very positive point.

Going into UK and Ireland, I think it was six months, it also was impacted by the timing of the release. ATP more or less flat. There is a nice increase in SPP. Other income went up by 12.6%, with good six months on the advertising business. Here, it's performed well and it's helped us to maintain I think good margin. I will say here about the margin, typically in UK in the first half, this is more or less the margin that we are generating about 16%. Second half is much stronger. And I think on a full-year basis, usually the UK is maintaining between 19% to 20%. That's the margin we are expected to see on the year-end.

If I move to Rest of the World, territories good six months, admission almost flat. I will mention here again the potential on the ATP and SPP. In territories like Romania, Bulgaria, Poland, we still have potential to see increase in ATP and SPP, you see the number are growing, other income in line with the other lines, good margins. And here, we have some more impact on local movies. Sometimes we have more, sometimes we have less. But in general, I think we find – we are showing you really good six months.

If I go into the group profit and loss and again pre-IFRS 16, I will take you through the number. I will mention a few highlights. One, we have a onetime gain from the sale and the leaseback. We conclude two transactions with a proceed of $560 million, it's yet a gain of $80.4 million. We are adjusting this gain, but again I think it's an important figure.

On the other hand, if you look on the financial cost, the interest cost to bank, $88.7 million, if you compare it to last year it went down. I think, first, our – I will say interest cost or interest margin which we are paying went down by 25 point due to achieving some covenant level. And reducing the debt, I will say, the amount of the debt by $570 million help us also to reduce the interest cost. We just got a news a week ago that also the LIBOR is going down. This is also will have some impact going forward on our financial cost.

After we are adjusting all the element that you can see on the right, the adjusted profit after tax $162 million compared to $152 million last year, there is an increase of $10 million here. On the other hand, on the EPS, you see big difference because we are dividing it by a different number of shares because the Rights Issue was on 1st of March last year. But I think the clear message here is that the net adjusted profit after tax is going up.

If I move into IFRS 16, I think we touched in the end of last year, I think the first message that we're going to say there is no impact here really on operation, no impact on economic and no impact on cash flow. I don't want to say if it's a purely accounting issue, but probably it is. We elected the modified retrospective approach, meaning we are showing the impact from now on. So there is no comparable numbers here for 2018. We'll – probably our impact is similar to other companies. Impact meaning, debt and assets, debt is going up, asset will go up, adjusted EBITDA increased because there is no rent anymore that affecting the EBITDA. And PBT, EPS decreased because usually in the first years of operation, the depreciation in the interest are higher than the rent. It's going to – we'll see much lower effect in the years to come.

If we look on the IFRS lease adjusted leverage, we are in 4.7 time on June 2019. We'll come and see a bit more detail in the next slides. We calculate the liability on our minimum rent obligation. What is the contractual rent obligation, plus cinema that we know that we are going to prolong and there is an option to prolong and we are 100% sure that we are taking the option, again, no change in deleveraging and no bidding on our plans on the – financial ambitions.

If we want to see really the bridge between pre-IFRS number and the post-IFRS 16, we divided it into two, I will say, section because we have external leaseback transaction and it is a one-time I think in this year, we separate this from the pure impact of the IFRS 16 number. I suggest in order to help our eyes, best to look really on the box on the right, H1, that's summarizing really the impact. We see the EBITDA is going up by $270 million. This is the six months' rent impact. On the other, depreciation, finance cost going up by $183 million, $132 million. There is tax impact here on $12 million. And the net impact on the profit and loss is approximately $34 million on six-month basis. We're estimating that on a full-year basis, the impact on the net profit will be between $60 million to $65 million. And again, this is the first year, in the year to follow this number will be much lower.

If we look on the balance sheet impact, so again we see total assets went up by $2.8 billion and this is really what we call the right of use, the right of use of the assets. On the other hand, we see that the gross debt went up by $3.3 billion. This is the number that we need to add really to the cash debt. There is some impact here on other liabilities. It's related really to some things that connect accounting to the rent like straight-line or market rent that are eliminated when you are moving to IFRS 16. But bottom line, the liability is also going up by $2.8 billion, very minor impact on equity and that's really the main I think the impact on the balance sheet – operating balance sheet of the company.

If we move into the debt, I think take you back to the deal time when we started with level of debt of $4 billion and now we are in $3.3 billion. It's a reduction of $700 million. And I just want to mention, this is – the reduction in debt is coming on top of really keeping the CapEx in the level that we said. We invested $180 million in the first six months on top of the dividend that we are paying, and now we are paying it quarterly. So there is an impact also on the quarterly dividend. And need to remember that last year, we invested also $80 million on National Cinema Media (sic) [National CineMedia] (00:19:45). We increased our share in National CineMedia.

So, on top of all these investment and dividend and keeping all the other lines of business, we managed to reduce the debt, and I think it's a very positive point. I think this was – we said also a year ago, this is one of our priority to see the debt going down, and there is a further I think appetite to see the debt in the coming 12 months, below 3 time. You can see down that, if you look on the lease adjusted debt, we're in 4.7. And also here, we assume that, in the next 12 months, this will go below 4.3. As I said before, we conclude two transaction of sale and leaseback. We used half of the money to reduce the debt; half of the money was paid in the July as a special dividend. But I think it's a clear message here that debt is going down.

Summarizing a bit where we are, just take you through where we were 15 months ago and where we are now, we started in December 2017 before the acquisition 2,200 screens. Now, we are operating 9,500 screens across the world in one more bigger territory. Sites went up by 554 more sites coming really from the U.S. in some opening that we did. If you look at our adjusted EBITDA, and here we are doing, LTM, for the last 12 months, and I remind you it's LTM of really call it a softer period. And so, we see with the softer periods, still adjusted EBITDA is going up by 3%.

Synergies we started with $100 million, we upgraded it to $150 million. I think we said also today morning we are working hard to achieve more. As a management, we believe there is a potential to achieve more in this side of the operation. U.S. adjusted EBITDA went up by 1.7%. This is coming a lot from the synergy implementation. And net debt as I mentioned before went down by $700 million to a level of $3.3 billion.

Summarizing the financial outlook, net capital expenditure will remain on track on what we are expecting approximately $300 million. CapEx in the first half it was $180 million, it sometimes depends really when we are opening sites, we opened some more sites in the first half than in the second half. But again, we are not expecting any change in the CapEx forecast this year and also going forward. Tax rates, before the implementation of pre-IFRS 16 it's between 19% to 20%, after IFRS 16, there is also here some impact and probably the effective tax rate after the adoption of IFRS 16 will go probably by 1%, 2% lower than the 19% and 20%, so that's really where the impact is happening.

Focus on cash generation, and as I said before, we are targeting in the next 12 months to be below 3 times and keeping our dividends 55% on adjusted EPS again pre-IFRS 16. And I will say that trading for current full year remains in line with our expectation. We started the second half July with a very strong performance, Spider-Man, Lion King, and we move on into August also with good results and I think as Mooky mentioned earlier, there are some three, four big blockbuster in front of us in October, November, December. So, we are in line with the market expectation.

So, just a few words before the clip we're going to show now. We're going now for the business – developments in the business. And really if I could say, not using too much of a big words, but maybe the most challenging and big move that this group have done in the history was really launching the Unlimited in the U.S. really in collaboration between most of the departments of the companies. Of course, IT had the main task of really creating this tool, which is amazing. And any one of you is ready to join the app – not to join the plan, but to join the app and look at the app, you'll see that it's really high-end project there with them of course were involved operation, it needs operation preparations and a lot of naturally also marketing.

The clip that just started is what we are showing right now on the digital media around the U.S. and on our screens in the cinemas, it's 10 days old, very warm welcome from the customers. Early to say about really where it is going to go, but it's looking good. And I think, as I said already today somewhere, that if there is a group that has the experience with Unlimited and knows really how to target and create a sustainable program, because this is – the emphasize – this is a long-run game here because we are really connecting to the people that love movies the most.

If you go to the movies once a month, you don't need to buy Unlimited, but if you really want to enjoy movies more, this is the plan for you. This is a long run, and this mainly should be sustainable and really makes sense from any point of view, whether it is to the customers or to the company. So, we'll go now and watch the spot, and we'll talk a little bit more about it afterwards.

[Video Presentation] (00:26:36-00:27:07)

Okay. So, the plan was launched, as I said, 10 days ago. We'll not go into too many technical details. There are three tiers in the U.S. that were divided by domains, starting in $18, where cinema tickets are a bit lower; going into $21 per month in the midrange cinemas and $23.5 in the high-end price.

I think that we should emphasize that we are charging in additional for premiums like we are doing in the UK and this is a necessity for this plan. It supports a lot of premium because customers love to go to the premium. They feel like they pay the surcharge they are in. And in addition, like in the UK, we want the commitment of the customer for 12 months. This is also one very important base for the plan. And thereon, you're moving into the blackout and you are continuing your, I would say, loyalty plan with the circuit. Good reactions we got from all around whether it is World Studios and whether it is mainly our customers of course, and everybody is getting used to it, and we see this is one of the lead points in our marketing towards our customers.

The refurb program, so we have agreed and signed within the last 15 months over 60 projects already in agreement with the landlords. This is not a easy process, but the landlords are accepting and looking at the retail situation today. I think most of the landlords in the world today understand cinema if it is a big cinema is a main [ph] ankle (00:29:29) in the shopping mall and we need to bring it up-to-date and really give the experience that will make people come again and again. And we got stock support from landlords. As I said, 60 deals are there. We are targeting 100 refurbishments in the three years. You see here on photos just the first look of how Union Square, Manhattan, New York, one of the strongest cinemas of Regal which is currently under construction, is going to look at the end which, hopefully, would be somewhere around November. And the other side of the U.S. in Orange County, California, Irvine Spectrum also one of our strong cinemas, which is currently already under construction and also there we hope to be ready before the end of the year.

We are looking some other projects that already started. Atlantic Station, one of our strong cinemas in Atlanta, and others around the U.S. This is on progress. Currently, we have six projects in line. We want to be within the next, I would say, eight weeks in line with anywhere between 12 to 15 projects which will be ongoing. So if we take into consideration that we are doing something around five to six months and average refurbishment, and if we do 15 at all time, we are going to reach this number of about 30 a year which gives a lot of effort on our construction team, but on the other hand is very welcomed by our customers, and we hope it will be embraced like our great refurbishments in the UK.

One short reminder is that we are not closing the cinemas. So of course they are not performing full force when some of the screens are closed all the time, but on the other hand, the cinemas are not closed. We keep the contact with the customers. Customers love to see their cinema being renovated. They feel we are doing something for them and we are very positive with this.

New builds also very important. These are the two cinemas that are upcoming in the UK. You can already recognize from the pictures the style and what people likes to call in our group, the Cineworld look. So all the cinemas have the Cineworld look and are going to be opened still before the end of the year.

Technology part of our strategy, just reminding you, we're saying that the basis of our strategy is really best planning, then the highest end of technology, then great service in the cinemas and then strong marketing. So, technology is really a strong base. We are growing our relations with IMAX, the ScreenX and the RPX which are the other large format screens are very successful and we are going to grow this number into about 200 within the next three years. 4DX, big success story, I think we discussed it a lot already in the past. We just now celebrated seven years to our first 4DX in the group, which is in Israel. And I think about that many people that told me seven years ago, 4DX is a gimmick. Guys, it's not a gimmick. It's performed this July better than it performed in the first July seven years ago. So, it is strong. It's a good offering. Public like it, many youngsters, but it's a great addition.

And the newcomer, which we have already 33 operational, the ScreenX, very warmly embraced by the customers. Like 4DX in the beginning, it doesn't have a very strong flow of products, it's like the chicken and the egg situation. We need to grow the number of the ScreenXs and the studios will do more movies for ScreenX, but having onboard fully committed Disney and Warner and many other studios that are already joining, this is going to become more and more important in our offerings. For example, Spider-Man, which is Sony, was now really successful and also an amazing experience, by the way, to watch.

Second line, we are talking about the offerings we give in the cinemas, which are the IMAX, then the 4DX, then the ScreenX, then the VIP offering, and also our regular great screens. In the lobby itself, also in the U.S., we are moving now into implementing other activities that will keep our customers longer in the cinema and will give them additional benefit of services.

Cineworld today is, I think, the biggest franchisee of Starbucks in the UK. And in the U.S., we are going with Lavazza Coffee Shop from Italy, and we are going to make somewhere up to 120 coffee shops inside the lobbies. The cinemas in the U.S. are enormous in size, same are the lobbies, and a lot of them are also on standalone basis. So, there is no shopping mall that you can go out and have a coffee after the movie or before the movie. And we need to provide some wider range of activity in the lobby.

And this is going to be done with the coffee shops, with B.Fresh which is a kind of a drinks based on fruits and which is very successful now around the world in different names. Bars, alcohol business is growing going very strong in the U.S. now, and we have already something like 20 bars operating with great results, increasing the spend per head. And we're going to reach something like 100 or even more than 100 bars and working also on, what it's called, enhanced food menu, which is also getting bigger now in the U.S. And in the big high-end cinemas, we'll also add some kids' activities like we have in few of our cinemas already. This is very successful. We need area for this, but in the big cinemas, for sure this is going to be part of the offer.

Continued refurbishment in the UK. So, while we are very busy in the U.S., there's not one minute less of attention on the UK and the Rest of the World, which is Central Europe and Israel. Just showing here, and anyone of you who have the 16 minutes time it takes in the underground to go from here to the O2. I really recommend to go and see the extension in the O2, the full refurbished cinema. This is now the biggest cinema in London, 19 screens with 4,500 seats. The results, since we opened the extension, are really above expectation. It's a big cinema now. It's really showing what we want to see as the cinema of this time.

Side by side and I think it's good that they are in the pictures one near the other is the new Picturehouse in Bromley. This is an old cinema that we bought in the Empire deal if you recall. We bought then five cinemas. And now the Picturehouse, Bromley is full renovated and opened. An amazing building. I know everybody here likes very much Picturehouse Central, so Picturehouse, Bromley is not behind it and really just started operation two months ago. And Newcastle also one of the refurbishment that was just accomplished in the first half.

And we are continuing with the refurbishment plan. It pays off very well. And same is being done – a little in Central Europe then we talked about it, the cinemas are much younger, so there is much less need of refurbishment. We're more opening new cinemas.

So the rollout across of new sites, we still have five cinemas to open in the U.S. this year. One in the UK. No, sorry. This is what we did five cinemas and one in the UK and one in Rest of the World. Rushden, the UK cinema and one of the biggest power centers here in the country opened really very, very strong, and we're very, very happy with the results. Same goes for Essex in Manhattan and New York and the Bulgarian cinema, the new additional cinema in Bulgaria.

And on the second half, we still have two cinemas to open in the United States, four are coming in the UK. Some of them are very important cinemas for us because they are in markets that we have no income today. So, it's not going to affect current cinemas. It's going to be additional like Plymouth, like York. These are significant cities that we don't have today a presentation there and we have high hopes.

You see that as we're always saying with new sites, it's not in our hand, it's in the end of the developers. So, you might see one time five cinemas to be opened in the U.S. and one in the UK or vice versa. So, we see here in the second half of this year, UK is going to get a lot of emphasis and the Rest of the World as usual is growing and we have three sites to open before the end of the year.

Release schedule. So, we talked already about the second six months of the year. We'll show you three of the most highly anticipated trailers. One of them for sure is going to be huge in the UK, which is Downton Abbey, but also very, very well-known in the U.S. and really, if we look here at Hobbs & Shaw, which is already showing with good success. We have many other offerings coming in. It, I remind you two years ago in September was a huge surprise from Warner Brothers. It 2 is coming and there is very high expectations. A new Brad Pitt movie, which is Ad Astra; Joker, which I saw some pieces of it looking very, very promising; Maleficent 2, coming again with Angelina Jolie from Disney; Terminator, and many others. And of course, Jumanji, which was such a great surprise two years ago is coming now with a new chapter.

Frozen 2, Frozen, just to remind everyone is until today the biggest animated movie of all times. In the box office, very high expectation for Frozen 2 and probably the most anticipated movie of recent years is the last chapter of Star Wars, which is coming with Star Wars IX at the 13th of December. People asked me, well so you're going to have only two weeks of Star Wars before the end of the year? These two weeks in the U.S. could mean a box office of $600 million to $700 million. So don't be worried too much from this. But the overflow, the remaining $200 million or $250 million which are coming in generally are very significant because this is like the first blockbuster of 2020.

So, I want to talk also about 2020, a few words. But first, let's go and see the trailers.

[Video Presentation] (00:42:22-00:49:01)

Okay. Wait. Okay. So, I think we saw here and there some hints when Disney decided to move Avatar from the end of 2020 to the end of 2021, that 2020 might not be a great year. I don't know on what it was based, but this was a little bit a buzz, let's say, for a few weeks. I think if we look here on the list of the – some of the titles of 2020, it looks very, very promising. So, as I said before, the year will start with what will be remaining of the box office of Star Wars, probably anywhere between $250 million and $300 million only in the U.S. in January.

But then, if you look with me, quickly through the slate here, I think we'll start by saying that we have here three Marvel movies. Black Widow will be released in May. We have here two new Pixar movies which already showed parts of them are very, very impressive. We have two new live actions, which are coming again from Disney, which is one of them is Cruella, the legendary villain from 101 Dalmatians, and also Jungle Cruise. Other studios are bringing The Minions 2, Fast and the Furious 9 (sic) [Fast & Furious 9] (00:50:49), all these are huge franchises. Wonder Woman 2 is coming up. And, really, we have here a lineup just to go through, West Side Story, by the way, if you notice it here, is being directed by Steven Spielberg, and we hear great things about it. So, really, there is a very wide range of movies with a lot and really to mention one for the UK for sure, but also internationally, a huge, huge title is number 25 Bond (sic) [Bond 25] (00:51:25) which is under production now, going to be released in March and really a lot are saying how much is sequels, how much is not sequels. I think the biggest proof that if you do good movies, sequels are sustainable is this legendary series of Bond, which is reaching now movie number 25.

And I think that, to end this part of the presentation and then we'll move to the Q&A, I would mention a movie here which you see, it's called Tenet. Tenet is the new Chris Nolan movie. Chris Nolan works under big secrecy when he's producing his movies. We all admired Dark Knight. We all admired Inception. We all admired Dunkirk and many other more movies that he has done. Chris Nolan is really a great ally to the theatrical business. He believes in the big screens. He believes that his movies and also other movies should be shown on the big screen. This is the way really to see movies.

And this time really he made something which is very special. And the first trailer of Tenet and the first scenes from Tenet that we're able to see, he released the trailer only in cinemas for the beginning of course because, today, as you know, when a new trailer is coming, it goes through the website and then they have millions of people looking at it, it will for sure reach the website, but like gesture of salute for the importance he see for the big screen, he gave the trailer of Tenet about 10 days ago exclusively to the cinemas. And we have here this trailer with you in order to finalize this first part of the presentation and we'll go to the Q&A. So, please roll the trailer.

[Video Presentation] (00:53:35-00:54:49)

So, this will be on our screens on the summer of 2020. Okay, Q&A.

Hi. Morning, Richard Stuber from Numis. Two questions, please. The first is on Regal Unlimited. I know it's very early days, but can you give some sort of expectations, do you expect it to be as in the U.S. as big as Cineworld Unlimited as in the UK? Do you think that what AMC have achieved is something which you can replicate or it will be bigger? Just any sort of color around that and will you be giving updated numbers like AMC does in terms of how successful it's going? And the second question is given the sort of second half some closures and refurbs, would you be disappointed if you did not equal the U.S. box office at an industry level in the second half, because I know that first half you were slightly underperformed it partly because of the closures? Thank you.

Yeah. So, first of all, Unlimited I would say that we're not of course revealing numbers or any information after 10 days. We're just saying it is over the business plan that we had. AMC started it almost a year ago or more than a year ago. There is for sure a market for subscription, there is no doubt in many other areas as well, there is a market for this. It will be early to estimate today where we are going. But I can carefully let's say estimate that it's not going to be less successful than in the UK, I believe it will be even more, because usually Americans are going slightly more to the cinemas than in England.

As for the second half of the year, we're in a process. I don't know how many of you really our first year in Cineworld. In the UK, we have our targets. We have our strategy. We know clearly where we are going, whether this cinema will have more effect or less effect, the state is huge. We are refurbishing currently 6 cinemas and we'll be refurbishing 15 at a time, which will bring us to 30 a year. New cinemas have impact. New openings of us end of competition are having an impact. But if you look at Cineworld, where it was five years ago and became market leader within about four years, we want to be there. And I believe that although market share is not the main thing because the main thing is at the end of the day, the bottom line, we are on the right direction and we think that the changes that we are doing, implementing will take us forward in a big way.

Thank you. If you find more synergies, more cost savings, would you announce them as a separate number or will they just get wrapped up into the performance of the business and when might you know if you have more cost savings? And then in the cash flow, there's quite a big working capital outflow in the first half, is that significant? Thank you.

I would say, first of all, additional synergies, there is a stage when you I think stop calling it synergies. But cost savings are happening all the time even in countries where we are operating already for let's take Israel, we are close to our 19th year, 2020 would be the 19th year of operation. We always look at the cost. We always look at it. If you define them in addition synergy or not a synergy, it will be difficult to say. But, we are looking at the cost and there is still a potential of good savings in the cost in the U.S.

But if you found another $30 million of cost savings, would you announce it, do you want to make an announcement about another...

There are two clever guys on my side that they know what we announce and what not.

If I'm not wrong, the rule is that we are announcing – we are updating the synergies for two years, yes, which means – so we'll follow the rules and the rule makes sense, because it's really in a certain time that Mooky is saying is it synergy or is it not. So we'll follow the rule and announce what we need to announce.

Thank you.

Working capital, Nisan?

Yeah. The working capital I think, the moment you are comparing December to June that's what make the difference because December 2018 was a very strong month compared to June, which was a bit weaker. That's what compared the outflow. You'll have very busy months in December, when you need in January, February to pay to your studios, the concession and other and in June, there is a difference. So that's what create and explain the major part of the outflow. On the other end you can see that – on the other side, we manage to collect some receivables amount. That's on the other side of the working capital.

Great. Thank you.

Hi. Good morning. Ali Naqvi from HSBC. You mentioned in the release, you're confident of delivering what you say is an expectation on EBITDA for the year and in line with your expectations. Could you just talk about your assumptions for the market, box office growth for the rest of the year, what's going to come through from either Unlimited program, margin cost synergies to make up the outflow – to make up the [ph] bigger (01:00:51) delta in H2 because H1 was so weak?

I think [indiscernible] (01:00:55) first. And second, I think it's a bit hard to come and say exactly where it's going to come from. I think at the end of the day, we believe that the performance of the movies in the second half is going to be stronger. I think that this is clear. And if you add into this the improved margins that we're seeing, I guess, which is continuing to develop, we are confident that we can achieve it. And at the end of the day, if you look on the split of last year before first six months and second six months, and you assume this year, it looks the other way around, the numbers work out. So it's not that we are now 50% behind in our EBITDA and we're saying how we're going to close it. The first six months were slow this year compared to last year that were very strong, and the second six months would be the other way around, and we're confident about it and it's coming from a lot of things.

And I will just to remind you that in a fixed cost business, when we have fixed cost, any additional ticket is contributing much more to the EBITDA. That's we are confident [indiscernible] (01:01:56) front of us, seeing the results also the first on July and the first half of August, there is a good base to assume that we'll reach a target.

Right. And just one final one, if I may? What are your thoughts on royalty costs more structurally because now I guess Disney is taking a bigger portion of box office like maybe longer term? Do you think that royalty rates are going to be increasing, and is that sort of [indiscernible] (01:02:24)?

As we always say, as we said when we moved to the U.S., we will not expect royalties to go down, we also not expect royalty to go up. We think that it's a very conservative industry from this point of view.

Hi. It's Dave Holmes here from Merrill Lynch. Firstly, on the other income line in the U.S. in particular, can you just help us understand how you've managed to keep that flat with admissions down 18%? And is that online booking penetrations? And if so, where are we now on online booking penetrations?

Part of this is online, not all. And the other income includes – booking fee includes events, includes advertising, includes some other lines of income that we are generating from the business. We manage to keep it flat because part of this is implementing the synergies. Remind you, we went into a full reservation of seats in Regal in the last year. It has some impact on retail, it has some impact on online. But I think that by the end of the year, we're happy with the results. There is still a way to go. I think we still have potential to see more, I will say, online sales. Definitely with now Unlimited was launched, it is a new application, very friendly one, people can use. And we're a big supporter of the other lines of income out of the traditional one in the cinema which is a box office. This is one, but we are doing – I think you saw the presentation many things in the retail, many things in the operational day to day within the cinema. We want people to come to see a movie and come in, let's say, for an hour-and-a-half, to stay another hour in the cinema. That's why we have the VIP. That's why we have the bars. That's why we have nice lobbies. Of course, another hour for us that family stays in the cinema, mean more profit and more income.

Okay. And just to follow up on that, to help us understand the shape of the other income line, I think the recent trading statement in May...

I cannot hear you. Sorry.

Sorry. The trading statement in May, the other income line was up 6%, and you obviously finished the half flat. Can you help us understand the shape of that?

Yes, definitely, definitely. The other income, I think the last six months of the first half compared to the same period last year was a bit softer. We had a huge movie last June which is the Jurassic World and Incredible which really performed fantastic. On the other hand, this June was good, but not as June last year. Again, we're talking here about timing of release. If you look now in the end of July, you'll see the opposite line. So there is no any structural things, it's a mix – it's really the timing release of the movies, there's no other things that are affecting it.

Understood. And just final question.

It's okay.

Clearly, there's a gap between your U.S. box office revenues and industry box office revenues, some of that is closures. Can you help us understand what other moving parts go into that bridge?

Yeah. I think the closures I think we mentioned it in the last 12 months we closed approximately 20 sites. So in one hand, it's true. It's affecting the revenue. I'm talking about, say, 4% impact here. But on the other end, it was part of our plan to close sites, which are not operating successfully, because if you look on the bottom line on the EBITDA, on the net profit probably it's just to improve the numbers. So this is one impact. Second one it's relate also to the opening of the sites, because I can give you an example. We plan to open a cinema in New York, Essex in January in the end because of some building permit issue, things like this, we open it in June. Such scenario can generate in the first six months something like $10 million, $15 million which is 0.5% of all the revenue. So you multiple it by six, seven sites, like this, maybe we open in delay and the competitors open maybe in December or January. It's all of these by the end of the day are impacting the – like you say – or explaining the differences that you are mentioning it.

But I want to say something I think that I think Mooky mentioned it and I will repeat it again. Market share is important. We are looking it. We are analyzing it. It's something we as a management, of course, are analyzing it. But by the end of the day, the main priority, the main goal is to bring more profit. And that's our first priority I will say. But definitely, we are looking on this. And I think we said it before with the implementation that we are doing now which – and the changes that we are adopting now, I'm not worried about this.

I think it is very important to remember what we said already that we do not control openings of projects nor do our competitors. So, you can have six months where competition opens 30 new sites across the U.S. and we opened only 2, which is not our size. And in another six months we might open 10 new cinemas and the competition will open only another 10 cinemas. And this, of course, takes up and down the market share and this is why market share needs to be taken very carefully. It's not really the main – I think it's nice to have, but the main thing is really what are the revenues and what is the margin you do from your revenues and the bottom line.

Thank you.

Hi. It's Julian Easthope from RBC. I've got three questions if I may. The first one really follows on from the market share question, because it does seem to be speaking the market a little bit today. Do you think you also lose out from attendances at the moment because other people have effectively their Unlimited or their subscription packages and therefore people just go regardless of what the movies are? And during weaker periods that you probably lose out and that could be a factor behind the attendance numbers?

The second question I have is in terms of CapEx of the $300 million. And obviously you've got plans to do more refurbs going on, the 30 a year. Is it fair to say that the landlord participations will be a large enough component to make sure that the CapEx doesn't spike up so much? What sort of – yeah how are the landlord participations and what percentage do they actually pay of the refurbs? And the last question just on rents as well. We're hearing all sorts of comments about rents, in terms of renewals when you come to the end of the lease that rents are going down because of the weakness within various different parts of the retail side. I just wonder whether you're seeing it in cinemas as well. Thank you.

Okay. So let's start with the Unlimited. Unlimited is a very strong tool as we said all the time. Naturally, if there is a period, competition has Unlimited and we don't, [ph] it has an impact (01:09:58). I think strongest example was in the U.S., the disaster of MoviePass last year. In a way, MoviePass was a very good business for us because – not only Regal, all cinemas in the U.S. enjoyed the full-priced ticket where someone was collecting only $10 a month from its customers. So this is going to the extreme talking about sustainability. So, they spent that they had to spend their $600 million or $700 million and the business is not there anymore. You need to be very careful with these tools, really to build them, to prepare them, there is a lot of cooperation here with our partners which are the studios which also takes time and everything.

Yes, I think that if you ask, if there is an impact somewhere, if we are without Unlimited and other have all kind of subscription. By the way, Cinemark had a different plan, which is not Unlimited but different, but it works well for them is what I understand from their announcements and all these. We have now Unlimited. We have now the right Unlimited and I think this Unlimited is going to take us forward in the U.S. So, this is one answer.

The CapEx of the $300 million, of course, we cannot reveal what is the share of landlords. We are satisfied with what we see from the landlords. We see their wish to participate and the acceptance to participate, their understanding that they need to participate. And at the end of the day, if you look at it, we are keeping our CapEx line approximately in line. It might be $320 million or might be $280 million, it's again here issues of permit, contractors, invoicing, etcetera, but this is the line that we have. If we get more participation with the landlords, we'll simply do more projects. So, this is with regards to the CapEx.

Rent renewals, one of the natures of this business is that the landlord always wants more and we always want to pay less. In renewals, there are many places that we achieved positive changes for our side. Naturally, if it's a very, very strong cinema, there is not a lot to talk about. First of all, we do good money there. And second, competition will be happy to take the cinema away from us. We have the options in all the projects here and there, some we still have another three option period, some we have one option period. In some of the places, we don't have an option period. So, it's a complicated game. But, in general, I believe, as I said already before, we are now, I will say it carefully, but we are now more important to the projects, to the shopping malls, than we were 15 years ago and then also, we were important. So, we are now more important. It gives us some leverage. But at the end of the day, we need the good projects and we get good cooperation with the landlords.

Thank you.

Hi. Good morning. It's Harry Gowers from JPMorgan. Few questions. Just on the – so, I think you closed 11 sites in the first half or so in the U.S. Do you plan on doing a similar quantum in H2 or will that fade away? Secondly, just on the sale and leasebacks, how many freehold sites do you have left and could they be monetized as well in the future? And I think, last week there was a small luxury chain called iPic, which went bust in the U.S. Does that kind of Picturehouse style luxury cinema opportunity not exist in the U.S., as it has done in the UK? Thank you.

Okay. So, we'll start with Picturehouse, first. So, comparing iPic to Picturehouse is making...

Insulting Picturehouse.

...insulting Picturehouse, in a way, you know iPic is iPic. iPic in a way, is a business and, by the way, Regal had some shares there, not significant because of some settlement in court far before our time. But iPic, in a way, was a business or is a business, it's not – is a business of restaurants with cinemas. It's not a business of cinemas that are adjacent with some food offering, very, very expensive projects, very luxurious looks, amazing. Probably, not managed in a way that it could give the return that was needed and we just saw the news, the same as you. We have no any other information. It happens in the business. There are some dineries in the U.S. that are doing well, there are some that are not doing well. It's not our line of business. And it's really not – it's not because of the movies, here is a big business of restaurants which have some cinemas near them.

Are we going to close most cinemas? Any cinema that is generating a negative result for us and we don't feel that by refurbishing it, we can turn the numbers for this cinema, and we will have the opportunity legally to close because of contract, we will close. We don't see a big number of closures coming up more than the normal ones in the coming six months. And last – yeah. So, we have some more assets for Regal, which currently we have no plan to sell them. Some of them can change their use. Some of them are very good cinemas that will keep this stage like this, and we might use it in a certain stage, depends on the market, depends on the – but currently, I think we did a very good deal with the sale and leaseback first round and we will see.

Hi. Richard Taylor from Barclays. Two questions, please. On your CapEx, [indiscernible] (01:16:43) 30 projects per annum, can you give us an idea of the sort of annual EBITDA uplift that you will target from that or if not an uplift sort of duration of cash payback on your CapEx there, please? And secondly, can you just walk through the rough outline of the effects on the P&L from the sale and leasebacks, the change in rent roughly and the depreciation foregone? Thank you.

Can you just repeat the second question, Richard?

It is regarding the sale and leasebacks...

Okay.

...the rough effects on the P&L. We know the consideration but sort of reference or yields and how much depreciation will disappear once you've done the sale and leasebacks? Thank you.

So I'll maybe start with the first question about refurbishment. Look, we have a good experience from the UK. We refurbished in the last four years approximately 50% of our sites in the UK and we see a very good return. And there is no reason why we will not see similar return on – maybe even better in the U.S. We still didn't open a refurbished cinema. So, I don't want really to try and make an assumption. I want to see how it's working. But all the numbers or all the business model [indiscernible] (01:17:50) on we want to see even better return than we have in the UK. So, if the average return now we see in England is between, let's say, two to four years I want to see better return in the U.S. because I think that the market is built in a way that we can gain much more market share in the U.S. territory. That's for the first question.

For the second question, the sale and the leaseback impact going forward on the P&L. So, on one hand, we are willing to pay about $40 million rent. On the other hand, because we took out the asset out of our portfolio, there is about $50 million, I would say, call it, saving in depreciation. And also there is impact also on the finance costs because we really pay some debt from this transaction. There are also some tax impacting, but I'll say the bottom line it's really an H1 impact if you look on the net profit lines.

Hi. Owen Shirley at Berenberg. Just a few questions. So on the refurbishments, I think you said 100 over the next three years now, is that an increase versus I think you said 50 in three years previously, unless that's correct, what's kind of driven that decision? On net-debt-to-EBITDA, where do you – I know you said below 3 in 12 months, where would you hope for that to be at the end of this year? And also on debt, what was the rationale for paying the special rather than using all of the proceeds to pay down debt? And just the final one, CapEx for 2020 and beyond, was I right in thinking you were just saying sort of still around $300 million or presumably that will go up a bit?

Okay. So I will answer the first one. I think that we said carefully at the beginning 50 within the first three years. There is of course the potential there to do even more than a 100 in a way, but there is a limit also to the capabilities that we can have. I think the positive note we got from landlords which means also money, of course, pushed us to be able to increase the number. We're talking about starting 100 projects or let's say, it will slip into the let's say first six months of the fourth year or something like this. But, yes, it is a substantial bigger number without increasing CapEx.

Again, I'm saying – talking about $300 million will be $330 million. This can happen especially the most successful we will be, we will push forward more. But on the other hand, it can have also another impact when some of the refurbishment will open and will be very successful. Other landlords that said no or didn't want to give us enough will change their mind and will come and say, I want the same cinema as you have in Atlantic Station, so this can have a positive. As for ratios of debt to EBITDA in this...

I will answer rather two questions. Ratio of debt to EBITDA, we're saying – targeting towards less than 3 and our target at the end of the year is to start moving toward there, which means I think it's a bit difficult to give very short-term targets about this. Regarding the rationale, the way our board looked on this was that there was an extra cash coming into the company that was not expected when we have done the deal and the board have reviewed it and [indiscernible] (01:21:59) the best ways from one end to return some value to shareholders that invested a lot in the Rights Issue here before, that reduced the debt. And we saw many looking on the debt focus going forward that we can well serve our debt and don't need all this extra cash to go to reduce the debt. So that was the rationale behind this decision. Next?

Thinking also about the CapEx also going forward, I think in the CapEx going forward, I think we showed also before we will maintain our focus to be approximately $300 million going forward. Again, it will be $321 million here, $290 million next year. Really, it's not exactly in our control. It depends on the contractor, invoicing and cash flow and things like this. But there is no way to change the forecast. I think if you look on the first half, you see $180 million CapEx, and this is mainly because we opened most of our new sites in the first half this year, and that's why we'll see probably the number in the H2 lower than the H1.

Hi. It's Natasha Brilliant from Citi. Just going back to the synergies, what you've achieved to-date, what's the split between costs and revenues? And if the potential incremental synergies that you're yet to identify, would that be mainly on the cost side or would you also think there could be upside on the revenue side as well?

The split is approximately 60% cost saving and 40% revenue initiative. And I guess also, going forward, this probably will be the split. Again, if there is some – if there's 65/35 going forward, it's not immaterial, I think, but that's more or less the ratios.

Any more questions? Thank you very much. We thank you very much.

Thank you very much. Thanks a lot.