Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Philip Bowcock — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director, Cineworld Group Plc
Israel Greidinger — Deputy CEO, COO & Executive Director, Cineworld Group Plc
Moshe J. Greidinger — Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director, Cineworld Group Plc
Douglas Jack — Analyst, Numis Securities Ltd.
Alexander C. Mees — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc
Steve C. Liechti — Analyst, Investec Bank Plc (Broker)
Richard M. Taylor — Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd.
Jeffrey R. Harwood — Analyst, Stifel Nicolaus Europe Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

All right. Good morning everybody and welcome to the Preliminary Results of Cineworld Group. I will be taking you through the financials. Israel Greidinger will provide an update on the integration process and resultant synergies, and then Mooky will provide overall business update.

If we turn to financial highlights, 2014 was certainly a busy and overall successful year for the business. At the start of the year, we completed the combination with Cinema City. And as you will see, throughout today's presentation, the performance during the year is only shown to emphasize the benefits of that transaction.

Revenue grew both in the UK and European parts of the business, with EBITDA growing on a pro forma basis by 7.4%. Cash generation has been good, with net debt now at £281.9 million, which means that gearing is just over 2 times. EPS growth was strong, up 31.2% and the proposed dividend is £0.135 and that is up 33.7% on a rights-adjusted basis.

To wrap up the financial highlights, the initial annualized synergy target of £2 million has been achieved with a revised target of £5 million. More detail on this from Israel later.

Turning to the performance on a statutory basis, admissions of 82.9 million generated revenue of £619.4 million. EBITDA of £126.6 million is after a foreign exchange translation loss of £1.7 million as the euro weakened against sterling. Adjusted profit after tax of £61.2 million excludes £6.7 million of exceptional and other items, of which there is more detail later. Adjusted EPS was £0.244; and as I have said, the dividend per share £0.135.

Moving on to operational performance. This and the next two slides are on a 52-week versus 52-week basis and at the constant currencies for comparison purposes. For those of you who prefer tables on this, the details are shown in the appendix.

Although as previously flagged, admissions in the UK were down 3.7%, ticket price growth of 4% and spend per person of 6.3% were encouraging. Of the ticket price growth, approximately half is due to the underlying price increase, with a balance due to mix as we saw an increase in IMAX and 3D admissions, and a small move towards weekend business. The spend per person growth reflects the continued good performance and expansion of our Starbucks stores, and the success of wider retail promotions and activity.

Looking at admissions outside the UK, there was encouraging growth in Poland, which was up 6.8%, where four of the top 10 grossing films were local language. The performance in Romania, up 14.5%; and Bulgaria, up 10.7%, both of which are immature markets, show the opportunities that these countries have in the future. More on this from Mooky later.

The impact of the conflict in Israel is evident in the numbers, which also faced the headwind of a very strong 2013 performance. Underlying ticket price increases in Eastern Europe and Israel were minimal, with the year-on-year movements primarily a result of ticket price mix. Growth in retail spend per person was seen in all countries except Poland, where there was an increased proportion of admissions on discounted Wednesdays when spend is lower.

Turning to other income. Excluding the distribution business in Europe, other income continued to see good growth increasing by 8.3%. In the UK, the benefits of digital advertising are continuing to flow through and we're expecting this to carry on into 2015. In Central Eastern Europe and Israel, advertising grew by 6.7%. The distribution business saw a decline in revenue, as the phasing of releases saw more films distributed in 2013 versus 2014.

Both the UK and European parts of the business saw growth in EBITDA as margins improved. Growth in retail and advertising where margins are higher than box office and the reintroduction of the booking fee in the UK were all instrumental in the margin improvement. Overall, on a pro forma basis, EBITDA of £137.4 million was an increase of 7.4% with an EBITDA margin of 20.6% or 1.4 percentage points higher.

Moving on to some more detailed numbers in the statutory income statement. You can see here the £126.6 million EBITDA that I've already discussed. Depreciation and amortization of £46.6 million includes £5.4 million amortization of intangible assets.

As it's becoming a norm nowadays in the accounting world, the exceptional line includes a number of items and these are detailed on the slide. The cash items, transaction and reorganization costs of £6.9 million. The non-cash components include changes to the onerous lease provision and impairments and total £2.9 million.

Turning to the finance income line, the cash interest on our debt was £10.2 million. There are non-cash costs including the unwinding of bank fees and hedge accounting of approximately £5 million, offset by a gain on the translation of our euro debt into sterling. The net effect has been a credit of £1.6 million. The tax charge of £12.8 million reflects an effective tax charge of 20.3%.

Looking at cash flow. Overall, net debt £281.9 million. Working capital and non-cash movements of £24.4 million. Of this, £11.2 million relates to adverse working capital movements, which are timing-related as our year-end was on the 2nd of January as opposed to in December. £8.1 million is movements in provisions, of which more than 50% go through the exceptional line and are mainly property-related.

Capital expenditure of £48.1 million included £15 million on maintenance refurbishments; £8 million on profit-generating activity, such as Starbucks, IMAX and 4DX; and £24 million on new sites. Overall, bank debt at the year-end was £281.9 million, meaning [indiscernible] (06:35) that gearing debt to EBITDA at year-end was 2.1 times. So to wrap up, Mooky will provide some more color on 2015 savings. But it's fair to say that performance so far has been very much as we expected.

On the subject of foreign exchange, based on the current sterling-euro rate, there would be an adverse foreign exchange impact of about £3.5 million to £4 million. I believe that the business can absorb this and maintain EBITDA consensus at the current level of approximately £150 million. Thinking about more mundane matters [ph] and how you're (07:11) modeling for 2015 is in current thinking. The synergy saving in the year will be around £3.5 million. Interest, the cash interest charge will be in the range of £11 million – sorry, around £13 million.

Tax will broadly be in line with this year at around 20% and capital expenditure will be approximately £80 million. On that basis, that capital expenditure base, I'd expect a small decline in net debt at the end of the year.

I'll now hand you over to Israel, who will take you through the integration process.

I think to talk about integration is to start and going back a year ago and looking what was the strategically rationale that followed all of us to go through this transaction [indiscernible] (08:19). And the deal was really, where we are combining together two very well-run businesses, trying to benefit from growth opportunities in the underdeveloped countries, trying to benefit from the portfolio effect that is really making us a little less dependent from the specific movies in only one territory, and the last and not least is trying to find synergies, both on the area of cost and of the area of revenues.

And this was a very, very big evolution for Cineworld, taking Cineworld from a company that's really active in only single market, jumping overnight to be a company which is operating in a multi-country environment of eight countries of material operation in each one of them.

We are talking about the approach we took toward the integration during this first 12 months. So first step was to put a senior management team, which is [indiscernible] (09:15) that you'll see or the first step to take. Then we took the decision that we'll continue running the company with two different executive teams, one which is running the UK and one which is running rest of the world.

We did define some group work, which we [indiscernible] (09:34) values to be together like constructions, like finance. But we did feel that there is a lot of specific areas that should be dealt separately between rest of the world and the UK. And we created these two separate executive teams, which are working very well in parallel one for the other. That was really the focus of the first six months of the year. Over the second six months of the year, we started to do a very detailed review of the central functions that we have, trying to find ways also to save money.

The focus was based on the decision that we took that the group headquarters would be here in London and will continue being here in London. But while we do this, we said that there is an opportunity to take some of the back office work and focus it around Poland. And this is a decision that we took and started implementing.

Based on these guidelines, we created a very detailed integration and the plan which we started implementing already at Q3. And we are now probably about half the way of achieving our targets. We're talking about synergies. So I think there was three main elements that were planned to bring us synergies. One of them was really decentralizing management in the UK while transferring Polish – to Poland back office and transactional services, which we started performing on IT and on customer service and I will show you a few examples soon.

Second element on the synergies was renegotiating some commercial contracts that we had. We had two companies that had commercial contracts with similar type of suppliers and the idea was how to take one plus one and make it three, and I think we're successful in many areas here. And the third was to try and bring to some head office rationalization and really trying to see that this should definitely bring to some savings with near two management teams, which you put them together.

The achievements of this year was – and it's very hard to measure exactly what you bring here, especially when you have a conservative CFO. But I can definitely say that on an annualized basis, we have definitely achieved already this year £2 million. And we revised our target of last year that was £2 million now to a new target of £5 million.

Just one word about why Poland. When we looked on the territories that we are doing business with and we tried to compare doing transactional services between Poland and the UK, the thing that Poland is showing very favorable numbers. First, the cost of labor per hour in Poland compared to the UK. The UK is 2.7 times more than in Poland. And on the other hand, the availability of skilled labor workforce in Poland is greater than the UK. This is nothing negative about the UK. I think it is the same in a lot of Western European countries.

But then the fact that we are already in Poland – the fact that we have activities in Poland made this decision very easy for us. As I'm sure there's a lot of organizations are considering, shall we go to Poland? But we've never been to Poland. For us, to move things into Poland is really to move things into places we do businesses for 15 years. And we started doing it very successfully.

The first area that's moved into Poland was really contact centers. Cineworld, prior to this transaction, has operated three contact centers to support the Cineworld customers. One of them was based in Chiswick, one of them was based in Wolverhampton, and the third one was based in Hull. It made sense to bring these three call centers together, Cineworld by themselves even before us coming sorted. It makes more sense to put it together. So we've really combined the idea of Poland and the idea of putting them together into one step, and we consolidated these three call centers into one call center in Poland.

For one end, it's giving our customers single point of contact, which is providing them definitely a better service. And for us, it's bringing to a big reduction in cost and [indiscernible] (13:54) in Poland. I came from Warsaw yesterday and I saw this call center in operation. It's working very, very successfully for us. We are in the middle of implementing this call center, and it will be in full scale of operation by the end of May this year.

The second area that we moved completely – that we moved materially into Poland was the IT function, makes sense to having such a group one IT function. And we really created three teams of people, which are doing IT in Poland: one, which is dealing with IT operation, which is the Tier 1 support of giving support to all the 200 locations that we have; the second is the IT systems, which is really dealing with escalating issues from the operations and more advanced IT service; and the third one is that we decided to do our own software development on some areas. We felt it would be materially cheaper and we are big enough and better and have the ability to do by ourselves things which are better. This doesn't mean that we don't have UK IT guys and we just hired a new guy that is running the international IT of the group, which is based here in London.

So the focus is still that the management of this organization is in London. But most of the IT day-to-day work will be out of Poland. And when I hired the new IT guy, part of his work condition is that he needs to realize we have to go a lot to Poland and that's working very well.

Plans for 2015. Like I said at the beginning, the model provides to something in the region of £5 million of savings. We are going to continue centralizing more transactional services in Poland, and we are in the middle of implementing it, but we'll continue doing it. We'll focus a lot on implementing more the IT structure in Poland and strengthening the IT organizations that we created there.

We are going to focus also on integration of Picturehouse. I remind you that Picturehouse was acquired by Cineworld two years ago – it took – three years ago now. It took long time to deal with it because of all the antimonopoly issues that were there, but now we are done, it's behind us and it's time to start with integrating Picturehouse and we are implementing now an integration [ph] plan of Picturehouse (16:07), which is already under progress, so it's not a matter of plan, it's already things which are happening.

And the third element in synergies which we see in front of us is to look for opportunities on the revenue synergies as well. And here, there are definitely some good initiatives that we see in the UK that we should look and that we're looking for ways to move them into the other territories and the best two example is very successful plans that Cineworld have around Starbucks and around the Unlimited program. And we are definitely going to try and focus and find a way to – if there is a way – to get the benefit of this program in the other territories as well. Mooky?

Good morning, everyone. So if we give another few minutes to 2014, which is behind us already. I think that we cannot – I must mention the points that most of the big cinema circuits worldwide were behind their expectations in 2014. It was clear that the move slate is not going to be that brilliant. But I think that what we have achieved in Cineworld is unique. And we are very proud in this that we have outperformed all our competitors, I would say, except on some maybe that we don't know somewhere very far. We should remember that United States went down relatively around 10%. We are happy with the results that our group has achieved.

Contributors to it, in the UK, no doubt a huge part of the success lies within the Unlimited. We've been saying that Unlimited is a very important tool for us. The Unlimited program really gives us the edge on the, let's say – don't want to use the word, second-class, but sort of lower movies standard because once you paid already on your Unlimited card, you're ready to seek – you're much less selective, let's say, in the movies that you choose. And this gives us considerable bigger market share in the medium movies. And this has the [ph] fill-out (19:02) this year.

Successful introduction of the allocated seating, we are putting a huge emphasis and I think people that have [ph] held (19:11) us already know it, we emphasize a lot on the service to the customer. We see the cinema way, and mainly Cineworld, as the best way to see a movie. And in order to do this, we must give great facilities, but we must also give good service, and not allowing allocated seating is not a good service. We made this revolution in the summer, it was not easy.

It took a lot of effort from all the team in the company, but the allocated seating made the change. You can book – as always, you can book the movies now for Avengers in next month, but you know where you're going to be seated. And you are not facing the situations that you book your ticket three weeks in advance, and at the end of the day, you find yourself in the first row, on the side, and happy that your girlfriend is sitting on the other side of the auditorium because this is what we find. So allocated seating, which was also involved with putting back the booking fee was a very big move for us.

A strong focus on costs. On costs, you can focus all the time. There's always something to do where costs are involved. We are very focused on cost and I think we did well in this way. And the third thing was starting the refurbishments. You can see it also in Central and Eastern Europe. This is part of our philosophy now. This is part of our strategy. We will talk about it in a few minutes.

Central Eastern Europe and Israel, first of all, local products, especially Poland and Israel, and this falls – we are not controlling the movies that we show. But in Poland especially, and this year also in Israel, local product sales contributed a lot to the results. And this is something which is – I will not say the word unique, but it is normal for countries that are more developed and are having their own local product. By the way, if we look at movie like Inbetweeners, it was one of the reasons that the UK did not fall as much as the U.S., because relatively the U.S. and the UK are enjoying same kinds of movies. Inbetweeners is a local product. It's not a movie that had any impact on the U.S. box office, but in the UK, it saved [indiscernible] (21:51) for us.

The markets are showing admission growth. We said also last year and we've been saying it for quite a year, the growth potential in the new territories what we call in Central Europe is divided between some things. And one of them, of course, is creating more infrastructure. There is a need for new cinemas there, but also gaining the habit. People are going to the cinema. It was not in their habit. This habit is growing. This is why we see increases in admissions of 14% or 15%, the numbers that are really unbelievable for a country like – for a year like 2014.

So therefore, we feel, if you look in Romania and Bulgaria, these countries are really moving. We need to remember, the UK average visit per capita is around 3. In Romania, it's just now reached 0.5. So we still have huge potential to grow in this country.

When we opened our first cinema in Romania back in 2007, the ratio in Romania was 0.1. The whole country of Romania, 20 million people, was selling officially at least 2 million tickets a year. And last year, we passed the 10 million. So if we are telling our story about the growth potential of Central Europe, this is where we are and I think this also contributed to our 2014 good year.

If we look now on 2015, so first of all, we are expecting a much better lineup of movies this year. I think it's somewhere when we have a year with a Bond, with the new Star Wars, with Avengers 2, with Jurassic World, you can't ignore it and say just it's going to be a normal year. We are feeling very good with the lineup of the movies. Some of them probably will overplay, some of them maybe would be a bit of disappointment. This is the industry we are in, but the slate looks very good and we need to maximize our income from these movies.

We need to continue integration. You heard Israel. I don't think I have a lot to add here, but it is very important. The development of our retail offer, again it's like the Starbucks story, we are looking and analyzing other opportunities and we believe that we can do even better in this. We are going with the new technologies. I will talk about it in the next slide. Refurbishments across the estate also will go into this, but this is part of the strategies I said already, and of course, the new site. Out of the 20 projects that are planned to open this year, 19 are under construction.

Is there going to be a slippage? A slippage can be in the projects that haven't started construction yet, might be in Central Europe, also in the region of a year, sometimes even more. But a project that has started already construction, which means they have the financing, slippage can be a month or two.

So there might be a project that is planned to open in November that will move into January, but most of the projects are mid-year. We are on track and our next opening, just to mention the UK, ones are in Broughton, which is going to be in May. Then we have a new cinema in Glasgow, in Silverburn, an amazing shopping mall there, 14-plex, and the next one will be in NEC in Birmingham. These are just the main three. But as you can see, we have a lot on the plate.

So all these, while maintaining the focus on enhancing the customer experience, which is in my eyes the main thing that we need to do, the cinema visit should be an experience. And we are in no way, as I said a few times already, competing with home entertainment. The size of the screen at home, the size of the screen on your phone, the size of the screen on your iPad has nothing to do with what we offer.

We offer a different way of seeing a movie, and we can see it and it's showed very clearly everywhere that people that love to see a lot of movies at home, a lot of movies on the train on their way to work, they also love to go to the cinema. So it's not too passive, either you like movies or you don't.

Customer experience. So with IMAX, now we are being the biggest partner of IMAX. In Europe, we are getting into the 30th IMAX, I think, within two years. We've opened five new IMAXes this year in the UK. We are adding additional IMAXes also in Central Europe and in Israel. And the IMAX experience proven to us to be really an added value to what we offer to our customers.

A newcomer to the UK but not a newcomer to the group because we have been operating already 4DX technology for almost three years now with a great success. This is the multi-centers, let's call it like this, cinema. It's even taking you a bit over the IMAX experience. IMAX is mainly based on huge screen and huge sound, the 4DX is more technology wise, you'll get water splash on your face, you get smell, you get wind, and your seats are moving.

And we have opened very, very successfully in Milton Keynes, which by the way was the third cinema we renovated in the UK completely. We have opened the 4DX, percentage of capacity I will not mention them now here because they will give even a higher impression of where we are. I think it's very, very well received in the UK.

But don't look at it as a gimmick for six months or for eight months. This is not what you used to see in Disneyland or in other theme parks here and there where you see three or four minutes movie with the water splash and with the seats moving. This is not that. This is a Hollywood movies being shown on the 4DX format. And our oldest one, which is in Israel, where we are opening this month by the way our second one, two-and-a-half years great performance, and the line is almost like this. So it depends on the Hollywood movie which arise. Everybody wants to see Avengers on 4DX, and 4DX will be now spread along the UK. Next ones, I believe, will be Glasgow and Sheffield, and we are very happy with the 4DX.

Last point in the customer experience, good success with Starbucks. We've made some amendments with Starbucks partnership and cooperation. And we are now looking at opening this year somewhere – not this year, in the next 18 months somewhere like 10 additional Starbucks. We are very happy with the cooperation, and this is what we've started now analyzing possibilities of moving with Starbucks to some of our other territories.

Refurbishment, as I said, the big part of our strategy. Cineworld estate is anywhere between 12 years to 20 years old, most of the cinemas. Great cinemas, very well maintained, some of them are doing extremely impressive numbers, but they're old. The average age of a cinema and cinema city is about five years to six years, and we believe in the experience and we do not believe in giving our customers old cinemas. This cannot be changed in one day, but we have our plan.

We are going to do this year four cinemas. Milton Keynes was the one, the first one in the UK. The results are proven quite good, well received. We are opening – we did the whole refurbishment without closing the cinema. So at any stage, there was at least nine screens out of the 16 screens that were operating. Believe me, it was not easy.

But people are very happy by the way. Customers that came, regular customers were very happy, although it was not so convenient. Toilet roll on the other side. You needed to walk around the auditorium [indiscernible] (31:01) together and people who are saying to the team, we are very happy. Finally, you are making something for us. And the result Milton Keynes is not so far. I recommend just to go and see.

Cinema is amazing and has great offering, a Superscreen which is the equivalent brand that we have now created in places where we cannot get IMAX. IMAX are gaining in the UK exclusivity for a region. So although we are the biggest, someone there got it before us. So we've created the Superscreen, which is a kind of a large-screen format that we operate now, 4DX, Starbucks and really the whole show and the atmosphere in this cinema is great.

Just giving an example from Central Europe to Czech Republic, Letňany is one of our older cinemas there and huge shopping mall that is owned by Tesco by the way. And we just now completed the renovation. This cinema looks like it was opened yesterday. When we do a renovation, it's all the way. We change the seats. We change the lobby. We improve sound systems and anything that we can do in this cinema. You enter the cinema. You are sure it was opened just a few months ago and the audience appreciating it, it gives also an opportunity to increase the prices here and there. And we believe that the refurbishment story side-by-side with the new opening is very, very important.

Site pipeline. So you know the UK on one hand, new territories available are not too many. The country is well, well covered by cinemas. It's a fully mature market. But a lot of them are old, very old and not as well maintained as the Cineworld One. So there is big opportunity in different places in the country to come with a new generation of a multiplex to win a market. It's not a good area becoming overnight, but if we take the example, for example Telford. In Telford, we opened 11-screen with an IMAX first-class cinema, a city of approximately 200,000 people. And our competition there is on old 10-plex, which is, I believe some are like 15 years to 20 years old.

This multiplex cut the prices a little bit. But at the end of the day, it will take maybe another year or something. We are already having 70% market share, approximately a 65% market share there. But it will grow bigger and bigger. People are looking for quality.

In the UK, another thing in there, new cinemas is really using our IMAX, our 4DX. We're going to introduce a new VIP way of seeing a movie. And we like to say, when you have a big multiplex, you are not only choosing which movie you want to see, but you can also choose in which way you want to see the movie. So you might come to a cinema with an IMAX mood. You want to see it in the big screen you can possibly see, or you want a more quiet atmosphere, still the same movie, seeing it in the VIP with a good glass of wine and having a slightly different atmosphere than in the IMAX, not to mention the 4DX, which is really the extreme one. [Inaudible]

(34:50).

Yeah. Central and Eastern Europe, and Israel, so there we have a lot of new territories, at least in Central Europe. Israel is quite similar to the UK. By the way, a new generation, exchanging all generations, but if we are talking about Central Europe, it's mainly new territories. It's also increasing presence in already territories that we are there. There are some cities with 300,000 people that have one multiplex of eight, which is Cinema City. And we're going to open now in the other side of the city another 8-plex, which should then cover the city in the right way.

And I think we are maintaining very good, our number one or number two position in each of these countries and we are for sure market leaders in Central Europe as a whole. The biggest growth potential, of course, is in the big countries, which is Poland, 40 million people and Romania, 20 million people.

Last but not least, I mentioned in the beginning, the movies, this is something we do not control but this is the lineup we'd like to see. It's for sure, don't have here all the movies for this year. There will be very big movies that are not on these slides. Some of the movies in this slide maybe will not be as big as expected, but we're very close to the new Mad Max, a new Tarantino movie probably at the end of the year.

Jurassic World, what can we say about it? 50 Shades of Grey already created one of the biggest weekends in the industry as a whole. I will say that in that weekend, our group had served almost 2 million people in one weekend, on the weekend that opened 50 Shades of Grey. This is the time when you are happy that you are big.

And Avengers, end of April, we started already booking the movie. There was a big interest and so on and so on. You can't ignore at least two huge blockbusters towards the end of the year, which are the new Bond and the so long-awaited new chapter of Star Wars, which both of them are going to be really exceptional. So we can really be happy with 2015.

2015 is a done deal. A movie will move two weeks here, two weeks there. But 2015 is clear. We are already looking at 2016. Looking promising. Not so easy to estimate at this stage, but the buzz in the industry, at least in Hollywood, is that it is not going to be far behind or maybe at the same level of 2015. The titles here are also speaking for themselves. And this is really not a final list yet.

So thank you very much and we are at your disposal for any questions.

Questions. Please state your name and where you're from, please. Go on [inaudible] (38:17).

Okay. Douglas Jack at Numis. Could you just update us on how many Unlimited members you now have in the UK? And just update us on online bookings, how your share of bookings has changed in terms of online percent since you reintroduced the booking fees? And can you just expand a little bit on your plans for branded rollout within retail because obviously you mentioned Starbucks. If you're going to go to other brands, you are going to go a bit more food-orientated, just if you could tell us a little bit more about what you might do there?

I would say like this, the numbers of Unlimited, [indiscernible] (39:04) top secrets, but we are not really revealing them in so much. I think this is one of our strong assets. It is growing all the time. We're putting a big emphasis this year on even growing it more. We see a great importance in our unlimited activity, and a couple of hundreds of thousands will be modest estimate.

As for the online, we didn't notice any change in percentage of online booking. I might say even and I don't have the information in front of me, but in view of the allocated seating, there's much more interest to book online in advance. And we didn't feel any big change in the booking fee. This is very common in the entertainment industry, anywhere almost that you book, you pay a booking fee. Our competitors are even charging more than we do. I think we give a good offer to our audiences and there was really no big hassle around this.

For other retail opportunity, we are mainly looking now at the issue of Starbucks Central Europe, yes or no. It will only be – whatever we will do will only be connected to the cinema experience. We are not going to start selling clothing or any – or to just take advantage of the movement of the audience in the cinemas. But anything that can be related, we just made a new deal with the ice cream which is now much well presented in the – but it will all be in correlation with the experience that you are gaining in the cinema.

It's Alexander Mees here from JPM Caz. Just certainly back on the booking fee area, are you able to quantify what benefit there was to group earnings on the reintroduction of the booking fee this year? Secondly, can you give us a sense of the phasing of your 20 cinemas this year between first half and the second half? And thirdly, around screen advertising, there're clearly a lot of big blockbusters this year. What sort of effect can you expect on screen advertising as a result of that please?

I think we'll start with screen advertising, it's the easiest answer. So we believe we have made also some changes in DCM by the way. I think that the company now is very well focused towards the lineup of the movies and we can expect improvement. First of all, we are being paid, usually per head by the customers, so more admissions would mean more money.

And second, the big movies are making it much more attractive and easier to sell – easy to sell. And I think that as we can expect a good year, in general in the business, this will also be a good year in screen advertising.

The point of view of the booking fee, it had an impact on the P&L. We should remember that all operation of online booking is an expensive one, which company was anyhow giving even without charging booking fee. You cannot look at it as a straight to the bottom line on one hand. But if you do it for free and then you start charging, it has quite good I believe in a ratio of a full year round, it can be a couple of good millions in our income. Hopefully, this year we'll have a lot of booking in advance because of the big movies. But it has an impact on the results for sure.

And the phasing?

What?

Phasing of cinema openings during the year, when a cinema is going to open during the year?

The three I mentioned now are very close. We are opening a huge cinema in Bucharest in April or the beginning of May. They will be phased all around. I think in August, we don't have an opening but we have in September, we have in October. And I think the last one now is planned for November, and I think another one in Romania. Probably we're opening two big cinemas in Israel, which probably will be July and October as it looks now. So it's mainly middle of the year, I would say around the middle of the year or third quarter.

Thank you.

Steve?

Good morning. It's Steve Liechti from Investec. I wonder if I could push you for 2015 on the film slate to give any sort of feeling that you've got all industry commentators that you've seen in terms of what it might mean for the industry in terms of revenue growth, given the very strong film slate overall? You could not [indiscernible] (44:45).

We like to talk on the past. After giving the prophecy of what's going to happen, I think the lineup speaks for itself. I think that there are a lot of sequels involved. I think it's easy work for the analyst of the movie industry to look up what movies have done in the past. But we need to remember, there might be some disappointments here and there, and there might be surprises. There's a movie of Pixar which is coming this summer called Inside Out. It's a new original movie, it's not a sequel, it's not a – I believe it's going to be one of the big movies of the year. Am I right?

You know I saw about 15 minutes to 20 minutes of the movie, the buzz is like this, it's not only me thinking it's going to be. But when you see it in the lineup, like a year-and-a-half before Avatar, you saw in the lineup of the movies for that year, 2010, you saw a name Avatar. I didn't say anything to you. We knew it was the new James Cameron movie, but apart from this, this has been never expected it would go and be a $3 billion movie. So I think this is what is nice about our industry. The sequels are giving us the assurance that it's going to be a big year. Bond either will do 10% more than Skyfall or maybe 10% less. We know where we are. The original movies, which are creating the sequels afterwards, these are what's important for us.

Can you tell me the euro or sterling rate in [indiscernible] (46:26)?

We are trying to focus on [ph] earning (46:30) the business and the things which are in our control. We think it's very important and we have philosophy, many years in our business we are trying to ignore this question of movies because you know you can find yourself sitting all day and speculating, was it this movie and was it that movie.

At the end of the day, we want to focus on things which is in our control. We control the expense side, we control the retail. There are a lot of things that we control. The one thing we don't control is the movies. And being born into the cinema industry, I've seen years that had huge expectation. At the end of the day, we're not so huge as everyone expected. And so [indiscernible] (47:02) no expectations that we tend to be huge. I think what's important is to focus on the things which I now control and that's what we're trying to do.

Okay. Okay. Focusing on things you can control. Just a historic number on the synergy, you said £2 million annualized, was that in 2015? You did £2 million synergies. If you got a sort of exact number, you can give us [indiscernible] (47:22)?

I'm not going to give an exact number. But in the 10 months of 2014, we did somewhere between £1.5 million to £2 million.

Great. Thank you. And then on the refurbs, I think you said four refurbs in the UK in the current year. I didn't hear if you said a number of refurbs in Central or CCH. And also can you give me any sort of feel how much a refurb costs?

The refurbs in [ph] CCH (47:48) would be anywhere between two to three cinemas. We'll see because we have a very busy construction team as you can imagine this year. So we can postpone. It's not an urgency. The cost of a refurb could be anywhere between €0.5 million to £3 million. But these are very simple numbers, I will say, because in some of the projects, we are getting nice contribution from the developer. We combine it with increasing the term of the contract. We combine it with some need of the mall itself. Some developers that are – and we need to wait for these opportunities [indiscernible] (48:38) refurbishing the whole mall and then they call us and they say don't want to leave the cinema. The only thing which is not refurbished so then we can get contributions, which might be 30% of the investment, might be more.

So it's difficult to come and say this is the cost of the refurbishment, also has a lot to do with the size of the cinema. But the big projects would be anywhere around £3 million, maybe slightly more. Naturally, we are going now into the big ones. Glasgow will be done now. Sheffield will be done now. But they will get also additional attractions. So it's either we are adding a Superscreen, either we are adding a 4DX, either we are adding a new VIP section. So it is not only that you come to a cinema and there are new seats and some nice neon signs or LED screens at the entrance. There is also substance, larger legroom, a better stadium seating. So it will really grow. When we do it, we do it really the people feel the difference and this is what we believe we should do.

Therefore [indiscernible] (49:50) also average age of the states in CCH is much newer [indiscernible] (49:54) at the end of the day if we are trying to see where to focus the spending of the money because there has been more money spent on refurbishments in the UK. The investment, which is needed, is larger in the UK because some of the cinemas are older. I think Cineworld, we're a little behind in investment in the refurbishments. So we have to catch up now and that's what we'll do in the next few years.

Can I just have one last one? On Unlimited, it sounds like you're warming up to Unlimited a bit more than you were previously. And you mentioned you might roll out – I don't know if I heard you right. Perhaps, I'll ask a direction question. Do you plan to roll it out to other countries within the next 12 months? Would Israel be the obvious one that you've spoken about before? But can you talk us through the implications because I think before you said that you make a loss initially on that?

I believe that first of all, the Unlimited really in the UK is an ideal tool. There are issues that are going, whether we are taking it overseas and when we are taking it overseas. Of course, there is no sense in introducing right now Unlimited to a country where we are still selling tickets for €3 or €4. The ticket anyhow is low and there is no sense in introducing Unlimited at that stage.

If you look at the country like Israel, Israel is now very heavily involved in promotions of buy-one-get-one-free, with the credit card companies that are subsidizing part of it. So it's not necessarily the greater timing to introduce Unlimited because this is working quite strong, covering something like 20% of the visitors in the midweek business and also some in the weekend. So it really needs to be analyzed territory by territory. If you ask me if we are going to see Unlimited in one or the other territories in this year, I don't think we have the time to do.

Good morning. Richard Taylor from Barclays. Just one question, please. Can you give us the operating lease charge for both the UK and overseas?

Not off the top of my head, but I'll come back to you.

Jeffrey Harwood from Stifel. I've got two questions. First of all, you referred to the integration of Picturehouse. Will that take a different form to that that was originally set out? And secondly on the leverage like going forward, that leverage is going to decline like by some standards, one might say it's noticed. Are there any thoughts there, please?

On Picturehouse? [Inaudible] (52:46)

You do Picturehouse.

Okay. So Picturehouse, I think that's what we are dealing with, Picturehouse is a brand. We have two brands in the UK, one is Cineworld and the other one is Picturehouse. We are not going to change any material things in the branding. Picturehouse offering is a separate offering from Cineworld. It has different marketing angles. Everything that has to do with the customer is not going to be changed. But there is a lot of [ph] backroom (53:31). And this is where we do the same thing, we screen movies, we use projectors, we buy either Coke or Pepsi, we sell popcorn, et cetera, and we are doing finance, and we are doing IT. And in all this, there is a lot to be done. And then this will be started already and will be continuously done for 2015.

I mean just as sort of a follow-up on Mooky [indiscernible] (53:42) expanding much that we talked about at the time of the acquisition which is back office more than anything else. Talking about leverage, I mean we've said at the time of the transaction that we were aiming for 2 times by the end of 2015, so we've got maybe 2 – maybe 12 months early. We're not going to say there's any decision about balance sheet structure and we're perfectly happy in where we go at the moment. We might see a little bit of deleveraging in the next 12 months, but we've got plenty of opportunities for organic growth and so we'll just continue to see how things play out.

Could you talk about 3D in your mix of films both for 2014 and looking forward? And then I suppose related to that is Avatar 2 slipped into 2017.

Yeah. [indiscernible]

(54:34)

Avatar is good news for 2017 late now. It's used to be a good news for 2016. There are two Avatars that will be done, probably back-to-back that are going to be very, very expensive. It's good to have them on the way, some within the horizon. They haven't started shooting yet, but I think it looks now 2017 and 2018. And as for 3D, I think what happened with 3D, it was a huge novelty at the beginning. Then many of the moviemakers of cheaper movies were putting 3D just for some extra income for the movies and people understood that it's not only just getting the glasses and getting into the auditorium, it depends who is the – the customers are much more sophisticated these days and who is the maker of the movie, what is the movie. And to see Avengers, the new Avengers on 3D will still reach quite good numbers on percentage of the 3D.

But to go and see just a simple action movie with 3D or children movies, for example, went down in their consumption for 3D unless it is really something amazingly done like a Pixar movie, it's worth spending the additional money for the 3D. Some of the movies, It's not really necessary and I think it's balanced. It has again some uniqueness between territories. I can tell you that in Romania, for example, 3D is hugely popular still much more than in, let's say, Israel or the UK. But it is again a question of quality. You can't cheat your audience for a long time. If there are movies that are coming in the high quality in 3D, people do not hesitate like Gravity, for example, that pushed very much in 2013 the 3D results.

Same will be this year. People who want to see Avengers would want to see Jurassic World. These kinds of movies are sure. I think Star Wars is also in 3D. I'm not 100% sure. But these movies are sure winners. Bond refused to come on 3D yet. So we'll see. The last – by the way, the last chapter of Hunger Games will be 3D. This was announced lately, which is again a great contributor for the last two months of the year, which will be in a way; Bond, two weeks; Hunger Games, four weeks; and two weeks, Star Wars. This is the slate. I can't remember so many, many here. [Inaudible]

(57:29-57:35)?

Yeah. Yeah. I will see, you'll see really – maybe there will be more offerings in 3D, but the success of 3D will be more related to the movie and not to the technology itself. If there is a need, people will pay for the glasses and will pay for the 3D premium. If there is no need, why should they?

Any more questions? Thank you very much indeed.

Thank you.

This now concludes our call. Thank you all very much for attending. You may now disconnect.