Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Israel Greidinger — Deputy Chief Executive Officer, Cineworld Group Plc
Moshe J. Greidinger — Chief Executive Officer, Cineworld Group Plc
Alexander C. Mees — Analyst, J.P. Morgan Cazenove
Sahill J. Shan — Analyst, Nplus1 Singer Capital Markets Ltd.
Nick P. Batram — Analyst, Peel Hunt LLP
Jeffrey R. Harwood — Analyst, Stifel Nicolaus Europe Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Okay. So, good morning and welcome and thank you all for coming. I have to find the right key to push. And I pushed already twice. Wow, it's going too fast. Okay. So I think the plan just for now is, I will start by giving a financial view and then Mooky will give a more broader business review, and then we will be happy to answer any questions. I think we should try and keep the questions to the end, and Charlotte will help by giving people microphones and just say who are you when you ask the question.

Okay. So, if we start with the statutory results and the financial highlights of the company, so we see that there is a strong growth of revenue and of EBITDA, revenue grow by 22.5% and EBITDA grow by 41%. But you have to remember these are statutory numbers, which the comparison really doesn't include two months of 2014 in Cinema City. We invested in new site £41 million, very big investment and you'll see more detail of this investment later, and invested additional £6 million in our existing site. While doing this, we still generated a positive cash flow and succeeded to reduce marginally our net debt.

Our adjusted EPS grew by 45%, which is a material growth and based on this, our board have decided to increase the interim dividend that was £0.035 on the last year to £0.05 this year. If we're looking at the pro-forma performance and I think it's a more accurate way to compare the past results with the current result is to look on the pro-forma performance and the main difference between this pro-forma and the statutory numbers is the fact that we're including in this the two months in the Cinema City business that we're missing out last year. And so, if we keep – if we compare two six-months to two six-months of this year, we see a group revenue growth of 11.3% and EBITDA growth of 22.5%. And how we achieve this larger growth of EBITDA, you can see it by this red circle of the gross margin, so increased our margin by 1.8% (sic) [1.8 ppts] (02:48) and this was our target for the year really.

So, we look on ourself, we are increasing the revenue, but also succeeded to increase the margins. And that's what is making us happy with these results. And if we're looking here, we're showing really the split between UK and Ireland, and Central, Eastern. In Israel, you can see that on the region of what we call – we call this Rest of the World, RoW. And the RoW will grew more in admissions that what we grow in the UK. But on the other hand, if we're looking on the overall revenue, the overall revenue growth is a similar figure; Rest of the World and UK and Ireland. The improved in the margin is more notable in the UK than in Rest of the World, but trust, the starting position of the margins in Rest of the World was higher than UK and Ireland.

If we're looking on box office and retail performance, here we are really comparing the average ticket price and the retail spend per person in all territories, the key thing in this slide is that it's showing you the future opportunity. It's showing how much on the more advanced or matured territory, which are the UK and Israel, have relatively high average ticket price and a relatively high retail spend per person. On the other hand, you can see how much Poland, Hungary, Romania, Czech Republic, all of these countries have potential still to grow. And at the end of the day, in the long term, these countries are part of Europe and we definitely believe that there is a potential to improve the income that we can generate from these territories.

The other second clear message you can see out of this slide that this is still a UK dominant business. [indiscernible] (04:33) 60% of what we're succeeding to achieve is coming from the UK and the UK is an important part – the most important part in this business. If we're talking about other income, which is the last important part on the revenue, we see that other income is succeeding to increase as well, in line with increase of the ticket sales and in line with increase of the concession; we also succeeded to increase our other income. The main drivers of the other income are really advertising and distribution revenue, but almost – but any other revenue, which is not ticket or concession, is being classified as other revenue. With good distribution income growth in the first half of the year and we have good increase in revenue generated from sale of advertising.

Advertising is a very important line of business for us. People like to advertise in cinemas. We think that today there is more of problematic, I say, in advertising in television and, of course, television is a huge business compared to ours. But you know, in cinemas, we don't give people remote control and you cannot [ph] zig (05:41) between channels. So, when you sit in the auditorium, we have to see the advertising and more and more advertisers acknowledges today and understand it today and are willing to spend money with us on advertising.

If we are looking on the group income statement, and here we become a – a little more detail and we are really trying to compare here and to show the different between the statutory basis and the adjusted basis. And I think the main difference between these two table is in the financial income. As you can see, on the statutory basis, we have financial income of £3.3 million, which is driven by the fact that we've £8.9 million gains on foreign exchange.

On the adjusted basis, we're adjusting this, and we are going to a more real number of £5.6 million of interest and expenses of finance expense. So, the main adjustment is really between this £3.3 million line income to make it £5.6 million of expense. At the end of the day, our adjusted profit before tax for the period of the six month is £39.3 million, compared to £46.8 million, which is the statutory basis. So, we're reducing our income between the statutory, adjusted, according to what we used to do in the past.

Cash flow and net debt, another important part on the financial analysis of the business. Key item here is this red circle in the middle of the £14.5 million (sic) [£40.5 million] (07:18) investment that we made. We think our best way to use our cash is to invest it in new cinemas, and we invested this £40.5 million both in new cinemas and on existing cinemas; most of the investment is in new cinemas. But investment in existing cinemas is important as well. And at the end of day, this is a material part of the cash, but looking on the overall cash, we still see that we succeeded, also with the help of currency, to improve our net debt position from being £281.9 million at the beginning of the period to £270.5 million at the end of the period.

Amend and extent, we have here a lot of representative of our banks. We have recently agreed with all the banks which have financed us around the transaction. We sign a new agreement that included both extending the current facility that we have and amending it. I think that when you do a finance deal around an acquisition, you always do it very fast, and there are always questions around the acquisitions. Now, everything have stabilized, this acquisition appear to be big success for Cineworld, it was time to go back to the banks and say, guys, let's rethink about what we can do. And we signed a new agreement with them, which have kept the size of the facility to be the same size, extended it by additional 18 months and reduced the margins that we are paying by 50 basis point.

And we are happy with this achievement. We also use this opportunity in order to structure better the ratios between the RCF and between the term loan, and between the euro and the pounds. We feel today that it's more correct facility for us to be more based on pounds and less based on euro, so we reduced the euro portion. And overall, we believe that this new agreement will bring us on a annual basis saving us between £1 million to £1.5 million a year.

If you are looking on the financial outlook, and this probably the most interesting part in every finance presentation, because the part is behind us and how are we looking on the future. And we said on our statement this morning that we believe that the business is on track to be marginally ahead of the plans for 2015, analyst today, consensus is for our EBITDA at the end of the year to be between £149 million to £151 million. We believe today that we will be marginally ahead of this. And now at the end of day, we depend on movies where to be conservative and only know what the movie was on the day you release it.

The pipeline of the movies for the second six months looks strong. But, on the other hand, you never know before the movie is released. Currency is working against us. And if you are comparing our results of the first six months on the – if you take our results of this six months and you try to put them in currency that we had on the previous period, or the first six months of 2014, you probably see a loss of about £2.5 million in this comparison.

So if you think that we have to – and currencies are continuing to behave in the same way, and we don't see – we're not financial experts, all of us are probably smarter than us about it, but I don't see any change coming on the near future on the rates, and that's why we are really trying to be conservative and to say that we believe to be marginally ahead of our plans for 2015.

We are on track definitely to achieve our – the savings that we said last year that we will achieve this year on synergies of £3.5 million to £4 million. This acquisition is behind us now. We're a year-and-a-half into this. I think that there are still more opportunities, but it's [indiscernible] (11:23) new opportunities, business initiative and not margin – and not anymore synergies. I think synergies are behind us. We achieved what we said that we will achieve and we'll continue improving the business by more and more business initiatives, and some of them still relates to putting the two businesses together.

The acquisition accounting is also behind us with no modifications. We expect net debt to remain on similar level by the end of the year. We have no investment, we have dividend to pay. At the end of the day, we still believe it will remain on similar levels. And our tax rate is a little higher than what we said, we expected, last year, 21%. I think there is still work to be done on taxes on this consolidation of the groups together. But currently, our expectation for the second half of the year is to remain on the – on similar tax rate. Okay. Mooky?

So, good morning. And I am talking a little bit of the more colorful side of this business. So when we look at our business update, we have the clear points ahead of you here. Solid financial performance, all territories worked well, and we are really satisfied with the division between territories in the results. We had a strong film slate – it's not a secret – for the first six months, titles like starting with Fifty Shades of Grey, going on was The Fast and the Furious, going to Avengers, going to Jurassic World, which is, I think, industry-wise the biggest surprise of this year. Everybody expected it to be big, but not so big.

We're continuing in the integration, as Israel said, of the business. We are very proud of the expansion plans, we'll go into more details, but they are on track. We are really opening new – 18 to 20 new cinemas this year and you will not find many circuits that are capable even of doing it. And we'll talk about it a little bit more. We are investing, as we declared last year, after the deal, we are investing in our existing estate, it's very important. We have great cinemas of Cineworld in the UK, very well maintained, but need to be [indiscernible] (14:05) into 2015 standard, and we'll do this as well. We are focusing on the customer experience, very important for us that every customer who visits our cinemas will want to come again and again. This is a business of habit. And we are emphasizing on this again a lot.

And if we look for the next six months and we're already also looking on 2016, slate looks promising and we'll – I will talk about it a few words as well. So, the new openings that I mentioned; 93 screens, nine new sites were opened until today this year, four out of them in the UK, two new sites in Romania, two new in Poland, one site in Israel, which is our last one until today, in Jerusalem. And currently, we have 210 sites, 1,960 screens. And it is clear this year we're passing a kind of a magic number, which is 2,000 screens and we are very proud of it and happy with the way the slate is going on. There can always be a slippage here and there, but two cinemas that might slip from, let's say, December to January do not have real effect on the results. So, it's more on this. But currently, we are very positive that we will open all of them before the end of the year.

Again, the list of the new openings of the cinemas, the number of screens, we started with Swindon, which was our second cinema in Swindon and was the first one to be opened this year. I think we should if we want to mention the very significant one, Silverburn in Glasgow, an amazing shopping mall, existing shopping mall, very solid, very strong. And the Silverburn is in addition to the mall, amazing cinema, 14 screens, started strong, performing well.

We opened another big cinema in Bucharest. We need to remember that in the Central European markets, the potential of adding infrastructure is huge. We had already two big multiplexes in Bucharest, this is our third one. Bucharest is a city of about 3 million people. The potential there is very big and this megamall project is very successful and opened. Also, by the way, included the first 4DX in Romania, which is working to full capacities since the opening. Another one...

I have to say this, we are planning an Analyst Day in Bucharest in October, and we invite everyone to come and to see this new cinema and other cinemas we have done.

And the one I mentioned, Jerusalem, 16-plex just opened, an amazing building and an amazing project, and we are closing – we will be closing our seven screens in Jerusalem, the all seven screens and this one is brand new cinema that we have very high hopes for. Few photos. I always say that one photo is better than thousand words, just to give you the impression. We really emphasize on big entrances, life in the cinema will – coming from the entertainment business, and I think that [ph] with daily actions (18:04) that we're getting, for example, on cinemas like Broughton and all the others are extremely good and people love them.

Poland; Lublin, nine new screens; Starogard Gdanski is a small city – a relatively small city in the north of Poland. I'd say that this cinema have already almost doubled our expectation for numbers. Fully opening has only been two months. For some reasons some cinemas are starting some slow, usually it starts a bit slow and then takes time to mature, anywhere between two years to three years. This cinema probably was born mature, so can happen also.

And the next pictures that we'll show you, you know everybody are saying, okay, you're building it, it's very complicate to build and to open every cinema. We need to take care of not only the planning and the whole atmosphere in the cinema, but also installing the equipment and doing the job and to open on time with the shopping mall. I remind you that the real schedule is not in our hands because the shopping mall developers are the ones that are building the big project. But we need to be on time and we need to be accurate and to deliver the quality.

We opened recently in Romania, I mentioned it already, 14 screens in Bucharest without the IMAX. This is a mistake, but it was a 4DX, the first 4DX. The IMAX is in our other big project in Bucharest, but with the first 4DX in Romania. And we will show in our short clip about how to build the cinema. What is nice about this clip that it was done by our team – so, our projectionist, our technical guys, our construction guys – while the cinema was built, made this movie by themselves. We help a little bit in the editing, because it was about 10 minutes long. But it shows you – maybe you will think that it is much more simple, because now we will show you how you build the cinema in five minutes.

So, let's show.

[Video Presentation] (20:42-23:07).

Okay. I think it's good. We're not going to go into movie production still, but you see we have the talents in the company. So, we are there, but this is really a nice clip to give the atmosphere. And I think what is important to mention here is that we are not comprising on the standard by any means, we feel that this is our obligation to our customers, will be the same standard all over. And we are bringing our older cinemas into up-to-date. Let's say, four months, Milton Keynes, as I mentioned before, very successful renovation there.

We have introduced the first 4DX, which you saw a bit of the pictures what 4DX can do, in Milton Keynes, very strong occupancy rate. We're very happy with the results, and we are pushing forward our 4DX installation program. It's not so easy, because there should be structural changes in the cinema – in the auditorium where we choose to put 4DX. But we are moving forward, Sheffield, Glasgow, Crawley, soon Cardiff already on the way.

In addition, we introduced our own large format brand, which is called Superscreen. First one was opened in Milton Keynes, again performing very well. And this is a kind of addition side-by-side, of course, to our IMAX screens, the 4DX, and the regular ones.

Picturehouse Central. Picturehouse Central is in London, so we are in London, everybody always complains, you know, you don't have a presence in the Center of London. We have Cineworld [indiscernible] (25:12) that was not a successful commercially point of view. Cinema, we turned it into a Picturehouse, it become Picturehouse Central, this just recently opened and showing good signs of performance, very special. I can only recommend you – again, I'm saying one view in the eyes is better than thousand words, go and look at it, anyone who's not there yet. And it's an impressive project and we have good hopes for its success.

And there will be, of course, more to follow in investments in our own estate. Sheffield is currently under renovation. I think a good point here to say is that we renovate the cinemas without closing them down even to one day. So Milton Keynes was continuing to perform, not as usual, but very good, because our team is experienced enough and knows how to manage the renovation without closing the cinema. So the maximum number of screens that in Sheffield will be closed, which is a 20-plex, will be between four to five screens, four already done. According the last report I received and we're on the way there to give Sheffield really a big uplift. And Glasgow will follow, we're still in the permits section there and there more and more will be moved forward.

The main thing we're emphasizing, of course, is our customer experience. I mentioned before, we want the people to come back to the cinemas again and again. We believe in a good pricing policy. We are believing in, of course, the Unlimited offer that we give to people that really wants to go a lot to the cinema. And in the new project, we are giving our customers opportunity not only to choose which movie they want to see, but also how they want to see. So, in a big movie, Bond, for example, will open in one multiplex on the IMAX screen, on the 4DX screen, in the VIP venue that I will talk about a little bit more, so that will be UK, in a minute, and on the regular big screens that we have.

We offer our customers the best technology. I mentioned IMAX, 4DX, Superscreen, et cetera, but also in our regular – what we call regular screens, we invest a lot in the sound systems. We are now cooperating with Dolby for the Atmos System that they have. We installed it already in Milton Keynes in one of the big screens and we installed it in a Picturehouse Central in the big screen, just in Jerusalem now.

So, we are all the time with our hands close to the developments in the industry. And it's not so simple, because I must tell you, now we travel between this shows that are big two shows every year, one in Vegas and one in Barcelona with regards to equipment and to new technologies. We're being offered anywhere between 15 to 20 new technologies every market. So, it's about 30 to 40 a year. And the big thing to do here is to say no to about 39 out of the 40, because otherwise you get into the crazy loop, you try this, you try that, and you need to really to see where the technology goes, which technology Hollywood is supporting, which is very, very important. IMAX and 4DX have a full Hollywood support. The movie makers themselves, the directors, the big directors of today, Chris Nolan, Steven Spielberg, these guys they want to be in IMAX. They want to be in 4DX. And this really giving this system the advantage over other systems that you hear or you read here and there.

The new thing we'll be now introducing – it's not an invention of Cineworld – is the VIP concept. Our competition has ways of their VIP, we have VIP in other territories. Our new concept of the VIP for the UK will be introduced first time in Sheffield. And they are mainly small auditoriums, but all of them are VIP. They have a different lobby according to the offer we are going to offer. They have a free buffet, which is very nice. It's not a full dinner, but it's very nice buffet with a good meal, with free popcorn, free drinks, except alcohol, for alcohol you pay separately, but everything is included. So, you pay a price which will be somewhere a little bit [ph] north than (30:32) £25 and everything is included in this package, very good bargain, very successful and popular in our other territories.

And you can see the quality of the seats there in the picture. The seats are moving on [ph] a current or (30:49) electricity, a little bit similar to a first class seat in a plane. And we will introduce this VIP concept in several of the sites. And we have good hopes for it. It's not from numbers or from EBITDA numbers a huge impact, it's not going to change the fate of Cineworld, but it is very, very important to a certain section of the audience, certain section that do not come to cinemas and also as part of the choice. You might go on an anniversary day or on a birthday to the VIP and in a different mood – you want to see the same movie, but on the IMAX or on some of the other screens. So the VIP will be our new comer. We'll show you some photos probably in the next meeting from Sheffield.

Movies; the movies are driving this business. As good as we can be, we are as good as our next movie. We look at the films for the second half of the year, and Q3 looks good. Legend is a UK production, story of the Kray Brothers. Just heard that the movie came out very strong, maybe a bit too violent, but will probably be a big success. Everest looking great. Martian is the new Ridley Scott movie and more and more.

Q4, I don't think there are many years in the industry – I cannot recall a year in the industry that three movies like Bond, the last chapter of Hunger Games and the movie which is now considered to be the most anticipated movie ever in the industry, Star Wars: VII, are closing the year for us. 26 of October, a strange day to release a movie; Monday, Spectre will be released in the UK, about 10 days later in all other territories. Hunger Games is in November. And 18th of December, we will have – for this year, we'll have 12 days of Star Wars – of the new section of Star Wars. But as I said, I think yesterday, what Star Wars will do in 12 days, not many movies will do in their lifetime. So it looks really a promising slate.

We are already looking at 2016; you can see some of the key titles here as well. The year looks promising and there will be a new Kung Fu Panda, Angry Bird (sic) [Angry Birds] (33:44) is a movie that the industry waits, I don't have to tell you about the popularity of the Angry Bird (sic) [Angry Birds] (33:53).

Disney have announced it side-by-side every two years will be now the new Star Wars. So, we'll have in 2015 Star Wars: VII; 2017, Star Wars: VIII and in 2019, the last chapter of the saga, Star Wars: IX. Side-by-side, every other year Disney will introduce and you'll see here the name of the new one – of the first one, spinoffs out of the Star Wars Saga, which will go on in 2016, 2018 and 2019. Star Wars: Rogue One is the first one, probably will become very, very popular. Independence Day; we don't need to introduce Ghostbusters, et cetera, et cetera. So, we can really say that we already look forward to 2016.

If we look into more movies of 2016; Finding Dory, the sequel to Finding Nemo; Alice in Wonderland, second chapter, now Looking Glass, again, with Johnny Depp; Ben-Hur 2, anyone who remember this huge epic; Ice Age 5, if there is a lack of huge movie for the animation side, Ice Age is really a fairly big one, and more and more including The BFG, which will be directed by Steven Spielberg, and I believe will be especially popular in the UK.

Thank you.

Good morning. It's Alexander Mees from J.P. Morgan Cazenove. Two questions if I may, firstly on UK, admissions were positive on a pro forma basis of 2.5% [indiscernible] (36:04) market. I wonder if you could run through the reasons for that. And secondly, could you touch on the effect of the National Living Wage. There is an announcement in the budget that that will go up over the next few years. What impact that might have on the business?

Okay. So, I think that regarding UK admissions, I think that this 2.5% increase is showing more the strength of Cineworld in 2014 than witnessed on 2015. I think that we are very proud in the quality of [ph] Cineworld's growth (36:45) in the UK. We think that we have loyal customers, which are coming to them. And it's always – on a strong period, you always see the weaker cinemas growing more than the stronger cinemas, because if you want to see Jurassic World, you don't care so much which cinema you go to. And you want to see a secondary movie, so you [ph] are more through the cinema, less to (37:09) the movies. So, from our point of view, the only way we look on this is really [ph] most times 2014 than witnessed on (37:15) 2015. And at the end of the day, we are happy with this 2.5% growth, which is meeting our expectations. Yeah...

I think we can say it was clearly in 2014 that we outperformed the market. And this is due to the quality and the strength of our customer base in the UK. Usually when there are big pictures, they need also some older or less good cinemas.

Minimum Living Wage, yes, I think that we pay more today the Minimum Wage. We believe on the policy of paying our employees. We have a plan to continue increasing what we pay employees. We note the plan of the Minimum Wage – Living Wage of the government and we don't think that what the government is planning is much far from what we are planning before. And we don't expect that it'll have any material effect on our business.

Our clear policy is to pay over Minimum Wage. It's not something new for us, and we think it is the right thing to do, and so we are not so far. If the government puts a bar of, I think, £9.20 or something per hour for 2020, we will be there. It's not something is going to impact our results.

Good morning. It's Sahill from Nplus1 Singer here. I've got three questions. The first one is, could you just probably just update us as to the competitive landscape, vis-à-vis opening new sites, trying to find new sites both in the UK and out in Europe as well?

The second question is, again, sort of related to new sites, anything else worth sharing in terms of CapEx guidance for screens, new cinemas both in the UK and in Europe relative to what you said back in March?

And the final question is, obviously, everybody is very excited about the next James Bond movie coming out in October. Anything worth sharing in terms of plans, initiatives you've got in place to try to maximize audience numbers from your point of view?

So, we'll start with the new sites. I think that we're doing very well both in the UK and in Central Europe. One of our big assets is our strong relations with the developers. And I would not say we are always the first choice as a cinema operator, but we're almost always the choice – the first choice. And we think we have a good slate for the years to come. There is competition; of course, there is always competition. But the decision has not been taken in the world of today only by the level of the rent that you're offering, it's – these days have passed. The banks that are financing this huge shopping malls are also checking the quality of the tenants, not only how much they're paying. So I think there is no big change.

Same goes for CapEx investment. Usually, as we said already in the past, in Israel and in – in the UK and in Israel, which are the more mature market, we need to invest a bit more. In Central Europe, we invest less, not because of the quality. We're not compromising on quality. This is just a division between who invest what, how much the developer will be investing on one hand and how much we'll be doing, so this is it. What was the third question?

[Question Inaudible] (41:07).

Bond. Look, we have great marketing team all around the states, all the way from the UK, for Central Europe and Israel, which will do their effort to maximize income, on one hand, for us. On the other hand, we need to remember that in this industry, the main burden of marketing goes to the side of the distributors, this is why you pay them so much money. So a lot of the job will be done by Sony Picture (sic) [Sony Pictures] (41:41) in the UK and our own distribution outfit because this is a point maybe to remind everyone, we have a distribution in the other countries. And through our relations with MGM, we will be the distributors of the Bond in Poland, in all of Central Europe and in Israel. And you can rest assure that although it looks like a home run to market Bond, there is a lot to do around it, and we will be doing the maximum we can.

Did we answer your CapEx question [indiscernible] (42:15).

Yes, answered.

Okay. Very good.

Hi, it's Nick Batram of Peel Hunt. I've got a number of questions. You introduced the booking fee in the UK last year. Could you give us some idea of what percentage of ticket sales are now online, and how did that compare to last year? And also in terms of monetizing that increased database, what are you actually doing along those lines? And then just finally, you talk about initiatives going forward rather than actually savings. Can you give us some quantum in what particular areas you're looking at?

Yeah.

So, we'll start with the booking fee. There has not been any significant change in the numbers of people that are using our Internet website to book the cinemas. We might even say the contrary, there is an increased people like this service. As we said before, this is not a cheap service for us to provide. This needs a lot of software work and a lot of hardware investments et cetera. And this is why we felt that we should charge the booking fee, which also had a positive impact for the results, but it's definitely more and more people are using it, especially as we moved side-by-side with the booking fee to allocate the seating. So now really you can book your seat from home and note book in advance, at the end of the day find yourself sitting on the first row. So it's a very good service and it's popular as ever.

Can you just say what percentage of ticket sales are via online?

It depends a lot on the movie slate. We can reach weekends that over 30% of the tickets will be booked and even in some of the territories, it might be even higher, but in slow times, there would be, of course, less pressure to book online because you're going to the cinema and you walk in. We are using the data, we have in our data that we get from all these activities with two main levers, [indiscernible] (44:39) members which are really our heavy users and on the other line, we have My Cineworld members, [ph] with their (44:48) numbers is in millions and we are trying to take as much advantage as we can out of it, feeding them with information about the new releases, new sites, new opportunities and new offerings.

Is it fair to say there is a probably a lot more upside now than when you – you just starched the surface thus far?

What more up...?

A much more upside, I mean, it seems to me that, I mean getting e-mails about when the films are on and various things is one thing, but actually generating additional proper additional revenue by that databases, something much more different.

Yeah. I think there is a potential there, I think those potential that we are working on, we're trying to do all kinds of cooperation with other companies, retail companies that, for example, will offer additional offers to our customers to improve and to give more benefits to our customers. I don't – I'm not a great believer in the way of some of [indiscernible] (45:56) I think it's already not so successful that this gives them opportunity to sell other things to the customers. We're selling the cinema experience, we're selling the movies. This is the world we want to concentrate. I don't believe in selling people DVD through to the cinema ...

And you have to be careful with your customers, one thing, you take advantage of them [indiscernible] (46:21) not to torture your customers and not if you book a movie, you'll get 20 offers for things which relates to it. So you have do it with right balance and at the end of the day our main business is to get people to see movies.

This is not a cost that will come from them. But on the other hand, giving them local benefits around the things like this is developing nicely and they stay live.

And then sorry, just on those initiatives that you spoke about earlier?

So about initiatives, we are continuing to make this a global business and we have done work that we have discussed at the end of the year, we're really creating an IT center in Poland, for example, which is just a more cost effective and probably practically better for the whole group to be based somewhere on the center and we'll continue to develop such a – such initiatives. We said from the beginning that this company will be run from one and there's two different headquarters of the rest of the world and the UK, but with some good functions, which are combined. I think that there are still some work to be done, get more value out of it, do more IT work in Poland, maybe do some other big office work more in a group level than on – than on a territory basis. I think there is still work to be done about it. I think the majority will probably have done, but I think there's still potential in front us and of continuing doing such business initiatives, and really making the business better.

I will add on, I think in this is – it's in a way, you can't really draw the line and say, okay, until yesterday, we did synergy, now it is initiatives. But we feel now that we are really one company. Company feels that we're working together, the whole territories are co-operating, everybody is now inside the new group structure. So synergy is a way you know for the past, is a word for the past and initiatives, we always need to look to be more efficient, and we need to be cost effective and it's a change of a phrase, but at the end of the day, we did more than we expected in the synergy and I think the whole integration process that was led by Israel was very successful, and we're following it and we're continuing, but it's a normal course of business now.

Good morning. [indiscernible] (49:05). Three questions, please. Firstly, could you give us a feel for the underlying pricing trend in the UK. Secondly, and is there any update on rent renegotiations and trends there, please? And then lastly, is there any progress in the appointment of FD, please?

Okay. So, we'll start with the pricing. So, our strategy in pricing is really to deal with the prices, and we are very careful in dealing with our pricing. And we don't – although we see a growth in our income which is higher than the – the average fixed price go higher than the number of attendance, this comes mainly because of – there were different choice of movies more today, [indiscernible] (49:57) Jurassic for example that came also with 3D, effected a growth in the 3D side. New technologies IMAX, 4DX are also influencing the price. But in general, our main leading ticket price is in line with inflation and not more, unlike our competition for example which started this year to charge for the big movies an additional pound or something. We don't believe in this. I think that we are not in the business of taking advantage of the big movies on one hand and indicating by the way that the other movies maybe a worthless.

So, we are for sure very – our policies to be very, very careful with pricing. We think that, as I said already twice, this business is based on a habit, and it should be affordable. We want people to come twice a month for the cinema and not once in three months. So, this is with regards to the prices. Second question was...?

Rent.

In rent, there is no big changes in -- not in Central Europe and also not in the UK. The market is behaving quite conservatively, I would say. We have many rent reviews that are being done here and there with positive results for us. And I think we are getting quite good real estate deals in general, I can say. And last one?

FD.

FD. We are on the search. We hired already headhunters and we are analyzing the needs and what exactly we are looking for, and quite soon, I think now it's August, so there are a little bit... [indiscernible]

(52:04)

But I believe that as of September, October, we'll see a move in it and we will see a move – our next move.

But we have a very strong financial department and it was good people which are working under the CFO and the company is really – the finance department of the company is performing very well. And so, there is no urgent – urgency in this. We want to do right and quiet process [indiscernible] (52:39) find a right person.

Yeah. We need to remember now – Israel will not say it himself, but he is already being the CFO of Cinema City for many, many years, very, very experienced. In my eyes, he is the best CFO, but I am not objective. And but he is acting now as a CFO. So we are really not in a rush or under any pressure. And we have really strong team under him and we're happy with it.

Jeffrey Harwood from Stifel. I've got two questions. First for – on the balance sheet, clearly going to de-lever over the next couple of years, what's your views on the optimum level of gearing? And secondly, in terms of acquisitions, what was the strategy and likelihood of further developments on the acquisitions front?

Okay. I think we'll start with the balance sheet, and these two questions are connected. Yes, our leverage now is around 2 times. If you ask me personally, two years ago, before I came to the UK, so I would say that probably cinema business can take a higher leverage, and can probably be 3 times or 3.5 times still relatively conservatively. On the other hand, I learnt that the UK market more expect us to be around 2 times, and I respect this, and that's what we've done it at the beginning of our deal, and that's the leverage that we're trying to keep. [ph]

On debt, I think, (54:14) you're right, that if you're looking on the future of our balance sheet, so it looks that we will de-lever it from this. The best way we think for us going forward is to invest our money really. And so first we build a lot of cinemas, and as you can see, 20 new cinemas this year, they're going to cost money. So it's now going to be a material change at least from the debt position this year, leverage will go down, because the EBITDA will grow, but at the end of the day, and won't be materially this year, in the long-term, we have to look how to invest our money really.

And that is connected to your second question about acquisitions, and we are definitely open for acquisitions, but it must be acquisitions that will answer our investment criteria. We have to be careful not to be in the situation that you're saying, and becoming under leverage, I must invest, because if you must invest, then you make bad investment and I've seen many businesses that in order to invest, have done bad investments. But if we will see and there are good chances that we will see good opportunities for investments, maybe new territories, now if you're looking on the map of Europe, we have a gap here between Poland and between the UK. And for the right opportunity, we are there and the good thing is we have a balance sheet which is ready for acquisition, we have a good relationship with our bank, supporting bank, and that I'm sure will support us, and we're really very well based for growth.

Okay.

Thank you very much.