Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Moshe Joseph Greidinger — Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director, Cineworld Group Plc
Nisan Cohen — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director, Cineworld Group Plc
Alastair Reid — Analyst, Investec Bank Plc
Harry J. Gowers — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities Plc
Ed Young — Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc
Richard Taylor — Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd.
Owen Shirley — Analyst, Joh. Berenberg, Gossler & Co. KG (United Kingdom)
Ali Naqvi — Analyst, HSBC Bank Plc
Kiranjot Grewal — Analyst, Bank of America

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Cineworld Group 2021 Interim Results Call. My name is Hayley, and I will be the operator for your call this morning. [Operator Instructions]

I will now hand you over to Mooky Greidinger, Chief Executive Officer. Please go ahead.

Good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us. We'll start with the first slide, and we'll talk about the general overview of the situation that where we are now. So, main operational updates, first and foremost, we are very happy to say that we are fully operational in all our territories. All our cinemas are open since June. And we are satisfied with the results that we see coming out on the various territories.

Admissions are growing, and the demand for the cinemas is growing step-by-step. We are enjoying a huge growth in food and beverage spend, and it's something that we did not expect. And saying this, I can really say that most of our customers are embracing back the cinemas. Some people still have their worries, probably. We don't have yet the full lineup of movies. But if we look at the results subject to the movies that we have released, I think that we're in a good shape.

We anticipate strong trading in the fourth quarter or even actually I can say in the last four months of the year, starting September. We have a very exciting film slate. All this I will say and I think this will go all along the presentation all what we are saying, of course, is subject to a certain stability in COVID-19 situation. I believe that we need – and I guess most of the governments are now in this direction. We need to learn to live with this COVID and not to run away from COVID. So, I think that, if running away from COVID means lockdowns and very extreme measures.

I think now, thanks to the vaccination we're in a way behind it, but there can be bumps on the way. And looking at the situation as it is today, going back into the exciting film slate, we have high hopes for the last four months of the year, we will go more into details into the lineups at a later stage of the presentation. But still, I would remind all of you that we have four months where we will have a new James Bond movie. We will have the new Top Gun which we understand came out as a real blockbuster. There are four Marvel movies that will be released in the last four months of the year. That is one of the most anticipated movies to-date which is the new Matrix movie and many more to come.

The main actions that we took for the period of the last six months, we had a lot of what we call commercial initiatives, commercial discussions, the studios, the windows, many other issue that we had with the studies. But relatively, we are in a good shape and we go into more details at a later stage.

Another important aspect in the business, of course, is our relations with landlords reaching agreements with them on deferrals, on abatements, on the future. And also, here, I can say that we are in a very good shape. Operational measures, we took strong operational managers as of the start of the COVID, but these six months were no different. We worked very hard about cash preservation and permanent cost reduction. The issue here, of course, is not only reducing the reduction on time of the lockdown, on time of closure, but also to see which savings we can keep when we are coming back into operation without, of course, damaging in any way the experience that we give to our customers because this is really in the essence of our strategy.

Financing initiatives, we secured additional financing, Nisan will go into this in a minute, and covenant wavers. And I can say that also with the financing initiatives and you see the numbers in the announcement we are relatively in a good shape. And as we say, we are well-positioned now to benefit from the recovery. Things might take a little bit longer here, a little bit shorter there. But in general, if we look at the movies, and the relations with the studios, the relation with the landlords, and the financial situation, we can be optimistic looking forward and really be proud of our team of what they have achieved in the last 6 months or maybe even in the last 18 months.

So, with this, I will [ph] hand over this (00:06:10) to Nisan who will take you through the whole financial results.

Thank you, Mooky. Good morning, everyone. Let's move to the next slide on the H1 financial highlights, taking into account the cinemas were closed most of the time and only opened fully in the beginning of June, we sold 14 million admissions in the six months, most of them in the end of the first half. Revenue close to $300 million, adjusted EBITDA based on IFRS 16 before the cash burn was $21 million negative. If we take the cash burn of approximately $80 million that we paid in the first half, the adjusted EBITDAaL is $100 million negative.

Very big, I would say, achievement in the monthly average cash burn. It reduced from the numbers we [ph] published (00:07:13) before, $60 million, we managed to reduce this to $45 million on average in the first six months. And if we take into account the tax receipt which we got in the US of $200 million, the [ph] accumulated (00:07:29) net cash burn was $67 million. And that's really to be more or less in the same level of net debt of $4.6 billion, which is more or less the net debt at the start of the year.

If we move to the next slide, to key liquidity actions, the first thing that I will say is that we managed to secure, $400 million of additional liquidity, which is $200 million of converts and another $200 million of a term loan that was signed in – post the end of June, in July, all together $400 million.

We received after, I would say, a successful process, $200 million of US CARES Act as a tax refund. It came in some installments but, in April, we got the full amount. We managed to suspend some nonessential spending, which relate to the operating expenses and also to CapEx. I will say negotiation with the landlord were successful and we managed to secure rent relief. There are some deferral but most of the deferral are long-terms deferral between three to five years.

The cash burn, as I said before, reduced from $60 million monthly to $45 million monthly and this is below the $60 million that we previously indicated. We closed some sites, which were underperforming and it also helps to the margin. And we achieved – and this, I think, very important – a material permanent cost reduction going forward, not only for the COVID time, but this is really a permanent cost that will help us to compensate or help us to support liquidity and the profit post-COVID.

If we move to the next slide, which is the adjusted profit and loss based on IFRS 16, I will mention here maybe two – few lines. One, you can see the reduction in the G&A [ph] as time crossed, (00:09:52) the pandemic really start last year, I think month by month, we managed to reduce to secure more liquidity. You can see it in each line of cost [ph] risk, (00:10:04) G&A is one of them. The depreciation and amortization went down by approximately $100 million, mainly because the impairment that we took last year.

On the other hand, the net finance costs went up by $100 million. And this is a mix of increasing the debt and also the leases, which we had in some of the leases to prolong the lease and that creates some additional finance costs. Tax charge, we are still enjoying here from some credits -some deferred tax credit, which hopefully we'll enjoy from, I would say the losses that we have in the last one-and-a-half year in a time when it will start to generate profit. That's about the profit and loss.

If we move to the next slide, I think we can see here the strong cash flow management over the last six months. We're talking here about the last six months, but we really started this I'd say management of cash from March last year. And if we look here on the outflow and the inflow, we'll start with operating cash after the rent payment, which is very similar to the EBITDAaL, of $116 million negative. [ph] And so (00:11:37) the net CapEx after landlord contribution of $46 million. So, all together, the cash flow from operations after the CapEx was $160 million.

To this, we need to add the interest payment – the cash interest payment of $110 million, which will [ph] summarize (00:11:58) to $270 million free cash outflow. And this is, in average, the $45 million we're talking about. If you are adding to this the $204 million tax receipts, the net cash burn was $67 million. That's why the net debt was remaining more or less at the same level as we started in January 2021.

Moving to the next slide, the net debt as of June 2021, again we are not far from the beginning of the year. This was supported really by the cash management, the tax receipts. We raised, as we said before, approximately $400 million of convert and term loans. We talked about the cash burn of the $45 million. And I think that, you need to remember that the last six months and even before, since November, we were walking under very tough and hard compliance and covenants. And I'm happy to say that the team worked very hard and comply and over-performed or the covenants of the priming facility. We got a waiver until June 2022. That will be the first time we'll have a test to be below 5 times net debt to EBITDA. And as part of the new deal with the lenders, we have a covenant of minimum liquidity of $100 million.

Moving to the next slide, cost saving initiatives and the operational expenses. I think this is really very important. We not expect only the pandemic time. Most of the items here also will [audio gap] (00:13:55) some saving. Post the pandemic, we optimized the Cinema payroll to pre-pandemic level. We closed cinemas that we're losing money and this supported the margin. The utilities and maintenance went down supported by a very really strong implementation of laser projectors about close to 2,000 laser projectors. It's decreasing the utility, it's decreasing the maintenance. We got rent relief. G&A we spoke about was a mix of reduction in head count and also other lines. We delayed new refurbishment programs. Mooky will touch the refurbishment in a second. There are some major refurbishment projects, which we had to finish. It generated really stronger results. But we delayed as much as we can new refurbishments in order to preserve cash. And then many, I would say, walking out the digitalization and systems in the concession, in the ticket sale expense, which supported also the operational saving.

The financial outlook, I think we are still working hard to preserve cash and to save as much as we can. The cinemas are now open. It's different than the entire cinemas were closed. We definitely see better cash burn and since June since we opened better than the $45 million cash burn. And our goal is, of course, to start generate cash. We believe that with the big movies that will come in September, end of September, of course, subject to the COVID, will start to generate positive cash flow. And our goal is really to, when I'm looking on 2022, is really to generate cash and to deleverage the balance sheet.

That's my part. Mooky, back to you for the business update.

Thank you, Nisan. So, we go back to the key operating highlights, some of them were already touched. So, just a reminder, of course, all the cinemas, all the territories are open since June. Some of them have been opened a bit earlier. Majority of capacity restrictions were lifted. We start to see here and there now places where you need to show a vaccination or a recovery from COVID or a test in order to enter cinema, restaurant, and other facilities. We have the gradual recovery in admissions. And, of course, we are very encouraged with the growth on the food and beverage sales growth, anticipating strong lineup that will support Q4.

And we are all the time in the continued dialogue with the studios on a weekly basis, I would say. And in general, we are in a good position there as well. We are continuing focus with landlord negotiations. Some deals are done, some deals are in process, but we don't see any major issues with regards to landlords and we are getting support from them, which is really appreciated. We are continuing collaboration with the premium formats. We give -- as you know, very strong part of our strategy is based on technology and how the special format such as IMAX, 4DX, ScreenX are doing very well. They are really creating a big difference between entertainment at home and entertainment in the cinema, and being part of our strategy we continue to develop them.

If we look at the current trading. So, we see an improvement. You see here on the slide May 2021, it started to relatively slow. Not all the cinemas were open through all of May. In June, we saw an improvement followed by improvement in July. I think that we are in a good place there. We need to remember that when we compare July 2019 to July 2021, we are not only comparing a period which was free of COVID to a period which you still have COVID around, but also in July 2019, we had two huge blockbusters, Lion King and Spider-Man: Far From Home, also Toy Story that opens in June contributed to this result. So we are competing here, as we can call it, or we have competed to a very strong months on a regular basis.

So, admission level of 57% already we had in July 2021 versus 2019, I think this is very encouraging results. Looking forward to the last four months of the year and we hope to continue to keep the spend per person on the food, which is contributing significant amounts to our P&L. I will also say [indiscernible] (00:20:17) that the cash flow burn in June and July is substantially less than the average that we had in the first six months. And this is, of course, in view of the fact that all the cinemas are operating. So we can be satisfied [ph] by this (00:20:35).

If we move to the next slide and go back into the strategy for the long term. So, our general catch line is always to be the best place to watch a movie. It is really very meaningful these days. And we are competing, as we always said, not only with home entertainment, but we're also competing with other cinemas and other venues. And this still leads our strategy. We continue to provide the best cinema experience. We are going and looking at ourselves as innovative operators, the 4DX, the ScreenX are proved success, and, of course, our long-term relations with IMAX.

We continue to expand the state opening new cinemas, refurbishing cinemas. Of course, there is a slowdown in the original plan. In view of the cash situation, we need to be careful with this. But I think that the decision we took through the time of the pandemic not to stop projects that were on the way was a good decision. It is paying off now. We have renovated cinemas. We have new cinemas that were opened that are contributing, of course, to the performance. And for sure, not forgetting in our strategy that one of the main point is to drive value for our shareholders and we hope to see it soon [ph] going back (00:22:22).

If we move to the next slide, we've talked about the establishment. So, 14 cinemas have been completed in the US so far. This is a significant amount. Some of the most important cinemas went through this renovation. The reaction from our customers is really beyond expectation. The situation of the general cinemas in the United States is really having many, many cinemas with great locations, but a lot of them are 20 or 25 years old that did not get any investments and this is really making a difference. It is taking time for such cinemas to mature, but we are sure that we will benefit a lot in the coming 12 months on these amazing refurbishments.

Six completed in H1 of 2020 and the other three were completed in H2 – will be completed in H2 of 2021. We are also introducing an enhanced food offering including bars, alcohol bars which are doing very well. Lavazza coffees and new thing for us, and so, B-Fresh, which is like health drinks with fruits, et cetera. These are really just starting because we do not have it before. But we also believe that this will give more choice for public and will also continue to increase our food and beverage income.

If we move to the next slide, we are also continuing the rollout across the US and Europe of new cinemas. Again here, we slowed down, but a lot of the projects, the time table is not in our hand, as you know, it's in the hands of the developers. Also, the investment in most of the new cinemas is not these significant. Big part of the investment is done by the landlords and still you can see here the numbers, six new sites were opened 2020 and H1 of 2021. And you have another five new sites that will be opened in H2 2021, three of them in the US and another two in the United Kingdom.

If we move to the next slide, we go and we look at the film slate. So, I mentioned already most of the big attraction which are coming. But I'm sure you will agree with me that what was left for 2021 is really a very, very impressive lineup. And we have just mentioned briefly again the new Bond, Top Gun, which we hear so many great things about it. One of the most anticipated movies is, of course, Matrix 4, and four Marvel movie, which is a record number, I think, including Shang-Chi, Venom, then Eternals with Angelina Jolie, and finally, Spider-Man. I think that anyone who looks at the lineup here is impressed of the quality of the products that we have. Again, all is subject to COVID, but we hope it will stay and will be in place.

If we look to 2022, in fact, really a short look, we don't need to go further, as usual, there are also, I'm sure, a big number of original movies that are coming in that nobody can really today can identify. I would say it's big movies, but we always know that in every year, we have some original new titles. Here, mainly, you see, of course, the bunch of the sequels of the movies or remakes, and it's really amazing. And having a new Indiana Jones, additional Marvel movies, additional Fast & Furious, Mission Impossible, which is already, I think, almost completed. And this is going to go in May; and many, many more, and not to mention, of course, Avatar which is, by far, the most anticipated movie, I think, in the history. We waited more than 10 years to see the new Avatar. Finally, all goes well. It's coming in December 2022.

And I think that with this, we're summarizing the presentation. We'll be very happy to answer any questions that you have. [Operator Instructions]

And your first telephone question is from the line of Alastair Reid of Investec. Please go ahead.

Morning and thanks very much. Firstly, you gave a base case scenario for the outlook in your statement this morning. Can you just confirm that that's around admissions? And given trends in retail spend per person, don't you think revenues could get back to 2019 levels next year? And, I guess, related to that, AMC recently put up their prices, are you considering doing something similar at some point in the near future? And then, lastly, could you just perhaps give us a sense of the quantum in terms of the sort of ongoing reduction that you see in your rental costs versus before the crisis? Many thanks.

Thanks, Alastair. I will start first just with the base case. As you know, we need to make some model and estimation. And in 2022, when we refer to the base case, we refer to admission. And I agree with you that from revenue point of view, there is a good base to assume that the revenue, of course, all goes well with the COVID, will not be far from 2019 level, because we are doing better in the food and beverage.

There is – like you said, and I will give to Mooky to answer, there is a potential also to see some prices increase because we didn't did it in the last two years. It can also impact the revenue line. But the base case scenario is talking about admission and not about revenue.

About the cost saving you mention in the rent, but I think it's more broader than the rent. We say not only in the rent, it will be some saving in the rent, but this is only one part of the saving out of a really range of material saving we did in all the line of the expenses. I can really not think about one line in our P&L which we didn't manage to touch and to save. I suggest that we'll estimate it more close to the year-end and not now when the cinemas will be really few months in a full operation, we'll have better way to say and to estimate the impact going forward.

About the ticket price increase, I will give to Mooky. It's true that AMC increased the prices and Mooky will comment.

We took the thought at first we need to be back on ground and not to touch ticket pricing to really give our customers a very simple and clear way back. We believe that our Unlimited, which is also gaining now more and more partners on a weekly basis, is a great offer also for our customers. We will look at the pricing strategy and the pricing of the tickets later in the year. But, currently, we believe that, first of all, we need to bring our people – our customers back, stabilize the business. And there is a potential there, like Nisan said, two years we did not increase. And we will look at it well, everything will be more settled in the coming two or three months.

Okay. Great. Thank you.

The next question is from the line of Harry Gowers of JPMorgan. Please go ahead.

Yeah. God morning, guys. It's Harry here from JPMorgan. Thanks for taking the time. I've got a few, the first two on the cash burn. So, what's driving that delta between the $45 million per month over the first six months and the $60 million that you originally indicated? And then also, if you could give some color on the cash burn figure for the month of June and July as well, that would be super helpful.

And then, just on the costs, what's the kind of margin upside we can think about in terms of the operating cost-cutting measures over the long term? What kind of upside is there on a normalized basis versus your 2019 margins? Thanks.

Okay. Well, I think, the questions belong to me. The bridge between the $45 million to the $60 million per month, look, when we had to close the cinema last year on March and April, it was closed after a very strong period. January, February 2020 were strong months. So, we had to close the door. We had to deal also with some negative working capital element, which month by month we managed to reduce. And that's the main reason – part of the reason, [ph] but that we managed (00:33:41) to reduce the $60 million we indicated in the first few months of the pandemic compared to the last six months.

On top of this, there are some elements, also, we opened the cinemas in June. We enjoy from some positive working capital. We all the time said, in one hand, you'll get half when you close the cinema. On the other hand, you enjoy from positive working capital when you open the cinemas. So, this is really the two main factors that explaining the reduction from $60 million to $45 million.

About the cash burn in June, July, we definitely see a reduction in the cash burn, almost I would say by half. It's very encouraging. It's only the beginning. It's only June, July. We enjoy from some big blockbuster in those two months. And we are encouraging by this, of course, we want to see it keep going. And as we said in the presentation, we think that Q4 will be the turning point and will start to generate positive cash flow. And when I say positive cash flow, it's really after interest, CapEx and all the other costs.

About the cost saving and margin, I mentioned before, it's very, very difficult to make right now the right thing. I can say it's not $10 million, but it's not $200 million. Just it's somewhere between. We need to wait a bit and we need to analyze it probably in the year end when we'll have some few full months of operation, will be more, I would say, smarter to indicate the right number of saving.

That's clear. If I can very quickly ask a quick follow-up. So, just on slide 12. [indiscernible] (00:35:36) you have the current trading in terms of admissions over the last few months versus the 2019 level. So, 45% in July versus 2019. What was the US figure for July in particular, if you can give it?

It's approximately 45% to 50%.

Okay. Thank you very much.

The next question is from the line of Ed Young of Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.

Thanks very much for taking my questions. The first one is on debt. So you've given net debt as $4.6 billion. So, it's, I guess, $4.9 billion including the payout of the Regal centers. Can you update on the timing of that payment?

And taking a step back, if you get all the way back to 2019 profitability, that'll be about 4.7 times net debt to EBITDA. Are you comfortable with that level of leverage on the business or do you think at some point it makes sense to raise equity to bring it down to a more manageable level?

And then the second question is on market share. It looks like you've lost a bit of market share in H1, giving us a competitive issue around level of state investment or client mix or do you think its other factors like opening timings or pricing? And sort of part B if it's okay, do you think you can raise your prices until the estate is better invested? Obviously, your CapEx program is disrupted to an extent by COVID. I appreciate you've carried on some of them. And can you talk about your expectations for CapEx investment in general? Where do you expect to have the headroom to resume the pre-COVID program if you are going to? Thanks.

Okay. I will link the market share and prices, Mooky will answer the first – your first two questions about the net debt. About the shareholder litigation, we are negotiating. In our going concern, we took a full payment in the next 12 months. So, this is really under the forecast and under – it's within our [indiscernible] (00:37:38) for the next 12 months. The net debt to EBITDA, look, we need to find, we'll say all the time, we need to find the – also, you know, we did the acquisition of Regal two and a half, three years ago. We said that our goal and we believe that the right level of net debt to EBITDA should be approximately to 3 times to 3.5 times. I think the 4.7 is, relatively, a high number, not dramatic number, but high number. And we need to find a way to in the right time, in the right moment to reduce it. This is about the debt.

About the market share, Mooky?

Yeah. So, the reason for our little bit slow recovery with regards to market share and there are a few reasons for this. First of all, we need to remember that we were close for something like six to seven months while our competitors were opened. Naturally, some of our customers moved into other cinemas. I think today when we see the results of the cash burn compared also to our peers, it is clear that the decision to close was the right one. And we see our customers coming back to us. But it takes some time. The second point we've opened gradually. So, we started really, we opened about 10 cinemas early April, but all our real estate in the US was completely opened on the last week of May. So, this also impacted the market share.

The third reason is that we closed about 12 cinemas that were losing money, but we still lose market share. Even if a cinema is doing 100,000 or 80,000 admissions when you close it, you lose market share, but you gain money. And the last point, and definitely not least, is that Regal and, by the way, also AMC, but compared to all the others are very, very strong in New York. And the recovery in New York is very, very slow especially in Manhattan. So, if Manhattan we have cinemas that are selling tickets for something like $18 to $20 and they are still way behind, and they will come back. Manhattan is not going to disappear. Manhattan is one of the still most lucrative places in the world. But it's also impacted with a few zero-point something percentage in our market share. So, these are the four reasons that we see. So, we are not worried from this. We will gain back our market share and we will improve our market share in the coming time.

The second point that I need to address is when we're back to full CapEx expenditure, this will only has to do with going back into numbers. The minute we will be on 2019 numbers and hopefully even higher, we will go back to our original plan. We feel that the welcome for our refurbished cinemas, for our new cinemas is amazing. But, first and foremost, we need to take care of the cash. And once we will feel confident that we get again the cash generation, we will increase our CapEx expenditure accordingly.

Thanks very much. That's very useful. Thanks for your answers.

The next question is from the line of Richard Taylor of Barclays. Please go ahead.

Yeah. Morning, all. Three questions, please. Firstly, very keen to hear your views on the window. I saw Mooky's comments that the deadline [indiscernible] (00:41:47), but where do you think the studios will land here after all the, I guess, experiments going on at the moment? And especially, do you think day and date will happen for any of the bigger movies in Q4 and beyond? Secondly, I think you would have $350 million rent deferral at the full-year results presentation in March. Can you give us an update on that number, please? How much has been paid, or how much is still due, and over what time period? And finally, could you just give us the EBITDA breakeven and cash flow breakeven percentages, please, for admissions? Thank you very much.

So, I will take the window question and just say that we are in agreement in the various stages and for various terms. I would for sure not get into the details with all the studios and also smaller suppliers. I think that we are in a good place. I believe that one of the main things that no one expected from shortening of the window as a result was the big impact and increase in piracy and this gave a lot of people a second thought. I think it is a relatively, I think, anticipated now that there will be a window. It will be for sure shorter than the window we had before. But according to the size of the movie, smaller movies might be in the windows of anywhere between 20 days to 30 days. And as we said in our announcement, we expect the windows in general to be between 20 days to 60 days. And I believe that the bigger movies will be somewhere around 45 days according to the agreement we have with Warner, with others, and I think this is where it's going to be, which will be a relatively comfortable number for us to operate and to generate the income we used to do.

Yes. About the rent deferral, you are right in end of last year, the rent deferral was approximately $350 million. Cinemas will remain closed, let's say, till end of April, so this was adding approximately additional $75 million to $80 million to this number. Some of list as we already – most of the list, I would say, we have already closed deal and some of them still under negotiation. So, this number might change down, by the way, because I think the negotiation, usually, we manage to get some discount. And most of the deals are for long-term. So, we are talking really between three to five years monthly installments. We are estimating about $7 million to $8 million a month in additional rent cost in the next three to four years.

About the cash flow breaking even, I would divide it into two. We need to take really into account the saving and the results in the food and beverage. This is really helping us to achieve an EBITDA breaking even in admission level of about 50% to 55%. In order to be in a cash burn after interest, CapEx and the some other elements, we need more or less a number of 60% to 65%. This number was higher last year and the year we were operated because there were no savings, and we managed really to implement some good material saving level, which helping us to leave maybe with lower admission in order to achieve a breaking even in the EBITDA and in the cash burn.

Thank you very much. And just to clarify on the rent, if you actually started to make those payments [ph] yeah, (00:46:26) so you are only going to start paying those, say, from Q4 onwards when you hope that the business will generate cash.

Most of them will start in the beginning of next year.

Great. Thank you very much.

Thanks.

The next question is from the line of Owen Shirley of Berenberg. Please go ahead.

Morning, guys. Thanks for taking the questions. The first couple were just follow-ups really. So, the first was on the cost savings. Would you be able to give some examples of the bigger buckets that you think could prove permanent [ph] the type of things they are? (00:47:03) The second was on CapEx. On your base case assumptions for admissions next year, how much would you spend on CapEx and would an equity raise change what that figure might be?

And then, the third question was what do you think is driving the increase in [ph] S/P (00:47:25) spend? I'm not sure what rules are in the US, but could it be related to things like people not having to wear a mask if they're eating? So, yeah, what do you think is driving the [ph] S/P (00:47:37) spend and do you think it's sustainable? Thanks.

About the cost savings, I think, like I said before, I can only not think about the line of cost, which we didn't manage to touch and to reduce. So, it's not really a one line. It's either in maintenance, either in payroll, either in utilities, either in G&A. So, it's really a mix of elements, which, by the end of the day, if you accumulate it, it's becoming a material number. But again, I think to measure it right now will be wrong. Like I said before, it's not $10 million, but it will not be $200 million. We need to wait a bit and to give more accurate number in the year-end.

About the CapEx, we definitely managed to reduce the CapEx in the last year-and-a-half. I'm not sure this will be the CapEx when cinemas will be open and [indiscernible] (00:48:41) what you call post-pandemic. But I imagine that we used to invest in the last two years an average of $350 million to $400 million of net CapEx. I don't think this will be the level in 2022, maybe 2023 if all goes well. It's a lot depend really how the business will perform. And CapEx is something that we have some control, so, I think we will analyze it very carefully month by month and we'll take the decision there accordingly.

About the SPP, I will say that we see it all across the board. So, it's not really in one territory we see increase or in the other we don't see increases. It's really all across the board. By the way, also the other peers in our group see the same trends. So, it's encouraging. [ph] It's true it's the (00:49:39) beginning, we are two months after the opening. We need to analyze it very carefully, but the numbers are encouraging. But also here, I will say, we need to move on a bit and we'll probably, let's say, come with a more accurate – the numbers are accurate, [ph] it will be to cover a (00:49:59) stabilized number in a few months from now.

Okay. Thank you.

The next question is from the line of Ali Naqvi of HSBC. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good morning. Just to follow up on the exclusivity and the royalty rates, do these start to go down structurally with the shortening of the window and this whole dual releases to cinema and in PVOD? And would that impact the bigger budget films where pre-pandemic, you were paying an even higher royalty rate than sort of the average?

And then – so maybe – second question is, in terms of your cinema estate, what does that look like in the sort of new world, I guess, with the fullness of time? Would you choose to close down sites and sort of rationalize it a little bit more? And are you seeing any rationalization within the independents?

So, we'll start with the royalty thing with the studios. So we have a lot of aspects in our commercial relations with the studios. Naturally, we cannot go into these details. But all the aspects of the business that we do with the studios are on the table when we negotiate the windows. These are the royalties. This is marketing spend. And these are all kind of other aspects that we have with them with [ph] the grants for special (00:51:34) formats and others. All is being discussed. And I believe that at the end of the day if we keep a good size of window I will say, again, according to the movies and all this, and we'll take the other aspects into account, we will be in a similar position where we were prior the crisis.

So, of course, when we are analyzing the cinemas and their P&Ls we are putting an effort in trying to be relieved of some of the cinemas that for these few years constantly we're losing money. We try to reach an agreement with the landlord until the general discussion. It's not that simple because some of the contacts are long-term and naturally if the cinema is not working good for us there is no demand in the market for somebody else to come and take the cinema. We have some cinemas that are not generating big amounts of money but we keep them from other reasons. We want to protect the most successful cinema which is close by.

So there, again, many aspects into this point, every cinema which is losing money and do not have an impact on the business and we can reach an agreement with the landlord, a reasonable agreement with the landlord, we, of course, not looking into the number of the cinemas that we operate. But we are looking at the profitability and the value that we give our shareholders by holding these cinemas. So, we are trying naturally to get rid of cinemas that are just bringing us loss and we did it relatively successfully in the last year-and-a-half.

Thank you. Just a final question, here, you mentioned obviously you're looking at a US listing. What's the sort of logic and timeframe for any decision to be made?

We mentioned this option because we were advised by our consultants and that this is a big topic. And if we are looking and we are looking at many, many options with regards to it. It should be good to share these with our shareholders and with the public. This is the reason it is there. It's not even a plan yet. It's not going to happen not next week and not next month. But we wanted to put this on the table because this is one of the alternatives and many other alternatives of [indiscernible] (00:54:46) with our capital structure and we will need to see. We will need to see how will be the performance. What level would be the cash flow? What will be the appetite? What will be talks with our shareholders? So, there are many, many aspects I think it should be taken as a general direction or a general remark and there is still a long way before us – before we take a decision to any direction that we are taking if we will do anything at all.

Got it. Thank you very much. [Operator Instructions]

And the next question is from the line of Kiranjot Grewal of Bank of America. Please go ahead.

Hey, hey. Good morning, guys. Just two questions from me. Firstly, there's been a bunch of studio contract changes. Are these already considered in your going concern and also further risk of [indiscernible] (00:55:59) releases, is that part of your going concern model? So far at minus 10% 2019 it seems fairly minimal impact.

And then, the second question, is there a risk of customer behavior changing for cinemas in terms of thinking about it much more as a special night out hence, higher expenditure? And in that case, if you've reduced your CapEx spend and or changed them, slowed down your CapEx rollout, could that risk it all? Thank you.

So, I will answer the first question on the growing concern and the window. We didn't took into account any impact because we don't think it will be a major impact. And if it will be a impact there are other ways to compensate this impact and it's not part of the growing concern model.

Yeah. As for the risk for the cinema in general, I think if we look at the history of our industry for the last 120 years or even more slightly more, this is a straight path to everything. And even a pandemic in 1918 and still survived. And we are all aware to the huge technology threats that came through the years from the black and white TV to the color TV going onwards to DVD, video, VOD, streaming, et cetera. The cinema do not compete with home entertainment. We believe that people want to go out. People do not want to sit at home seven days a week. It is true that if you can see the same movie at the same time at home, this is something that we need to look at still and you will see it in the big movies like Fast & Furious or Black Widow, there are many people that will tell you they don't want to see it at home. At least not for the first time, they want to see it on the big screen.

We are emphasizing because of these are new technologies, the IMAX and 4DX and the ScreenX, this is part of our answer to this. But in general, the cinema is also a social event. People want to go together to see a movie. It's fascinating in a way that you sit with 200 people that you don't know anyone in the hall but you still you laugh together, you cry together, you are being frightened together. This is part of the experience.

Saying that, as I said before, the studios are acknowledging that there is a need for a window, there is no need for a long window as it was before. But we believe that this will stabilize in a good way and the cinemas will continue to contribute money. We need to remember it was only two years ago that in 2019 the cinemas around the world have generated an income of $43 billion which was the biggest year ever. This was only a year-and-a-half ago. And the share of the moviemakers out of this was around $20 billion. It's not something that we throw away just like this. Things will stabilize. COVID will stabilize in one way or another with more vaccinations or less vaccinations. But people will want to go out. People will continue to go to restaurants, they will continue to go to cinemas, and they will continue to go to other events. Being one of the most affordable or the most affordable entertainment method outside of home gave us a big advantage as an industry.

Thank you. Thank you very much.

And this concludes the question-and-answer session. I would like to turn the conference back over to Mooky Greidinger for any closing comments.

Yeah. I think we've touched through the presentation and through the Q&A all the issues. We are, of course, available for additional information if anyone forgot something or want to ask additional questions. We are great believer in the theatrical business. We believe that most of the industries like this, it's not we are all fine mentioning the studios and mentioning the exhibition side. There are all sorts of talents. And if you will ask Chris Nolan or you will ask Tom Cruise or you will ask anyone else from the talents whether movie stars or directors, they all want to see their movies on the big screen. And I think with this positive note, we can close the session. Thank you very much for participating.

Ladies and gentlemen, the conference is now concluded, and you may disconnect your telephones. Thank you for joining, and have a pleasant day. Goodbye.