Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Moshe Joseph Greidinger — Chief Executive Officer & Executive Director, Cineworld Group Plc
Nisan Cohen — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Director, Cineworld Group Plc
Alastair Reid — Analyst, Investec Bank Plc
Imogen Barker — Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. International Plc
Richard Taylor — Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd.
Kiranjot Grewal — Analyst, BofA Securities
Ali Naqvi — Analyst, HSBC Bank Plc

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Cineworld Group 2021 Preliminary Results Call. My name is Emma, and I will be the operator for your call this morning. [Operator Instructions]

And I'd like to now hand you over to Mooky. Please go ahead.

Hi, everyone. Good morning. Welcome, thank you for joining us, really a very important day for us, announcing our results for 2021 where we finally see the business turning around. Started, as we all know, after 2020 with few months that we were still closed all over, started reopening somewhere in April and moved forward until somewhere in the summer we were fully operational, but still under all kinds of restrictions, differing between all the 10 territories where we operate. But then, after a relatively slow quarter, the last quarter of the year, really started kicking off the business. Early October, we had Bond and the end of December we finished with Spider-Man, which is currently the fourth biggest movie ever and in the US, I think it is the third biggest movie ever of all times.

And really, the strong impact of these big movies coming back and really the way we saw how eager our customers to come back to the cinema were, gave us a very strong push and a good reason to believe that we are on the right track. Omicron slowed it a bit. In January and February 2022, there was no big movies and we never know, it's a little bit the case of chicken and the egg. But Omicron really went [ph] wide (00:02:25), but fortunately enough the cases were not so difficult, number of hospitalization as a result of Omicron were much, much lower. And today, early March, when we started Batman, we have almost no restriction at all in any of our territories. There is no need for vaccination proof anymore, almost no need for masks in most of the cinemas around our territories. And we really see people are coming back to all kinds of movies.

Of course, The Batman of this World, which are the big, big blockbusters but we see great results for family movies, if we look at Sing 2 that was delayed a week in the UK and opened just now and performed amazingly well. A lot of talking about the more mature audiences, I will refer you to the results of movies like Belfast in the United Kingdom, and I think that we are on the right track and looking forward into a very strong lineup, which is coming as of April until the end of the year.

And we had a lot of key issues that we needed to deal with in 2021. On the side of the commercial side, mainly the studios and our landlords, I think we're in a good position there. We can say that we – the new normal window is around 45 days. The big movies we know already from the studios will have even a longer window, some of the movies will have a shorter window. But in general, I think the whole COVID experience taught us and taught the studios, because at the end of the day, it's partnership. That's the best way to see income from the big movies and from the movies that they have, is first starting with the theatrical.

The second key management action was around operational measures. We had to be very, very careful with cash, this is the name of the game. And we really had very strong cost reductions all the time that we were closed. But most of the cost reductions are to stay with us also for the future, and this is a very strong message from our point of view.

Financial initiatives were a key thing and really securing additional financing covenants very well and everything that was around this. So now, as I said, we are well-positioned to really welcome the great line up which is coming ahead of us and we will talk about it at a later stage.

And I will move it now to you, Nisan.

Thank you, Mooky, and good morning, everyone. And we start with the headline of the financials. You see that we split the year into two. First half, well, most of the time the cinemas were closed, it just opened somewhere in May, slowly, and it's reflected in the number, it's 14 million admission and adjusted EBITDAaL negative of $103 million. But we can see clearly that when cinemas reopened in May and starting just slowly to receive the supply of the movies, it's definitely reflected in the numbers [ph] will reach (00:06:26) revenue of $1.5 billion and positive adjusted EBITDA, and also positive adjusted EBITDAaL after the leases of $158 million. The full year also I will say numbers were positive, and you can see that we managed to achieve $1.8 billion of revenue and the $54 million of adjusted EBITDAaL after cash leases.

When we move to the next slide, this is the full income statement on adjusted basis, IFRS 16. I will point here and maybe to a few lines, which is the depreciation and amortization that went down from 2020 compared to 2021, mainly because of some impairment that we took in 2020. Interest cost went up. One, because the debt increased and it's allocating some low interest to be paid, but also there is the element of interest on leases and all what connects to the [ph] VAT (00:07:47). That there is also some impact of the net financing cost. There is a credit tax charge of $167 million due to the losses that we were carried in this year, and our belief that we'll manage to use these losses in the next coming years. The bottom line, we – the adjusted loss is lower than 2020, $656 million compared to $913 million.

Next slide. If you look on some KPI results, average ticket price on the group level went up by 8.8% to $10. In the US, which is the largest territory for us, we see also an increase of 6.4%. It's a combination of few things. One is the premium formats for 4DX, the IMAX, the Screen-X. Mooky will talk about this later on, on his section. There is also the element of the type of the movies, the big blockbuster and some blockbuster tax. By the end of the day, this increase is a material I would say for our going forward results.

If you move to the next slide. The spend per person, what you call the results in the retail and the concession, and you can definitely see here very encouraging numbers on the group level and also in the biggest territory, the US, almost 30% increase. And this is really encouraging. It's coming not just impacting the revenue lines, it's also impacting positively the EBITDA. This revenue come with a high margin. And in the beginning, we thought it was really a surprise and as a – a good surprise, I would say. And it took us a bit time to, let's say, come to conclusion if this is something which is sustainable. And I'm happy to say now, only eight months after the cinemas are reopened, that we see the numbers strong. And this is again people are buying more, people are buying big. And this is I would say, a very promising KPI for the future model of the business.

Next slide. Key liquidity action, I think in 2021, similar to 2020, we worked a lot on the liquidity side of the business. We raised the $400 million of liquidity, part is convertible bond, part of term loan. We received over $200 million of US CARES Act refund. We managed to defer $92 million of dissenting shareholder out of $265 million. And we also worked a lot on the cost sides from operating expenses, CapEx, negotiating almost – I would not say all but over 80% deals with the landlords already done. And we secured rent relief and deferral, and we worked again in the last two years, worked a lot on the permanent cost reduction. And it will be impacting the going forward results of the business. We'll talk about it in a second.

If we go to the next slide, the second half of cash flow of the year, [indiscernible] (00:11:46) second half because this is really the part cinemas were open. Interesting to see that if we look on the cash generated from operation after that – after we pay really the cash leases, the company generate positive cash flow of $131 million. And if we take into account also the other elements of the cash flow, which is CapEx and interest, the company then in six months, $89 million, again, it was not a fixed market cinemas were fully operated. The beginning was – we have some lack of movies, so I think that the bottom line, I think it's a – this slide is showing a strong cash flow generation position. And we are also mentioning here what we said by the way in one of our RNS in the past, that to look specifically in Q4 where we have in October, the Bond and in September – in December, the Spider-Man, the business generate a positive cash flow, after CapEx and after interest.

The next slide, please. Looking on the net debt, net debt increased by only 5%, which is $220 million, it's not a small amount, but if you compare it to 2020, the net debt increased by almost $1 billion. So I think this is really a material improvement and showing that in a challenging year, we managed to keep the debt in more or less on a similar level of last year. This was, of course, supported by the tax refund that we got, but I think the bottom line is encouraging to see that only with six months of operation. And again, numbers of admission move up [ph] annually (00:13:56). The business managed to maintain more or less a similar net debt of – as we started the year.

Next slide, cost savings and initiatives are very important. We invested a lot of management time in the last two years in order to renegotiate deals. And I'm happy to say that now after probably eight months of fully operations of the business, we can more estimate than what was difficult to estimate maybe six months ago. We are seeing now between 50% of $5 million of net annual cost saving. And this is partially offset by some cost inflation, mainly on payroll and energy cost.

You can look on the slide and see that the saving is coming from almost every line of cost, either G&A, either repair and maintenance, and payroll, within the cinema, out of the cinemas. And I think this is very encouraging. It's not the last, I would say, level of cost saving. We'll analyze it I think, every quarter probably. And I hope this numbers will be able to grow, but this is encouraging to see that despite some cost inflation and some energy pressure that we are facing, mainly in the last few months, the business is in a good [ph] spell (00:15:36) to save almost $75 million on an annualized basis.

Next, please. Financial outlook, I think that we are now well-positioned really to benefit from the strong movie, Mooky will talk about the slate. But this look like that starting from April there is a very promising line of movies in front of us. We continue to improve the revenue per customers in all aspects either in ATP, either SPP, working hard also to improve the advertising segment of the business.

Tight cost control, the mitigation in structural cost. Again, we are not resting in this and investing a lot of management time. We find all the time and ways to keep the cost down as much as we can, of course, not impacting badly the service that we want to give our customers. We are targeting to generate positive cash flow, we did it already in Q4 last year. It was very encouraging to see the business generating cash. Our goal is to deleverage in 2022 and also to look into some debt refinancing. And again, it should come also with the industry [indiscernible] (00:17:06).

The capital expenditure that we are expecting to have this year is approximately $150 million, the combination of maintenance CapEx but also some sites that are under renovation. It's important to keep investing. We are very happy with the results that we see in the cinemas that we have renovated till now. And we are enjoying from it from all aspects. And this CapEx have a very promising return. The dissenting shareholder, we managed to defer the payment for the whole first half of the year, talking about $92 million. Up to date, we paid $33 million. And I think, in the second half of the year, this issue will be behind us.

The last point and I think also the next section, the business updates, Mooky will take in the meeting. So, thank you and I'm waiting for your Q&A.

Okay. Thank you very much, Nisan. So, the first – the last point I would say in Nisan's slide is really something that all of you are very interested around. And needless to say, it's a very important issue for the company. And this is the court decision in Canada. They've granted Cineplex CAD 1.23 billion as damages. We [ph] for sure, (00:18:54) with all the respect to the Canadian court system and the judge that was sitting in our case, strongly disagree with this judgment. And we are really backed with strong opinions from our legal advisers. We have added to the case another law firm to join our expert lawyers, because they are really – their expertise is appeals. I think that we can say quite confident that we strongly believe that the Supreme Court or the High Court there in front of three judges, will reverse the decision.

And we say very openly now, the court if it's not going this way, we don't have the money to pay. So it's not an issue that can go, this will become an unsecured debt. But I would say again, we are very positive about the results. We have learned the judgment very deeply and we are working with our lawyers. We have already submitted the basis for the appeal to the court, this is according the way it is being treated in Canada and we will need to submit probably by the end of April, the full appeal, detailed appeal. Of course, the other side will have some time to answer. They also decided to cross-appeal the decision. I think, it's rarely [indiscernible] (00:20:54) a case that someone wins in a court $1.2 billion and cross-appealing it. And I think it says a lot in the subject. So in any case, we will need to wait for the court. We want it to come early as possible, because we are positive and optimistic about the results. But we will need to wait patiently and see what the judges, the three judges that will be coming from the High Court will decide.

Next slide. Okay. So, really, the operational highlights, if you back is, the reopening and the recovery was a huge challenge, going back recruiting thousands of employees, and lot of issues in the label side of the business, at the beginning was very difficult to recruit. And now, we are in a good position already. We had people that left us. We were closed for about a year and a half and we need to recruit new team. But we are in a very good shape now and we are really ready, as we said, to [ph] greet (00:22:31) more and more customers like we did in December for Spider-Man in the coming months, that are ahead of us.

Customer experience, we are continuing to expand a lot of our food and beverage offerings. We see really in the SPP growth. There are few reasons for the SPP growth as Nisan mentioned, but really people missed in a big way. We can say people missed the popcorn and the Pepsi and our really continuous partnership with Pepsi in the US, UK and Central Europe is important for us and we are coming with our new offerings.

First, our very successful cooperation with Starbucks in the United Kingdom and we are now starting opening Lavazza coffee shops in our cinemas in the US and we have great success with the alcohol bars also in the United States. So this section of the business of the food and beverage is growing very nicely as we saw and encourage us with the results for the future.

Third point is technology and innovation. Cineworld was always having a part of our strategy is to lead with technology, with the quality of the picture, with the quality of the sound. We believe very much that we should bring a great experience to people that are going out of their home and want to have some good time in the cinemas. We currently have, as you can see, very impressive numbers of IMAX cinemas, 4DX which is a phenomenal success, ScreenX just starting to grow because all these formats need also the support of the movie makers. I think all these formats are being embraced by the studios now and by the movie makers, and it is doing very well for us.

We have invested already until today and this was done – the decision was done before COVID. So maybe the timing was not the best, but we are already enjoying 2000 next-generation laser projectors. And not only that these projectors are giving great results on the screen and a very strong light possibilities on the screen but it has also very considerable operating savings. There's no need any more to change lamps, which is a big cost. It saves a big amount of electricity. It needs much less air conditioning in the [ph] booth (00:25:48). So it's a gain energy. It's really a very good move and we really see dramatic savings, I would say, around these investments. And we have also a very good increase in the online ticket sales across all our geographies.

Expansion and refurbishment, we have seven sites refurbished in 2021. All together we have already 14 sites in the US. As Nisan said, the reaction from the audience and the results of these cinemas is only improving. It takes some time for every refurbishment to mature, same as a new cinema. But we are very happy with the results that we see.

I would say it was one of our difficult decisions whether to continue the refurbishment through the time of the closure and through the COVID time. And we took a very hard decision here to continue with the projects we were doing. Of course, we didn't start new projects until the things started to be clear. Currently, we are again refurbishing a bit slower than what we planned. We need to be very careful with the cash. But on the other hand, when we see the results and when we see the return on investments, we are continuing and we hope to accelerate once the cash flow situation and the debt will be starting to go down, we would even do it faster.

We have closed 25 underperforming sites through the COVID time. Some simply contract has ended and some we reached agreements with the landlords to close. And we have opened 10 new cinemas which were, of course, planned prior to COVID. And the timetable, as you know, in the new project is not in our hands, but in the hands of the developers.

And we have worked very close with the landlords. As you can see here, we have more than 85% of the landlords of the cinemas already under the agreement. Landlords work with us. The partnership with the landlords is very long. We have some landlords that we have relations for 30 years now. The deals in this industry are going anywhere from 10 to 25 years. So it's really a long partnership. And I think that most of the landlords really helped us and supported us. We have some cases of litigation, unfortunately, but I hope they will be settled soon. And some are still under negotiation for various reasons but I think the main issue with the landlord is already behind us.

Next slide. So if we look at the recovery, this is an interesting slide because it takes us really, you know, we see the 90%. This is income of a box office and concession revenue versus 2019. So October, thanks to Bond and thanks to other movies that were there, like June, for example, well, not only Bond, we reached 90%. November slowed down, unfortunately Top Gun was postponed, There are always in life, as you know, pluses and minuses, so we lost Top Gun in November. It costs us, as you can see, but we are gaining Top Gun in May, so we didn't lose it completely. And we are now looking forward to have it in two months' time.

December with Spider-Man reached 88%. Omicron have changed our plans a little bit and our forecast in January and February. But we see and here we see the first two weeks of March, 86%, thanks to Batman, thanks to good increase in the SPPs. And from there on, we believe that we are going for a very strong lineup as of April and this will be seen in the results. So I think we are really looking forward now to the lineup which is going to come. Next slide. Okay.

Now in cinemas, we are running every few years, a survey which we decided to share with you guys. And the last survey was done in January 2022, immediately after the Spider-Man and the great December that we had. And I think we can learn a lot of it. If we look at the number of people that were saying back in September 2014, we will take it and said, like I go to the cinema for the quality of the viewing experience, 73% were saying it in 2014, now it is 82%. I love the shared experience. We always say that going to the cinema is not only the big screen and the big sound, and the outing, it's also big social events. To see Spider-Man, surrounded by 400 people is a different experience than to see it at home with three, four, five family members.

And if in September 2014, the view that I love the shared experience was 54%, look what COVID have done, we're now 67%. And we hear it a lot from our customers, that they want to be together. People want to see one another together. It was the same for restaurants and for other activities, but in the cinemas, it's really a very, very impressive, same as the next quote, if I go to get away from it all, good way to run away from COVID is to sit down with a friend or with a partner, or with the kids in the cinemas, watch the big screen, it's safe. And if it was 43% in 2014 or it was 45% in 2019 after a huge year in the business, it is 64% in January 2022. Next slide.

We have another two examples, and they are really speaking for themselves. And one thing that we love very much is that I would like to go more than I do. So the numbers really are self-explanatory and really giving a very good impression of where the people are in their view and the fact that they love going to the movies and they want to continue going through the movies. Next slide.

So the continuous refurbishment, I mentioned already, we have already 14 refurbishments completed in the US. Among them some of our flagship cinemas Union Square in Manhattan and Irvine Spectrum in California, but many, many more, Hacienda Crossing in San Francisco. They have big cinemas that were taken care of. As we were saying all the time about Cineworld, and we said again about Regal, these two circuits have some of the best location in the world for cinemas. But many of the cinemas, after 25 years or 30 years were retired, needed a freshening up. And you can see here just with the small sample of the photos, how it looks now, what kind of experience people are getting out in the cinemas.

We have now 10 additional projects that are on the line and all these projects or most of them are including some of the formats or all the formats which are the IMAX, the ScreenX, the 4DX, the premium large format that we have and many more. Same goes for the new offerings of foods that we are now starting in the US, knowing that our cooperation with Starbucks in the UK is so successful. And really, the customers are embracing these cinemas in a big way.

Next slide. Okay, so the rollout, as we mentioned before continued. We do not control the timetable, but we opened seven new sites in the US, two new sites in the UK and one in the rest of the world. And I think that, in general, we are going to enjoy all these new cinemas in 2022 and eight new sites are about to be opened in 2022. And here we have two sites in the US that are very close to completion, the one I think is opening next month and the other one in June. Five new sites in the UK and one new site in rest of the world, which is already opened. So it belongs to 2022. So I think we have a lot of more attractive cinemas here that will serve our main goal and this is really generating back the cash that we need into the business.

Next slide. So the strategy that we so much believe in, we are, just as a summary, continuing to be an innovative operators. We really go to the new formats. We are changing a lot of things in the cinema and also in customer services. And we think we're all on the right track there. Best cinema experience that we are further expanding, and diversity of the revenue base. We have all kinds of initiatives that are going well with, for example, developing now more and more of in-video gaming in the cinema, in the entrances.

We have very big lobbies in the United States in the cinemas, and we have now new video games and attractions for the youngsters and for the kids to play in, and we see great results from there. So really, we are trying to get more of what we can from the cinemas that we have. And we are continuing our expansion slowly but surely with new sites and the refurbishments.

Next slide. So just summarizing here, what we see at this stage is future of the cinemas. So is improved retail offering all the way from coffee to bars, B-Fresh which is a kind of more health drinks, which is very popular now. We are going to the new premium formats and the great premium format that we have. IMAX, Superscreen, RPX, which are our own large format and of course, ScreenX and 4DX that are so successful. We are looking at the new technologies and investing in new technologies like the laser and all kinds of apps activities that we are developing on both sides of the ocean.

And of course, the famous and the strong unlimited offering that we have, including our member club, that is the Regal Crown Club and MyCineworld, all these are very important tools in our marketing and in our accessibility to our customers and numbers of unlimited, which naturally went down dramatically for COVID are growing now again. And really movie lovers, we always say that unlimited is not a bargain. Unlimited is a solution for movie lovers that want to see more than two movies a month. And we start seeing it growing and it's a very important base of customers for us.

And in the next slide, last but for sure not least, 2022 film slates, started first quarter as we mentioned, was not as strong because of Omicron but still Batman smashed box office with an amazing result. We still have Lost City in the end of March, the new Sandra Bullock but look, what's going to happen in Q2 2022. As of April, there are coming big movies one after the other and without really lowering expectations from all the movies there, we must say that it's very rare to have in one quarter three mega blockbusters which are Doctor Strange, early May; Top Gun, end of May; and Jurassic World, in the middle of June.

So really a great quarter is coming ahead of us. But look at the second half of 2022 in the next slide. And it is – we cannot say even getting better but maybe even getting better. We have two huge Marvel titles here, the Thor and the Black Panther, the second Black Panther, which is coming. We have the animated Spider-man, the first one was very, very successful. And as you look at it, we will still manage to just get your own impressions and ending the year with what can we expect more than Avatar, the second chapter is coming.

There are additional three Avatars under the production. I can say that we saw already some pieces of the new Avatar in the special presentation that we were invited to. It's looking really outstanding and we really have very, very high hopes for Avatar, which is going to be the last big release of the year. And we need to look also forward. As we know this industry is easier now to predict in the era of the sequels. So there are probably many, many great movies that are original, not sequels that will be coming in 2022 and in 2023 and beyond. All kinds of movies that are just in line one, like Bohemian Rhapsody. We had it in the lineup, nobody expected this movie will do the amazing numbers it did.

But when we look into the future, the sequels are really giving us the main base. I would say for the future, and the list here is really self-explanatory. I already mentioned that there are another three Avatars on the way, there are new Star Wars in the way, Indiana Jones is coming back. Mission Impossible has next movie in May 2023, and another one is now under production, many more Marvel titles, DC titles and really, I don't know, the list is almost endless. But right here in front of you, some good choices of the movies to come.

And at this stage, I will thank you for listening to me and to Nisan. And we will be very happy to answer any questions. [Operator Instructions]

The first question is from the line of Alastair Reid with Investec. Please go ahead.

Good morning. Yeah, thanks. A few from me, please. Firstly, can you just touch on how you think you've been performing market share wise in US over the past few months? Then secondly, could you expand a little bit on your plans on ticket price inflation from here? And what is the scale of that sort of blockbuster tax uplift that you're sort of applying? And what proportion of admissions could potentially see that tax? And then lastly, can you just remind us what cash payments for deferred rent you expect this year or next? Thanks very much.

Okay. So, we'll start. We're talking about the market share. So we are already back to the market share that we had in 2019. We had relatively slow start with regards to market share because we need to remember that our competition took the decision not to reclose the cinemas back in October 2020, when Bond was postponed. We took the decision to close down the cinemas again in view of the lack of product.

We saved a lot of money. I think it was a great decision and was important. But as we were closed, peak two competitors were still open. Naturally people still were going to the cinema. Some of them changed their habits, got used to another cinema. So at the early opening, we felt a lower market share. But we are back now. We had an amazing market share on Spider-Man, and now again in Batman. And I think our market share in general in the US is into the positive direction and we will be doing a higher market share than we did in 2019, in 2022 and for sure in 2023. And this will come as a result of the new cinemas, of the refurbishments and also the special formats, which are also giving us a higher ATP.

As for the inflation and ticket price, look, we cannot ignore the fact that although we made amazing savings in the post, we have a lot of costs that went up much over the inflation. One of them is very significant for us is the hourly rate that we need to pay now to employees. There are some states that we had to increase the hourly rate by 25%, 30%, even 40%. And this is part of the market. And in order to get employees, we had to do it. And this is going to stay with us.

As we know, salaries are not going down usually. We had a lot of a relatively big increase in energy costs. We need also to think about the losses that we suffered in the last two years and a higher cost of interest that we need to bear. All these coming together and not only for Cineworld, not only for the cinema business, but all over the world is creating some of the inflation that we are experiencing.

In general, we are still the most affordable entertainment outside of home. And if there is a change here and there, which is meaningful for the results, it will increase the ticket price by $1 in the states, with something like 10% increase. But we are not rushing with it, we are very, very careful with it. This is one of the reasons we decided at this stage when we are still gaining back our customers and really reintroducing the cinema going habit, we decided in some of the cases to increase the ticket price only on the big movies and only for a limited time, like the first two or three weekends. And this was well received by the customers. We didn't hear any criticism or any – there was no complaints around it or something like this.

This is part of the business and prices are going up all around. We are very, very conservative with it, but we need to take care, of course, of the results and being realistic with the high cost coming up. We meet here and there to increase prices and here and there to increase prices only for a short period and for very special movies.

And the last question, I don't have the exact number of the deferrals, but the deferrals with the landlords are running anywhere between 12, 18 months up to even six or seven years. It depends also on the level of abatements that landlords gave us. Some gave us a bigger abatements but a shorter period to pay. Some gave us a smaller abatements, but they allowed us to pay even up to 10 years. So, it was also the strategy of the landlords of where to go. But I think in general, these agreements, of course, will bear a cash flow cost in the coming years, but not that significant for the cash flow situation.

Perfect. Thank you.

The next question is from the line of Imogen Barker with Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.

Hello, thanks for taking my questions. Three from me, please. The first one is just on the current available liquidity. And if you can provide that, then perhaps if you could just help us understand what the cash flow per month in Q4 was on a sort of underlying basis and how that changes added as admissions change?

The second question is on the structural change in the industry. The statement references that the theatrical release window that you're anticipating for this year is sort of 20 to 60 days. Perhaps you could talk a little bit about the agreements that you've currently signed with the studios and what the terms are regarding the theatrical release windows?

And the final question is just in the base case scenario of your going concern is that you get to 85% admissions recovery for 2022 in the US. I just want to understand how the company has arrived at this forecast when January and February admissions were more than 50% below 2019. Thank you.

Maybe I will start with your first question, and the last question, Mooky will answer on this part. So from liquidity point of view, we are not disclosing the current liquidity, but you can see in the results that since the end of last year, we have approximately $750 million of available cash.

And specifically for Q4, if you remember that October was a very strong month with Bond. November was a bit weaker due to the postponed of Top Gun, and in December was again, an eventful month, with Spider-Man. And saying this, all together is one that we reach 100% of the pre-pandemic level. Of course, the increase in the KPI and the SPP. And mainly the SPP help us to mitigate some gap in the admission. And we managed to generate a positive cash flow in this three months after offsetting for CapEx and approximately $65 million of interest. So that's about the liquidity.

We're not specifically disclosing the liquidity per months of the quarter, but I think the general picture, I think, it's clear. Again in the presentation, also the full – the second half of the year cash flow. It's not the base case, we're referring to 85%, this is after we took into account the excellent results of January and February because we believe again, not everything is in our control, but we believe and we look also in some other forecast that the industry is forecasting that in a month that you will have Avatar, in a month that we will have Black Panther or Jurassic World. We can do over 85%. Yeah. So this number is really an average of some months that we can maybe reach even more than 100% compared to 2019. So that's the reason we think that – and again, not everything is in our control. We think that 85% level is correct for the base case scenario.

And I want to take... [indiscernible]

(00:53:46)

...I will take the piece of the window. I think we said it already that the movies that probably are going to generate 80% of the box office will have a minimum 45 days window. Some of the studios we've been talking on a longer window. There will be movies that will have shorter windows. Some of them might even go than [indiscernible] (00:54:12) not sure but we will show them. We will see. We are analyzing case-by-case. We have deals with all the studios, and some things are more flexible and some are less. But of course, we cannot go into the details of these agreements. I would say that we are in a good place. And all the main movies are going to have at least 45 days of the window.

Thank you.

Okay.

The next question is from the line of Richard Taylor with Barclays. Please go ahead.

Yeah. Morning. Thanks. A couple please. Firstly, following your comments on retail spend that has cost savings and cost inflation, if you use your base case from the going concern statements, what are sort of the implications to EBITDA margins versus 2019? Would that be sort of consistent with in line, above or below? And secondly, on the Cineplex situation, can you talk us through what might happen in that hypothetical situation that the appeal is not successful? I see you've noted you have an unsecured creditor, and that your liquidity is lowering the fine. Given that Cineplex must know this, what outcome would you anticipate under that scenario? Thank you.

Yes. So, I'll take the first question about the margin. I think that when you look on the results of the SPP, which is really encouraging there, about 30% increase, knowing that this is coming really with a high EBITDA margin. And also on the cost saving, which we are estimating to be between $50 million to $75 million, I think we can assume that if all goes well with admission and really we are referring to think that the best case scenario, we can say that we also assume that the EBITDA margin will be very similar to 2019, if not, it can be a bit down, a bit up, but I think that we worked very hard in the last two years to sustain the model of the businesses.

And I think that this SPP, the cost saving all across the board and some other initiatives that we are implementing, including the renovation that we did in the very strategic cinemas, some good numbers, this will help us to I think, close the gap of some of admission, I would say admission gap, in order to maintain similar level of margin that we generated in 2019. Mooky?

Yeah. So with regards to the Canadian question, the Canadian issue, I think I made it very clear where we are. We fully trust the Canadian justice system, we need to wait. Well, for sure, not going here to speculate about results the one way or another. We have strong faith to believe the decision would be reversed and if not, we will then see what is the right direction for us to go, but I will not go into more details.

Okay, understood. Thank you very much.

The next question is from the line of Kiranjot Grewal with Bank of America. Please go ahead.

Hey, guys, morning. Just a couple of questions from me, firstly, we can see your retail spend is up notably, do you think this is sustainable into 2022 and beyond? And given that admissions were a lot lower in H2 than we were expecting, are you still comfortable with the 85% base case assumption for recovery? The last question for me is, given the cost savings done during lockdown, where's the flexibility in you guys managing the higher cost inflation now? Thank you.

So I would say like this. We were, as Nisan mentioned earlier, also surprised a bit by the strong demand and strong increase in the spend per head. But seeing it now, almost a year after we reopened in the United States and we see it all across territories, I think it is sustainable. There is some change in the habit here, people are buying the bigger portions, people are spending more in the concession. Our new offerings are also increasing the spend per head, we have the VIP, which includes also a more diversified food. We have more alcohol bars. All this is supporting the SPP, so it's for sure sustainable. It's not just coming because somebody decided to move from medium popcorn to large popcorn. There are other ingredients and each one is contributing to this. So we feel it is sustainable and we feel good with it, it's a very good news for the industry.

We see it also in our competition, so reports where they are public. So, the 85% estimates of 2019, also Nisan said already, we feel confident, we look at the lineup. We had some slow down as we said, January, February, but the lineup is really amazingly strong. And if there are no COVID surprises, we are there to reach this target and even maybe beat it.

And the last is the cost savings. The cost savings are good. Some of the cost savings are helping us to adjust the increase in the costs that I mentioned, the hourly rates for employees, the energy costs. But we have other savings against it. And we believe that at the end of the day, we will not need to increase dramatically prices or to change something very substantially. We want to stay the most affordable entertainment outside of home. Thank you.

Thank you.

Next question is from the line of Ali Naqvi with HSBC. Please go ahead.

Hi, good morning. I just have a couple of questions, please. In terms of the film royalties, is there a difference between the royalty rate you have to pay for films that are, let's say, day and date releases versus those that maintain a level of exclusivity? And then just on cost, maybe asking it another way, what inflation you see directly, for example, on utilities and how much of that is hedged or can be hedged that you've put through?

And finally, on the base case, how many of the major releases that you are currently relying on? I mean, how many of those could potentially slip and you would still meet that 85% versus potentially that 85% becoming a harder target to meet?

Okay. So with regards again, I said, we are not going into details without deals with our movie suppliers, of course. But of course, when there is a day and date release, we hardly do it, that release. But if the window is shorter, we are in most of the cases paying a bit less for the movie. And the longer windows, which are more in line of what we had before, are keeping the deals as they were.

The utility, energy, we have some hedge deals which are protecting us currently, but not for so too long. So I think, the longest one is another year in the UK. So we feel the energy cost, but we also believe that it is now in a way, in kind of a climax in the view of not only in the COVID results, but also, of course, the Russia and Ukraine war and all this. This probably will stabilize at certain stage. There's a huge burden on businesses, on household setup. But even in this level, this is not demanding from us to do any dramatic increases. Here and there, we will need to go in line with the prices according to our cost and according to the inflation.

And your last question, I think, this last big move of movies was done by Warner Brothers a week ago in view of just delays in production that they had, because of COVID issues. They are very confident about the business and want to be as much as they can in the cinemas. Their Batman result probably convinced them that this is the way to be. But sometimes, you have delays in production that are out of control. I can say that for most of these blockbusters that you see, the movies are already ready. The movies are already being screened in the studios. And so the chances of major delays do not exist, but after the two years that we have passed, we'll never say never. We hope there will be a minimal change that will not impact our estimates.

Thank you.

This concludes our question-and-answer session. I would like to turn the conference over back to Mooky for closing remarks.

Okay. So again, guys, thank you for listening to us. I think it is an important day for us. We come really with a strong, optimistic feeling. The line-ups speaks for itself. We have an amazing team, that they passed very difficult two years. Everybody is very enthusiastic to welcome our customers again to the cinemas. I personally, on the weekend of the opening of Spider-Man's date in New York and viewed after a long time huge screens that were filled and filled the first row. People are cheering, laughing, crying, being frightened in front of the big screen. And it was really a great experience not only for them but also for me. And we hope that with no big COVID surprises, we are going back into the normal things and to do what we do best, and this is to run cinemas and give our customers the experience, making Cineworld Group the best place to watch a movie.

Thank you very much.

Thank you.

Ladies and gentlemen, the conference has now concluded and you may disconnect your telephone. Thank you for joining and have a pleasant day. Goodbye.