Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Moshe J. Greidinger — Chief Executive Officer, Cineworld Group Plc
Nisan Cohen — Chief Financial Officer, Cineworld Group Plc
Ali Naqvi — Analyst, HSBC Global Banking and Markets
Alexander Mees — Analyst, JPMorgan Cazenove
Steve Liechti — Analyst, Investec Bank Plc
Richard Stuber — Analyst, Numis Securities Ltd.
Jeffrey R. Harwood — Analyst, Stifel Nicolaus Europe Ltd.
Sahill J. Shan — Analyst, N+1 Singer
Richard M. Taylor — Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, everyone. Very happy to see you all here and we'll start with our summary of 2016, which was another record year for Cineworld, a lot of symbols coming inside, a lot of records, very impressively we've passed the 100 million mark of admissions. It could have been maybe a bit less or a bit more and it wouldn't really change the numbers themselves, but there is some symbol in the 100 million. We are thinking now whether our next target is 120 million or we go straight to 150 million.

But to cut the long story short, this was like the tag line of 2016 result. Strong financial performance, EBITDA growth of 13%, more than 13%, and really speaks for itself. And we cannot ignore talking about records, and we'll go into much more details in a few minutes.

The record year that we have passed in Poland, Romania, Hungary and Czech Republic. We are talking all the time about the great potential in these countries, the strong growth potential in these countries, and last year really proved it, big growth in the attendance there, part of it because of new cinemas, but a lot of this came also from same-store.

So, we have here a clear progress, we are really advancing side-by-side on our strategy, and we believe really that the strategy that we'll go into more details as I said before quite soon, is really driving the business in the right way.

So I'll now invite our CFO, Nisan Cohen to come and talk to you about financials, and then be back afterwards. Thank you.

Thanks, Mooky. Good morning to everyone. I'll start with the financial part of the presentation, as Mooky said, we've announced today a very strong result, but we see the reflection also in the numbers. I'll start with the statutory lines, admission grew up by 7.2% and we will see the details in the next slide. Looking into our revenue, we see increase of 13% on statutory base, and 8.7% on constant currency base. Similar results in the EBITDA line, statutory 13% and constant currency 8.4%.

Going down to the adjusted profit before tax and after tax, we see very nice increase in both lines. Our adjusted diluted EPS reached £0.347, increase of 16.8%, which aligns us really together with a strong balance sheet that we are managing through increased dividend per share to £0.19, increase of 8.6%.

If you look now our net debt reaching £282 million, we'll see the detail in the coming slides. The main reason to the increase is because of the Empire deal in August last year, but still keeping net debt-to-EBITDA ratio of 1.6x, I'll talk about the forecast soon.

Moving to the performance summary on constant currency, just to remind, ourselves we are operating in nine territories, some of the territories out of the UK are linked more to the euro impact GBP, where we are translating it into pound, there are some impact of currencies, here we're showing the picture on an constant currency base.

We see that the revenue grew up by 8.7%, all the lines performed well. If you look on the UK specifically, the box office revenue in the UK grew by 3.9%, and this is higher than the market results, that grew by 0.1%. There are some impacts here of opening new sites, Empire acquisition, which help us also to reach this level and some other factors. But in general, if we look on the result on the group level, maintaining 22% EBITDA margin, the same margin is 2017, for us, it's impressive achievement. Taking into account, the 2016 was a bit challenging here in the beginning, in terms of movies. Definitely, if we look on the Rest of the World, as Mooky mentioned before, very strong results in admission and same-store, help us to achieve the growth in the EBITDA margin by 1.1% to 25.9%.

The UK EBITDA margin went slightly below 20% to 19.7%, still a very strong EBITDA margin for UK business. The small reduction coming because of some impact on the like-to-like admission in the UK. There is no structural pressure on the margin, but we are still behind our goals and targets to reach 20% EBITDA margin in the UK, and even a bit more.

I think, one of the conclusion, looking on this slide is really the benefit of operating in nine territories, and the fact that some year we can have some slowdown in one territories and strong performance in other territories allowing us really to have flexibility in our operation and achieving really a group EBITDA of 22%, which is one of – it's an impressive EBITDA margin for the cinema ageing

Moving into the box office and retail performance. If you look on the left, UK is our largest territory, close to 52 million tickets we sold last year in the UK, 12.8% increase compared to last year. And all the other territories, Poland, Hungary, Romania, very impressive number of admission. We grew on the same-store on these territories. Poland, Hungary, Romania, Czech Republic were also a record year for the territory in terms of admission, not just for Cineworld, also from market point of view, and of course we are enjoying it as well.

Israel, a very stable market supported by good projects that we opened there, big one, helping us to achieve a good number of admission And Bulgaria, Slovakia are very small territories for us, but very important, also good numbers.

If we look on what's happened in the ATP and SPP. SPP is spend per head in the concession. In the UK we see increase of 2%. In the ATP £6.25. Spend per head 7.6% supported by the Starbucks and the VIP and some new product that we are launching in our concession [ph] world (07:41).

In the Rest of the World, admission we see clearly the increase, 13.5%. ATP mostly remained flat, need to remember that ATP is affected also by few factors like the type of the movies. And this year, we have lot of families and kids movies that are affecting the average ticket price in the Rest of the World territories.

Spend per head, increase of 3.9%. And I think here we are saying all the time and it's important to mention that huge potentials still that we have if you compare the ticket prices and spend per head prices, Rest of the World to the UK, £3.65 compared to £6.25. I'm not saying that we can reach £6.25 in Rest of the World next year, but definitely there is a space to increase the ticket prices together with the economy, and that's what we are trying to do every year.

Not every year we are managing to increase the prices in Rest of the World in a high figure, but definitely there is a space here. Economies [ph] will grow well in the (08:49) future to take the prices higher in the Rest of the World, also in the UK not similar as Rest of the World territories.

Moving to the other income line, just to remind ourselves, the other income line includes revenue from advertising and advertising include also, if you look on the breakdown of advertising, there are many things inside, on-screen advertising, off-screen advertising some sponsorship deals that we are signing. Distribution, we have some distribution business out of the UK and Rest of the World, that also includes in the other income. Screen, events hire and online booking fees, that's included in the other income line.

Overall, we see a nice increase, 9.8% on constant currency base. If we try to break it down to the UK and the Rest of the World. In the UK, we see increase of 12%, advertising broadly flat in line with admission, usually the advertising is linked, there is some correlation between advertising to the admission, in the UK it behaves more or less the same as admission.

On the other end, there is a trend really towards online booking continue, we invested a lot in the last year in our application. Websites, giving our customer really more, I will say easy way to book tickets, and that's affecting also this line. We see growth in screen and event hire. We're running some impressive multiplexes across the UK. We've also hiring the Picturehouse brand with some nice cinemas that many companies are doing events, and hiring it some other activity.

In the Rest of the World, 7.6% in other income. And we are very strong in advertising. I think the increase in admission was reflecting also in the advertising on-screen. Many companies choose to advertise in our cinema, and it's reflecting in the numbers here. On the other end, the distribution lines, we see some decrease due to some tough competitive in 2015. There are some big movies we distributed in the end of the year; Bond, Hunger Games, which really gave us some tough competitive. Just to remind all of us that by the end of day distribution is very important segment, strategic point of view, less impacting our EBITDA and net profit, so the decline is really not a material impact on the bottom line.

Moving to the group profit and loss on statutory base, we tried to change a bit where we are showing it to make the life easy to us and to the analyst. In the right side, we see really the items which we are adjusting. So, if you look on the first thing, out of the £58.6 million depreciation, there is adjustment of £4.6 million related to the acquisition deal, amortization of goodwill between Cineworld and Cinema City.

Going down into the exceptional cost through the [ph] bottom, (11:55) the total is £4.4 million. The breakdown of this is £4.8 million one-time hit of settlement that we have on a pension buyout. Cineworld used to run many pension schemes, includes approximately 400 employees, and we managed to sign a very good outside deal with Aviva, pension insurance, and they buy from us this [ph] scheme out (12:21), reduce the risk from our side and also gives our employee, I think a very good umbrella to be under, it was hitted here by £4.8 million cost from cash point of view, it was even some small [indiscernible] (12:39) and we are adjusting this in the exceptional.

There is another £1.5 million of reorganizational cost. We finalized our back office structure and functions in Poland. In the last two years, we shifted some back office functions like call centers, IT, payroll, some of the finance functions moved into Poland. We'll see the benefit of this mainly in the coming year, but it was some cost related to it. And there are small amount of £0.4 million related to some impairment and onerous lease £1.5 million and £0.4 million related to it, which we are adjusting here.

If you go down to the finance and income, we see that the net finance cost is £14.6 million and out of this, there are two items relate really to FX and hedge that we are adjusting. We have in our balance sheet some euro loan, that was also affected by the movement of £6.1 million, and there is some hedge agreement that was finalized, and there is some [ph] crediting (13:44) of £1.9 million, we're adjusting it [ph] as well (13:46), and by the end of the day, those are the two items in the finance cost. Giving us [indiscernible] (13:54) profit after tax, statutory of 82%. If we're adding the adjustment of 11.8%, reaching adjustment profit after tax of 93.8%. We can see it here in a more easier also way.

If we look on the right side, these are all the items we're adjusting. I will just say that this year, we're not adjusting – there is no longer made for adjustment for the translation impact or the trading in the Europe, this is part of our profit, allowing us also to pay dividend from this, and we are looking it in this way. And if you look on the growth in adjusted, if you look at the EPS, 16.8%, very strong result, and we can talk about it later if someone have more questions.

If you look at the cash flow statement and net debt reflecting also our balance sheet situation. Cineworld is running a very strong balance sheet in the end of 2016, with a net debt of £282 million, again the acquisition of Empire, has some impact on our net debt, which raised by approximately £40 million. But if we look on the beginning of the year, we started the year with £245 million net debt. We generated cash from operation close to £160 million, not far from the EBITDA. There is some working capital movement here, because of the distribution business that affected here the cash from operation, and after tax around £10 million.

Cash from investment includes the deal with Empire and CapEx of another £84 million, reaching £130 million. The net cash from financing, we have the breakdown, but I think the net reflecting the dividend we are paying, and there are some other non-cash movement related to some finance lease, bringing us to a debt of £282 million, which reflects also net debt-to-EBITDA of 1.6x. And this is really again showing really the strength of our balance sheet, allowing us really to look for more investment and probably some – hopefully some M&A in the future.

If we look on the financial outlook, there is a strong film slate for 2017, some big blockbusters in front of us. January and February performed well, supported by some good Oscar movies that we are all the time happy to see, that are coming on top of the big blockbuster from Hollywood. So we started the year well.

We are estimating the CapEx on 2017 of approximately £85 million. [ph] And if we (16:45) divide it, probably half will go to new sites and half to some refurbishment and the maintenance on our sites. And there we continue to capitalize on our strong balance sheet and cash generation. Cineworld is managing really to invest and to pay dividend and that's probably the approach that we want to achieve also this year.

And the tax rate probably will remain the same. We are enjoying really from some territories out of the UK with a low tax rate. Some of the territories also announced some reduction in the tax rate in the future and this is really allowing us to keep the tax rate of between 16% to 17%.

Business update, Mooky will come and give some update about this line and then we can go back to questions if someone have on the finance side.

Thank you, Nisan. So we'll go and talk a little bit of what happened in the last year. We have a slide which shows a little what happened in the last three years, and we are also of course talking a little bit about 2017. So, first of all, our strategy and our strategy is quite clear, I think a lot of you know it already, but we want really to deliver a great cinema experience every time, we're saying it again and again. We're not competing with home entertainment, we need to create an experience in our cinemas, people want to go out, people don't want to stay at home at least seven days a week. And we are competing really on the free time and on the money people are ready to spend outside of home.

People that love movies will go to the cinema to see the movie and then also will watch movies at home. People that don't like movies, will not see movies. So it's quite clear point.

We are expanding and identifying opportunities to grow. We are growing two, three main channels I would say, first of all, of course new cinemas that we are opening and we'll talk about it.

We are going through refurbishment of our old estate. We have great cinemas, we said it more than once, that once they're being renovated, they look completely like new and still enjoy the great location where they are and increasing their performance. And, of course, here and there we can do acquisitions, bigger, smaller, this year was a good example with the Empire deal, another five cinemas that are fitting very well our estate.

The high quality of the cinemas is really a major base for us, and what we call the next-generation of cinemas across the estate are very, very important. We are putting a lot of effort on remaining, I would say, leaders on the technological side, we're really adopting a lot of the new technologies. One of the big challenges for us as management is to choose what not to adopt, because they're coming all the time, so many ideas, so many nice things and we need really to check whether they're applicable for our business, whether they're realistic for our business, we just saw great presentation of a new form of cinema hall, which have also pictures on the walls and looks amazing really. I saw an ad for Audi there, fantastic, the car runs full the screen like this. Great.

But one problem that the studios are not adopting it, at least yet, maybe one day they will do. So, you can use it as a gaming here and there, but if you don't have a product for this, it doesn't work. Same goes for new sound systems, same goes for any other technologies, we need also to see and to choose where we put our money in, and I think we're doing it quite successfully whether with IMAX, 4DX, we'll talk about Dolby Atmos and some other things. And last, but for so not least, drive value for our shareholders, which is a main part of our strategy.

So, our key achievements in 2016. 100 million admissions, I think we talked about it. Integration of five Empire cinemas, the deal was done at the beginning of August, and we went to the CMA process which anybody who has some experience, [ph] well this (21:58) is not an easy one, although it was quite a clear case at least in our point of view, because when we talked about the cinemas with Empire, we analyzed the situation of competition in advance, but we passed there. And the integration of the cinemas are in full force now. One of them is almost completely ready, and I'll talk about it in the Empire slide.

78 new screens that were opened. We're talking about kind of a net number, because here and there we're also closing some old cinemas like the one in Staples Corner, like the one in Hammersmith cinemas that were contributing close to zero, and sometime even a small negative figure, and the net growth is 78 new screens.

Nine major refurbishments. Maybe the toughest job in the construction department is the refurbishment, much easier to build cinema from scratch, it's not easy, but much easier. But refurbishing, you always find your surprises, you're dealing with old buildings, but it was very well done, nine major refurbishments.

20 additional auditoriums or halls of premium formats, running between the formats and [ph] sales (23:27). And finally, first 4DX arrived in London in Wandsworth. Anybody who is here, you know, Cineworld is not so concentrated in the London area, we're more strong in the surroundings, but in Wandsworth, we just completed those for the renovation of the cinema, it's really something that I recommend anyone will pass by or live nearby to see. But first 4DX in London, is a continuation of our success story with the 4DX in the UK and in the Rest of the World. And the record growth that I mentioned already in Poland, Romania, Czech Republic and Hungary.

So we'll start with the customer experience. IMAX well known, we believe in the IMAX and we will show the growth in the IMAX experience in a minute. 4DX, I mentioned already. We have also the 3D format, we have know the VIP format, and we have also our own Superscreen, which is our brand for very large screens in places where we do not do IMAX or where we cannot do IMAX.

If we look at the numbers, we are the biggest partner of IMAX in Europe, and we had in 2016, 28 IMAX halls, we added additional five across the whole estate, we have now 33 and more to come. Superscreen, which is the young member in the family, we had two Superscreens in 2015, we added another five this year, we have already seven. The format works for us very well, people are happy with it, and we, of course, get to charge a bit more on the ticket for this amazing experience. 4DX, success story, 14 we had in 2015, we have already 27 now and we are happy to continue with this development as well.

If we are looking at our retail offering, so we have, of course, our classic popcorn and Coke, this is in the essence of the business, but Starbucks partnership with us is going in a very good way. We added another seven new sites for Starbucks, we are doing very well with that. We have altogether 24 Starbucks operations in the UK. Rest of the World, Starbucks are being built in a different way and we are having our own branded coffee shops in a lot of the cinemas in Rest of the World, not under the Starbucks brand.

VIP, again, we had VIPs already in Rest of the World. At the end of 2015, we had six VIPs, we added another three VIPs, with the two first ones being opened in the UK, one in Sheffield, one in Glasgow Renfrew Street. The reaction to this is very, very good. We have a different type of VIP that our competitors and we see that this is developing very, very nicely. And it's like one price, which includes everything, people are paying around £29, but they get full buffet meal before the show, free popcorn and Coke as much as they want and also very luxurious seats, as you can also see here in the pictures.

Next generation cinema, so what did we have this year. Eight new sites with 78 new screens opened in 2016, four were in the UK, 27 screens and four were on the Rest of the World, with 51 screens. Nine major refurbishments we have done. Here, naturally, we'll do much more in the UK, because the estate is older, and we've done Stevenage by the way, the first cinema that Cineworld opened in the UK. So this is a historical one, I think now it's 19 years or maybe even 20 years old, completely refurbished, great location and really doing well.

Glasgow Renfrew Street, our great cinema in Glasgow, which is on eight stories. If anyone [ph] who is (28:11) here have been there or not, very unique cinema, eight stories, and working [ph] greatly, (28:18) doing amazing business. Crawley, Cardiff, Wandsworth, which I mentioned and Birmingham Broad Street are among the list. Three in the Rest of the World; two are in Slovakia, Au Park and Polus, cinema that we got in an acquisition, and this is why [ph] they (28:36) are a bit older, and the Campona project at the south of Budapest in Hungary.

In the UK and Ireland, and really, I think more important of what I am saying, I would say, really the pictures should really give you the feeling of what we are doing, really creating a place where people feel excited, and very happy when they come into the cinema. They have really great comfort, but they have also the wow – what we call the wow effect when you go into the movies.

Six screens in Yate, eight in Loughborough, seven in Dalton Park, Six in Harlow. These were contracts that existed in Cineworld already before we arrived, a little bit smaller than what we would like to do, but in some of the location, we don't need a bigger one, but really amazing cinemas and are performing very well. Rest of the World, you see the numbers that you will start seeing now in the UK quite soon. Beer Sheva 18 screens, Timisoara Nepi 13, Bucharest Titan 14, and yes, we also do some small ones in small cities Piatra Neamt in Romania with 6 screens.

So, this is for our new openings and now I will show you a bit of the impressive photos that we could find for you just to give you the feeling, this is from Piatra Neamt in Romania. This is Yate and Harlow, UK. We are emphasizing a lot on our brand. You can see the importance that the brand is getting in the cinemas and this is really the automatic ticket collection, for example, which is now with the new ATMs, really impressive to the eye and efficient for the operation.

Birmingham Broad Street, we're talking now not the new ones, but we are talking about refurbishments. A quick look at the cinema as it looked before the refurbishment and this is how it looks now, really dramatic change there in the cinema, sitting on the main high street of Birmingham, a lot of competition in the area and this is our answer to the competition.

Crawley, this is how it looked, always, as I was saying also in the past years, very well maintained, very tidy, very high level of operations, but not so young, this, we feel looks younger and this is the new look at the Crawley cinema, the refurbishment by the way goes all over from the screens into the lobby, into toilets, into technical [ph] rooms, (31:42) et cetera.

[ph] We are not closing them for anything. (31:45)

Yeah. And very important remark, we don't close the cinemas even for one day in the refurbishment. So the team is allowed, we can say, to close up to four screens at one time, usually we prefer it to be three, in the big cinemas. Sometimes, they close up to four screens in one time, but the cinema continue to operate. And although, it's not so convenient to the customers, they're very happy, they are really – because at the beginning, we said what will be the reaction and people are very happy. They feel like we are doing the refurbishment for them, they are happy that cinema is not closed and they are ready to compromise on some longer queues in the toilets, whenever some of the toilets are refurbished or any other things, but customers are taking it with a smile.

Wandsworth, this is the look of Wandsworth in the cinema and this is the new look of Wandsworth today, completely different cinema, fully digital now with signage, with colors, and really also showing in the performance and the public reaction that it is a worthwhile effort from our side.

The Empire deal. So the Empire sites, some of you know, some less. The main one in the center one , of course, on site of importance and tradition is the Empire Leicester Square, altogether nine screens. This is the first Laser IMAX in the UK, by far, the best screen in the West End, nothing to compare with any other screen without giving names, but really a great show in the Laser IMAX in the Empire Leicester Square.

We are working on the renovation of this cinema on the plans, this is here very, very complicated, as you can imagine the [indiscernible] (33:57) what we can do, what we cannot do. We want to keep the atmosphere of the old and the tradition side of the cinema, while putting it in a combination with a modern new look for this cinema that hosts many of the UK premieres today.

Second one, Hemel Hempstead. Cinema was [ph] on the way (34:23) of renovating by the Empire group. We are just completing the renovation there, we added another big screen now. We've changed all the lobby and the Cineworld Hemel Hempstead is [ph] on the way, (34:38) finished I think in two weeks or something like this, we are [ph] on the way (34:42) cinema performs very well.

On the other side is where the Empire in Basildon, maybe the best cinema among the five from the point of view of performance; 18 screens, 1 IMAX screen going into renovation this year and really performing very well. Then we have the Empire in Poole, quite an old cinema used to be UCI, and performing very, very well; 16 screens altogether and [ph] on the way (35:14) to refurbishment either at the end of this year or beginning of next year.

And last, the little one, the Empire in Bromley consists our screens. We are going to, as we said at the beginning, to change it into a Picturehouse, it's going to be an amazing Picturehouse. This is used to be one of the first audience in the UK, opened, if I'm not mistaken, in 1935 or 1937. The accounting department of Rank at that time, Odeon, is still at the back of the cinema, we will probably turn it now into a coffee shop. And we believe that by the end of this year, we will have the great Picturehouse, probably with six screens, instead of the four that we have now, we like this project.

Okay. So, maybe it is a good time to look on the three years post the combination, because when the combination was done, a lot of you, I remember the faces were in the room. We made a lot of announcements, we talked about our dream. We didn't promise much, because we are very careful of promising. But I think that if we look today on the numbers of 1st of March, 2014 and 31 December, 2016, we have a lot to be happy with and even to be proud of what we have done.

103 sites at that time, became 118, I remind you that, at least, five or six were closed through these three years. 893 screens became 1,042, additional 149 screens and we are talking only UK. Nine IMAX screens, we added another 11 IMAXs, 20 IMAXs altogether now in the UK. Zero 4DX, we brought the 4DX into the country successfully, we have already nine. We have created the brand of the Superscreen, we have now six. We didn't have a VIP, and the VIP process is now [ph] on the way, (37:38) and we will have more and more VIPs in the coming cinemas and we had at that time 11 Starbucks sites and very good partnership altogether, now 24 Starbucks.

Rest of the World continued in line, 99 sites, sites are now 108, again, three or four were closed, but the next number is 108. 966 screens turned out to be now net 1,073 screens, another 107 screens. We were already quite active with IMAX there with 10 screens, we added another three, we have altogether 13. Five 4DX are now 18 total screens, we opened the first one in Slovakia last year, and the five VIP sites are now seven VIP sites, with another three or four to be opened this year.

So, what's next. Bromley sites, we were talking about completing the Empire integration, Bromley site, I said will turn into a Picturehouse, Basildon and Poole are going to refurbishment. 4DX, Superscreen expected to be installed in Leicester Square. We see that this a big opportunity to bring 4DX into Leicester Square and we hope everything will work properly in a matter of the timeline for this activity.

We have 13 sites [ph] on the way (39:24) 132 new screens. You see already that the average is about 10 screens per site growing, and six sites will be in the UK, seven sites will be in Rest of the World. We have over 300 additional screens planned for 2018 and 2020 and these screens or these numbers are quite steady all the time, but it's not the same cinemas, because whatever we are opening, we need to sign new ones in the year, some years, we sign more, some, less. But, we are in a very good shape with this regard as well.

Further refurbishments primarily in the UK for sure, focus on our customer services, including CRM system, web applications, et cetera. Customer services is really at the essence of this business, you can build the nicest cinemas that you want, you can really have great locations, everything is there, customer services, at the end of day, is the way that the customer is going out of the cinema. As I always like to say to our teams, we want the customer that is coming to our cinema to come and visit us again. This is the main challenge for the team that if he is not coming back, we probably failed somewhere.

People understand that not all the movies are great, but people are not ready to get an unfriendly customer service or not the fresh popcorn or issues with the start or the end of the show, of course, it happens and I don't need to tell you that the operation here today run something like between 11,000 to 12,000 cinema shows every day.

So this is really a big operational burden, but customer service would stay above all. And there are two points, really is that we're enjoying and continue to develop the back office activities, which are now in Poland. It gives us good savings same as the shared service centers are doing for us, and this is really a big move that took some time to start, but really got major push in the last two years, and we're very happy with it.

And, of course, to continue and look for expansion opportunities. Everybody is asking, probably it will be one of the questions here later, plan for the future, as always, we need to grow in our territories, we need to become more dominant and more active in our own territories, but we're all the time with our eyes open to opportunities. The industry is in the edge now of consolidation.

There are opportunities, we are analyzing them. A lot of them, we do not like, and – but we're sure having as part of our what's next, [ph] or as part (42:48) our strategy is keeping our eyes and minds open into new territories.

And all this would have been a very nice story, but without the movies, don't tell anyone, but without the movies, we can still not operate. And we're looking now at the 2017 key titles, a lot was written about it, I think most of you know it. But still to open a year when you have on the list already amazing sequels, which are sort of giving us the size of the box office anywhere from Fifty Shades Darker that we already did, Lego Batman, that is already also behind us, Fast and Furious 8, Pirates of the Caribbean 5, you need to be good in numbers here, so remember, Star Wars, we are already number 8 and Despicable Me 3. So, we really have, Transformers I think is 5. So, we really have a lot of promising products for this year.

And talking about originals or semi-original movies, we already know that Beauty and the Beast, the live-action movie became really an outstanding movie, it's a very good news for us and this is opening in a week's time. We have Dunkirk, the new Chris Nolan movie. Chris Nolan is always an event for this industry and probably we some hidden sleepers in the year line-up, which are probably not up here on the slide.

So, looking at this, we have prepared for you a short clip, which is , of course, only the people that took the effort to arrive here can see. I apologize for the people that are on the phone or – that they cannot see it. But we will show you this short clip just to give the feeling of the atmosphere or what we are waiting for next year and then we'll be happy to go into any questions that you would have.

Ladies and gentlemen, please stand by while the video is played in the presentation room. The presentation will continue shortly.

[Video Presentation] (45:34-48:58)

Thank you.

Hi. Ali Naqvi from HSBC. Just want to ask on your increased spends ahead, how much of that was driven from introducing more propositions like Starbucks or the VIP room versus the family mix movies?

So, you're [ph] seeing this spend per hand (49:35) there is increase of in the UK 7.6%, in Rest of the World 3.9%. Look, it's a combination of many things, because first, you need to remember also that we are opening sites, and the expansion in the new cinemas also, let's say, increasing the number here. I will say if I need to estimate or let's say, the 2% out of this is coming from raising prices, and what is above is really coming from the new sites, [ph] some (50:05) initiatives, VIP, Starbucks and so on.

All right. And, there wasn't any mention of the Unlimited Card. How has that performed this year? And..

Performed well...

[ph] ...what is the run rate? (50:16)

Performed well, we're managing to keep really same level of members as 2015. [ph] We have a project (50:25) also this plan in Poland which – it's the first deal, it's too early come into conclusion how it will look in the future, but we are happy with the result [ph] what we see now. (50:34)

And finally what is the competition like in the Rest of World territories? You've mentioned the market has been quite strong there but, how the competition reacted?

It varies between the territories, there are territories that we are quite dominant, I would say like Hungary, Romania. There are territories that we are – in all the territories, we are the leading operator, but there are territories, we have some stronger competition in Poland, for example, the second circuit is Vue, which is called Multikino in Poland. In Czech Republic, we have a German-oriented competitor. Bulgaria, we have a local competitor where we are about 60%-40%. There is a...

Israel.

In Israel, we are the leading, [ph] but (51:32) we have two competitors, there are two circuits. Competition is a good thing at the end of the day, and it's nice from time to time to be more dominant in regular, but it's not really affecting what we are doing. We are trying really to get best locations, to get the big projects and most of the time, we win them, sometimes, we lose.

Alex Mees from JPMorgan Cazenove. And three please, all on the Rest of the World. The first one just following up on the question on competition. You are the leading player or the dominant player in most of your markets in the Rest of the World. I wonder why it is that you are not seeing more of an increase in the average ticket price and what you need to see given you perhaps don't have a same [ph] competitive (52:22) pressure as you do in the UK? The second question is seven new cinemas in the Rest of the World, I wonder where they are in terms of countries? And thirdly, Mooky, you alluded to potentially new territories, I wonder if you are looking at M&A opportunities outside your existing territories, whether you would restrict yourself to Central, Eastern Europe or whether you'd consider going elsewhere?

Okay. So, with regards to the ticket, the tickets are really analyzed very carefully by us. The lead ticket price is climbing, but there are new offers, which are coming, which are here and there reducing the average ticket price. This is part of becoming a more mature market. One good example Nisan just mentioned, introducing Unlimited into the Polish market, which we really believe will influence the habit of going to the movies more. We need to remember that these territories with all the [ph] costs that we have built (53:24) are still around somewhere of 1.2 to 1.3 visits per capita, unlike Western Europe, which the number is around 3. So we need also to be careful with this. But we can for sure be optimistic with regards to this ticket price growth, as long as we are doing it very carefully. In a year, where we grew 20% in admissions in one of the countries, probably was not the time to increase dramatically, let's say, the ticket price. The lead price is climbing and [ph] afterwards are coming to reduce (54:04) prices, which are there, these are still markets that are in the process of being material or becoming material. It takes some time, but in general, if you look at it, the numbers are going very, very nice. So this is one.

Second question, cinemas that we are going to open this year. I will not list all of them, but in the Rest of the World you asked, they are spread between Poland, where we are going to open two amazing projects, one is a 20-plex in [ph] Wrocław (54:39) one of the big cities and the rich cities, where our presence is also very low. Another big one in a new neighborhood in [ph] Warsaw.(54:50) We're opening the biggest cinema in Czech Republic in [ph] Hodov (54:54) We have some openings in Romania, and we have another opening in Israel of a 12-plex.

Regarding the new territories, your third question, we're all the time analyzing and open to good business propositions. I'm always saying if you look on the map of Europe, it's clear that you see that we have a gap between Poland and the UK. So definitely, a lot of territories there. And we're analyzing all the time opportunities. At the end of the day, we have a very good balance sheet, which is allowing us to do this and that's why we have to be careful with the strong balance sheet not to do this, in order to do this, because if you do this in order to this, then you get into trouble. And we're analyzing all the time the opportunities. We're not saying no to any opportunity which we are being shown without analyzing carefully on that and we're not [ph] jumping (55:56) opportunities just in order to take advantage of that.

Can I just ask a quick follow-up, which is, given the balance sheet is pretty strong, where would you be prepared to see net debt to EBITDA go to for an acquisition?

[ph] It's not (56:15) the question is what I'm being prepared, I'm being told all the time not to upset the UK shareholders. So this is a very conservative country about net debt to EBITDA. I think that around the amazing deal that Cineworld has with Cinema City, I think leverage went up to about 2.5 times, [ph] with seeing it – with (56:35) showing quickly how it can go down. So I assume that around this number, it can probably work. [ph] If it would be (56:42) only my business and I will go more, but I trust not to upset UK shareholders.

Good morning. Steve Liechti from Investec. Just on Rest of the World, I mean, obviously, momentum is very strong there, double-digit like-for-like as far as I can make out. Can you try and unpick the effect of the local product that's coming through relative to just people going to cinema more overall, and really [ph] what I am trying to get at is (57:17) how sustainable is that momentum into next year, maybe you can cover [ph] sort of (57:23) local film pipeline there? That's the first question.

No. To believe that the market will continue growing on this pace it was growing last year is, probably will be too optimistic, which means at the end of the day, we had great growth, some of it supported by local product. We're hoping the growth will continue, but it definitely will not continue on the same – on the same rate. That's first.

Second, about your question about local product. Local product is important, it's important in all territories, it's giving – Hollywood is still the prime business in all of these territories, which [ph] may fit. (58:04) Local product is definitely secondary to Hollywood, but it's a very nice [ph] ambition (58:09) And yes, if you see a strong year of one strong Polish movie, yes, it can drive the box office higher, one strong Czech movie, on the same way.

But overall, we don't see huge change in the trends about this, which means that it's – it's a bit like Hollywood. One year, it's better, one year, it's a bit worse. One of the things that we're – that we said here at the beginning and I think [indiscernible] (58:34) about Hollywood movies that you see the – not the – the taste not in all territories is the same, which is I think putting Cineworld in a strong position that we're a bit less dependence on product just because you can have some type of movies that do well in the UK, some type of movies that are doing well in Poland, some in Hungary.

Bond and Star Wars will do good in all of them, yes, but there is definitely a balance. And I think overall, our dependence in product today is less than what it used to be a 10 or 20 years ago in the industry. But overall, again, local product is important.

Great. Thank you very much. Can I just have two questions on the UK. First of all, are you seeing any sort of particular changes in the way that Odeon is conducting itself from your perspective? And then secondly, can you just go through – I know the margin went down to some extent because of the admissions pressure in the UK. Can you just go through the cost line in terms of big moving parts there in the UK? I'm thinking particularly of the virtual print fee potentially, staff cost, operations and stuff like that?

So, we'll start with the Odeon. It was a very big deal, of course, that was done here. We don't see any dramatic changes yet in behavior, I would say, of our big competitor. It takes time, we know it. We had the intentions to put much more money into refurbishing the older cinemas considering all kind of other developments. Look, they are the biggest player in the world altogether, the Wanda Group. I am sure they didn't just buy it to have it on their wall in the office in the U.S., but we are here, we know what we are doing. And competition is sometimes, it's good not to have a too strong competition, competition is something that keeps you on your toes. [indiscernible] (01:00:51) I am sure that we will see more of Odeon in the coming year of what they are going to do and what will be their plans. [ph] And it's also very (01:01:04) good for the industry, because increasing that – the way that the public is looking on the industry and if there are good cinemas, it's not always against us, even if they're not ours.

As for the UK margin, so you see really a slight decrease there [ph] some (01:01:20) 0.8%. The main reason is the reduction in the admission on like-to-like basis in the UK. There is some effect of the VPF, yes, that, this was – that 2016 was the last year of getting the VPF revenue in the UK. We're still enjoying in Rest of the World by the way from VPF income. If I'm looking on all the [ph] cost lies (01:01:45) in the UK in 2016, I don't think there are some pressure there, specifically in this year. In 2017, it's a bit different story. There are some increase in the minimum wage salary. We are less getting the [ph] hit (01:02:02) of this in the UK, because we already pay higher than the minimum wage historically. Cineworld is paying [ph] higher than (01:02:08) minimum wage, so the impact is not [ph] a material (01:02:11) impact.

However, we are very happy this EBITDA margin, and we look forward for next year. [ph] It's a lot depend (01:02:21) also on admission margins [ph] even (01:02:23) and the impact of 1%, 2% high in like-to-like, up and down has also some impact on the EBITDA margin. But to summarize it, [ph] to give us a 22% EBITDA margin at (01:02:33) group level, this is a level that we are happy with. We'll be happy for sure to be [ph] it was (01:02:43) more, yes but...

Good morning. Richard Stuber from Numis. Just three questions please.

In the UK, average [ph] ticket price up to – spend hit up (01:03:00) 7.6%, is that this Picturehouse also within that similar [ph] growth rates in basis there? (01:03:06)

Yeah. Picturehouse including this number and probably behave more or less the same.

Okay. Great. And second question in the Rest of the World, obviously, you've given an aggregate number for all the countries. Are there any countries specifically which have got, [ph] had a higher or lower spends ahead or (01:03:22) ticket price than you expected or any trends we can see within the countries?

[ph] You (01:03:26) need to look – there is – every territory will behave a bit different. I think from admission point of view, Poland, Hungary, Romania and Czech Republic performed more or less the same. In terms of admission, we see double-digit growth in those territories. In some of the territories, we managed to increase ticket prices higher, as Mooky mentioned before, in Poland, we introduced the Unlimited Card, which affected also the average ticket price. So probably in Poland, you will see flat average ticket price on constant currency. In Hungary, Czech Republic, you can see maybe some increase, in Romania as well, there is some new – it depend also where we are opening project in the capital, out of the capital.

Just want to mention one thing about the average ticket price, also relate to the previous question. There are many factors affecting average ticket price, many factors, cinemas, location, movies, [ph] are limited (1:04:28) and need to be careful when we're analyzing it and trying to focus it also for the future.

When I'm looking on the slide of probably that you're looking, I think the fact that we are seeing the average ticket price in the Rest of the World close to zero, it's a potential for us, because some years you manage to increase, some years that's no, probably 2016 was a year that we stayed flat, giving us some possibilities to increase prices in the next years. So need to look on this – not in a specific year on accumulative basis, and that's how we look on this as a management.

And just one final question, actually on the Nordics Cinema, did you have a look at that, and was it simply the price which was too great or strategically you weren't interested in that region?

We always look on every opportunity, and we knew this opportunity as well and we just decided to skip.

[indiscernible] (1:05:30). You said you don't like to promise too much, but I thought your outlook statement of 2017 would be amazing, it was one of the more bullish ones I've seen. Couple of questions, firstly...

But we can't promise more than amazing, yeah, so that's – don't ask for more [ph] yes, but (1:05:49).

Yes, sir. So booking fees, do you think charging booking fees is a sustainable thing to do in the future?

I think that it's something that has been here for many, many years, not only here, all over the world. It's kind of – I saw a few days ago some place where we are looking for tickets for myself for some event, it's like "convenience fee" not booking fee anymore. It is very convenient and I think it's a part of the service that we give. We still give the opportunity to people that don't want to pay the convenience fee to come into the cinema even a few days before the movie if they pass by and get the tickets in advance.

This is part of the services that we are bringing, it has a cost. I don't have to say to anyone here, I think what is the cost today in the computer world of hardware, software, et cetera, and the man power. This is really a crucial service techniques to support this thing, because at Friday at 9 o'clock in the evening when there are 3,000 people waiting to enter into the Sheffield 20-plex of Cineworld, you can't have a breakdown of the system suddenly with no one answering your phone. So, I think it is a very good service for the public, and I think there is no way that it will not be sustainable.

Thank you. Second question was what sort of return on capital do you target for your refurbishments?

In the refurbishment – the refurbishment come from two let's say lines. First of all, some of the refurbishments are must. You can't just continue and run a cinema years, you know there are many cinemas that Cineworld has in the UK that are over 20 years old, and we've never had any big investment in them. So, very well maintained as we always say it, but you must do it. It's something you cannot keep the same seats, you cannot keep the same projectors, you cannot keep same toilets for so not the same rubbish. So, some of the things there are must to do.

We are happy to see that when we are doing the refurbishment, it brings an increase in admission, some of the location very significant, and some of them may be less significant a bit, but the return on the investment on refurbishments is not really something that's been really measured. I'll give you a good example. Let's say, we have a very strong cinema and your competition is going to open half a mile from there, another strong cinema, new brand new. Now, there are two options here, either you don't reserve, and you can never guess how much you will go down, because of this opening or you reserve, and then at the end of the day, if you didn't go down probably 100,000, 200,000 tickets because of the refurbishments.

So to come with the number and tell you we're targeting like in a new cinema, it clearly turn on refurbishment, we cannot, but I can say that our experience from the UK is that the refurbishments are being paid quite quickly, they are being paid back. You can charge a little more on the tickets or other income activities you can get.

[Inaudible] (1:09:32).

Yes. Jeffrey Harwood from Stifel. Two questions. First of all, the business rate review in April, is that of any significance to you? And secondly, looking at the balance sheet the other way, if you don't find anything to buy this year, the leverage will get down to 1.2 times. At what point do you then consider that you need to take action on the grounds that the balance sheet is becoming efficient?

So, as for the first question. Yes, the business rate had some impact, not a material one, approximately, £2 million, £2.5 million, that we will need to expense in 2017. Again, overall, if you look on all the business, it's not a material amount. It's already [indiscernible] (1:10:29) inside our budgeted model. So, we took it into account already going forward.

But the second question I think that to me 1.2 times leverage is a low leverage, yes. And on [indiscernible] (1:10:46) giving a lot of flexibility, where we don't get all the time as in the – it's an issue which we are discussing and in a certain time we learn what is the maximum for the [indiscernible] (1:10:59) shareholders, and I will learn what is the minimum and we'll find that number.

Hi, morning. Sahill from N+1 Singer. I've got a few questions, I'll sort through them individually. Firstly, can we just talk about the industry from a Hollywood point of view. Are there any gross margin structural issues, pressures that we need to be aware of?

I believe that Hollywood is having one of its better times. It varies between the studios of course, if you will look through the years they are all on the big round; sometimes they are up, sometimes they are down. Clearly, most of the studios are doing very well, some of them are in transition periods, et cetera, but I think that Hollywood shows very clearly and we saw it here that they show – they invest big amounts of money on the movies, the cost per movie have grown quite substantially mainly in the blockbuster. There are movies today that are touching the $300 million price tag, but even movies that are looking smaller are passing easily $100 million, it shows a good space in the industry.

I don't think that there is something here that we should be aware to. There are always conversations about the windows and whether we should – our exclusive window should remain four months or should we go down. They are discussing it also in the U.S. level now between the circuits, but it comes and it goes. I think it's quite solid situation. The cinemas are growing, very important in the income line from the Hollywood studios.

So as we are now representing I think that the theatrical business was representing something like 33% or 35% a few years ago of the income per movie. And today, the theatrical business has grown to 50% of the income for theatrical movie. And there is also a very big phenomena in this, which is saying that the more successful movies in the theater, the more successful it will be in the other markets like VOD or TV or whatever. So I believe that Hollywood is in a good shape, investing a lot in the movies and its good for us.

They will not bring any pressures on the fees they charge you?

Nothing that is special...

Something new there.

Nothing new. There are the daily discussions, the territory discussions everywhere, but no new trend or new effort. I think that in a way what makes Hollywood in a good shape now really the new markets. So, of course, the influence from the new cinemas in Poland or the new cinemas in Romania is there, but if we are going and looking what's happening in the Chinese market or in the Russian market, and these other huge potential markets, which shows that you do today with a movie easily [ph] $100 million (1:14:30) box office in China that didn't exist six, seven years ago, so it's not something that took more time. I believe China at a certain stage might in some of the movies pass the number of the U.S.

2,000 film slate, by all the accounts looks very good. Can you share with us what the 2018 film space looking like from where you saw today and what if any blockbusters, are there scheduled in 2018?

I think there is a full list there as well. And what is good now for the industry is that most of the studios at least with regards to the sequels are letting us know much, much in advance the plans of release. So while we cannot estimate with movies that are originals, when they're really coming and whey they will open, and what will be their success, the sequel system helps us a lot.

And 2018 looks very promising to us, Toy Story 4 is there, Toy Story is one of the biggest advertisers in the UK, and there is the last chapter of Star Wars, Star Wars IX, for sure will start the spin-off of Han Solo and then at the end of year, probably if not in May 2019 will be the last chapter of Star Wars, and there are many, many more movies. Pixel announced line up already up to 2021. We have the last Avengers series in 2018. So there are really movies that are scheduled. If you would look a little bit into the Internet...

Avatar – Avatar 2 confirmed for 2018?

Avatar, I will talk about Avatar, we know James Cameron going on filming it, but it's coming, but we've so much into the detail, so much into the preparations The last that we know now is the end of 2018 and the end of 2019 for Avatar 2 and Avatar 3. They're almost now that you will fill-in back-to-back three movies, not only two movies.

Yeah.

But the last – the next one might be in 2019. So, it's really – it takes time. These really big stars of Hollywood like James Cameroon, Chris Nolan, they are controlling their own timetable, but Avatar is underway.

Fine. And just one final one from me. Just in terms of the Rest of the World [indiscernible] (1:17:20) how should we be looking at other income from a distribution point, given you said at 2016 was relatively muted?

I think more or less similar to 2016, that's what I will guess. 2016 – 2017 probably will be similar to 2016.

Okay. Fine.

Hi, Richard Taylor from Barclays. Just question on currency. I understand you pay films in local currency, obviously there has been some big move, and your experience in this industry, when currencies move a lot, does the studios eventually change their mind and charge you a different price or is it always local currency?

Always local currency. System was paying, percentage of further new exist in this industry forever I think.

If you remember, the big part of this is going to marketing in the territories. That's why we need to use also local currency basis, it's helping them really not also to be exposed to this cost.

Good.

Good.

Okay. Thank you very much.

Thank you very much. Thanks a lot.

Thank you.

Thank you for joining today's call. Ladies and gentlemen, you may now disconnect your lines.