Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Moshe J. Greidinger — Chief Executive Officer, Cineworld Group Plc
Nisan Cohen — Chief Financial Officer, Cineworld Group Plc
Karl Burns — Analyst, Investec Bank Plc
Richard Stuber — Analyst, Numis Securities Ltd.
Jeffrey Harwood — Analyst, Stifel Nicolaus Europe Ltd.
Ali Naqvi — Analyst, HSBC Bank Plc
Sahill J. Shan — Analyst, N+1 Singer
Heidi Richardson — Analyst, UBS Ltd.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, everyone. Okay. We're very happy to see you here. Thank you for coming to Picturehouse Central. We will start with the agenda immediately. With me are my brother, Israel Greidinger, Deputy CEO; and Nisan Cohen, CFO, that I assume everybody in the room knows.

So, Nisan, the floor is yours.

Thank you, Mooky. Good morning to everyone. I spoke to some of you in the morning earlier that we are announcing today our six months first half result. I think we are very happy with the numbers that are showing strong set of result. I'll take you through the numbers. This will be the first half of the presentation and then Mooky will go into the business and then we'll go to the Q&A.

If we're looking on the financial highlights, I think we see a very nice increase in admission. The group managed to sold over 50 million tickets in the first six months, a 10% growth and it's reflecting really our strategy opening new sites, refurbishing our sites and this combined with good title, good movies, what really lead us to see a nice increase in admission reflecting also increase in the revenue to reach £420 million. This is an increase of close to 18% on a statutory base. And then EBITDA of £84.3 million. This is also close to 20% with 12.4% on a constant currency, and we'll talk about the currency in the next slide. And the adjusted diluted EPS increased by 21.3%, what leads also the management to declare increasing dividend to £0.06, reflecting 15.4%.

Looking on our net debt, and we'll talk about the net debt in the next slide, this year we paid annual dividend earlier than last year, we paid in June, what lead to a bit increase in the net debt to £309 million. Just a matter of shifting between demands. We are still expecting to be in the level that we thought also in the beginning of the year around £260 million, £270 million in the end of the year.

As we are moving to the next slide, performance summary and constant currency, the numbers here are in constant currency. We have here the split between the UK and the rest of the world. If we're looking on the UK, we see a nice increase in the admission, close to 10%, so 26.3 million tickets. I think we started the year very well in the UK, the first 4.5 months were very good with movies like Beauty and the Beast, La La Land have performed very strong. Then we went into a bit slowdown, might be the issue of the weather, some of the titles. July we see the turnaround.

By the end of the day, it's lead to increase in revenue of 11.5% in the UK and EBITDA of £40 million with a slight decrease in the EBITDA margin in the UK to 15.9%. And this is mainly because the issue of the VPF and the business rate last year we enjoyed still from VPF income which, starting from January this year, we did not enjoy. And there is also, I think similar to other business in the UK mainly retailer, we also suffered from some cost pressure on the business rates. I think if we are adding back those two factors into our results, we will see an increase in the margins in the UK. And this is I think really showing the strength of the company and the efficient way of running the business.

I think by the way, it's the first time that we see that the rest of the world – I'm moving now to rest of the world part – producing higher EBITDA than the UK which, in our eyes, I think it's a good example of the fact that we are operating in nine territories. We are saying all the time, this is advantage. One territory is sometimes performing less than the other. I think we are hedging it in somehow with the other territories. Rest of the world, I think is the – we are saying it almost every time that we meet, fantastic result, 10.4% increase in admission, increase in revenue. We see also a nice increase in margin to 26.3%.

And I hate to mention here that also in the rest of the world, it was a year that we faced also some cost pressure mainly in the minimum wages side in all the territories we have, mainly in Poland. Romania, we saw the government's increasing the minimum wages. We are saying all the time that we like to see it because in one hand we are employing people that we need to increase their salary. But on the other hand, those people are really our clients. The students, the people who are getting higher salary, they are coming by the end of day to our cinemas. Some of the increase in the admission we see in the rest of the world coming also from this region.

By the end of the day, the group managed to stay with a similar EBITDA margin of above 20%. And we are saying all the time that as a management, we want to be over 20% EBITDA margin. This is the – I don't want to say it's our target, but that's at least what we want to see. And I think with all, taking into account the cost pressure really that we faced, I think this is a very nice achievement.

Looking on the box office and retail performance, we see the split indicate on the left between the territories. UK and Ireland, our biggest territory, represent almost half of the admission. But definitely we see the other territories, Poland on the top, and then the other territories, Romania, performing well and let's say sharing some more part of this cake. And probably that's what we'll see also in the future. I believe this, I will say, division, probably will remain in the coming year or two, depending really on the opening and the performance of the movies.

If we look on the UK, on the ATP and SPP, we see increase in the ATP of 2.1% and SPP, 3.6%. This is in line with our strategy to grow together with the economy. On the other hand, in the rest of the world, the ATP increased by 3.3%, over £4. In the SPP, we see, I think it's also, on the first year, a very nice increase of 9%. I think it's a combination of a few factors. One, the hard work that we are doing around the retailer. I think we'll talk about it more on the businesses side. There is also some impact of the type of the movies, more family's movies, kids' movies have some impact also on the retail.

But I think one of the conclusions that we can learn from this side is really to see that still there is a use potential in rest of the world. We are working now on a £4 average ticket price to close some of the gap. If you look on the UK, £6.4%. We are not saying we'll be able to sell ticket prices in Poland or Romania in the £6.4, but definitely, there is a way to close this gap, and this definitely will have a positive impact on the future on our profits and margins.

Other income. Other income includes few elements, the advertising, advertising on screen, sponsorship, distribution, booking fee, and some other elements like hiring and all and so on. Overall, we see an increase of 10.4% and 3.5% in constant currency. In the UK and Ireland, definitely an increase in the admission of 10% and also a positive impact on the advertising, which grew in the first six months. On the other hand, we disposed a small alternative content in Picturehouse without a major impact, a very small impact on our profit. There is some impact on the revenue distribution, usually distribution business model have high revenue with a low margin. At the end of the day, there is no really impact of this disposal.

On the rest of the world on the other hand, we see a 2.7% increase in constant currency. I think the advertising performed well. We need to remember that in the advertising segment, in the advertising business, it's not possible to go online with admissions. Not if every year, we'll see [indiscernible] (10:24) four years in a row that we see a double-digit increase in rest of the world. It's not so easy to increase the sponsorship deal. Sometimes we sign long-term agreement or the advertising on screen in the same level of the increase in admission.

However, we are very happy with the numbers. I think if we are looking what's happening worldwide in the advertising, I would say, segments around us, newspaper, TV, I think that the cinema is a very strong place to advertise and we are very happy with the number. We are working very hard to keep these numbers going, and I believe we'll do so in the future.

Going into the numbers, the group profit and loss. I'll take you through the numbers. Revenue of £420 million with EBITDA of £84 million. There are some elements of depreciation, amortization. We see some increase compared to 2016, reflecting really the investment that we are doing in the sites. We are investing every year between £80 million to £90 million CapEx. This is also a reflection in depreciation. We are adjusting some £2.3 million and will come into the adjustment in the next slide. There is some adjustment here relate to amortization of the deal between Cineworld and Cinema City.

Moving down to the next finance expense, this year, we didn't suffer from the exchange rates GBP, euro, [ph] and below (11:54) like we suffered last year, mainly because it was not so, I will say, sharp movement between the GBP and the euro, and we also went into some hedge – accounting hedge I would say in this, will minimize the impact in the future between the euro and the GBP. And we also enjoy from some revenue here. I think the fact that we are producing positive cash flow in territories like Poland, Romania, help us also to produce some profit in the finance level.

Tax charge, we are more or less in the same level as we were last year or end of the year, between 16% to 17% effective tax rate. And there is a small adjustment this year taking us from profit after tax £40.3 million to £42 million, and we can see here really the breakdown of the items that summarize by the end of the day to £1.7 million. Amortization, again, the amortization of the deal the Cinema City, £2.3 million. And there are other elements of transaction and reorganizational cost still relate to the Empire deal. Some impairment of sites that we closed. Other nonrecurring charges, not big amount, and the profit of disposal of Picturehouse was £2.2 million. But by the end of the day, it lead us to £1.7 million of adjustment. And doing all the calculation of the EPS, it bring us to £0.154 earnings per share compared to £0.127 last year.

If we look on the cash flow, the cash flow statement, I think we are showing here a nice, or I'll say well cash generated from operation approximately £70 million. And this is a nice ratio if we compare it to the EBITDA. We can even do some comparison to last year.

Then we are moving into the other elements of cash tax investing. This is reflecting really the investing of CapEx and some other element that we went in the first year. And there is also the net cash from financing activity. This is mainly the dividend that we paid in June. But took us to a net debt of £309 million. As I said before, our assumption is to finish the year in the level of £260 million, £270 million if all goes well. This is probably the level that will be in the year end.

If we're looking on the outlook, I think good film slate for H2 2017. I think we are going into some, let's say we start the year July was very good in all the territories supported by Dunkirk which performed fantastic. August, September will be a bit more challenging months because we have some tough comps last year. But I think for mid-September, and maybe Mooky will talk about the movies more, we'll face, I think, good titles, strong period and, definitely, what will lead us really, as we say, to be in line with the current – currently to be in line with market expectation.

We are forecasting to expand between £90 million to £100 million of CapEx. We are planning to open 11 sites in the coming six months. One of them we already open in London. And the tax level probably remain the same between 16% to 17%, and above the net debt I already spoke about it. So, just to summarize, I think we are showing strong set of results. We are very happy with the numbers, and looking forward to the coming weeks, months with some good movies in front of us. I will leave now to you, Mooky.

Thank you, Nisan. Let's talk about the business a little bit. So, really how do we see the key achievements for the first half of 2017. So, we had another site acquired, you're all aware to the Empire deal that we made last year, Newcastle. We'll talk about it in the next slide. But Newcastle is a new addition to the Cineworld estate. It was acquired in June.

New site opened, first six months, were quite quiet. We had two cinema opened. In comparison to the 11 that we are still going to open before the end of this year, I think at the end of the year, this is a big number. And we need to remember as we always say, it's not on our hands. The developers are really here dictating the timetable of the openings. So, we have two cinemas that we'll talk about and 11 to go.

Refurbishments continue, this is a key part of our strategy. You heard me talking about it a lot. This continues, and it really proves to be very, very successful. We can almost, in a way, compare big refurbishment into a new opening not because the results are changing in a way that a new opening gives us additional business, but this is a great estate that Cineworld had. And now, after the cinemas perform anywhere between 15 to 30 years, it's time to give our customers the right experience, and we'll continue very successfully with this process. And the last point is the technology rollout. We are continuing to see ourselves as leaders in the technology part whether it is sound, whether it is new attractions, and I will talk about it more.

So, Empire Newcastle, Newcastle, a city where Cineworld didn't have any representation. A big city, you're all aware to it, 16 screen sites that we have acquired from Empire. Prime location, city center and even more important, a cinema with a great potential for refurbishment which we believe we could end up doing to the end of the year, maybe a little bit later, but we are adding there a Superscreen. The big hall will be changed into a Superscreen. All the auditoriums will have a steeper stadium seating. 4DX is coming to Newcastle, and we have high hopes for this location.

New sites that we've opened. So, Ely on one side of the chart and Zichron in Israel on the other side, are really a result of the first six months. Ruislip in the UK opened in the first days of July, so we're putting already an amazing cinema, 11 screens that we just opened a few weeks ago. Three new cinemas are performing well. We can say about Zichron in Israel that it's over-performing even, and we are happy with the results.

A lot of you visited Zichron, most of you did not believe that we are going to open in June. So, we really made the special effort to show that we can do it, and the cinema really operates great. And remember that to open a new cinema before the summer vacation is always a good thing because the cinema gets a fresh start and strong two months.

A glimpse of Zichron.

[Video Presentation] (20:22-21:38)

Okay. Refurbishments, the next generation of cinemas. Preferred to show some photos that are much stronger than words and these are really new refurbished auditoriums, lobbies, really looking like brand-new cinema. We are continuing to deliver it. Ipswich was just finished a few days ago and we are going now also to start building the extension in The O2. You can have here the general idea. It's not 100% going to look this way. I don't know how many of you are visiting The O2. This is one of the reason we put it here because it's a classic cinema for us in London and this is how, in a way, it's going to look once we will finish the refurbishments.

We've done already old auditoriums which are 11. We have there amazing Superscreen which is close to 800 seats. And in the extension, we are adding another seven screens, two quite big ones that we miss, one 4DX and 3 VIPs. We believe that with this full offer with 18 screens, the cinema will become one of the leaders, if not the leader cinema in the London area.

North Hampton is just under works now. Refurbishment includes a Superscreen. And Solihull just started this week or the week before in the very affluent area, in the Birmingham area, and more and more that are underway.

Empire acquisition, we are now one year after. Hemel Hempstead completed the refurbishment and the new Starbucks open, cinema performs well. We're happy there with the results. Basildon, we've open the 4DX. Usually when we have the opportunity, we'll put the 4DX ahead, not waiting for all the permits and all the closing issue for the big refurbishment. But the big refurbishment starts now, will be finished before the end of the year for Star Wars, it will be already 100% done. Starbucks is coming into Basildon and cinema will look amazing, performing well already but will perform better once we finished the job there.

Leicester Square, we can say here in Picturehouse Central just around the corner from here. The refurbishment starting, very complicated to work in Westminster and not easy with our [indiscernible] (24:35) but we are past most of the bumps that we had on the way. 4DX will come to the real center of London. We believe will become a great attraction, not only for local visitors but I don't have to tell you that traffic of tourist which are passing Leicester Square every day. And in many of these countries or most of them, where people are coming from, there is no 4DX. So, we believe we have also an angle there to make this one our most successful 4DXs.

Bromley, which is an historical cinema, was built and opened by the way in 1936 I learned. Used to be an Odeon in the very, very early days. Refurbishment will start at the beginning of the year. It takes time because it's a building with all kind of construction issue, but we will add two small screens there and it will become a Picturehouse. Going to be a classic Picturehouse and a very nice cinema. Poole is the one that we are still checking what really to do and which angle to go. If we are going to increase the size of the cinema, if we are going to stay as we are. But we will start probably working there somewhere around January.

So, altogether if we look at the five cinemas, one is done. The other one is underway. Leicester Square is going to have a full facelift not only the 4DX, of course. Bromley will be a great Picturehouse. Poole is underway. And all the cinemas are performing according to our expectation.

A look at the lobby of the Hemel Hempstead cinema. You will agree with me when you look at it, it looks like a brand new cinema. So, it's not a refurbishment as we do some face lifting, changing the toilets and a little bit the concession stand. We go all the way in our refurbishments and this is how it looks.

This is a glimpse of how Leicester Square, Cineworld Leicester Square will look. These are, of course, visuals. It's not final. But it is going to look very, very impressive. I remind you that we have there a lot of the movie premiers in the UK. We will have there at the end of the day IMAX Laser, the only two IMAX Lasers in the UK. One of them in Cineworld Leicester Square and one of them in Cineworld Sheffield. There going to be a Superscreen there which already works. They have a great effect and a huge screen. The third one will be 4DX. And then we have our smaller cinemas around altogether. For anyone who don't remember, nine screens at Leicester Square.

Investment in technology. So, you've heard us a lot in the past talking about technology. We are very fond of technology and I always like to say that our biggest challenge between all the offers in the world of technology today is to decide what we don't do because in every market that we go, in every big conference whether it is in Vegas or in Barcelona, people are coming with new inventions, with new ideas, and to 99% of them would say no.

But this was the way that led us to our great relations with IMAX 20 years ago. This was the way that led us into the cooperation with 4DX which is so successful. This has led us to be the first company I think – or among the first company in Europe to go with Dolby all the way to the Dolby Sound at the beginning. Today, of course, we are at the Dolby Atmos level. And we are analyzing all the time the new technologies we believe that if you choose the right technologies, this would be good for the company and a very important message to our customers.

We are right now, if we look at it, the next generation of projectors are not going to be anymore with Xenon lamps, which are operating now and giving a great picture and a great result on the screen. Next move is the laser digital projector. There is no way here that we are going now to take all our projectors and move into laser. This is not the direction. Laser saves money in operation, costs a bit more, but saves money on operation, makes operation much more simple, needs much less cooling, for example, in the projection rooms which costs a lot of energy. Today, laser is not hot as Xenon lamps. So, we have a lot of advantages there.

Our two new cinemas, the 18-plex in Czech Republic, and the 20-plex in Wrocław, two major projects for us that will be opened within one week October, will be 100% equipped with new laser projector. This will be a good trial for us and will signal the future of projectors. There are so many laser projectors, a big offering. You need to know where you go to be focused with what you go, and we are very happy with this development. And we'll see them more and more because we have much more, many more projects in the estate.

Second point, more 4DXs. 4DX, I don't have to tell you, it's a huge success all over the UK really outperforms. I would say, in UK and Romania and Hungary, I think are outperforming, even the other countries with the 4DX. Very good news for us. And we are continuing with the 4DX. They're, again, very technology-oriented, comes with new effects, and the product is very good. More IMAX screens, of course, where we have the opportunity and where we have the capacity to pursue growth only into big locations. IMAX is really a leading way to show a movie.

The third point here is that we are starting trials with digital retail. Anybody who have been to McDonald's, you'll see that McDonald's are leading in this, but many, many retailers are going with these kind of machines that we see here. Experience shows that it increased the spending of the customer. He buys more from the machine than he buys at the regular queue. At the end of the day, probably we'll save some manpower as well. There is a need and there is an operational challenge in this. This is why we are not rushing into it, but I believe the first cinema will come up quite soon. And once we see it is in a few locations, that it will be successful, probably there is a big move here for retail sales, increasing the sales on one hand and making them more efficient.

And the last point we want to mention on the technology arena I would say now is the virtual reality. Everybody in the world talks about virtual reality, whether it is for home entertainment, whether it is in shopping malls, whether it is in cinemas. A lot of the companies in the industry are putting a lot of effort into the virtual reality. This is very experimental. We have already in [ph] Ruislip (32:50) which is the number one from point of view of tickets cinema in the circuit in Israel. We have a big facility of virtual reality up and running. It's amazing. Really, the technology is really, really amazing.

The question is how it is going to be connected into our industry. This is the main thing because the content we show today in virtual reality or the content which is available today in virtual reality is quite similar whether you buy a home equipment, whether you go in a shopping mall, whether you go to a cinema, we need and the studios are like talking about it and analyzing it. We need an exclusive content. We see, let's say, in the vision, that you go out of Star Wars, or you go out of Toy Story, or you go out of Wonder Woman that you will have another 10 or 15 minutes virtual reality experience. You might be doing it before the movie or might be doing it after the movie, but it still needs to be something which will come with the movie release or a little bit before, sometimes to promote the movie. And we'll go into home entertainment and to other places in a different way later.

It is very, very complicated. Very, very expensive. There are studios that are saying that for one movie they will need to invest $1 million. This is good news. But there are studios that are saying that for one movie, they will need to invest $5 million, which is quite a significant amount. It is really at the beginning. But we thought that we must be part of this game, and we thought also that we should share with you, like, they think maybe will be zero in two or three years. And virtual reality for sure will be big, whether it's going to be a big part in the cinema business or significant part in there. We can't say yet, but we cannot stay behind. So, this is a place where although the experience in the world is very small, we felt that Cineworld needs to try to test, to learn. Same as, for example, IMAX are doing. IMAX invested in two sites already in the U.S., huge amount. And they are also trying it. So, we will see how this thing will develop. So, today was a little bit longer path for technology.

Still to come, 2017. Here, we are really back into business. We have 10 further new sites because here we didn't put Ruislip, which is already open. This is the difference between 11 and 10. We still have five cinemas to go in the UK, five cinemas in the rest of the world, in Poland, in Romania, and in Czech Republic. The refurbishment program will continue and will create a new fresh generation of cinemas.

In the photos you can see our new Wrocław, Poland project. This is a huge project in center, center city, on the top of the main railway station, on top of the main bus station. This is second richest city in Poland. We have there a 9-plex at the north neighborhood, north side of the city which will probably will not be affected much by this new cinema, but we are going strongly to affect the Wrocław market and the city center cinemas there. We will have 20 screens: 1 4DX, 3 VIPs, and 1 IMAX. Going to be an amazing project. By the way, being built by Unibail-Rodamco which are today the leading mall developer in Europe I would say. Huge company and really building great projects. We have already three projects with them and the Czech Republic are going to be another two projects that we do with them. As I mentioned in the past, one of the assets that we have in the company is our great relations with the big developers in Central Europe, and today, I can say also with developers in the UK.

And if we talk about developers in the UK, White Rose, which is one of the most successful shopping malls in the UK, built an extension. This area, this kind of a boulevard that you see here is already with the restaurants. The restaurants are open. They were a bit delayed with the cinema. But here in the corner, you see there will be a new 11 screens. I wish we could have done more, but we arrived a bit late, and we will try to add. We're already discussing with them to add another four or five screens. There will be an IMAX there. I visited the site two weeks ago. It's going to be really an amazing cinema. And Leeds is a city again where Cineworld is not present at this moment. So, for us, it would be a new market.

If we go to the next slide, so, we'll start here with the photos I mentioned already Chodov in Czech Republic, again, Unibail-Rodamco, the most successful shopping mall in Czech Republic by far, which is now doing an extension which will include a lot of new fashion and a lot of entertainment, food and cinema, 18-plex, 1 4DX, three VIP halls, and this is supposed to open within a week apart from the Wrocław project.

We see here Bracknell, again, a great location in the UK, 12 screens, which is about to open early September, also going to give us, in a way, a new market for us in the UK. So, we again see, when you look at this leading project, you again see what we said already in the last couple of meetings that we had with you, the potential in the UK market, although it looks mature, is amazing and is very good. It was one of our good news that we found when we made the Cineworld Group.

So, in the technology, we'll continue to deliver our strategy with more 4DXs and IMAXs. Dolby Atmos is now appearing in most of our big screens. Laser projectors are underway. We mentioned already Chodov and Wrocław, digital retail trial about to start, and the virtual reality.

And finally, we always mention Starbucks. Starbucks is really growing and growing nicely. The existing Starbucks are growing, and the new Starbucks are opening to very good results, and we are going result and we are going to have another four scheduled to open this year.

And as we always say, last but definitely not least, is the products. So, we had a very good four months this year than – May and June we're have a little bit softer, still good. You see the results. And July opened very well. Dunkirk is really dominating the UK markets and it is doing, by far, better than in other territories. Also, it's working very well all around the world, but in the UK it's, working very good, which is also a good news for us.

And if we look there, some of the movies that you see were already released. Despicable Me 3 will do close to £50 million in the UK. Spider-Man, War of Planets of the Apes, this is the third part. Dunkirk we talked. August and the first two weeks of September, will be a bit softer but there is always some surprise hidden between the smaller titles there. But at the end of the day, we are looking for – next big release will be Kingsman which is supposed to be – I heard already that the movie is very good. It supposed to be a big, very big year. Blade Runner immediately afterwards. And then we go all the way through the product, you see, you recognize most of the movies. And always a good way to end the year with Star Wars.

This time, it's not a spinoff. The spinoff is also doing £60 million to £70 million in the UK, so we cannot complain. Star Wars VII did £120 million, the biggest movie ever in the UK. Huge in Hungary, by the way, and very big in the other territories. Star Wars is a big thing. Star Wars VIII is here at the end of the year. One of the good news – I see it as a good news, that we enjoy from Star Wars this year only two weeks. So, we have a very good start of 2018. So, this is a movie that can really play on two years. And for sure, we are very happy to see it.

So, from here, this time, we are moving to trailers. We'll show you full trailers and just to give you the feeling. We are in a cinema today so the show is much better. And then we'll go to the Q&A. So, thank you very much.

[Video presentation] (42:52-47:42)

Hi. It's Karl Burns from Investec. I'm just wondering if you could give any idea of what the warm weather might have took off admissions in the first half? And then the second was just on UK margin guidance for the second half of the year. Would you expect it to be down sort of 80 bps like the first half?

I'll talk about the margin first and then maybe Mooky will talk about the weather. I think, look, as I said before, the first half we saw a slight decrease in the margin in the UK mainly because of the factors that I mentioned, the VPF and the business rates.

As I said before, our goal is to be above 20% EBITDA margin. A lot depend on the admission. As you know, the model that cinemas are working, the admission have an impact on the margin. There is a good chance that we'll be there. I think it's early time to say. But overall, if you look on the consolidated margin of the business, we are now over 20% a bit above last year. We finished the last year with 22% and I want to believe that we'll be in this level even a bit more.

As for the weather, I think that the one thing we need to admit that we cannot control the weather. But we like it when it's raining, not too strong, we are also choosing this. But when it rains, it's great for the cinemas. When you see a rain, you think about Cineworld. When it's sunny, it's sometimes less attractive. But also these things are changing a lot. We come from a country where most of the summer is between 35°C to 40°C. And people love to go to the cinemas in July and August. These are the best months because it's too hot and it's too much.

So, how much you can be really in the sun at the end of the day which is in Europe the sunny days are softer, the rainy days are better. But I don't think we can take any conclusion from the weather to the six months result. I think that, in general, it's mainly of the experience we deliver to our customers and, of course, mainly due to the line of the product. A heat wave of a week will help the UK business but a rainy week like last week, we performed very well. So, we can't win them all.

Good morning. A few from me. Richard Stuber from Numis. The first is when you bought the Empire, you said you're going to about £2 million of revenue synergies. Could you tell us where you think you are at the moment. I know [indiscernible] (51:30) any of them.

And the second question is any updates in terms of the Unlimited Card rollout in Poland and how that's going on, and whether you have any some aspiration to roll it out anywhere else?

And thirdly, just any sort of color on how your competition is particularly in the UK given the audience [ph] ownership (51:48) with AMC?

Okay. I'll try to answer your first point and give to Mooky to answer the second one. I think the Empire results are moving according to our expectation as you saw in the presentation. There are still things to do, some refurbishment to finish. We managed, by the way, to implement all the Unlimited program in all the sites. We are happy with the results. I think it's a bit early. We would really want to see some results like Leicester Square, like Poole that will be after refurbishment. I think by the end of the day, we will reach the synergies that we put ourselves a target.

Unlimited in Poland went off to a very good start, developing very nicely. But we need to remember Unlimited is a business for long runners. So, this is not something which is changing a market within the year, not even within two years. It is according to expectation even a bit higher of what we expected, doing well. And we will consider additional territories in due course.

On point of view for AMC influencing the competition environment, let's say, in the UK. We cannot say that we see huge changes in Odeon since the deal was done. You read the same papers as we do. So, the people in AMC and Odeon talking about a big refurbishment plan. We don't see a lot of it except here and there. AMC is the largest exhibitor in the world, has its own stories now.

And in general, we need to do what we can do best. We are following competition of cost. We can't say that right now, there is a big change in the landscape of the UK exhibition business.

Yes. Jeffrey Harwood from Stifel. Just a few questions. First of all, the UK revenue growth excluding the Empire acquisition, would that have been about 5%?

Secondly, are there further headwinds from VPF? I think it's washed through now in the UK.

And thirdly, can you comment on your bargaining power vis-à-vis landlords given the problems in the high street retailing space, please?

As for your first question, you are probably right. That's more or less the level that you mentioned. For the VPF, as I said before, last year was the last time that we enjoyed in the UK from the VPF. We are not enjoying from January 1 from VPF revenue in the UK. However, we enjoyed still in rest of the world as from VPF. And probably, this will be spread out into the coming two years. Still probably in 2019, we'll have also there the ending of the contracts of the VPF.

For the retail, I can't really see any significant change from point of view of the cost. Retail in the UK is quite expensive. Rest of the world is a bit less. This is natural. I would only say that we clearly see that the shopping malls are much more aware now to the importance of the entertainment segment in the mall. There been huge articles about the Internet shopping and the big websites that you can buy almost everything now.

You can't go to the movie through the website. You can see a movie maybe in your computer. So, the significance of the cinema and the importance of the cinema – this is one of the reasons that the developer like Unibail-Rodamco would give so much space to the cinemas in Wrocław and in Chodov, or same goes for the UK developers.

But we need to choose the right locations and the good locations in order to make it work. It's not just we open in every opportunity. It needs to be a strong developer, it needs to be a strong project. And I believe that in this way, the wind is more positive towards having cinemas over many articles in the last two, three years, in the last five years, I would say, that some of the malls don't think that cinema is a must for the shopping malls. Most of them now thinks that cinema is a must.

Hi. Ali Naqvi from HSBC. Just wanted to find out, your UK admissions seem to be a lot higher than the market. Can you sort of give any thoughts on what's driving that and whether you're winning market share in the first half? And then just looking at balance sheet efficiency, you talked about really seeing net debt towards the end of the year. Do you have any thoughts now seeing as some of the competitors are taking their foot off the pedal in terms of acquisitions where that makes M&A a more realistic possibility or cash return? Thanks.

So, I would just say about the admissions, we have opened new cinemas. We believe that we are delivering a better experience. I'm not 100% aware to the results of the other cinemas. I know that we are doing well in the UK, and we are happy with these results. From possibilities of M&A and acquisitions, Nisan?

Yes. We are always looking for good acquisitions, and that's what our competitors are doing and are not looking about what they are doing. We are looking for good acquisitions. We have a very, very strong balance sheet. And no doubt the best way to use this balance sheet, as we always say, is to increase the size of the business, and that's what we're trying to do. Saying that and I'm saying it every six months results, when we have a strong balance sheet and good results to be careful not to do bad acquisitions, and not to do acquisitions in order to make acquisitions. So, we are evaluating all the time opportunities and the moment we see a good one, we're just going to do it. That's the play.

Good morning. Sahill from N+1 Singer. Two questions from me, please. 2017's clearly been characterized as a blockbuster year. Could you give us a sense of what blockbusters, if any, should we be looking out for in 2018? And the second question for you, Nisan, is, could you give us any update or any guidance on the screen or the site pipeline for 2018? Thank you.

Thank you. Maybe I'll start with the second question, and I'll leave to Mooky to answer the first one. I think we are saying all the time that our goal is to open between 12 to 14 multiplexes every year beside the refurbishment and beside the acquisition that can arise, and I think this is probably the level that will face also in 2018. It will depend on constructions, some things are not dependent on us. With maybe a bit of patience, I think we'll give a more, I would say, update, view on the number of multiplexes through the end of the year.

Lineup in 2018, as I mentioned also before, we had a good start because we start on the third week of Star Wars, which is still Star Wars between week number three. Let's say, in Star Wars VIII, will do more money than 90% of the movies in this industry. So, this is a good start for us. But 2018 is going to be a very strong year from a product point of view.

We'll not go now into the whole thing but just mentioning the Avengers 3, which is supposed to be the biggest Marvel ever, will come somewhere in April. For the UK, one of the top movies ever is the Toy Story series. There's going to be a Toy Story 4 in the summer. Pixar is coming out with another movie towards the end of the year. Frozen 2, if I'm not mistaken, is also there. There is a huge lineup for 2018, and we look quite confident 2019 and 2018, both of them are looking quite good.

Hi. Heidi from UBS. Just quickly, can you give us your thoughts on some of the noises coming out of the U.S. about the premium video on demand window and potential discussions that are being heard with the studios, I think?

I think from time to time, this issue comes into the light, I would say. In general, the window in the U.S. is 90 days today. And in Europe or internationally, more, it's around 120 days. Three months to four months is the difference.

I think that the studios in the last two years, usually just before the big convention, CinemaCon, in Vegas, trying to create a kind of an atmosphere as if the windows are going to be shattered. It's just a matter of weeks or months. It comes from internal reasons inside the studios. We see today clearly that majority of the studios don't want to touch the windows. There are few studios that are more into it. They believe it might change. I personally do not believe that it will impact dramatically their incomes. They will lose maybe in the cinemas and they might gain a bit in the other ancillary markets.

I strongly believe that the theatrical window release, this is the real platform for the movie industry. And I think that the best proof of this will be the huge support that the creative community is giving the window. If you just heard, before Dunkirk, the views of Chris Nolan, if you listen to the views of James Cameron and many other big directors, they truly believe that they are making the huge movies to be seen first on the big screen.

This is the most favorable way and the growth in the cinema industry. Because at the end of the day, we're all businesses and we're working for money. And the studios when they see now that they can open a movie in China for an opening week with $100 million which was not there four years ago, three years ago and not by 50 years ago.

The growth in the other markets, international today is close to 75% of the business. So, I believe that to rock the boat with regards to the theatrical business is not on the table at this stage. We are talking to studios. We are talking to some of the other big exhibitors in the world. The rumors of shattering the window are very early.

And once there were some talks in the U.S. with the big exhibitors there, the message at the beginning was not so clear. But if there will be some change, it will take a long time for it to come if ever. And I believe that even if it happens and even if, let's say, the window will be shortened in a way – it's not going to be in a way, there's going to be a [indiscernible] (1:04:32) date releases and things like this. We need to follow it. We need to look at it carefully, but I think that's – especially knowing which are the studios that are not thinking about shortening the window at this stage.

Everybody can change his mind. I don't see in this any significant danger for the industry. Cineworld for sure strongly supports and being supported by many other big circuits in the U.S. and internationally. The existing window, we see it as an important part of the cinema experience.

Good. Thank you very much.

Thank you very much.

Thank you very much.

This concludes the Cineworld Group Plc interim results call. Thank you, all, for joining.