Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Israel Greidinger — Deputy Chief Executive Officer, Cineworld Group Plc
Moshe J. Greidinger — Chief Executive Officer, Cineworld Group Plc
Alexander Mees — Analyst, J.P. Morgan Cazenove
Richard P. Stuber — Analyst, Nomura International Plc
Richard M. Taylor — Analyst, Barclays Capital Securities Ltd.
Jeffrey R. Harwood — Analyst, Stifel Nicolaus Europe Ltd.
Steve C. Liechti — Analyst, Investec Bank Plc (Broker)
Ali Naqvi — Analyst, Peel Hunt LLP
Heidi Richardson — Analyst, UBS Ltd. (Broker)

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning to everyone, and welcome. Thank you for coming to our presentation. I will start by welcoming Dean Moore just sitting here on the first row, which is joining us today. Today is his first day as Interim CFO. And Dean will work with us for a year and he's here in order to meet you all, and he won't be able to give more than 20 minutes presentation about the business, because he only started today, but we are very happy to welcome Dean into our group and we're sure will be a big contributor to our finance department.

Okay. Moving into Cineworld 2015 results. [indiscernible] (00:54) move the slides, I hope I would. So the plan is that, I will start with the financial review. It is my last appearance as the Interim CFO, and then Mooky will take you into the business update.

If we start with the financial review, we look first on the statutory results. I remind you that statutory results this year are still not really representing the picture well, because it's – 2014, we have only 10 months of Cinema City and on 2015, we have 12 months of Cinema City. So in a second, we show you a slide of the pro forma, which is really the right slide to focus here. What I will focus on this slide is two very important number: the adjusted EPS which grew by 28.7% and the dividend per share which grew by 29.6%. And Cineworld is focusing to continue giving value to its shareholder by investing the money and by paying dividend. And I'm very happy that this year was another successful year for us in these [indiscernible] (02:01).

If we are looking on the pro forma results, and here we are already giving a really good comparison between 12 months of 2015 to 12 months of 2014. We are also eliminating currency influence here by showing all based on 2015 currencies. So we are adjusting 2014 results now to give a real picture with 2015 currency.

I think that we see here great development on each line. The main thing that I want to focus here is on the improved margin in the UK business. I think you all saw [ph] I'll say three (02:38) years ago when we were first here, Mooky and me, and the margin in the UK on 2013 as you can see here on the right, the margin in the UK in 2013 was 17.8%. And we said that we are targeting to bring this margin to be over 20% and I'm very happy to say that on 2015, we achieved it. And we were on 18.5% margin on 2014 and succeeded to take it two more points upward to 20.5%. And this is a success after a lot of work both on the revenue lines and on the expense lines which have brought us to this improved margin.

At the end of the day, it was a good year for us, both in the UK and Ireland and in the CEE and Israel region and succeeded to bring us for increase of the overall EBITDA of the group on a pro forma basis by 18.5%, meeting our expectations from this year.

If we are looking of a bit more split on the revenue side, and we are looking on the left side of this slide really on the group admissions, see still that the UK is a material, most material part of our business with over 50% of the admissions being generated in the UK. On the right side, we see the average ticket prices in the UK and in other territories. I like this slide because in my eyes, it's showing the opportunity we still have in Central Eastern Europe. At the end of the day, this economies are developing. We believe that will continue to develop in the long term [indiscernible] (04:13) between the more material markets that you see here which are UK, Ireland and Israel, and the less material markets, which are Central Eastern Europe, we believe that this gap will close and we believe that this is a big potential which exists in our business that didn't exist in the business when it was only in the UK.

Very successful year for us in Central Eastern Europe, I must say that over our expectations in Central Eastern Europe. At the end of the day, in three territories: Poland, Hungary, and Romania, it was the best year ever for the cinema industry in these territories. In the Czech Republic, it was the second ever best year, but also a very, very strong year. Our business in these territories grew very much in its revenue. And as you can see 12.8% in Poland, 16.7% in Hungary, 20.2% in Romania, and 15.5% in the Czech Republic. At the end of the day, very, very successful year for us in these territories, beating even our optimistic expectations.

On the other income line, which is the second part of our revenue, as we look on box-office and concession on the other income line, we also saw very positive trend. It was a good year on the UK and Ireland advertising business. We see another initiative, we have done it in the UK is some changes that we incorporated into this year, which is subsidiary that we own together with our competitors here [ph] to selling (05:48) screen advertisings. We put a lot of work into a subsidiary. And I think that it paid back this year together with a strong movie slate, we saw strong development of the advertising segment in this business. Advertising segment in Central Eastern Europe continued doing strongly as before where the strong segment of distribution revenue in Central Eastern Europe, we acted as a distributor for some of the strongest blockbusters of the year. And at the end of the day, it was a very successful segment for us, ongoing, yes, and it will continue being a successful segment for us.

If we are looking on a little more detail into the group income statement and we are looking on the – you have here a very detailed comparison between the statutory basis and the adjusted basis. At the end, as you can see, on the overall there is no huge difference before the adjusted number and the statutory numbers.

The one number I want to draw your attention to here is to the finance because we are also asked about it this morning. As you can see on the statutory basis, we have an expense of only £3.4 million of finance expense, and this is due to very big gain of about £8 million that we had on the currency and that's why on the statutory basis, you see the £3.4 million number.

On the adjusted basis, we're adjusting this number and we are showing the full expense of £11.1 million. We think that this is a more correct approach to take. We don't take benefits from currencies when it's good year and we don't take the hit when it's bad years. And it's the second year in a row, by the way, that we're adjusting like this to finance on the adjusted basis. But after this adjustment, and after this correction, we still have a very strong EPS of 31.4p compared to 24.4p on 2014.

If we look on our cash flow, which is another important element to look at, as you can see, very strong cash flow generated from operations. That's the nature of our business. We generated from operation, £176.3 million of cash. And as you can see clearly from the slide, this cash have served three main purposes. One of them is investment. We invested £88.6 million, both in renovation and in new sites. Second, is pay dividend to our shareholders. We paid £39 million of dividend. And third is reducing the overall debt. And the overall debt as you can see, the starting position of the year was £281.9 million and we're finishing the year with £245.2 million. So this is a great result for us, of really succeeding on these three goals of good investment, dividend and reducing the debt.

If we are looking on the outlook for 2016, and this great year of 2015 is now behind us, and we're left to focus now on 2016. First two months of the performance is in line with our expectations. We're asked also a lot of question about it this morning. First two months of the year were good, especially good in Central Eastern Europe.

It looks like that the record performance of Central Eastern Europe on 2015 is continuing in 2016 as well. We are looking for a full year of contribution from the 18 new sites that we opened in 2015. This is material increase to the size of our estate. We're expecting to continue enjoying our strong Unlimited membership base which have continued to grow and have grew last year, on the year before. It's a very strong base which is really driving our admissions.

We will continue investing both in new sites and in renovation of existing sites and we're expecting to spend again similar figures for this year, somewhere between £75 million to £80 million. We expect net debt to remain on similar levels, yes, it might go down a bit again, but at the end of the day, we feel that we'll reinvest, we'll pay the high dividends that we declared today and we expect the debt to remain on similar level and we expect our tax rate to remain consistent. I think you saw tax rate went down a bit this year, where the business which is – big part of it is in countries with lower tax rates than the UK. So overall, we think that the lower tax rate is consistent and will continue for next year.

Mooky?

Good morning, everyone. Thank you for coming.

I will start where Israel big numbers have ended and we'll look a little bit first of all about 2015 overview. We really had a record year, almost in every aspect that you will look at. We opened 18 new cinemas, this is record number, I think the only place that they opened more circuits is maybe in China, but for sure, there is no comparison to this number within Europe.

We have continued to invest in our existing estate. We have talked already about it and we said clearly that we have amazing cinemas in Cineworld, but some of them are a little bit old and we need to invest in them and refurbish them. First 4DX in production in the UK was very, very successful. We introduced towards the end of the year our VIP concept. We'll talk about this later of course. Cinema City, Israel mentioned a record year, [ph] all over a (11:47) big success. Integration is something that we are not talking about it anymore, it's done and we are now one big solid group working. And of course we cannot end up without mentioning that at the end of the year, we took our very successful Unlimited program in the UK and launched it in Poland. This is the first territory that we chose to launch it. And we can say that after something like two months – this is a very long-term plan of course and takes a lot of time – but after two months, we are already in higher numbers than what we expected and the future looks good.

Cinema expansion, as I said, record 18 cinemas, 10 of them in the UK, eight in Central Europe and in Israel, included additional 156 screens. There is not much for the business in symbolic numbers, but still we should mention that we are past the 2,000 screens number, which was a big achievement. Currently from screens point of view, we are the second largest in Europe. ODEON have something like 200 more screens, I think. In any other measurement that you will test the two circuits, we are clearly number one. We opened five new Romanian sites. This is in line with us saying that Romania is maybe our biggest growth potential market, a big country, 20 million people out there. The numbers there are growing amazingly just to give you a feeling. When we opened our first cinema in Romania back in 2007, not so long ago, eight years, nine years ago, the whole Romanian market was representing 2 million admissions a year, the whole market. Last year, Romania ended up with 12 million admissions which shows that the theory of the market is following infrastructure is a clear base point for our strategy.

New sites, of course, match the industry state-of-the-art standard. We are not compromising on this and most important is that we have 45 new cinemas, almost 500 screens in the pipeline. Every year, I'm saying we have approximately 500 screens in the pipeline. These are not the same 500 screens but I think it is important to show that our intention to grow is still there.

If we look at the openings, 2015, a very long list. We have here a few smaller number of screens per project. First of all, Picturehouse, so naturally doing smaller projects, the nature of Picturehouse is more intimate and less big number of screen, East Dulwich and Crouch End. And the others are – some of them are a little bit small, but we like to point out [indiscernible] (15:06) opened very, very strong and we are very happy with the results. We are happy with the results of all the new openings but the big one's really performed very well. Silverburn, our new cinema in Glasgow, amazing shopping mall and amazing cinema and Solihull NEC just opened towards the end of the year and also quite a big cinema.

Two openings in Poland, one in relatively big city, Lublin, and the other one in a small one. We are covering also small markets in the Central European market, because these are places of cities with about 100,000 people with surroundings of another 50,000 to 80,000, which have no cinema offering in travel distance of more than an hour. So, you see Romania, two big projects, three small ones – two small ones and one middle one, in Sucheava, which is not so small city. And of course, our big opening in Jerusalem 16 plex and more to come.

Just to get the impression, one picture is always better than one thousand words, but these are really a choice of look, our new projects in Hinckley, Whiteley, Stoke-on-Trent, the NEC Solihull. We really try to give the people from the minute they enter the cinema that they came to some different experience. You are not just coming to see a movie. A movie you can see almost everywhere today even in your phone on the underground. This is something that gives you the feelings that you came to a place where this is really the place to see a movie.

Outside, again you have some views from Jerusalem, Romania, Poland. And I think it is here again important to emphasize the start of our strategy is whether it is the most central location in a big city in the UK or whether it is a small city in Romania, we go to the same standard. We go to the same quality of screening, same quality of stadium sitting, same comfort in the seats, et cetera. We believe that this is paying off on our long-term relationship with our customers.

Planned sites opening 2016, 2017, 2018, you see the solid line of openings. UK represent anywhere between 35% to 45% of the coming openings and I think this is natural. Romania, as I mentioned before, is the most busy, let's say, territory from point of view of new openings.

Refurbishment, so we mentioned it a few times in the past. We have great, great cinemas. In Cineworld estate in the UK, we need to refurbish them. We need to bring them back to the standard of the cinema that we want. Milton Keynes was the first one that we did. I don't know if anyone here have been there. I think a few of you have been there. Sheffield, the second one to be done. Both of them are very, very successful. The reaction from the customers is good. The incomes are good, people embrace the new technologies, mainly 4DX is a big success. We'll talk about it in two minutes more.

Picturehouse Central, this is one cinema that we brought very close to all of you here in London, a very big success. Letňany in Czech Republic and other cinemas in Central Europe were also refurbished. This is different refurbishment. In Central Europe, our cinemas are much younger but still after 10 to 12 years, we are changing seats, we are redoing restaurants. We are doing some facelifting. From point of view of investment, it's a different level but it is also important in order to keep the standard up.

Products and services, if we are talking, we are now the biggest partner of IMAX in Europe. We opened additional three IMAXes this year. We have altogether 28 and more to come. It's a good partnership. IMAX is a very solid brand and we are happy to be in line with the IMAX in all our countries.

The 4DX, I mentioned already the new technology is becoming more and more popular. We have already 14 4DXes across the estate, three of them are already in the UK, Milton Keynes, Sheffield and Crawley. And we are about to open many more. I think five or six of them will be in the UK for this year and I wish we could have done it faster, but it is not so simple, quite a complicated installation in existing auditorium, much easier to do in a new cinema. But we are doing it and our partners in this case from Korea, are really giving us the top technology with great results.

Another partnership that we have across the UK is Starbucks, very successful, already 17 Starbucks are there, just two years ago. So such a small number of Starbucks is there. And we are going ahead. We'll open around five Starbuckses, new Starbuckses. This year, we are trying to put the Starbucks almost in every big new location that we are signing and it's proving not only from the commercial point of view but also from the experience point of view, not everyone who comes to the cinema arrives on the time just to buy popcorn and Coke and go into there; people like to have, if they arrived a little bit early a place to sit and have a good cup of coffee. And again after the show, it is an opportunity and we see it as very successful. We need to say that a lot of the Starbuckses are based only on the cinema visitors. And they are successful but in some cases, something like 35% or 40% of them we have also an attraction outside like [indiscernible] (21:55) for example, we have a central bus station just close to us. So we have a lot of traffic into the Starbucks which has nothing to do with the cinema. And of course for us is a big number – big change over the numbers.

Picturehouse Central, we gave it a special slide really very special project. To anyone who has not been there yet, it is highly recommended. This was a loss-making cinema for Cineworld for years. And it was bought one time in one of the big packages, and it was included in there, the cinema is not loss-making anymore. In June, we have opened a new refurbished Picturehouse Central. This is a very special cinema. We have two restaurants inside. We have a member club inside, state-of-the-art seven screens and to anyone who has a little bit more knowledge about how this industry works, it was never done that a cinema would show in the West End, the same movie which is being shown by [ph] ODEON (23:06) Leicester Square, something of 100 years of tradition. Something like this, we have convinced our suppliers, the distributors that Picturehouse Central is not less important and good gain for them, additional good income in the West End and [indiscernible] (23:28), you name it was shown together in Picturehouse Central with whatever cinema they choose in the West End. From our opinion, we don't believe in exclusivities and deal – and they can supply five cinemas in the West End, if they want, as long as we are getting our print. And yes, I think this is what we have right now to say about Picturehouse Central. The cinema is very young, about eight months old and is growing from week to week, a lot of corporate events there and we're happy with it.

So customer experience, we said many times, the choice of the formats we have the 2D, the 3D, 4DX, IMAX, Superscreen, now we have the VIP. And the IMAX, IMAX Laser, two IMAX Lasers exist now in the UK, one in the Empire Leicester Square, second one in our own Sheffield. 4DX, Superscreen, best sound system, et cetera, we emphasize a lot of technology. We invest in our estate whether it's new sites or refurbishment projects and emphasizing the cinema experience.

We'd like to say that Cineworld is the best place to watch a movie. We work on our retail offering and we invest a lot in everything that has to do with customer service. A lot of investment is done in booking services, our new website and think that just will make it easier for the people to book at home, go directly into their seats, into their reserved seat in the cinema and have a good time watching the movies.

Our VIP Experience, so the first one for us in the UK after a big success in Israel, Romania, Poland and Hungary, is in Sheffield. As you can see, the seats, a little bit small picture but these are like first class in the plane, you can put your seat backwards, you can have your legs lifted up. It's a very good experience with a big screen relatively to the size of the auditoriums. These auditoriums are about 50 seaters, but the screening proportion is big. You have the cinema experience. It's not that you feel you are seating in kind of screening room, and you get a special isolated let's say lounge, if we take it from the airlines language or separated lobby, which have a full buffet dining plus the normal cinema ingredients there's free popcorn and free Coke, eat as much as you can. All is included in one price. And according to our preliminary results from Sheffield, we are talking about two and half months, we are doing very well. People are very happy with the offer. And it doesn't say that you become a VIP visitor to the cinema. A lot of the people are going regularly to the cinema, but in special events either a birthday or a holiday or an anniversary or whatever, they would go to the VIP, it's not something that you have to go all the time. Of course, we have some customers that saw the VIP and we'll never see a movie in a different format anymore. So looks as a good success.

The second one will be opened in Glasgow. We are now refurbishing Glasgow – Renfrew Street. By the way Sheffield and Glasgow are among at least the top five, [ph] I just want (27:25) to say top three cinemas in the UK. I think in the top three. [ph] And these two cinemas (27:34) are on the line of – Sheffield is done, Glasgow is being done now. And we'll have also a VIP section on the upper floor. Believe it or not, but the Glasgow – Renfrew Street Cinema has seven floors of auditorium. So, it's a very unique. We think the upper floor will be VIP.

2016, showing here a little bit of the key titles for the year. Everybody is talking about how it will be in comparison to 2015. The answer is in the movies. I think we have an impressive lineup here. Deadpool just became, probably was not being planned to be on this slide six weeks ago, but Deadpool just became one of the biggest surprises from Hollywood in recent years, an amazing success. But we have all the others here and we have a short clip for you that will introduce much better than me the key titles for 2016.

2017 is also shaping up strong. We have the next chapter of Star Wars there. Of course, we have Despicable Me 3 and the Fast & Furious 8 and many, many more movies. And we can look at – in general, if we look at Hollywood today, Hollywood represents a very successful business. And the studios are really – have gone into the right balance between sequels which are for sure for us very assuring because we know what to expect. Side by side with this are coming amazing new original movies, we'll just remind you all of you of one of last year which was the Pixar movie there that was so successful and generated close to $1 billion worldwide. So we have on side of the original, the side of the sequels. And so, we are very happy to look forward also to the 2018 and 2019 results.

So as I said, we have prepared a short clip of the 2016 upcoming product. Enjoy. Okay. So just before we go to the Q&A, we are looking at this great lineup, good to watch, it's nice. But we need to remember that, we at Cineworld, have no control on the product. It might be a quarter that will be a little bit stronger, a quarter that will be a little bit weaker. We need to concentrate on what we do, and our part of this is to give our customers the right experience. When the movies are coming – we should be there ready with state-of-the-art cinemas, with the best technology, with great service and really continue to grow our estate, the 500 screens in the pipeline has a lot of value, and they are located well.

We have good promising cinemas and we are aware because I know this is going to be one of the questions of what's going around this movie industry or cinema industry, goes for a lot of consolidation these days. We are looking for the right opportunities, for the right move to do, whether it is within our territories or outside of them, but we are in charge in this industry for the reel experience of the customers. And I'm very happy of the results that we've achieved until now and I'm sure that we are going to do even better in the coming years. Thank you.

Thanks. Good morning. It's Alex Mees here at J.P. Morgan Cazenove. A couple, please. Firstly, with regard to CapEx, I wonder if you could just give us some help as to what you're spending when you refurbish a cinema and what we should expect in terms of refurbishment expense in 2016 and whether that will continue into 2017?

And then secondly, given the Unlimited Card, given your scheduling, given the locations, would you expect to outperform the UK market as a whole in 2016, given perhaps you didn't outperform in 2015?

Regarding CapEx, I think that renovation is like new cinemas. The budget really varies from one cinema to another and from one country to another, things that we're spending probably on a renovation, anywhere between £1 million to £5 million depends exactly what we do there and depends to which standard we bring it, if we do the full blown big UK cinema or we do something smaller. I think that overall our spending on renovation probably represent about 25% of our general spending on CapEx.

Unlimited?

From point of view, the Unlimited is a very strong base for us. We have a very loyal customers base still. And we believe this is a key player in our success in the UK. But we need to remember, this is a program for people that wants to go lots of the movies. These amazing customers that we have that are going once a month, Unlimited is not for them. So it is important, and I believe that in general we are giving the best experience in our cinemas and we are very strong in the UK with this plan and with some many other activities that we are doing for our customers.

Hi. Richard Stuber from Nomura. Three questions, please. First is on your Unlimited, you've rolled out in Poland. Can you tell what your plans are for rolling out in the rest of Europe, how quickly do you think that this would be rolled out?

The second question is on EBITDA margins. Clearly, some really good progress over the last couple of years. Do you have sort of medium-term targets where that could get to both in UK and in Central Eastern Europe? And the third question is, in terms of Starbucks, you have it in UK. Is there any potential to roll it out to your European cinemas too? Thank you.

We'll start with the Unlimited. Poland is, as I said, very, very young. We see good signs from there. Once we would be more established in Poland and we would be able to see what are our strong points and what are our more weaker points with this and how we are doing. We're for sure going to consider more territories. It is at this stage maybe not so attractive for the countries where the ticket price anyhow is very, very low like Romania or Bulgaria. Each market have its own characteristics but for sure once Poland is on track and we are convinced with the success and with a little tweaks that we need do here and there between markets, we will analyze additional markets. So this is one.

In the EBITDA line, I think we are at the top of the class from point of view of cinema circuits. There might be some additional growth in the EBITDA margin but you always need to be careful not to get your margin too high because maybe then you are hurting other things. But I believe we're in a very good position. And compared to any other circuits around us, the number is good, solid, it might go a little bit more when we are reporting some of our points of the business.

And the Starbucks question, it is very successful in the UK, as I said. In Central Europe, the Starbucks' way of operating is a little bit different. We are analyzing it and looking at it. I don't think that in the very near future, not something which is cooking of course, there is a possibility but we would like to have more cooperation with Starbucks.

On the other hand, we are also operating today in some of the countries like Poland, Romania. There's a big number of coffee shops that we are serving ourselves and are giving the experience to the customers. So it is not that the customers are missing the opportunity of a cup of coffee before or after the movie, but cooperation with Starbucks is not a simple thing, mainly because of the way they are doing their businesses in Eastern Europe. They hate franchisees, et cetera but we are analyzing it. It's not out of the scope.

Good morning. Richard Taylor from Barclays. Couple of questions, please. Firstly, can you give us an update on the competitive situation in some of these Eastern European markets in which you operate. [ph] Is anyone else (37:51) going for in terms of rollouts in any of those markets? And secondly, can you just give us a reminder of the reduction of income you get from Virtual Print Fee over the next couple of years? How much of these [indiscernible] (38:06) the P&L? How much of a headwind that places for you? Thanks.

I start with the competitive and then you talk about the VPF. So competitive environment in Central Europe has not changed. In Poland, we are by far the number one exhibitor. The second exhibitor second circuit is Multikino which belongs to Vue. So in a way, the UK is very dominant in Poland. And there is a third circuit there, no big changes in the size. We are growing more than Vue these years but there is no significant development from competitive point of view.

Czech Republic is a market that we have something like 60/40 towards the second largest circuit, again, no dramatic changes. Hungary and Romania, we're very strong by far the leading exhibitors with a big market share. And currently, we don't see new players there, [ph] might arrive (39:12), it's not something which is really threatening the business. We are not based on the fact that we have 80% or 70% market share in the market. But right now no changes. And Bulgaria was always a market of 50/50 between us and the other circuit. And in Israel, we are the number one circuit with two circuits behind us. So I don't see any big developments in this arena of point of view of new players or big changes that are going to happen.

VPF?

VPF income, have started by VPF agreement that was done both by Cineworld and Cinema City on around the same time. We said from the beginning that one day it will end and the UK part of the VPF is going to go down this year and to disappear completely in 2017. On the Cinema City side, it's continuing for few more years. At the end of day, it will not have a material effect on our business, it was maybe a big part three or four years ago for Cineworld when Cineworld was only in the UK and before it's cool. Today, it's a small hit that we have to go over but I don't think that any way it would have a dramatic effect on us. And it's built already into our focus and budgets. So something we knew for a long time ago, so we better be ready for it and we are. Yes?

Yes. Jeffrey Harwood from Stifel. Just looking at the balance sheet is unwinding quite nicely net debt to EBITDA down to 1.6 times and will clearly reduce further going forward. It seems that your preference is to buy something but what action will you take if a sensible acquisition doesn't emerge in the next 18 months or so?

I think that we'll focus on trying to find acquisitions, but at the end of the day we understand that in a certain level of net debt to EBITDA, it will start hurting the return on the equity. And we understand it. As we understood it, the UK market doesn't want too much to be over leveraged. We understand that there is a limit of being under-levered. I hope that we'll find a good way to invest the money, like I'm always saying we have to be very careful not to invest just because that we have the balance sheet ready for it, so to be careful not to make bad investment. If we'll see that we've don't succeed to find anything else, we will consider probably other ways to give back value to our shareholders but I think it's early to look on this in this moment.

Good morning. Steve Liechti from Investec. Just going back to your margin comments. You mentioned it might go up from here slightly, just in terms of what you'd said previously on the UK around 20%, which you are at. Do you think honestly you could take that UK margin higher given the dynamics to that market, rents and the staff costs and things like that? Should we try and build in – I'm not saying we can get to 25% margin, but do you think realistically you can get somewhere in between the current level and CCH?

I think as I said that there is maybe a place for improvement, not a big one. We're not going to see margins of 28% or 30%. It's not realistic for this business. We need to keep the right level of service, the right level of manpower in the cinemas, our energy costs are quite fixed. They have the up and downs, but not dramatic. So I think that if we look, again as I said, it's a comparison of other circuits. We're in a very good position. And I think it's going to stay in this level, maybe another 1%, 1.5% as long as we can do it in a way that it is coming more from increasing revenue and less than just cutting costs. There is a room to improve cost always but we need to be careful on that side. And I think we are happy with where we are and we'll be of course more happy to have another a percent or two.

Also you mentioned in terms of trading in the last couple of months. You said CCH was strong, which is great. I guess if you isolated January, we've got industry figures for admissions in the UK, I think it was down about 9%. Can you give us any feel for your outperformance against that 9%, so we can try to make assumptions on how much perhaps you might outperform in the full year. I know it's difficult because it's only one month, but can you give us any sort of hints there based on that evidence?

I think it will really be risky to get to that with less than one month. So I think we'd better wait a bit and see where it's going to. The good news is that February was a better month already for the industry here. And we should wait a bit and look.

Thank you. And last one, we've seen ODEON appears now to have launched an Unlimited-type offer. I just wonder are you concerned that, that might add to some further or some sort of attrition in your Unlimited membership if that progresses or any views on that as a service in the UK, obviously?

I think that the Unlimited way or the Unlimited program, if it's done on the right way, it's a very positive thing for the market and it's not threatening enough. There might be some people that love Unlimited and live much closer to an ODEON and they might be moving there or back. There would be more awareness to the program, but we need to remember that this is a program, which is clearly, if you talk about any marketing initiatives. There are some very short run marketing initiative and there are very long run. The Unlimited lies in the long run.

We are building the relationship with our customers for years. We are going every year on great numbers and we see the loyalty of our customers and their connection to the cinemas, to the whole program, and there is a lot in it. If one day we will have more time to talk about the efforts that we are doing, ODEON is starting, we wish them good luck but you need to be a long runner to do it and there are no miracles happening in the first six months or a year.

Thanks. And can I just try my luck on one more. Just on Unlimited for you guys last year. Can you give us any feel in terms of numbers of subscribers and whether there was any growth in the year 2015?

There was a good growth on the numbers. We're not revealing direct numbers for the Unlimited plan but there was a good growth. We need to remember that the nature of this scheme is that we have quite significant churn [ph] which is go (46:59) in the program, people are getting married, you're going to have your first child, you're not in the habit of going four times a month to cinema anymore. So we have changes in this.

With all this, we grew significantly in 2015 and we continue our growth now. This is not the first year, we grew in 2014 and 2013, et cetera. It is a very solid program and it serves really as I said, not people that are going to the cinema twice a year or even once a month. It servers the segment that wants to go and see a lot of movies to have the huge variation not only seeing the top blockbusters and it's about a lot, the medium range of the movies. And it is a great program and we are confident behind it showing it mainly and taking it now to Poland and probably soon to some of the other markets.

Hi. Good morning. Ali Naqvi from Peel Hunt, a few if I may. Are you expecting any ticket price inflation this year. And what's your return on investments for you refurbs? And just finally, are you expecting to close any more cinemas because I think you benefited from one disposal of cinema this year in [ph] your PBT line (48:23) these are expected to continue as well?

We are closing cinemas that are reaching their end of their life, you can call it. It's either end of the contract with a developer and the cinema is not so successful for us anymore [ph] or there's nothing neither (48:40) huge investment that we don't think is appropriate to invest in such cinemas. I think we are closing this year two cinemas in the UK, if I'm not mistaken, small ones, insignificant from point of view of business trend.

I think if you look at refurbishment, return on investment, this is not as clear as in the new sites where you see it and you build the business plan, et cetera. This is partially a defensive move, because we have to do it because at a certain stage, if the seats really will fall down and the toilets will be broken every time and the escalator will not work and everything, the people will start to leave you and then to bring them back which is very, very difficult.

So while we're saying that all the time that the Cineworld's maintenance level of cinemas is extremely high, unlike any of our competitor. We need to take care of this and we need really to provide a new – so this is part of it. But on the other hand, we need to remember that once cinema is refurbished and completely brand new, people will be ready to pay a little bit more. People will try and come and see new technologies installed in this refurbished cinema like 4DX. Milton Keynes didn't have a 4DX before the refurbishment, now they have; same goes to Sheffield to Crawley [ph] to Stevenage (50:08), maybe a new Superscreen, maybe the VIP offer.

So all this put together gives a good return of investment which is much more easy – much more difficult to calculate because for example, if you take the situation in Milton Keynes, we were ahead of opening of a new ODEON which was half a mile away from us. Now, nobody know and nobody will ever know what would have been the influence of this ODEON on our great Milton Keynes Cinema if we wouldn't have done anything. What we know now that we refurbished, we invested a lot of money, we put in Superscreen, we put in 4DX and the cinema is doing better than it did before. So I think the answer is [indiscernible] (50:54) if you ask me to say to point out a real number is impossible.

And on ticket pricing inflation?

General ticket price inflation. I think in general the ticket price is in a good place in the UK. Here and there, there are being some changes, some modifications, inflation is very, very low now. I think that we have a good solid base of customers. We don't want to push it too much but there is a room for some increases here and there. If we look at the other side of the map, in Central Europe, there as Israel showed in his new slide, we have a much bigger potential of growing over inflation with the ticket price. Is the ticket price in Romania going to be very soon the same as in the UK? I don't think so but the gap is closing. [indiscernible]

(51:58) I have three please. Firstly, just in terms of the mix of the film for the current year. Could you give us a sort bit of color on what you think ticket pricing trends are going to be in terms of that mix and also as a consequent retail spend? Secondly, could you give us a bit of an update on London screens opportunity in terms of maybe finding some more megaplex, bigger sites in London? And thirdly, could you just talk about the Orange Wednesday impact to the last year? Thank you.

So, the mix of movies, you'll clearly see when you look at the movies that there's a lot of family product there. It is on one hand might reduce a little bit average ticket price, not substantially, but there will be – maybe more kids tickets sold. But on the other hand, number of attendants for these movies, which are very, very popular now more and more, probably will pay for this at least because instead of parents taking their kids to the cinema, let's say two or three times in a year, probably in such a lineup they will take them five times a year. So, it's difficult to estimate, but I don't think it's going to be any significant influence on the ticket price. There might be here and there.

If I jump from this to the Orange Wednesday because it again has to do with the ticket pricing, the Orange Wednesday didn't have – the cancellation of the Orange Wednesday didn't have a huge impact on the number of tickets and Wednesday is not anymore such a significant day I would say as it used to be. But we have our new promotion for the industry which Compare the Market, which is Tuesday and Wednesday. So it's not pointing out one day. There are two days there in the offer. The plan works well. And then, I don't think there's any significantly influence on the industry from moving from Orange to compare the market. So this is where we are.

London presence, we are looking to increase our London presence side by side with improving our current London presence. And then, so we are renovating some of our cinemas, which are well not in Central London except Central Picturehouse, but we have good representation on the big area of London. We are going to renovate some of the cinemas there like Wandsworth [indiscernible] (54:30) probably quite soon. And we are trying our best to get one, two or three new projects inside London. But we need to remember that this project will not open before four years to five years from now.

Hi, there. Heidi Richardson from UBS. Just two quick questions. On the importance of the premium format, I understand it's maybe 10% of your screens. Can you give us a sense of what that is as a percentage of revenue, I'm assuming it's obviously higher? And then for blockbuster such as James Bond, what does that number go to? Is it 50% of your revenues in these premium formats or?

It's a difficult question to answer.

Yes. And I think...

But it's not 10% of our screens.

And I think it's less than 10% [indiscernible] (55:31) probably.

I think it's really hard. It's a good question. We can try and calculate it. I think at the end of the day that in strong blockbusters, yes, which have an IMAX appearance, [indiscernible] (55:49). You see it on big movies, yes, people really want to go to that format.

I think at the end of the day that it's really hard to guess. [indiscernible] (56:03) calculate, it's an important contributor. It's part of what is pushing our ticket price to be higher. [indiscernible] (56:12) because when you have a cinema which have a 4DX and IMAX format, it's a modern place and when people talk Milton Keynes [indiscernible] (56:22) in cinema it's great, it's new, and it can bring people also to go to see the other format as well. So the influence of this investment in the other format, it's not only on this increase that we get on ticket price but also on the general appearance of the cinema as a modern place that they want to go to. But you gave us a challenge, well calculate and estimate it for you. [indiscernible]

(56:46) if you look the 4DX for example, this is a very young format. We have today three cinemas in the UK. We know it's a sure thing. And we are opening – trying to open as much as we can but it is not easier as I said this year another five to six. But if you will imagine the UK market was something like 30 or 35 4DXes in three years' time or something. It's going to become more and more significant on the results.

And the important thing and Mooky said before so about the special format is it not always people go to the same format which means [indiscernible] (57:25) you have a VIP screen in Sheffield and a 4DX screen in Sheffield. Sheffield is going to be my cinema, I can go there to see movies 12 times a year, two of them will be VIP, two of them will be 4DX and other will be regular movies as well. So it's a very important part of what we want the movie experience to be for our customers knowing that they have the choice. [inaudible]

(57:50-58:04)

I don't think it is a lot lower. And we should look on this maybe, it is a bit lower but I don't think it's a lot lower. We opened few of the sites [indiscernible] (58:10) – we opened six sites there, so maybe just... [inaudible]

(58:15)

We will look on this and give you a more specific answer. But there is definitely – Romania is a very important market for us, a market which is doing very, very well so far. And we think, we'll continue to open there a lot of cinemas.

Okay. Thank you very much.

Thank you very much everyone.