Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Bryan J. Pechersky — Secretary, Executive VP & General Counsel, Cloud Peak Energy, Inc.
Colin Marshall — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Cloud Peak Energy, Inc.
Heath A. Hill — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Cloud Peak Energy, Inc.
Paul Forward — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.
Lucas N. Pipes — Analyst, FBR Capital Markets & Co.
David Francis Gagliano — Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (United States)

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Cloud Peak Energy, Inc. Third Quarter 2016 Earnings Conference. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.

Now I would like to welcome and turn the call to Mr. Bryan Pechersky, Executive Vice President and General Counsel. Please go ahead.

Good afternoon, and thank you for joining us. With me today is Colin Marshall, Cloud Peak Energy's President and CEO; Heath Hill, CFO; and Gary Rivenes, COO.

Today's presentation may contain forward-looking statements regarding our outlook for our company and industry, financial and operational guidance, volumes, prices and demand, the regulatory and political environment, growth strategies, capital resources and other statements that are not historical facts. Actual results may differ materially because of various risks and uncertainties, including those described in the cautionary statement in today's earnings release and in our 2015 Form 10-K.

Today's presentation also includes non-GAAP financial measures. Please refer to today's earnings release for the reconciliations and related disclosures. Our earnings release is available on the Investor Relations section of our website at cloudpeakenergy.com.

I'll now turn the call over to Colin Marshall.

Thank you, Bryan. Good afternoon, and thank you for taking the time to listen into our Q3 2016 results call. As Bryan mentioned, I'm joined by Heath Hill and Gary Rivenes.

The last few months have been very positive for Cloud Peak Energy and certainly a big improvement from the first-half of the year. Shipments picked up due to the warm weather and we amended our bank facility and completed a bond exchange, strengthening our financial position. At the same time, the recent dramatic improvement in international thermal coal prices has allowed us to contract to export approximately 1 million tons between November and February next year.

Increased domestic shipments allowed us to generate adjusted EBITDA of $40.6 million during the quarter. The rapid improvement in shipments since mid-year has allowed us to improve our guidance range for full-year adjusted EBITDA and shipments.

I'm very happy to be able to report that during the quarter, there were no reportable injuries among our 1,200 mine employees. We have had one minor reportable injury in the last 12 months, which is a remarkable achievement that we're all very proud of. There were four MSHA inspection days at our sites in the quarter with no substantial and significant citations issued. There were no environmental citations at any of our sites during the quarter and it is now over two years since our last environmental citation.

As we foreshadowed in our last call, we expected shipments to pick up in the third quarter, which they did. The warm summer rates electricity demand has increased both coal and natural gas burn for power generation. Coal stockpiles have been reduced and customers have become increasingly focused on taking delivery of their contracted coal this year. Our mines are all well-positioned to meet our contract position for the rest of the year, as we have stayed up with our pre-stripping and equipment maintenance.

Once again, I'm very impressed with the way our employees have been prepared to work flexibly to allow us to manage cost, the shipment slowed, and have now picked up. The dragline we moved from Cordero Rojo to Antelope Mine is now in full production and operating well.

I'll now hand over to Heath to run through the financials before returning to cover the outlook.

Thank you, Colin. The higher shipment days during the period as compared to the first-half of the year resulted in third quarter shipments of 17 million tons, which drove our cost per ton down to $8.95. With our realized price per ton of $12.33, we were able to record a cash margin of $3.38 per ton during the period. We continue to align our cost to the varying rates of shipments. While volumes were 18% lower as compared to the third quarter of 2015, our total mining cost decreased by 21%.

Our Owned and Operated Mines generated segment adjusted EBITDA of $56 million for the third quarter. While the contracting and scheduling of export sales for the coming months is encouraging, we had no Asian export shipments during the third quarter of this year. We made payments under the amended port and rail contracts, which were partially offset by the collection of Newcastle hedge gains in the period, resulting in a segment adjusted EBITDA loss of $6 million for the third quarter.

SG&A cost during the period were $1.8 million lower than the comparative period of 2015. This decrease would have been larger, except for mark-to-market stock compensation expense in the period caused by the recent rise in the company's share price, as well as, bonus accrual adjustments related to our very good safety performance so far this year.

Our consolidated adjusted EBITDA for the third quarter was $40.6 million, which is 4% higher than the $39 million reported for the third quarter of 2015. Applications to reduce our reclamation bonding obligations, which were largely based upon the new equipment cost guidelines, have been approved by the State of Wyoming Department of Environmental Quality. This reduces our self-bonding requirement to $10 million.

We are in the process of releasing our self-bonded amounts and expect to exit self-bonding in the coming months. We continue to support our remaining reclamation surety bond program with a 15% level of collateral in the form of letters of credit under our credit agreement.

We were pleased to complete the bank amendment to our revolver in September, which introduced financial flexibility related to covenant modifications and increased second lien capacity, but reduced our available borrowing amount by 20%, or $100 million. Of the current $400 million revolver, we have issued $71 million in letters of credit, leaving $329 million of available borrowing capacity under our credit agreement.

We ended the period with $90.3 million in cash, which represents a $26 million increase during the third quarter, and is approximately $1 million more than the cash balance to begin the year. When the cash balance and available borrowing capacity are both combined with our $29.5 million AR securitization program, our total available liquidity at quarter end was $448.5 million.

Subsequent to the third quarter end, we also completed our bond exchange transaction. The nearly 80% participation of the 2019 bondholders allowed for $238 million of bonds to be extended into 2021, leaving us with only $62 million of bonds to refinance in 2019. When combined with the $18.3 million cash component of the exchange, we delevered by over $91 million or nearly 18%.

As we look towards year-end, we have increased the low end of our shipping guidance and narrowed the full-year range of shipments to be between 57 million tons and 60 million tons for 2016. With the higher domestic shipment volume expectations and the positive contribution of the contracted fourth quarter export sales, we are narrowing and raising our range of full-year adjusted EBITDA guidance to between $90 million and $100 million.

After completing the dragline relocation project under budget and assessing the timing of necessary capital repairs to maintain the health of our equipment fleet, we have lowered the guidance range for capital expenditures by $5 million to be between $30 million and $40 million for the year.

Depreciation, depletion and amortization expense has been refined to be between $50 million and $55 million for the year, and cash interest for 2016 will be approximately $40 million.

For the good operating results in the third quarter resulting in strong cash generation, the financial flexibility introduced with the amendment to our credit agreement and the deleveraging and debt maturity extension achieved through the bond exchange, we are in a stronger financial position moving forward.

With that, I'll hand the conversation back to Colin.

Thank you, Heath. It has been a remarkable few months for international coal. Met coal has increased to over $200 per metric ton and near-term Newcastle thermal coal prices are now around $100. Indian demand for thermal coal has been weak, but it has been swamped by Chinese import demand, which has increased rapidly as they move to close less efficient domestic coal mines.

The demand growth in South Korea, Vietnam, and Taiwan continues its forecast giving an overall positive outlook. At the same time, supply from Indonesia and Australia appears to be constrained due to low capital spending in recent years. The price rise has allowed us to restart our exports. We now have approximately 1 million tons of exports booked for the next few months and are looking to contract substantial tonnage through next year.

These shipments will allow us to avoid our current take-or-pay commitments on tons shipped and to benefit for the mine and logistics margins. The domestic outlook has also improved in the last few months with the warm summer increasing electricity demand and reducing cold stockpiles. As natural gas production has decreased since February, the rate of inventory build through the summer has been significantly lower than last year. Oil and natural gas prices are now over $3 during the winter months. Unless there is a warm winter, it is likely that natural gas prices will remain at levels, which will increase coal burn compared to last year. It is notable that recently that we have seen a marked increase in our customers' interest in ensuring they received their contracted coal this year and in the number of RFPs we have received from them.

Given the limited number of RFPs earlier in the year, it [ph] has been our understanding (10:01) to be competitive to win them. While coal prices have risen, they will hopefully go further to provide more sustainable margin for PRB producers. We are now forecasting PRB demand to fall from 405 million tons over last year to around 310 million tons to 320 million tons this year.

In 2017, PRB coal demand is expected to rebound a little with growth of 10 million tons to 20 million tons. As we have recently seen, the price of natural gas in hot or cold weather can have a significant impact on coal demand. During Q3, while there were some small transaction and additional export sales, our overall contracted position for 2016 did not change. We have 61 million tons contracted at an average price of $12.41 per ton.

For 2017, we are currently committed to sell 47 million tons. Of this committed production, 45 million tons are on the fixed price contracts with a weighted average price of $12.34 per ton. We recently contracted 3 million tons for next year at an average price of $10.38, which reflects the mix of 8,400 Btu and 8,800 Btu coal sold and the prevailing prices.

With the recent increase in RFP activity, we expect to be able to book additional sales for 2017 by the end of the year, but still expect to end the year with some unsold tons, as utilities shorten their buying horizons to try and allow themselves to switch between coal and gas based on short-term pricing. This approach is likely to lead to significant price swings if demand is moved by cold weather this winter.

To sum up before we take your questions, this quarter played out better than we could have expected, as warm weather increased demand, reducing coal stockpiles, and increasing shipments. Biogas prices should ensure PRB coal continues to be burnt through the shoulder season and into the winter, which would help Q4 shipments and 2017 pricing.

We completed the important bank facility amendment and bond exchange, which significantly reduced the financing hurdles we were facing over the next few years. We've reduced our self-bonding requirement down to $10 million and expect to have this extinguished before our next call.

International prices moved to allow us to contract export approximately 1 million tons in the coming months and we're looking to export a lot more next year. The mines are in good shape and our safety and environmental performance was great. Overall, a very encouraging quarter.

With that, we can take your questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] From the line of Paul Forward with Stifel. Please go ahead, Paul.

Thanks and good afternoon, and congratulations on the quarter.

Thank you.

Colin, I think, you just said that you just slipped in that you plan to potentially ship a lot more export tonnage next year. I just wanted to ask, I guess, first of all, when you stack up the economics on making additional commitments either to the domestic or the export markets, how different are they right now? And then just a follow-up on that idea, if there was a lot more tonnage that you're planning to ship to the exports markets for next year, where do you first run into the bottleneck? Is it going to be at the mine, along the rails or at the export terminal?

Okay, Paul, thanks for that. I think at the moment with near-term Newcastle prices around $100, we have the potential to make greater margins on export than domestic. I'd also point out that the export sales are – we don't actually have to make a choice between the two, because there're incremental sales available at Spring Creek, which has a limited domestic market at the moment, but has the capacity to produce more for exports, so we don't actually have to make that choice.

The constraint as we go forward really is how quickly can we spool up the supply chain and get the rail and the port system back to full swing from obviously a standing start this quarter. And that's what we're focused on at the moment. I think we'll know a lot more as that speeds up over the next few months to see how quickly we can get that going and back to where it was performing a few years ago. And obviously, for us, we'd like to ship as many tons as we can as long as they are profitable and particularly as they allow us to avoid the take-or-pay commitment we have on those tons.

All right. Thanks. And, well, just on that subject to the take or pay, it sounds like, at least, November through February, you're anticipating that the volumes that you're shipping in limited numbers are going to be enough to overcome the take-or-pays and offer a positive margin on that logistics business.

I'm just wondering if you could talk a little bit about, if there are additional commitments over that period, does that mean that that the take or pay has been covered at that point and then the additional volumes would then flow back to you guys and might you be able to give us any sort of information on the sort of sensitivities that you would see if we were to see movements in Newcastle pricing, what that might mean for the company on those additional – any additional shipments?

In terms of the overall take-or-pay commitment, the cash obligation next year is about $18 million. And proportionally, every ton we ship up to about $6 million will come off that. So we can certainly reduce that straight away. Exactly how it pans out, I'd say at the moment, we'll be able to give you a much better idea in February because the market really is moving so quickly and people are scrambling to get coal, that it's hard to give you a number because, first of all, I don't think I should, but secondly, it is actually moving very, very quickly and we've [indiscernible] (16:14) to see in the aggregate what information we got in February.

But we start off from a sort of minus $18 million position on the take-or-pay commitment. So every ton we ship starts improving that straight away.

Okay. Maybe last question would be with your cost being significantly lower this quarter and then also getting the benefit of the export market picking up again, you have a question on what to do with the additional cash generation next year? Just wondering, if you could talk about what your priorities would be for uses of cash?

I think first of all, let's realize that cash generation. And I think it will depend on how the domestic market goes. We still got tons to sell for next year. So it's looking good, but let's wait till we got that put in place. And I think as we look forward, it would be a nice issue to actually to have some cash and then we can look at different options do with it. Obviously one thing we'll be looking at is that stub of the $62 million or whatever for 2019. But exactly how we go about doing things, let's wait and see.

I think the important thing is, as you guys recognize it, we don't have any LBA payments. Obviously, the capital is in pretty good shape, but if anything dramatic, we're expecting next year. So overall, if the exports perform and we get the domestic sales up to say, even a similar level to sort of this year, then we should be in a recently good position, particularly if the domestic prices go up a little bit.

So at the moment, things have turned significantly in the right direction. But I think we'd like to see on the next few months play out to get a firm better understanding of how next year should be. But it was certainly looking better than it was a few months ago.

Yes. Okay, thanks, Colin.

Thanks.

And our next question comes from the line of Lucas Pipes with FBR & Company. Please go ahead.

Hey, good afternoon, everybody, and congratulations on a very strong quarter.

Thank you.

So I have a few follow-up questions on the export market. First, you scheduled about 1 million tons. And I was curious that's not an insignificant amount in of itself. And when did you start to look to the export market? Was it most recently here? At what point in time did you decide to export those opportunities?

Well, as you can imagine, Lucas, we've been watching the export market very closely for a long time. But it's certainly the Newcastle price just really took off along with met coal. Well, it's like met coal a little bit, but it took off in the last three months. And obviously, we've been looking, waiting for the subbituminous price we can get with our Korean customers to sort of come into the money. And that really has happened in the last month. And certainly when it was just about we're booking a ship, maybe three weeks ago, now the price have moved substantially since then.

And I think the issue is certainly for the rest of this year, for our customer, is actually availability of coal, and that's what we're very focused now whilst we got a million tons contract. It is actually about getting the supply chain moving to get that coal through because one thing we don't want to do is oversell and then be faced with the low demurrage, that wouldn't be smart.

So we've got to be a little bit patient. But the demand is there, and we know the capital is there. This has all been spent. And now we just need to get it back and going and we're obviously spending a lot of time working with the railway and the port to accomplish that.

Okay, that's helpful. Certainly a very, very positive development. And just to dig a little bit deeper on what you just mentioned there. When I think back in the past, how you access and participated in the seaborne market, you engaged in a fair bit of hedging over the OTC. Is that part of your strategy as well today? So when the 10-Q comes out, should we be seeing hedges in there or how are you accessing the market today?

At the moment, it's all happening so quickly that we're just selling directly to major South Korean customers. Obviously, we will look at the hedging program, but the success of that was when prices were about $120 and we were locking and putting in floors at $110. We don't want to go and lock in the price at a low level and things are moving so fast. At the moment, it's a question of watching where the market is, and we'll certainly look if we believe if there's any opportunities, but not yet. It's only been in a few weeks since we'd actually reentered the market.

But would it be fair to say that at the current Newcastle price for 2017, wouldn't you be able to lock in essentially your entire export capacity at a profit?

Well, there is a fair bit of contango in the market at the moment. So it would be pretty close. Yeah, it wouldn't be the same as what we're actually able to sell out near-term. And I think, given the way the market is moving and all the indications are, it's not obvious that's what we want to do this week.

Okay. So just to stay on the topic, given also this is not just my interest. I think I'm speaking for many investors and where their minds are right now. When I think about kind of what you're planning to ship here over the next four months or so, the million tons, should that be pro rated month-by-month, or is that maybe a little bit more back-end loaded? How should we be modeling in what's this year versus next year? Thank you.

Okay. We deliberately haven't given you this year, this is next year number because it's more likely to be – it's just about spooling up the supply chain, so it's more likely to be sort of back-end loaded, I guess, we expect the rate to increase.

The other point is, if a cape size ship is, sort of that sailed in December or January, it makes quite a big swing to that. So at the moment, we got 1 million tons we like to get out by February and depending on how things are going, we like to be talking to you in our call in February about getting close to the 1.5 million tons a quarter that we've got the capacity for.

But essentially all those tons, so even – I understand you may not want to give us the exact timing. But essentially the price on all those tons, 1 million tons, that price is locked in?

Yes, that's correct. Yes.

Okay, very helpful. And then this is, I promise, my last one, and then I'll jump back in the queue. When you say that take-or-pay obligation will be offset on a ton-for-ton basis, we start with that negative $18 million. Essentially for each 1 million tons, how much does it reduce that take-or-pay obligation?

So the $18 million is a 6 million ton volume, so it's about $3 a ton.

It's a metric ton, metric.

Yeah.

Yeah, okay. Got it. Well, I appreciate all the detail. I'll digest this all and jump back in the queue. Thank you very much.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

And our next question comes from the line of [ph] Chris Shade (24:17) with Goldman Sachs. Please go ahead.

Hi. Thanks for taking the questions. I guess my question is just sort of going back to the cost side. You guys did a lot of work obviously taking cost out of the business. But, as you spool back up with more exports and things, are you going to be able keep your costs sub-$9 a ton, or is that going to creep back up a little bit?

First off, [ph] Chris (24:47), you probably need to focus a little bit more on the year-to-date cost in that trend. In the third quarter, a lot of that will be benefited by having some tons that were uncovered in the previous quarter. So if you look at the year-to-date numbers, those look pretty good. We typically advertise that we have a cost inflation of about 5% to 8% that would [ph] taken into case (25:07) our strip ratio or any parts and supplies cost increases and things like that. But we don't have any drastic increases, it really is that 5% to 8% looking forward.

And that's 5% to 8% on the sort of underlying cost. We take out the 30% royalties and the fuel and [indiscernible] (25:28). And obviously we will do everything we can to be at the bottom end of that range. But I think the full-year number of about $10, which is similar to last year, that's a reasonable place to [indiscernible] (25:38).

All right. Thank you.

And our next question comes from the line of David Gagliano with BMO Capital Markets. Please go ahead.

Hi. Thanks for taking my questions, and I hope these have not been answered, jumped around between a couple of calls here. The forward curve in 2017 for Newcastle is obviously a little bit lower than current. And historically, you did give us a number that was kind of a EBITDA break-even price that was needed. Can you just remind me again what that number is?

Yeah. Last time and it's still somewhere between, we say 75% and 80% that sort of range. We actually sort of sell more against the Indonesian price, which the gap between that and Newcastle is, it can vary. But generally, we talk about that 60% to 75% we've had of the Newcastle price. So somewhere between – when it's above 70%, we get an interest, and when it's above 80%, we reckon things, we got a chance to ship. But that's assuming that the Indonesian price is following Newcastle.

Okay. So, then those numbers you're giving me are the Newcastle numbers, right, the 70% to 80%?

Yes.

Okay. All right, great. And then just one quick question. On the volumes that were sold for 2017, I know it's only 3 million tons. And I know it's split between 88% -- or 84% and 88%. It looks like a pretty low numbers. I wonder if you could just give us a little more color on how much was 84% and how much was 88%?

Well, you always try and get that out of me. And I would say, really when I look through the prices, it was really – [ph] it was because the (27:18) OTC was low during the quarter. And actually when the OTC started going up, it's sort only been recently and to some extent the – in a rising market, the RFPs can lag by $0.50 or so for a while. But as I look to the dates we got, we are pretty low, that's where the OTC price was for the quarter even though we were sort of selling into a rising market at the end of the quarter, as the utilities came out to start buying.

And I think the encouraging thing at the moment is, there's quite a few more RFPs coming out, it looks slight towards – at the moment and hopefully by selling a few tons we can sort of be in a position where we can hold off for a while to allow prices to rise a bit further?

Okay, great. Thank you very much.

Thank you, Dave.

And ladies and gentlemen, this concludes our Q&A for today. I'd like turn the call to Colin Marshall for final remarks.

Okay. Well, that was very quick. Thank you for your questions. I'm sorry, we got another question.

We have just got in a follow-up from Lucas Pipes, FBR & Co. Go ahead, Lucas.

Thank you very much for taking my follow-up question. I have more questions on the export market. So that the first would be, can you remind us in terms of, there's been kind of guidance in terms of calculating that the royalties on those export tons, as we fine tune our models and incorporate, you're participating in that export market again. How should we capture the federal royalty, I don't know maybe state royalties as well on those export tons? I would appreciate that.

Yes. Well, I guess, we would like a bit of clarity on it too. Obviously, the ONRR Rule came out to say that they were changing from the way we've calculated the severance based on like sales at the mine. I wanted to calculate the price of the mine based upon a netback method.

We've had one sort of workshop with ONRR. And I have to say it was clear that it's a work in progress and that they haven't actually flowed through that, that was going to work. And we'll be – we'll probably have a better idea in February. But I think their idea is, obviously, we'll have a netback reduced, removing our costs from the rail and port costs to get back to it some sort of value at the mine. The exact detail do include demurrage or other sort of smaller fees and everything, that needs to be worked out. And we'll let you know when we know. But we'll obviously be sort of conservative in the way that we report anything, that we're actually looking for the clarity from ONRR because they've come up with a very complicated way of calculating things, which as we said many times, we don't think is actually representative of the value of the mine, or not the best measure of the value of the mine.

Got it. So we'll stay tune in terms of any additional clarity. Okay. And then just a few more in terms of kind of calculating the netback price and how I thought about it historically was taking the Newcastle price applying that already. So, I think, 65% or so converting to short ton, and then, I think, I assumed about $34 or so per short ton in transportation from Westshore back to the mine. And then there's also port fee, of course, at Westshore. I don't know how much you can tell us at this point. But if you could maybe remind everybody in terms of how that netback works, I think that would be very helpful?

Okay. Well, your sort of methodology is right, but I've got to stay clear as to giving you the rail and port cost because we're not allowed to. But what I would say towards, if you actually go back and look at when we were exporting few quarters ago and look at the tons and those sort of cost base and assume the selling price of the mine, you can get a pretty good idea of the costs that include a few more moving parts, but it's pretty stable. And then if you put them in your methodology, you should be roughly right.

And in terms of the rail and the port fees now that you ship again, would they be substantially different from your previous arrangements?

Not substantially different.

Okay, that's helpful. And then maybe the last one for now, those 1 million tons. Any sense in terms of price that you're selling those under, that would be very helpful?

Well, I think I'll stay clear of that, because the price is rising so rapidly. In the first tons, we sort of said, we're basically a break-even and now the last ones, we've got a pretty decent margin on that. I think we'll have a lot more information in February once we actually see the way that the market is panning out, once we actually got the confidence that we've got the rail and ports spooled up, so that we can actually make some sales into the rest of Q1 and through the rest of the year.

So at the moment, it's really is moving so fast that the price one week to the next moved quite substantially. So I think let's see how this sort of pans out and we'll be looking to sell all the tons we can at a profit obviously and we'll give you an update in February.

Okay, all right. Well, I appreciate all the color and good luck with that.

Thank you.

And I'm not showing any further questions in the queue, Mr. Marshall.

Okay. Once again thank you taking the time to listening to our earnings call. Obviously, it's been good to report the improved outlook for the business and obviously, people focused on the sudden return of the export potential, which obviously we've put a lot of effort into earlier. So I'd like to thank all our employees for doing such a good job through the year and getting to this position and hopefully, I think we're pretty well-placed going forward.

So, thank you, and we'll look forward to talking to you in February.

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. This concludes the program and you may all disconnect. Have a great afternoon.