Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Bryan J. Pechersky — General Counsel, Corporate Secretary & Executive Vice President, Cloud Peak Energy, Inc.
Colin Marshall — President, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer & Director, Cloud Peak Energy, Inc.
Heath A. Hill — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Cloud Peak Energy, Inc.
Lucas N. Pipes — Analyst, B. Riley FBR, Inc.
Mark Andrew Levin — Analyst, Seaport Global Securities LLC
John Bridges — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC
Arthur Calavritinos — Portfolio Manager, ANC CAPITAL

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to Cloud Peak Energy First Quarter 2018 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode to prevent background noise. [Operator Instructions] We will have a question-and-answer session. And as a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

Now, I would like to turn the call to Mr. Bryan Pechersky, Executive Vice President and General Counsel. You may begin, sir.

Good afternoon. With me today are Colin Marshall, Cloud Peak Energy's President, CEO and COO; and Heath Hill, CFO.

Today's presentation may contain forward-looking statements regarding our outlook for the company and industry, financial and operational guidance, volumes, prices, demand and costs, the regulatory and political environment and growth strategies, capital resources and other statements that are not historical facts. Actual results may differ materially because of various risks and uncertainties, including those described in the cautionary statement in today's earnings release and in our most recent Form 10-K and Forms 10-Q.

Today's presentation also includes non-GAAP financial measures. Please refer to today's earnings release for the reconciliations and related disclosures. Our earnings release is available on the Investor Relations section of our website at cloudpeakenergy.com.

I'll now turn the call over to Colin Marshall.

Thank you, Bryan. Good afternoon, and thank you for taking the time to listen to our Q1 2018 results call. I'm joined by Heath Hill, our CFO.

Shipments during the first quarter continued at a steady pace as our customers took their contracted coal. The cold January increased coal burn bringing down utility inventories, but this slowed in February and March with warmer weather.

Our export business ran well with strong demand from our Asian customers and good performance from the rail and port system. This allowed us to export the forecasted 1.4 million tons during the quarter. There were no reportable injuries during the quarter at our operations and our rolling 12-month All Injury Frequency Rate is currently [ph] 0.14 (02:03) injuries per 200,000 hours worked. There are also no reportable environmental incidents during the quarter, so it is now over three years since that we had one.

During the quarter, our operations had some weather-related interruptions, as is normal in Q1. Per ton costs increased during the quarter due to the higher strip ratios we'd had previously discussed, and the impact of low shipments. We continue to focus on maintaining the quality of our equipment and improving the deployment and effectiveness of our preventative maintenance and equipment monitoring programs.

At the Antelope Mine, we have begun replacement of the top – of one of our draglines, which will take two months. As the dragline downtime will reduce our stripping capacity, it has been timed to coincide with the Q2 shoulder season when we typically have lower shipments.

I'll now hand over to Heath to cover the financials before I talk about the 2018 outlook.

Thank you, Colin. Our consolidated adjusted EBITDA for the first quarter was $19.6 million. That's compared to the $20.4 million for the first quarter of 2017. While the consolidated results are relatively consistent, a shift in the mix of earnings in the period occurred, as improved logistics earnings and lower SG&A expense offset lower domestic earnings in the period.

During this first quarter of 2018, we shipped 12.3 million tons of coal. This compares to our first quarter shipments in 2017 of 14.1 million tons. The current period volumes included 900,000 more tons of exports at higher margins as compared to prior year.

Our realized domestic price per ton of $12.20 for the first quarter is slightly higher than the $12.10 per ton reported for last year's first quarter, which primarily reflects the changing mix of our coal sales. With the increasing strip ratios, higher diesel costs and the lower volume of shipments, our costs for the first quarter were $10.94 per ton. Comparatively, the first quarter of 2017 cost per ton was $9.87. We forecast the magnitude of this comparative quarterly impact to decline throughout the year as the pace of shipments is expected to increase to achieve our guided volumes.

During the first quarter, our Owned and Operated Mines segment generated adjusted EBITDA of $18.6 million. Export shipments for the first quarter of 2018 were 1.4 million tons, which is consistent with our rail and port contracts and is a significant improvement as compared to the ramp-up pace experienced in the comparable period. With the steady pace and performance by the rail import, efficiencies were gained, most notably a $1.5 million lower demurrage charge in the period.

The Logistics segment adjusted EBITDA was $7.1 million for the period. Our best quarterly result since export shipments resumed in the fourth quarter of 2016. With an average realized price of $57.13 per ton on our Asian export shipments, we achieved a $5.04 margin per ton, which is incremental to the domestic cash margin reported in our Owned and Operated Mines segment results.

The contracted selling price for the second quarter is $2 to $3 per ton higher than the first quarter results. We will benefit by approximately 50% of the increase, as we incur higher rail rates in Montana severance taxes. Our SG&A cost of $7.3 million were lower than the $11 million reported for the first quarter last year. Overall, our SG&A costs were consistent with prior year except for our mark-to-market stock compensation expense that was updated for [ph] Performance-Based Equity Award (05:50).

As our stock price declined during the first quarter of this year, the calculation resulted in a $4.4 million credit to this estimated award value. This mark-to-market volatility will continue throughout 2018, as these performance share units will vest in March 2019.

As we look forward, we are reaffirming our 2018 guidance. Our range of shipments remains between 52 million and 56 million tons, of which we expect to export approximately 5.5 million tons. Our 2018 adjusted EBITDA guidance range continues to be between $75 million and $100 million. Our range for capital expenditures remains between $15 million and $25 million.

We ended the first quarter with $127.8 million of cash, which is an increase of nearly $20 million during the period. While this amount will fluctuate throughout the year, particularly with the interest on our 2021 notes being paid in the second and fourth quarters, we continue to expect to grow cash on an annual basis. Assuming we achieve the midpoint of our adjusted EBITDA guidance, the operating cash inflows would more than offset our forecasted capital expenditure and cash interest needs.

Our total available liquidity was $527.8 million at quarter end, which is the aggregate amount of our cash balance plus available borrowing capacity on our undrawn $400 million credit agreement. We are currently working to amend and extend our credit agreement, which matures in February 2019. While we expect the replacement facility to be significantly smaller, our focus is on ensuring that we have adequate liquidity to support our business needs. Our A/R Securitization program was fully utilized throughout the first quarter to support the $23 million of outstanding collateral requirements on our reclamation surety bonds.

With that, I will hand the conversation back to Colin.

Thank you, Heath. I'll now cover the international and domestic outlooks before we take your questions. The overall outlook for Asian seaborne thermal coal demand remained strong. Chinese total electricity generation was up 10% in Q1 this year, largely supplied by coal. Chinese imports in January and February were up 40% compared to last year.

Outside China, demand continues to grow as new power stations come online in Japan, South Korea and Vietnam. We continue to experience strong interest from Asian utility customers for our Spring Creek Mine coal. Our Asian customers continue to seek the consistent quality and supply diversity our coal offers. We've now contracted 3.3 million tons for delivery this year at improved prices.

With the rail and port system working as planned, we expect to ship 5.5 million tons. The recent decrease in Newcastle and Indonesian thermal coal price index is a common this time of year as the winter ends and we expect prices to firm as the summer progresses and to be able to contract the remaining 2.2 million tons planned for delivery this year.

You may recall that last quarter we announced a new contract with JERA Trading to supply two new IGCC units that are currently being built near Fukushima, Japan. This contract had some flexibility to increase shipments. We were recently notified by JERA Trading that they were exercising their option to increase shipments under the contract by 20%, bringing the annual maximum to 1.3 million tons after initial ramp-up.

We have seen increased interest from other Japanese utilities, who are keen to diversify supply and value the consistent quality our coal offers. One successful test burn shipped in Q1 and another was recently contracted to ship in May. We are also discussing test burns with two other Japanese utilities that could occur later this year.

On the domestic front, while the cold weather in January helped reduce coal inventories, the recent milder weather increased natural gas productions have allowed utilities [ph] to continue to (09:47) hold off contracting. Natural gas prices for May delivery are currently around $2.80, even with inventories 41% down on this time last year. When utilities have issued RFPs recently, coal pricing has been very competitive as producers seek to fill that capacity.

We've currently contracted to sell 47 million tons this year, including the 3.3 million tons of exports. This means we still have around 5 million tons of domestic sales to make to meet the midpoint of our production guidance range. The 47 million tons of committed production are in the fixed-price contracts, with a weighted average price of $12.28 per ton. The 2 million tons we contracted or priced since our last call were at a weighted average price of $11.83 per ton, reflecting the mix of 8800 and 8400 coal and prevailing prices.

There was no change to our 2019 sales position since our last call. And we have contracted 24 million tons of delivery in 2019. Of this committed production, 17 million tons are in the fixed-price contracts with a weighted average price of $12.63.

So to sum up before we take your questions, as we come out of winter, we have seen a recent increase in the number of RFPs as utilities begin to contract for the remaining 28 deliveries. Competition is fierce keeping coal prices down, as increased natural gas production keeps prices below $3. We expect gas prices and weather to continue to drive incremental domestic coal consumption going forward.

At the same time, the outlook for our export business continues to improve with strong demand and solid prices. We are looking to take this opportunity to schedule test burns with new high-quality customers and to continue to build our long-term relationships with our existing export customers.

With that, we can take your questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And our first question is from the line of Lucas Pipes with B. Riley FBR. Your line is open.

Hey. Good afternoon, everybody.

Hi, Lucas.

Heath, Colin, I wanted to follow up a little bit on the industry comments that you shared in the introductory remarks. You spoke of fierce competition, obviously there's the usual dynamics with weather and gas, but can we talk a little bit more about the structural issues? Where do you see coal burn this year versus last year? And then, importantly, when it comes to retirements looking out to 2019 and 2020, what's on the horizon and how does it impact the PRB? Thank you.

Okay. So, I think as we've said in the remarks that this – clearly utilities have been holding off, buying coal to be bought for the remainder of this year. And at the moment, the utilities who've come out for pricing has not been that many. And obviously with PRB producers such as ourselves having excess capacity to fill in second half of the year, as you can imagine, the pricing is very competitive. So, that's the dynamic at the moment.

I think if – as stockpiles have come down a long way from last year, there is the potential with gas inventories lower or if there is early start to summer and a strong hot summer, big cooling demand for – that will be lot of burn of coal just as we saw in January and that could bring the utilities into the market in a strong way.

The other side of that is if there's a very mild summer, then that would leave them with buying less and that wouldn't be good for all producers. So, that's the dynamic we're in. The reality is the industry has changed massively from where it was five or six years ago when utilities used to know what they were going to burn through their coal plants and would buy accordingly. There is a lot more variability which is what we're coming to terms with.

We're optimistic that the rapid rate of closures we've seen in the last couple of years is actually slowing down and that will actually give them some opportunity for the supply and demand to come into balance and give more sustainable margins to producers. That's not occurred yet, but we're closer to being in that position than we were this time last year the – my estimation.

But equally, we have to recognize there is an awful lot of gas coming on. How much of that's balanced by exports and the need to continue investing capital to keep that production going. It will play out in the next year or two, as those markets mature and as the economy develops and exports develop.

But that's – we're in a very dynamic market. We've got to see how that occurs. We are optimistic the rate of plant closures will actually slow. And I think that would be a key thing, though realistically most utilities have longer-term their plans offer to close plants. But hopefully, it's not that they've gone through this round of closures, and we've got a few years of stability.

That's a very comprehensive answer, and I appreciate that. Maybe just to hone in on the potential for retirements. As it stands today, how many million tons would be impacted in both 2019 and 2020 from the PRB specifically?

I haven't got that number at my fingertips, Lucas, I think it's a lot less than the last few years. But there is a factor there that it's worth recognizing that even if you get some closures, it doesn't mean you can't burn a lot of coal in the existing plants, because utilization rates have gone down. So, there is actually a fair bit of excess coal burn capacity even with maybe less actual plants than we had.

I mean, obviously, closing plants isn't a good thing, but it doesn't mean there isn't the ability to go up when demand rises seasonally and I think that's the dynamic we're going to face going forward. So, I think the actual – the rates of closures whilst is not a good thing, it's actually the demand level for power and the price of gas that is really going to demand, drive coal burn, and therefore the amount of demand for our coal.

Got it. Okay. Well, I'll leave it here. I very much appreciate the detail. Thank you.

No Problem.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And our next question is from Mark Levin with Seaport Global. Your line is open.

All right. Thank you very much. Two quick questions. One, one of your competitors today decided to voluntarily pull back their shipments by about 10 million tons in the basin. I think you mentioned in your remarks that you still have about 5 million tons left to – left to price or commit for the remainder of the year. Is there any sense that if prices don't get any better or if demand doesn't get any better, that you might keep those tons in the ground if simply not sell them this year?

Well, Mark, if demand isn't there, if the customers don't come out for it, I think that's...

Sure. That's okay...

...pretty clear...

...that's a fair point...

...we won't sell it. But, yeah, the pricing, there comes a price we're obviously very close to it where you don't want to sell and we've seen if you look at our business, the production has come down significantly in the last few years. We're looking for some stability this year, but we're obviously being helped significantly by the exports which you guys look at the domestic plant or the middle of our guidance range, domestic is down by several million tons, but we're able to balance that with the exports. So, yes, we can only sell what customers want to buy and then depending on how that – you know how many of them want to buy, it will drive the price, the level of supply will help drive the price, but, yeah, we can only sell what people will buy.

I guess I should've phrased it another way which is, are you pretty confident that you'll sell those remaining 5 million tons?

We believe the coal out there, I mean the real driver, if it's an extraordinary mild winter, mild summer that would be bad, if it's a hot one, that would be great. So if it's a normal summer, yes. There is – we do believe there is a significant amount of coal to be bought by the utilities. They are still actually burning quite a bit of coal and [ph] full (18:26) the doom and gloom around coal, it's still roughly 30% of U.S. electricity, so quite a lot. And that actually means that they do need to buy it and they need to burn it to keep the lights and air conditioners on. So whilst it's very dynamic and it's changing, we're still pretty active and several coal producers.

Got it. And that's fair. And when we think about the range of full year guidance low end to high end and you said here I guess almost four months through the year, are you feeling more confident that in the mid – I mean, obviously, you would have changed it if you had, but maybe talk a little bit about your confidence level about getting to at least the midpoint and then the factors that would go into you being either above the midpoint of the range from here or below it?

Okay. So the main factors for us are I think pretty clear. You've got the international pricing on the remaining 2.2 million tons and I'd see that as potential upside. We've got a negative would be diesel price if that come – what comes through there. And then the big one is your domestic volumes and what price – so the amount of coal we sell and what price, I mean those are really the variables facing us at the moment. And certainly, the domestic stuff in terms of demand and price that we'll be able to see that play out with the demand and [ph] based I mean (19:56) summer weather at the moment.

Yeah. That's perfect. And then just – I'll be done after this one. But like when you think at the midpoint of the guidance, what is the international price that we should kind of be cueing off of, or what is the midpoint of the guidance range based off from an international coal price perspective?

Mark, this is Heath. We had offered that in that range, about $30 million would come from the Logistics business. So, you take 5.5 million tons that we still feel confident with. You multiply that by the margin that we were reporting in the first quarter that gives you the data points that get you to the upper 20s. So – and then we said – so the $5 margins on 5.5 million tons that's where we feel confident. And we've got the pricing in there as well and we've got contracted position for second quarter being $2 to $3 higher than what we reported for the first quarter. [indiscernible] (20:42). Yeah.

Okay. Great. Yeah. I know that's very helpful. I was just curious. Appreciate the time. Thank you very much.

Okay.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And our next question is from John Bridges with JPMorgan. Your line is open.

Hi Colin, everybody. Thanks for the call. There was a Canadian producer complaining about poor service out of Westshore. I just wonder what sort of service you've been getting and whether that might give you more capacity in the future, or what's your thoughts on logistics out of Westshore? Thank you.

Okay. Thanks, John. As we said in the prepared remarks in the release, the performance of the rail and port this year has been in line with our forecast. We did the 1.4 million tons, which obviously on a quarterly basis is just where we need to be to get to 5.5 million tons, and the system is working as planned. So that's all good.

And especially in the first quarter [indiscernible] (21:48) last year, when we're trying to ramp it up and there was bad weather and it obviously was a problem then. The main thing we see with these systems is once the rail and the ports sort of chugging along, and you got the ships coming and the trains all in motion, then it runs well, but going up and down quickly can be a struggle and cause some operational issues.

So, the moment we're very comfortable, the operation of the rail and port, in terms of the longer term ability to get capacity, where we will obviously be in discussions with Westshore and the railway to see if there's any opportunities to increase production if any space becomes available. And we believe the demand is certainly there with our Asian customers, but we will be very watchful of the level of take-or-pays that we take on because remember it was only two years ago that there was a significant problem for us. So, we need to be cognizant of that. But overall, yeah, we see opportunities there and we're pleased with the way it's going at the moment.

Okay. Great. Mary thanks, Colin.

Thank you.

Thank you. And I'm not showing any further questions in the queue. I would like to turn the call back to Mr. Colin Marshall for his final remark. Oh, we do have – I'm sorry. We do have Arthur Calavritinos with ANC CAPITAL. Your line is open.

Yeah. Hi, Colin. [indiscernible] (23:14) on your introductory remarks. You pointed out the nat gas was down 41% year-over-year. We had a bearish summer and winter, and I hear you about production, but those numbers are outstanding, are amazing given how bearish it was. And I just want to see, like, we have – the weather in January [indiscernible] (23:32) and with nat gas you get weekly [ph] data (23:35), so you know what they're burning and we just shattered records in January in this country. Anything that you could say about what you saw in coal during any smaller periods in January or for January that you saw in terms of demand and if it's temperature-adjusted demand that you saw or could comment on? And that's it. Thank you.

Sure. Thanks for the question. And certainly, the way we saw the winter was through December, it wasn't very cold and then was lower. In January, when it was cold, obviously, a lot of gas went to domestic and commercial heating, and coal burn was right up. And I think the recent numbers that came out showed that coal was well over 30% of American electricity in January. Then it dropped off a bit in January and – and sorry, in February and March as the heating demand went down.

So, look, it absolutely plays out. If gas – certainly in the winter when gas is in demand, then utilities burn a lot of coal. I think as we've said before, as long as gas is over $2.50, then we seem to see that utilities are burning the coal, our coal they've taken. And so, that seems to be playing out. At the moment though, they do appear to be holding off pricing because I think they are comfortable that there's enough coal and gas available to – given their current stockpiles to [ph] see them (24:56) through the summer and then they can always buy what they need going into the winter. That's how it feels to us as we look at the way the markets are developing. So, that does mean that if there is a big demand or gas nudges up a bit because of the exports, so industrial demand, then there's potential for it to swing up quite substantially.

And as we've said for a while, utilities haven't been – there's been no squeeze on them for a while. So, they seem to be comfortable that there's always lots of coal and gas available. We're optimistic that there will actually be some demands, [ph] they'll actually be caught out (25:31) a little bit and remember why they [ph] want decent (25:33) amounts of coal on their stockpiles. But until that occurs, it's pretty easy to sit back and take whichever is most opportune in a relatively short notice. And our market, the whole business has changed, and we're having to adapt to that and this is the reality where we are.

Okay and just to follow-up on that. I was talking to one of these gas traders earlier in the year and what he was finding really surprising was we look at nat gas on the exchange, on the CME Trade, but then a lot of hubs, particular hubs, particularly like Henry Hub at one point, were trading well above the physical market where the futures are. Do you – any comments, any thoughts on something like that because all of a sudden I'm seeing a different price points where you actually physically get the gas to real – when the weather was bullish, it was extremely divergent from – of the futures price?

Well, I think after that just goes to the lack of pipeline infrastructure to get gas around the country, so if the northeast is very cold, the heating demand there means that local gas is available, the price shoots up, but gas in other areas, where maybe is overproduction, there aren't enough pipelines to get it out obviously is much lower. So, I think that just goes to tell you that there aren't enough pipelines and you get a very regional market.

Okay. Good enough. Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you. And I do not see any questions in the queue, sir. I would like to turn the call to Colin Marshall for his final remarks.

Okay. Well, thank you for taking the time to listen in and your interest in Cloud Peak Energy. Obviously, we look forward to updating you on progress here in Q2 and July when hopefully we'll have a – obviously, we'll have more insight into how the summer is developing and the full year, so we'll speak to you then. Thank you.

And with that, ladies and gentlemen, we thank you for participating in today's conference. This concludes the program and you may all disconnect. Have a wonderful day.