Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Bryan J. Pechersky — General Counsel, Corporate Secretary & Executive Vice President, Cloud Peak Energy, Inc.
Colin Marshall — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Cloud Peak Energy, Inc.
Heath A. Hill — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Cloud Peak Energy, Inc.
Mark Andrew Levin — Analyst, Seaport Global Securities LLC
Matthew Key — Analyst, B. Riley FBR, Inc.
Jonathon Troy Fite — Managing Partner, KMF Investments
Timothy Werner Hurckes — Analyst, John W. Bristol & Co., Inc. (New York)
Lin Shen — Analyst, HITE Hedge Asset Management LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Cloud Peak Energy, Inc. Third Quarter 2018 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Following management's prepared remarks, we will host a question and answer session and our instructions will be given at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded for replay purposes.

It is now my pleasure to hand the conference over to Bryan Pechersky, Executive Vice President and General Counsel. Sir, you may begin.

Good afternoon. With me today are Colin Marshall, Cloud Peak Energy's President and CEO; Heath Hill, CFO.

Today's presentation may contain forward-looking statements regarding our outlook for our company and industry, financial and operational guidance, volumes, prices, demand and costs, the regulatory and political environment, growth strategies, capital resources and other statements that are not historical facts. Actual results may differ materially because of various risks and uncertainties, including those described in the cautionary statement in today's earnings release, and in our most recent Form 10-K and Form 10-Q.

Today's presentation also includes non-GAAP financial measures. Please refer to today's earnings release for the reconciliations and related disclosures. Our earnings release is available on the Investor Relations section of our website at cloudpeakenergy.com.

I'll now turn the call over to Colin Marshall.

Thank you, Bryan. Good afternoon and thank you for taking the time to listen to our Q3 2018 results call. I'm joined by Heath Hill, our CFO. Our shipments were reduced during the third quarter by operational issues at the Antelope Mine related to the heavy rains during the second quarter. Our export business ran well with strong demand from our Asian customers that allowed us to export 1.5 million tons during the quarter and generate $10.5 million of adjusted EBITDA. There were two reportable injuries during the quarter at our mines and our rolling 12 month All Injury Frequency Rate at the end of the quarter was 0.23 injuries per 200,000 hours worked. There were no reportable environmental incidents during the quarter.

As we reported during our Q2 earnings call, heavy rain and timing issues reduced shipments from the Antelope Mine during the quarter. The immediate impacts of the rain such as flooding, and reduced truck/shovel productivity were largely behind us by late July. However, the moisture from the rains caused significant spoil instability in both our dragline pits which started in mid-August.

As coal is removed, the wet spoils moved into the pit blocking access to the coal. The spoil had to be removed from the pit by combination of truck/shovel and dragline re-handle. This work reduced the amount of coal available to ship and increased our cost significantly.

The spoil continued to move into the pits until the final coal was removed last week. Re-handling unstable spoil diverted truck/shovel capacity from its planned pre-strip work in front of the draglines during the quarter.

As we are now behind on pre-strip, Q4 shipments will continue to be constrained as the truck/shovel pre-strip work has to be advanced to allow the draglines to progress. Our current forecast is that the pits will return to their normal cycle at the end of the year.

Our shipment guidance has been adjusted down to reflect the reduced shipments. We are actively working with our customers to try and minimize the impact of this disruption by deferring some Antelope shipments into 2019 or offering to supply them from the Cordero Rojo or Spring Creek Mines which have not had the same operational issues.

During the quarter, our export shipments went as planned with 1.5 million tons exported. We have contracted 4.9 million tons for the year and plan to ship 5.5 million tons as long as there are no interruptions to the rail and port system or a final ship that slips into next year.

The recent drop in the Kalimantan 5000 index means that margins will be minimal in Q4 unless there is a near-term increase in pricing.

I'll now hand over to Heath to cover the financials before I talk about the outlook.

Thank you, Colin. Our third quarter adjusted EBITDA was negatively impacted by the lower than planned shipments from our Antelope Mine. In the consolidated results, this was largely offset by a $19.5 million non-cash gain recorded for the termination of a post-retirement medical plan that was announced during the period. Shipments during the third quarter were 13.1 million tons, which is 2.4 million tons lower than third quarter shipments in 2017. While some of this decrease related to planned reductions at our Cordero Rojo Mine due to the soft demand for 8,400 Btu coal, approximately 2 million tons of the decrease was unplanned at our Antelope Mine.

Our average cost per ton for the third quarter was $11.05 as compared to the $9.65 reported for the third quarter of 2017. While we had forecasted higher costs in 2018 due to increasing strip ratios, the unplanned overburdened re-handle and lower coal sales volumes from our Antelope Mine both further increased our weighted average cost per ton in the period. Diesel prices averaged approximately $0.60 per gallon higher this quarter as compared to 2017, which equates to approximately $0.50 per ton higher cost in the current period.

To limit the risk of further diesel price escalation, we have WTI collars in place for the remainder of 2018, and a significant portion of estimated volumes for 2019 with a range from $55 to $76 per barrel. The average realized domestic price per ton was $12.16 for the third quarter. Our Owned and Operated Mines segment adjusted EBITDA excluding the impact of our aforementioned retiree medical plan termination was $16.1 million for the period.

Export shipments for the third quarter of 2018 were 1.5 million tons which is 200,000 tons more than the comparable period last year with our average seaborne thermal pricing over $60 per ton during the period.

We achieved cash margins of $7.06 per ton for the third quarter. The Logistics segment adjusted EBITDA was $10.5 million for the period. Our SG&A cost of $5.1 million for the third quarter benefited from a $5.3 million mark-to-market stock compensation gain as the estimated liability for performance-based equity award was reduced.

The variability on this award will conclude with the final pricing at December 31 of this year and these performance share units will vest in March 2019. With the impact of the ongoing operational issues at our Antelope Mine and recent drop in export pricing, we are lowering our full year 2018 guidance. Our range of shipments is now between 49 million tons and 51 million tons of which we continue to plan for approximately 5.5 million tons of exports.

Our 2018 adjusted EBITDA guidance range is now between $60 million and $70 million inclusive of the $21 million full-year gain from the post-retirement medical plan termination. Our range for capital expenditures is now between $13 million and $15 million. Our liquidity to end the third quarter was $131.6 million and was largely comprised of our cash balance of $109.5 million.

The financial covenants within the Credit Agreement are largely driven by trailing 12 month EBITDA calculations which exclude the non-cash gain from the retiree medical plan termination. Due to the drop in EBITDA, our Credit Agreement availability at the end of the quarter was $16.2 million. Separately, our A/R Securitization Program continued to support the $22 million of outstanding collateral requirements on our reclamation surety bonds and provided an incremental $5.9 million of availability.

With that, I'll hand the conversation back to Colin.

Thank you, Heath. I'll now cover the domestic and international outlooks. On the domestic front, while warm weather has increased power consumption and coal burn, utility buying remains slow and prices continue to be subdued. EVA estimates September utility stockpiles of PRB coal at 51 million tons, down 27% from the same time last year. This could cause some additional buying next year, depending on winter demand, unfortunately utilities continue to announce coal plant closures as they install subsidized renewables and supporting natural gas generation.

We have currently contracted to sell 52 million tons this year, including 4.9 million tons of exports. The 52 million tons of committed production are under fixed price contracts with a weighted average price of $12.20 per ton. The 3 million tons we contracted or priced since our last call with an average price of $11.06 per ton reflecting the mix of coal qualities and prevailing prices. 6 million tons for delivery in 2019 were contracted since our last call at an average price of $11.57. We have contracted 35 million tons for delivery in 2019. Of that committed production, 28 million tons are under fixed price contracts with a weighted average price of $12.34.

Looking further out we have contracted 30 million tons for 2020. 24 million of those tons are under fixed price contracts with an average price of $12.65 per ton. It is worth noting that the size of our forward sell position this year is very similar to where we were this time last year. The overall outlook for Asian seaborne – Asian seaborne thermal coal demand remained strong. Chinese total electricity generation was up almost 8% through August, largely supplied by coal. Chinese imports through August were up 33 million tons or 27% compared to last year.

At the same time, Indian thermal coal imports have increased by nearly 18% as domestic coal production has struggled to keep pace with growing electricity demand. Newcastle index prices have remained above $110 per metric ton but there has been a drop in the Kalimantan 5000 index, which is currently below $55 per metric ton.

This has been driven by the recent collapse in Indonesian rupiah exchange rate, which has lowered Indonesian suppliers' effective U.S. dollar costs and by the Indonesian government removing export restriction on coal to generate U.S. dollar earnings. We have now contracted 4.9 million tons for delivery this year and plan to ship 5.5 million tons.

Fourth quarter Logistics earnings will be small due to the recent drop in the Kalimantan index. Ongoing Asian growth – demand growth and interest in our Spring Creek Mine coal from potential Japanese customers remain strong, which is encouraging.

To sum up before we take your questions, spoil failures since mid-August related to the heavy second quarter rains have reduced shipments, increased cost and delayed truck/shovel stripping that will need to be caught up in the fourth quarter. This will reduce our fourth – full year shipments from Antelope.

We expect to have the Antelope Mine back to normal operations by the end of the year, so we can put the operational challenges of 2018 behind us. Our exports are going well and are on track to reach 5.5 million tons for the year but the recent drop in pricing will reduce their profitability in the near term.

With that, we can now take your questions.

Thank you, sir. [Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from the line of Mark Levin with Seaport Global. Your line is now open.

Yeah, thanks very much. Hey, couple of quick questions, Colin, one, obviously you did a good job laying out what's been going on at Antelope. When we say – and I know it certainly we're not quite at 2019, but is it reasonable to assume that your shipment levels in 2019 all else being equal might look like what they would have looked like at your guidance at the beginning of 2018, meaning you kind of strip out all of these issues that you've had to deal with operationally, is that a reasonable way of thinking about what 2019 volumes could look like?

Yes. The issues through 2018 we believe is specific to this year and we – as I say, once we can finally get our way through them, they just protracted due to the ongoing rain and then the subsequent spoil failures which take time to sort out unfortunately once they get to a certain level. Once they're behind us, then certainly our expectation is that Antelope – there's no reason why Antelope can't perform the way it should next year.

Got it. And then, just a question on pricing, so when we look at the various coal publications they point to an 8,800 Btu price for calendar 2019 that is $12.25 to $12.35 somewhere in that range and then obviously big discounts for 8,400 Btu. Are those prices, in your opinion, representative of the physical market? When you go out to contract for 8,800 Btu, I mean, should we be thinking that that price is pretty close and the same for 8,400 Btu when we look at those prices? Put another way, is what we read in the publications is that similar to what you're able to – the prices you're able to get today?

Well, I think no. The reality is if you look at the way the sort of prices of what we have contracted our coal at then they tend to be on the underside of those indexes. And certainly in what is a very competitive market maybe the OTC price is something of a starting price, but then to win business, typically you might have to discount from that and certainly there's – it's very competitive at the moment.

No, that makes sense. Last question just about the market as a whole, PRB speaking, so when you look at all the different moving pieces natural gas prices above [ph] three (00:14:07) for at least the last month, you referenced [indiscernible] (00:14:10) inventory, EVA's inventory numbers having come down significantly. Obviously this was a big year for retirements in 2018, I don't know that 2019 looks quite as bad. Your early look at 2019 PRB demand versus 2018, if you had to just assume everything kind of stays the same, normal winter, gas where it is today. Do you think PRB demand is up in 2019, flat with 2018, or lower? What's your best guess sitting where we are today?

I mean, I think there's an awful lot – there are many moving parts and obviously the winter stockpiles, gas prices are the key ones. But I think – and plant closures. So I think flat to maybe up a little bit would be my guess today, but we'll know an awful lot more as we come through the winter.

That makes sense. I really appreciate your candor and thanks so much.

Thank you.

Thank you. And our next question will come from the line of Lucas Pipes with B. Riley FBR. Your line is now open.

Hey guys, this is Matt Key here asking a question for Lucas. You mentioned the Japanese test burn in the prior quarter, I was wondering if you could provide an update on how that's going at this time.

So, we've had the two test burns which were reported on the last quarter, they're both as we understand is successful and we're in negotiations for another five. I think that's the correct numbers. And we'd like to get one of them in this year, but it's probably more likely that we'll do them next year. But the interest is there. It really comes down to [ph] fitting (00:15:46) them in with the plants that typically will only do so many test burns a year so you sort of have to get in the queue and they [indiscernible] (00:15:53) times of lower demand. So there's a sort of queue, but the important thing is that we're in discussions with them. And the other thing that's important is the JERA plant, the JERA contract the plant we expect to ship to late next year. The construction that's all going ahead in our – some of our staff were over there last week looking at the construction and talking to them and that all seems to be going pretty well.

Great. Very helpful. Thank you. And [indiscernible] (00:16:23) something like $42 per ton for rail rates. You mentioned variable rail rates in your press release. I was wondering if you could go a little more into some detail on that.

The way we – so the way we'd advise you to look at it is obviously, in our earnings release, we give you an idea of the costs which are $53 last quarter and the coal will be at PRB prices typically from Spring Creek and then the rest of the balance is the rail and the port. In terms of the way that the [ph] analysis (00:17:03) that looks at what we've said previously is between the sliding scale on the rail rate and the Montana royalties which they unfortunately charge on our Logistics margin basically 50% of any price increase goes in royalties and the variable rail rate. So that's the way the rule of thumb that you should use when you're looking at it, I think.

Matt, if I could just clarify you offered $42 to begin your question. That sounds like larger than our rail rate and more of a transportation cost which would be inclusive of port handling.

Got it. All right. Very helpful. And a, one last question for me, on the Westshore agreement for whatever reason if you had to exit that contract or not reach the agreed upon tonnage would Cloud incur a penalty for that?

Yeah. There's a scale that's inside the contract depending upon where we are in the year in nominations and such but there are amounts that we don't hit. But we've been on target for this year so really we're feeling good about 2018.

And those numbers are significantly reduced from where we were on the previous agreement. So we just have to commit for tons a year or two ahead so that Westshore knows what they're dealing with and when we commit to them with the rail and the port then we lock-in an element of take-or-pay.

Great. Well I appreciate all the color. And best of luck.

Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And our next question will come from the line of Jonathon Fite with KMF Investments. Your line is now open.

Hey. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Thanks for your time. [indiscernible]

(00:18:49).

I have a quick question or two quick questions. I think the press release mentioned five test burns with the potential Japanese utilities. Could you talk a little bit about kind of timing if those go successful, would that result in potentially 2019 shipments, would the success in those things then present 2020 opportunities? Just if things go well, talk to me a little bit about how that would then play into shipment volumes over time?

Okay. So obviously, we've done the two test burn. I think the expectation is certainly next year and going forward that the majority of our sales will go to South Korea. They are the big customer for our export coal and [ph] if you (00:19:32) – they are closer for the shipping which makes sense. And they have more plants that burn our type of subbituminous coal. So they will remain our largest customer.

The Japanese [ph] thing (00:19:43), I think will build over a few years. There's a lot of people watching the JERA deal. So I think it's more likely to be into 2020 and build up from there. And as we found, the realities of dealing with the Japanese utilities, they are slow and steady and very deliberate in the way that they move. So it's more likely to take 2020 than a rush next year. So I think – but once we do the experience, the other side of that is that once they actually commit to buying coal then historically they've been very reliable customers.

And there were some press reports over the last couple of weeks around the administration mulling over the use of military bases for potential coal export terminals. One, have you all been involved in any of those discussions and, two, given that you've expanded export capacity really with Westshore already, is that even – if that were to come to fruition, would that even benefit you or just talk a little bit about the implication of that potential development.

Okay. So we are aware of those, the discussions that have been going on, on a potential use of – finding additional port space. I think we'd say that, yeah, it's great that the administration is trying to support coal exports to the U.S.' Asian allies and obviously we think that that's good. The space we – and that's more of a longer term or it'll take some time for anything to happen there I'd say. The more important projects is first of all the space – the very real space we have at the Westshore terminal which goes up to 10.5 million tons in a few years. And then I think after that the Gateway – the Millennium Terminal which the efforts there to try and get that permitted are worth watching. Though they do demonstrate just how difficult it is to get a terminal done. So I think we're, yeah, we're very thankful for the support from the administration, trying to find a way to export coal. And I think – and so we'll watch those, but I don't think – it takes time to make these things happen. So we're not counting on the next few years.

Thank you, guys. Appreciate it.

Thank you. And our next question will come from the line of [ph] Matthew Cardosi (00:22:05) with BMO Capital Markets. Your line is now open.

Hi. Thanks for taking my question. Just one short one, does the full year EBITDA guide include the mark-to-market adjustment of $5 million?

It does. Yes.

Okay. Perfect. Thank you, guys.

It – the stock compensation expense, that's a component of SG&A. So it's included within. Yes.

Okay. Perfect. Thanks. That's all.

Thank you. And our next question will come from the line of Timothy Hurckes with John Bristol. Your line is now open.

Hi. Thanks for taking my phone call. Colin, last quarter, you mentioned that it might be increasingly difficult for the mines in PRB to increase production if the utilities were ever to need additional coal. Can you just simply discuss what you see in terms of yourselves, and the rest of the industry in terms of how their productive capacity has been impacted over the past couple of years?

Okay. Well, I hope you'll understand, I can't speak for the other PRB producers. But for ourselves, clearly for the rest of this year, we're now – because of the issues we've had at Antelope, we're fully sold out and trying to move shipments from Antelope. We do have a little bit of capacity at Cordero and Spring Creek but not much and we're [ph] telling (00:23:40) sales for next year. Certainly the capacity that we have now is a lot less than we had a few years ago for a variety of reasons. The most obvious is that the – as the [ph] months going away (00:23:52), we've been able to take care of rising strip ratios and [indiscernible] (00:23:57) by reallocating equipment rather than buying additional equipment that we would had to have done to maintain productive capacity.

So certainly for us, the rising strip ratios and [ph] hole distance (00:24:09) mean that the amount of coal we can produce this year is less than we could have produced say three or four years ago. And that trend will continue unless we were to – prices were to support putting in a lot of capital, which they certainly don't for us at the moment. So we believe the – certainly our capacity has come down over the years. In terms of how much could you actually squeak out over a short period or over a year compared to your plan, there's normally a bit of flexibility, but generally not that much and until I guess, you're actually tested by demand rising, you don't know.

Okay. Okay. Thank you very much.

Thank you. And our next question will come from the line of David Gibson with [indiscernible] (00:24:53). Your line is now open.

Yes, a couple of questions, I wanted to start with, given how your bonds are a fairly steep coupon in the market today and they're trading at a discount from par, which seems to be growing. And I'm wondering even in a difficult quarter like this where you're free cash positive, wouldn't there be some thoughts to adding to value by buying in bonds under-par.

We analyzed the outstanding bonds. They've really been trading pretty much at par. The 2021, the ones that are 12% coupon with a second lien security, they just became in this fourth quarter, it's the two years since we issued them. And so, it's the first call date. So you know we're monitoring it and we'll take a look and make decisions going forward.

And then another question so you're – in general fairly small size and scale and you've got a reliance on just a few key mines and then you're somewhat susceptible to things like the weather that you've seen these last few quarters. And I'm just wondering has there been any thoughts at the executive level about combining with a larger operator and trying to reduce some of those risks.

Well, I think you asked me the M&A question that I can never comment on. So I think obviously we look at all the different things that are going on and always have done, [ph] like (00:26:17) I certainly can't comment on anything on M&A.

Well, I'm not asking if you're in discussions. I'm asking if there's been any thoughts about reducing risk and looking...

Well, I said we obviously we consider [ph] our (00:26:37) strategic alternatives and we care and we always do that. So you can rest assured that we continue to consider all different things that might improve our business, but I can't discuss any specifics.

Okay. And can you give me a little bit of color on where you stand with the banks given that you don't have much availability at the moment, but given that these are sort of onetime-ish types of events, would you have flexibility with your banks? Is the relationship good enough for you to be able to get some waivers on some of those covenants if you needed the liquidity?

We're in discussion with [ph] the admin agent, the lead bank in (00:27:13) the group and they're aware of our situation and we're just going to keep working forward with them.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And our next question will come from the line of Lin Shen with HITE. Your line is now open.

Oh, thanks for taking the call. I'm just wondering how should we think about the full year 2018 run rate for SG&A.

I think if you take the $5.1 million that we disclosed for the third quarter, I mean you have that mark-to-market adjustment. We've been trending just short of about $40 million on an annual full SG&A run rate.

Okay. So this quarter was a benefit of their stock price, but their final settlement are going to be – depends on their [ph] year-end stock price (00:28:13) is that right?

Yeah. The performance units have a measurement over this period of a total shareholder return relative to a peer group, as well as the ending stock value. So that's where we've been marking this throughout the three years of vesting. And just as we get closer, you have to – any adjustment becomes larger because you're taking the full adjustment to the liability as we get close to vesting.

Okay, great. Thank you. I appreciate it.

Okay, certainly.

Thank you. And I'm showing no further questions in the queue. So now it's my pleasure to hand the conference back over to Mr. Colin Marshall for any closing comments or remarks. Please proceed, sir.

Well, thank you. I'd just like to say thank you for your questions and for taking the time to listen into our call. We'll be – look forward to updating you on progress during Q4 and the full year in February, and hopefully by then we – the issues we've had at Antelope will be well behind us and we'll be able to look forward to 2019 there. So, thank you.

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your participation on today's conference. This does conclude our program, and we may all disconnect. Everybody have a good day.