corrected transcript


Cloud Peak Energy, Inc.
 
CLD
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
May 4, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


PARTICIPANTS


Corporate Participants


Karla J. Kimrey
 
– Vice President-Investor Relations


Colin Marshall
 
– President, CEO & Independent Director


Michael Barrett
 
– Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President


Other Participants


Brian D. Gamble
 
– Associate, Simmons & Co. International


David M. Khani
 
– Senior Managing Director & Director of Research, FBR Capital Markets


James M. Rollyson
 
– Research Analyst, Raymond James & Associates


Lance Ettus
 
– Analyst, Tuohy Brothers Investment Research, Inc.


Brett M. Levy
 
– Co-Director of High Yield Research, Jefferies & Co., Inc.


Brandon Blossman
 
– Vice President, Tudor Pickering Holt & Co. Securities, Inc.


David Adam Katz
 
– Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC


Lucas Pipes
 
– Research Associate, Brean, Murray, Carret & Co. LLC


Mark A. Levin
 
– Research Analyst, BB&T Capital Markets


Wes Sconce
 
– Research Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co., Inc.


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the First Quarter 2011 Cloud Peak


Energy Incorporated Earnings Conference Call. My name is Kendall, and I’ll be your operator for


today. At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-


answer session. [Operator Instructions]


I would now like to turn the conference over to Karla Kimrey, Vice President, Investor Relations.


Please proceed.


Karla J. Kimrey, Vice President-Investor Relations


Good afternoon, and thank you. Thank you for joining us. Today with me on the call is Colin


Marshall, Cloud Peak Energy’s President and CEO; and Michael Barrett, Cloud Peak Energy’s


Executive Vice President and CFO.


Before I turn the call over to Colin, please note that today’s presentation includes forward-looking


statements. Examples may include statements about our outlook and guidance, economic and


industry conditions, volumes, prices and demand for coal, LBAs and other coal acquisition plans,


government regulations and energy policies, operational plans, our cost structure, capital resources


and other statements that are not historical facts.


Actual results may differ materially from those projected or implied in these statements because of


various risks and uncertainties including those described in the cautionary statements in today’s


earnings release and in our 2010 Form 10-K filing with the SEC.


Today’s presentation also includes non-GAAP financial measures. Please refer to today’s earnings


release for the required reconciliations and other related disclosures. Our earnings release is


available on the Investor Relations section of our website at cloudpeakenergy.com.
corrected transcript


Cloud Peak Energy, Inc.
 
CLD
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
May 4, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


I’ll now turn the call over to Colin Marshall.


Colin Marshall, President, CEO & Independent Director


Thank you, Karla. Good afternoon, and thank you for joining the Cloud Peak Energy first quarter


2011 earnings call. I will make some general comments before handing over to Michael Barrett, our


CFO, who will take you through the financials. I’m pleased to report that we had a good quarter,


which bodes well for the rest of the year. Adjusted EBITDA was $82.6 million, 18% up from the


$70.1 million of Q1 last year.


The rise was driven by good shipments, higher prices, tight cost control and increased exports. Our


Asian exports continue to grow at 887,000 tons for the quarter, over 12% up from Q1 last year, and


we remain on track to ship around four million tons to our Asian customers this year. As we have


locked in some higher than forecast export prices, we are raising our guidance for this part of the


business.


During the quarter, we had one reportable injury among our 1,550 employees. A warehouse


employee broke their thumb when a handcart they were using to move apart toppled over. This


injury leaves us with an MSHA All Injury Frequency Rate of 0.28 for the quarter, down from 0.57 for


all of last year.


Once again, we have had no environmental [ph] smacker (02:55) violation continuing our run of no


violations since 2002. And during the quarter, we were pleased to only receive five MSHA S&S


citations with proposed fines of just $3,571.


Looking back at the quarter, you may remember the year started out with many parts of the country


unusually cold, but moved into a more normal weather. This meant electricity demand was stable,


so we have seen customers taking their contracted coal and overall PRB shipments up around


2.6% from this time last year.


While we are not expecting any great growth in domestic coal demand, we are not seeing any


significant displacement of PRB coal [ph] like asset (03:34) current prices, which reinforces that


PRB coal continues to be burned in low cost baseload power plants.


Estimated stockpiles of PRB coal at the end of March of 75 million tons are at similar levels to last


year and appear to be imbalance. The rapid increase in exports from East Coast and Gulf is also


helping the domestic thermal coal supply demand balance. The steady demand for PRB coal and


good performance from our operations led to production of 23.4 million tons during the quarter, up


8% from 21.7 million tons last year.


A major factor in this increase was the low shipments in Q1 last year when severe weather


impacted utilities and rail transportation in the Midwest. The Spring Creek mine always plans on


reduced shipments in the first quarter due to the freezing of the Great Lakes and maintenance


closures of the thermals there that reduce January shipments.


We’re now in good shape for full year shipments within our guidance range. In line with our sales


plan we are essentially fully sold for 2011. We have 4.1 million tons of 2011 indexed tons that have


yet to fix. Assuming recent 2011 prices of $12.75 per ton for 8800 Btu coal and a $11 per ton for


8400 Btu coal, our average realized price for 2011 would be approximately $12.95 per ton.


We will obviously look for every opportunity to increase our export sales, but we’re not planning on


any additional 2011 domestic sales at current prices. For 2012, we’ve contracted 74 million tons, 62


million tons of which is under fixed price contracts with a weighted-average price of $13.15.