Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
John Stranak — Vice President of Finance and Treasurer, Cloud Peak Energy, Inc.
Colin Marshall — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Cloud Peak Energy, Inc.
Heath A. Hill — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Cloud Peak Energy, Inc.
John D. Bridges — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC
Paul Forward — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.
Patrick Marshall — Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC
Lucas N. Pipes — Analyst, FBR Capital Markets & Co.
Craig K. Shere — Analyst, Tuohy Brothers Investment Research, Inc.
Stephen P. Percoco — Founder, Lark Research, Inc.
David Francis Gagliano — Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (United States)

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Cloud Peak Energy Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to John Stranak, Vice President of Finance and Treasurer. Please begin.

Good afternoon, and thank you for joining us. With me today is Colin Marshall, Cloud Peak Energy's President and CEO; Heath Hill, CFO; and Gary Rivenes, COO.

Today's presentation may contain forward-looking statements regarding the outlook for our company and the industry, financial and operational guidance, volumes, prices and demand, the regulatory and political environment, growth strategies, capital resources, and other statements that are not historical facts. Actual results may differ materially because of various risks and uncertainties, including those described in the cautionary statement in today's earnings release and in our 2015 Form 10-K. Today's presentation also includes non-GAAP financial measures. Please, refer to today's earnings release for reconciliations and related disclosures. Our earnings release is available on the Investor Relations section of our website at cloudpeakenergy.com.

I'll now turn the call over to Colin Marshall.

Thank you, John. Good afternoon, and thank you for taking the time to listen into our Q2 2016 results call. As John mentioned, I'm joined by Heath Hill, our CFO; and Gary Rivenes, our Chief Operating Officer.

Our adjusted EBITDA of $19.3 million reflected the low shipments we expected during the quarter, which were more than offset by the contributions from contract buyouts, which we will discuss later. For the full year, we have adjusted our shipment guidance down to reflect the buyouts but did not change our adjusted EBITDA range due to the buyouts and our forecast for full-year shipments. During the quarter, there was one minor reportable injury among our 1,200 mine employees. This is our first reportable injury since October last year. There were 83 MSHA inspection days at our sites in the quarter, with only four substantial and significant citations written. There were no environmental citations at any of our sites during the quarter, and it is now over two years since our last environmental citation.

As we foreshadowed in the last call, we expected the second quarter to be slow, and it was. With high coal stockpiles, low natural gas prices, and reduced electricity demand, we only shipped 3.2 million tons in April and 3.9 million tons in May. June shipments increased to 4.7 million tons. And so far, in July, we are shipping at a 5.5 million ton rate, with an improved forecast for the rest of the quarter. Several of our customers took their coal plants offline last winter when demand was low and natural gas cheap due to the mild winter, and they only restarted them in June to meet predicted summer demand. June started off hot, which increased our customers' nominations, and we currently believe that shipments are being limited by rail capacity due to the delay in bringing back cruise and train sets back into service. If the summer remains hot, we will expect to see a meaningful reduction in stockpiles, as burn initially exceeds shipments, and then a steady monthly increase in shipments to give us a strong second half to the year. I've been very impressed with the way our employees have been prepared to work flexibly to allow us to manage cost of shipments load. This is reflected in our reduced cost per ton compared to Q2 last year, even with much lower shipments.

On the regulatory front, we recently finalized ONRR rulemaking regarding the valuation of coal sold to affiliates that the administration's effort to use all means available to reduce the amount of coal mined in the U.S. go on. While the rule does not prohibit exports of federal coal, the unprecedented and vague default provision, along with the new netback calculation, create significant uncertainty for any vertically integrated company. We are currently trying to evaluate the potential economic impact and formulating our response.

On a more positive note, it was encouraging to see bipartisan support for the development of carbon capture and storage technology. A bipartisan bill was recently introduced in the U.S. Senate, which would increase and extend the existing 45-Q carbon capture credit to a level where they could enable the deployment of carbon capture technology. This would help bring down the cost of this technology, which has been identified by the IPCC as critical to reducing CO2 emissions meaningfully.

We continue to believe that there will be significant long-term demand for domestic and international thermal coal. This is why we're continuing to progress the Big Metal and Youngs Creek project, adjacent to our Spring Creek mine. It is worth noting that neither of these projects is based on federal coal. We are currently targeting the development of the Big Metal and Youngs Creek mines to begin in few years, as leased federal reserves decline across the PRB due to the current moratorium. You may be aware that the Army Corps of Engineers recently decided to cancel work on the Gateway Pacific Terminal project in which we have a 49% interest. They assessed the project would have a more of a de minimis impact on the Lummi Tribe's fishing rights. We are not spending anymore money on this project as we and SSA Marine evaluate our options.

I'll now hand over to Heath to run through the financials before returning to cover the outlook.

Thank you, Colin. As the pace of shipments increased each month during the second quarter, we ended the period with 11.8 million tons of shipments. This is 26% lower than the 16 million tons shipped in the comparable period of 2015. When adjusting out the 1 million ton differential for reduced Asian export volumes, the domestic volumes were approximately 21% lower.

Our second quarter realized price per ton of $12.60 was $0.16 per ton lower than the $12.76 realized in the prior year. During the second quarter, we reduced our total mining costs by $47.3 million or nearly 28% as compared to 2015. Labor, diesel, repair, and maintenance costs all decreased as a result of reduced equipment hours and the lower amount of material moved. The alignment of cost to our lower shipment volumes is demonstrated in our $10.50 cost per ton for the second quarter, which was 2% lower than the prior year of $10.75. These factors resulted in a per ton margin of $2.10 being realized in our mining operations for the second quarter of 2016.

Workforce planning is the primary focus as our team aligns to the lower and varying production volumes. In an effort to manage labor costs, we have continued to cut overtime, reduce the use of contractors, reduce scheduled work hours, and not fill vacant positions. Additionally, our voluntary separation program was taken up by 127 employees, helping to bring our workforce in line with planned production. Further, 11 salaried positions were eliminated during the quarter. While these head count reductions cost $3.3 million, the combined annual wage and benefit reduction for these employees will be $13 million.

Buyout revenue contributed significantly to earnings and cash flow during the second quarter. While each of our utility customer situations is unique, coal sales agreements do provide for contract termination. We negotiated settlements during the second quarter with three customers for a reduction of 3.9 million tons in 2016. The $18.8 million of sales contract buyout revenue is included within our consolidated results but not included within our Owned and Operated Mines segment.

As communicated during the first quarter earnings call, we are seeking to voluntarily transition fully to third-party reclamation bonds. During the second quarter, we repositioned our reclamation bond providers and issued the previously disclosed 15% level of collateral, totaling $66 million in the form of letters of credit under our credit agreement. In May, the State of Wyoming, Department of Environmental Quality, or DEQ, issued a new equipment cost guideline to be used in bonding calculations. The lower equipment costs have been incorporated into our bonding calculations and will meaningfully reduce our bonding requirement in the near-term. When these reduced calculations are approved by the Wyoming DEQ, we expect to exit self-bonding. In addition, the same lower equipment cost guideline, fuel price, and production rate assumptions have been incorporated into our asset retirement obligation calculations, thereby decreasing our liability by $54.8 million during the period. Of this decrease, $37.3 million was recorded as an offset to depreciation expense during the quarter, which positively impacted net income.

The loss during the second quarter within our logistics business was as expected, given our amended port and rail contracts, as the $8.2 million of take-or-pay expense was partially offset by the collection of $1.7 million of Newcastle hedge gain in the period. Our SG&A costs during the second quarter were impacted by a portion of the severance costs previously discussed. Due to certain one-off costs in the first half, including severance, we expect the SG&A costs to be lower in the second half of this year.

Consolidated adjusted EBITDA for the second quarter, including the sales contract buyout revenue, was $19.3 million as compared to $10.6 million reported for the second quarter of 2015. We ended the period with $64.1 million in cash and available borrowing capacity under our credit agreement of $434 million, which reflects the $66 million reduction for the letter of credit issuances during the quarter. When these are both combined with our $24.9 million AR securitization program, our total available liquidity at quarter-end was $523 million.

As we look forward, we have adjusted our shipping guidance to reflect the canceled tonnage of the contract buyouts and now expect to ship between 55 million tons and 60 million tons in 2016. With the ongoing expectation of shipping our contracted tons, along with having maintained value through contract buyouts collected, we are maintaining our range of full-year adjusted EBITDA guidance between $75 million and $95 million.

For capital expenditures, we have increased the guidance range to be between $35 million to $45 million this year. This $10 million increase to the range was necessary as the land agreement that was signed in 2008 was amended to move forward the payment by one year and reduce the overall payment amount. Our commitment for this tract of land neighboring our Antelope mine has been disclosed on our capital commitments table as a $23.7 million obligation that will now be extinguished in full during 2016. This acceleration of the $11.5 million land payment allowed us to negotiate a reduction of the total acres and total contract commitment, which will save us over $12 million.

Our CapEx guidance also includes the completion of the dragline move to our Antelope mine, as well as maintaining the health of the equipment fleet across the mining operations. Because the reduction of our asset retirement obligations resulted in an offset to depreciation expense, we now expect depreciation, depletion, and amortization expense to be between $50 million and $60 million for the year. Cash interest for 2016 is expected to be approximately $41 million. As we look forward to the second half of the year, we will continue our focus on protecting liquidity and on managing costs in a time of varying shipment rates.

With that, I will hand the conversation back to Colin.

Thank you, Heath. Now, I'll just cover the international outlook before we turn to the domestic. While international thermal coal markets continue to be oversupplied, they are showing signs of coming into balance. The supply is reduced, and demand continues to grow. We have seen near-term Newcastle price increase in recent months, particularly in [indiscernible] (12:42), where they have risen by over 25% so far this year. Imports into China have risen in recent months, but domestic production continues to decline. With strong import growth from South Korea, Vietnam, and Taiwan, we expect it is now [ph] gearing (12:55) as new plants are commissioned. Indian imports have reduced recently due to increased domestic production. However, Indian coal-fired generation increased by around 14% so far this year, as nuclear and hydro declined. Coal India's production growth has slowed in recent months, which may bring down coal stockpiles. While we do not target supplying China and India directly, we will be watching them closely as they drive international demand.

On the supply side, we have seen Indonesian exports reduce significantly, while U.S. exports have dropped and Australian exports have stabilized. Overall, seaborne thermal supply and demand is becoming – continuing to move into balance, and prices are rising to reflect this. We are optimistic this trend will continue, and we will look to resume exports through West Shore when they are once again economic.

Turning to the domestic environment, so far, this year, U.S. coal shipments are down by around 26%, with PRB down 33%. While these reductions are less than at the end of Q1, they are clearly significant. Thankfully, the summer started and is forecast to be hot. We have seen gas prices move above $2.50, which is also encouraging. The forecast continues to be for a hot summer, which should lead to strong electricity demand, with high utilization of coal and gas plants. As I previously said, the amount the PRB coal burn is down for the full year will depend on the summer cooling month and the price of natural gas when electricity demand drops [ph] in the full (14:22). This will be the time when utilities dispatch their plants on an economic basis, and the price of gas will be important.

Recent conversations with several of our major customers reaffirmed that our coal is economic, with gas in the $2.50 to $3 range. We are focused in PRB demand fall. From 405 million tons last year to around 300 million tons to 320 million tons in 2016, the stockpiles have reduced. In 2017, PRB coal demand is expected to rebound, with growth of 20 million tons to 30 million tons over 2016 with – assuming normalized weather, the stockpiles stabilize, and natural gas prices rise to more sustainable levels.

During Q2, we reduced our contracted position for 2016 by 3.9 million tons through the buyouts Heath discussed. The only sales in the quarter for 2016 delivery were to a Spring Creek customer who identified additional reserve requirements this year. We now have 61 million tons contracted for 2016 at an average price of $12.41 per ton. The drop in average contracted price was caused by higher-priced contracts being involved in the buyouts. Due to low prices and lack of RFPs, we only contracted initial 3 million tons to 2017 delivery during the quarter and fixed the price on 0.5 million tons of indexed coal. The average price of these transactions was just under $12 per ton.

For 2017, we have currently committed to sell 45 million tons. Of this committed production, 42 million tons are in fixed-price contracts, with a weighted average price of $12.48 per ton. Utilities are continuing to delay their contracting activity for next year as they monitor their stockpile levels and natural gas prices through the summer. If PRB prices increase from current levels, then we would expect more RFP activity as utilities move to cover their expected 2017 burn. We will update you on 2017 contracting during our next call in October.

To sum up, before we take your questions, the quarter has played out as we expected, with very low shipments in April and May, which have increased significantly in June as we ended the summer cooling season. Shipments are on track to continue to increase through the summer as rail capacity is brought back online. Our operations have adapted well, and the measures we have taken to control costs and reduce our workforce mean we are well positioned for the rest of the year. Our liquidity is strong, and we expect to build cash back in the second half of the year as our shipments increase. Our plan to exit self-bonding in Wyoming and concentrate on a supportive group of surety providers is on track. We're currently waiting for the Wyoming DEQ to process our recently submitted bonding calculations.

With that, we can now take your questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] The first question is from John Bridges of JPMorgan. Your line is open.

Good evening, Colin, everybody. Many thanks for the release. Lots of interesting information. You have applied $37.7 million of the adjustment to your retirement obligations to, again, show your [indiscernible] (17:34) that number, what's the background to that?

The background on that is just a technical accounting point, John, in the sense that when you do asset retirement accounting, you typically establish a liability and you establish an asset that gets depreciated over time. And as this asset has really been fully depreciated, when you have a further reduction to the liability, you have a process to record the credit. We just wanted to clarify that, that's a non-cash accounting charge inside net income. We just wanted to be very transparent that really it's the driver of it, it's the reduction on the balance sheet, and that's the $54 million in the period and then, the offset just happens to go there. We just wanted to really highlight that so you take that out. That certainly is one-time kind of remeasurement effect of reducing that liability.

Yeah. We just wanted to get our hands around that. And then, Colin, you're pointing to an improvement in Newcastle price, which is great. I think, previously, you've said your trigger is up in the $80s, but maybe with these lower mining costs, low oil prices, that number has come down? What sort of number would you feel brings you back into profits for exports now?

Well, John, I think, with our exports, there's always been a few moving parts. I think we've sort of said $75 to $80. Obviously, the main factors will be where Newcastle price is, the $75 to $80, but then what percentage of that we get, and that has varied in a significant range over the years we've exported, depending on market conditions. And then, obviously, we also are trying to get our minds around the recently announced ONRR rule with this netback calculation, which, of course, we feel is completely inappropriate and extends the severance tax to logistics business, and we're, obviously, going to have to account for that. We don't think it's a showstopper, but it will be an extra, meaning we'll need an extra $1 or $2 of Newcastle price to be able to export. So I don't think – at the moment, we're, obviously, looking to export. The other thing we'll be doing is talking to the rail and port to see if there is any ability for them to enable us to sell at a lower price. And, obviously, we'll let you know as soon as things click into place. But, obviously, it looks a lot better when prices are approaching $65 than when they were approaching $40.

Okay. Great. And finally, maybe a question, maybe some observation. But we've been hearing from some of the other coal companies that they have been doing some more contracting for next year on the Houston side. But you've not been able to do that yet on your side. Any thoughts on that?

I'd say, give it a bit of time. What we'll see is the stockpiles come down. In Q2, it's very quiet. I think the utilities are watching how the summer develops and, particularly, where gas prices will be when – as they enter the fall and what their thoughts on the winter are. So I think there's plenty of time for them to need to contract for 2017. And I believe that will happen based upon the outlook at the moment, but maybe not yet.

Okay. Many thanks, and best of luck.

Thanks.

Thank you. And the next question is from Paul Forward of Stifel. Your line is open.

Hi. Good afternoon.

Hi, Paul.

Colin, I think you've mentioned rail capacity has been constrained by crew shortages or other factors. I just wanted to ask how significant are these constraints? And then, gas holds near or above $3 as the year goes along. Is that going to be something we hear more about in the second half of this year, as you see how the rails are responding to these constraints?

Sure, Paul. In terms of the rail, we see it as – very much as a temporary constraint. What occurred is, obviously, in – till June, basically, the utilities just were not taking any coal and just as we managed our workforce, the railways [indiscernible] (21:50) staff and [indiscernible] (21:47) crane sets all over the place. As the utilities started – customers started nominating significantly more trains for June and now in July, there is a time lag to sort of school up those operations, the rail operations. And we see that as very temporary. You've got to remember that they've got an awful lot of gear parked around at the moment. So there is no shortage of train sets. And also, there isn't the competition from crude rail that we saw in 2014. So it's – we say it just is a limiting factor for a few – for a month or six weeks. And I think the latest information we've got in the last day or two days is that we expect it sort of being likely removed as we go into August. So I see that it will drag down the inventory a bit more than otherwise would have occurred, but certainly don't see it as a limiting factor sort of from August onwards.

Okay. I think you'd talked about PRB demand being up next year, somewhere around, well, 20 million tons or 30 million tons. I'm just wondering if you could talk a little bit about the mix within the PRB. Is 8,400 going to – how is the rotation between 8,800 and 8,400 going to be? Are we going to see kind of the overall thermal content of that mix go up next year or do you see 8,400 recovery?

Well, I think, first of all, obviously, we did 405 million tons of coal last year. So to go down to close to 300 million tons this year is a significant change or a reduction to manage. Going back to 330 million tons, 350 million tons, that's partial recovery. But I think if you look long-term, we've seen that, as you would expect, 8,400 coal has gone down more than the 8,800 and, at different times, the gap was opened up. And I think that makes sense, given a weak market. But I think [indiscernible] (23:50) our view is that 8,400 coal is not going to go away. There are several customers who, for quite clear reasons, it makes sense to burn 8,400 coal. So we don't see that disappearing from the basin. But we have – it's always been the lower percentage of sales, and as the markets declined, it's become a smaller proportion. Its proportion has been reduced in recent years. So that trend will continue, but not to zero, to only ship 8,800 coal. And we don't think that makes sense. So the continuation of the current trend, but some recovery will be both for 8,400 coal and 8,800 coal.

Okay. Great. And, I guess, also, you had mentioned, obviously, you are not economic yet on the exports. Yeah, I think you had mentioned that you'd had some customer inquiries. I just want to ask, kind of following up on your previous comments, how [indiscernible] (24:45) the regulatory uncertainty or the netback charge uncertainty coming from the administration, now, how does that affect these discussions? Or is that really, as you said, $1.2 per ton and maybe not that important relative to the kind of the overall revenues that you are talking about? Or is that uncertainty significant when it comes to customer discussions?

Well, I think with the customers that it's a non-issue for them. There will be a price that we will sell at, and they are very keen to get us back into mix. Some of these South Korean utilities for a long time did everything they could to keep us in supplying and we, obviously, responded to that. But there comes a point when you're well out of the money, where that just doesn't work, and we've, obviously, reached that point. But there – we were in – some of our representatives were in Korea, I think, last week or the week before. And once [indiscernible] (25:50) they reported back from all the customers they visited that are interested in getting – maintaining the relationship, understanding, talking about when we can come back in is what they want to do. They would much rather, quite frankly, take coal from us than Russia, then if the price is the same. And they want some diversity of supply. They also see the Indonesian demand coming off and domestic demand in Indonesia growing. So they would like to – as they previously said, their position is they want us as a long-term supplier from the U.S. of the Powder River Basin remains.

In terms of the actual finalized ONRR rule, it's more that we've got to wrestle with getting our mines [ph] rounded (26:25). And the one thing it did introduce is a lot of uncertainty because it really is not clear exactly how it – exactly what to be included and what not. And the – so we've got to work through that. And then, it's got this default rule where, cynically, you could say, if they don't like the answer, they can pluck any number out of the air, because that's sort of what they've said. So we've got to work through that. There are some opportunities to actually discuss the mechanics of it with the ONRR to try and get a better understanding. And we'll have to make sure that we've got our best view when we decide on the economics of exporting. But it's the sort of impediment it was intended to be would be my view, and we've got to deal with that.

Okay. Great. Last question. You had adjusted EBITDA for the quarter of $19.3 million and – but that included this contract buyout revenue of $18.8 million. And, I guess, year-to-date operating cash flow is negative $12 million. Just want to ask that of the $18.8 million, was that cash all received during the quarter? Or is that – or is there cash to be received later on? Or is that – how did that all work and, I guess, obviously, as a follow-up to that, with a midpoint of $85 million of EBITDA for the second half – or for the full year $41 million of cash interest, we would expect that second half operating cash flows would be significant reversal of what you saw in the first half. Are there any kind of moving parts in there that we need to look at as far as working capital items?

Paul, this is Heath. Just wanted to confirm, first, the cash was received, so we do have that. That is included in our accounts as we reported in. With the midpoint at $85 million and the cash interest and the CapEx, I think your question is more just reaffirming that we expect in the second half of the year, as Colin commented in the script, that the cash should grow assuming that the EBITDA midpoint is breached. So we have confidence that, that second half of the year, the operating cash flows will be the opposite. Yeah, they should be positive in the second half of the year.

Yeah. And I think, Paul, the thing is try to maybe look at it [indiscernible] (28:41), gosh, you've got lot to do in the second half. As long as we get the shipments, the mines are set there to do it. If you look at our historical performance, when we've had volumes of between 5 million tons and 6 million tons, we've generated plenty of cash. It's just that the first half of the year, the shipments are being so low that it's being – that the fact we've only drained that, that, I think, is a testament to Gary and his team and how they've managed the costs. So the business, there is no reason why it can't return to performing like it used to as long as we actually get the customers' trains turning up.

Okay. Great. Thanks very much.

Thank you. The next question is from [indiscernible] (29:20) of Goldman Sachs. Your line is open.

Just had one quick follow-up around the buyout revenues. Do you have a sort of ballpark number about what the EBITDA impact of that $18.8 million was?

It actually doesn't have a cost associated with it, so it's pretty direct. [indiscernible]

(29:43). Okay. All right. Thank you.

Thank you. The next question is from Patrick Marshall of Cowen. Your line is open.

Hi, I just had a quick question on the – on your tonnage position. So your guidance is for 55 million tons to 60 million tons. But it also says you have fixed price tonnage of 61 million tons. Are you baking in further contract buyouts?

Well, we've – well, Patrick, what – I was wondering you didn't notice that. What we're actually baking in is the normal sorts of things that happen towards the end of the year. Given where we stand today, we normally don't deliver on all the contracts. But this year might be different on that, and we will wait and see. So I think what I would say is the guidance range is right. The contract position is absolutely right. But there is an awful lot of different moving parts, whether those contract buyouts, deferrals, swaps of contracts, lots of things can happen.

Okay.

And, yes, so there's plenty of time for that. And we'll update you in October, and we should have a pretty good handle on it by then.

Right. And I am sorry if you already said this. But how much tonnage was associated with the buyouts, was it 2 million tons?

3.9 million tons.

3.9 million tons.

3.9 million tons, yes. Because we did make a small sale of 0.5 million tons or whatever for 2016 deliveries, Spring Creek, as I mentioned, so that sort of balances it up.

Got it. Okay. That's it from me. Thank you.

All right. Thanks, Patrick.

Thank you. The next question is from Lucas Pipes of FBR & Company. Your line is open.

Hey. Good afternoon, everybody.

Hi, Lucas.

I wanted to follow up a little bit on the cost side. So quarter-over-quarter, it looks like your shipments were down based on MSHA production was down as well and costs also came down, which is a little unusual. So I wondered if you could share with us kind of what were the drivers in the second quarter versus the first quarter of this year? Thank you.

Well, the guys did a really good job of making sure that the coal ship was matched – or the overburn production was matched to the needed coal to ship. So that's one of the key drivers that we had. As a result of that, we've had to slow a few things down. We've done most of our own maintenance with our own labor for us. We did have to cancel some ships and make sure the labor costs come in line. But our gear is in really good shape. So we're able to make sure that we are repairing it properly and not spending money that we don't need to. And when get in these really tight times, you really scrutinize a lot of different things. And our active business improvement program led to a lot of savings out there, so we're pretty happy with that.

It goes to a sort of wider thing that Gary and his team has done an amazing job in the last year or two years of actually changing the way we run the business, and that's impacted everybody. But now, the reality is that during the second quarter, the slower quarter of the year, it's quite likely we will be canceling ships, going forward, because we certainly did this. But that's never happened in the past and – to make the business flexible, because we're going to have to respond to more variable demand now that coal is no longer baseload as it used to be because of the changes in the market. It's good to see. I have been really impressed with the way the team has done – been able to actually change what was a very high fixed-cost business into one with remarkably variable costs in a very short time.

That's very interesting. And then, I think I read in the release that there were also some unfortunate layoffs during the second quarter. And I wondered kind of how are you thinking about capacity at your mines? So, if there continues to be a little bit of an improvement, I believe a little bit more than a little bit, where could production go? I would appreciate your thoughts on that.

As far as concerning the reduction of workforce that we had earlier in the quarter, we had a pretty significant drop in tonnage through some of the buyouts in just the demand side of that. So we've got our workforce down to a very comfortable level now. And with the picking up now, we are able to work some more overtime, bringing in some outside services, if needed. And also, there is always hire people back if we need to. And we'll be very cautious about that. As Colin mentioned in his script, we'll be watching that coal demand and those sort of things and making sure that we do the right things to stay profitable. But we do – we'll do a good job of being able to bring our number up for the second half if demand picks up, and we'll continue to watch it.

And I think that the important point there, Lucas, is – well, there's two points I'd make. One is, yeah, the 127 people who left, they weren't made redundant. We're able to offer them voluntary severance that was – they took up, which I think is important. But we have been able to manage the sites without actually having to ask people leave at the site. There were 11 salaried positions that we actually had to ask people leave, which is no fun. But I think people understood what was going on and what we're trying to do.

But the other point is that, in the second half of the year, to get to around 60 million tons of demand at an annualized rate, the mine will have to run at about a 70 million ton rate for 6 months. I think when you're asking, obviously, the question that a lot of you are wondering is, what was our capacity? I guess, it's around about that 70 million ton rate, not massively more, and that's about what we did, 75 million tons, last year. So that's where we are set up. And Gary and his team have got the mines in good shape to deliver that. Obviously, prices go higher, then you look at what we can do at Cordero [indiscernible] (35:49). But at the moment, we are planning on having that capacity and having that flexibility to deliver 60 million tons profitably.

That's very helpful. Thank you. And then, maybe, if I could squeeze in a last one, just housekeeping. in terms of that ARO liability decreasing $54.8 million and that depreciation offset there of $37.3 million, does that – $37.3 million, does that capture all of the moving pieces on the income statement, or is anything else?

That is the one pieced on the income statement. You've got that correct, Lucas.

But just, Lucas, I'll tell you [indiscernible] (36:31) you say that one went up and so [indiscernible] (36:37) both the ARO and the liability both went down.

Yeah, yeah, yeah. No, that's right. Great. Thank you.

Thank you. The next question is from Craig Shere of Tuohy Brothers. Your line is open.

Good afternoon.

Hi.

Picking up on Patrick's question about the volumetric guidance versus the contracted position, was there any assumption about specific buyouts and the EBITDA guidance being maintained?

No.

Okay. And on the logistics side, is there any way that you could repurpose some of your contracted terminal rates and rail positions to mitigate some of the losses and fill eventual export market recovery?

Not that we are aware of. Obviously, we look at that. But, yeah, if you know of anyone who wants to move soon from the Spring Creek mine to Westshore and they need a train, then surely please send him through to us. But I'm afraid we haven't been able to find anything. And I think the reality is that we've managed to get those contracts down or the take-or-pay commitments by working with the rail and port last year. And now, the more exciting thing is to see the international markets coming back, in particular pricing. But I'm afraid that there isn't any sort of obvious way we could sort of subcontract them to someone else at the moment, I'm afraid.

Understood. And I'm sorry, I may have missed this in the prepared comments. What is the status of that dragline move thing completed?

We're right in the middle of electrical testing. It's gone real well. We anticipate it coming up in the next month or so and pretty excited to have it because that will help us control costs even better than we have so far. So it's coming right along.

Okay, so great. So after that's completed, your CapEx – ongoing CapEx cost should be coming down and, in addition, your operating cost should come down?

I think the CapEx will give you the number for next year because [indiscernible] (38:39) puts and takes because that won't have that major project. In terms of the operating cost, a little bit you will see at Antelope. Remember, we always have the rising strip ratio. So, yes, they will come down at one end but not enough. So you'll say, wow, look, here it's – but they will – it will make a significant difference sort of in the pit it's working compared to the truck-shovel. But by the time you multiply it across all the sites, I'm afraid it's – it won't be going in the right direction and a significant one because there's plenty of other things going against this as well. So don't expect suddenly a $0.50 drop in the price per ton or in the cost per ton.

Understood. Okay. Appreciate all the feedback.

Thanks, Craig.

Thank you. The next question is from Stephen Percoco of Lark Research. Your line is open.

Thank you. Could you give us a little bit more clarity on the cancellation of contract income? Specifically, does the 3.9 million tons affect volumes in this current year or is it in future years? And is that the majority of the decline in guidance for volume more related to the low volumes that you've had in the first half of the year? And, also, with that, for those customers that canceled, will they be – effectively, are they dropping out of the picture, or are they going to be buying spot now instead of under the contract prices? Any additional color you can give us there would be helpful.

Okay. In terms of that, the 3.9 million tons of contract buyouts is almost all for this year.

Exclusively for this year.

Right. And that is the major reason why we've brought our guidance down on production. In terms of those customers, there's a variety of reasons. Some of them are – their plants are closing and so, they will not be coming back. But just as many other plants have closed, we see this is one of the reason why. If you go back to 2011, we shipped 96 million tons and now, we're looking at 60 million tons. So throughout the year, there is less coal being burnt in the U.S., and we are adjusting to that. So, yes, some customers are going away permanently. And other ones, well, let's wait and see. But they wanted to manage their [ph] portfolio (41:08) based on their particular outlook on some of the plants, I'm trying to think of the three. So one of them is going to be buying more coal in the future, and we'll wait and see when they come back into the market.

Okay. And I just have one more question here. The difference between the reduction in the ARO liability and what was taken through depreciation, is that effectively going to be amortized over time? Should we make that assumption so that the ARO amortization that was typically included in depreciation expense, I assume it was included in depreciation expense, would bounce back up in future quarters? Is that the way to think about this, or am I not thinking about it clearly?

Where we started, on the first question with John, we expressed that you have an ARO liability, typically you have an ARO asset that gets depreciated. We had $17 million delta between the $54 million and $37 million. We did have a small amount of asset there. That was removed, so that won't have depreciation, going forward.

Right.

So I wouldn't factor in any further depreciation relative to the ARO. There is accretion, which is just the ARO growing over time. That's the time value component, that is disclosed in a separate line item. But the depreciation of the asset retirement costs, there aren't any at this point.

And that relative – going forward, relative to where that's been in the past, the accretion of that, is that going to be similar or slightly reduced as far as the reduction in the – related to the reduction in the $37 million depreciation?

It's the later in the sense that we have a smaller liability that will take more time to accrete up to its full value. So the accretion will decline.

Can you give us an idea of how much that will decline?

Well, maybe ballpark about 25%.

Okay. Okay. That's it. Thank you.

Okay.

Thank you. The next question is from David Gagliano of BMO Capital Markets. Your line is open.

Hi. Thanks for taking my question. Just a quick check on the typical question that I've asked in the past. Just saw the numbers. In 2017, your contracted position went up 3 million tons, implied price of $11.80 roughly. And I'm wondering, is that deferrals or is that actually contract? And how much of that is in each bucket?

I'll see if I can answer this question for you. Most of that was new contracts and then -- new contracts and an indexed contract that fixed during the year. So it wasn't anything to do with the contract buyouts or anything carried over from this year.

So you sold coal for 2017 delivery at roughly $11.80, is that correct?

That plus an indexed contract that fixed, which was higher price, which is what you're actually getting at. That was above the average to drag the others up. But the net of $11.80, you are right.

Okay. And so, I guess, really, what I'm getting at is where is – like if you were to sell a decent amount, I think you have – well, depends on your volumes next year, but let's say it's 15 million tons or something like that left to price for 2017. Where is that [indiscernible] (44:50)? Can you give us a sense to what – where you could sell that for today or like [indiscernible] (44:55) or something like that?

Well, there isn't much going on, as I've sort of alluded to, in terms of our base because I think the utilities really are waiting to see where they are coming out of the summer and looking forward through the winter. But the best guide is, I think, I will say is, look at where the OTC – reported OTC stuff is, that's – certainly for next year. that is where any conversations would start, and that hasn't changed. Obviously, it's very competitive. But you've seen that rise significantly last month or two months with the warmer weather and gas prices rising, so it's more positive. But still it'd nice to see a couple of more dollars on it, so you get to a level that gives us a proper margin.

Okay. That's helpful. Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] The next question is from Lucas Pipes of FBR & Company. Your line is open.

Thank you very much for taking my follow-up question. I think an important point that has really not come up in the Q&A is your reclamation bonding and what you intend to do there, going forward. So if I think about kind of the reduction in the ARO, then my understanding is that you now have $190 million or so in self-bonding capacity, how much more – if you were to shift that to private surety providers, how much capacity would that take up on your balance sheet? What's your best estimate at this time?

Listen, I think the way to look at it and what we were trying to get across in the prepared remarks is, we've got about 430 – 15% $66 million letter of credit that's collateral with the new group of surety providers. That comes about $440 million of bonding. With the calculations we've submitted to Wyoming DEQ, assuming they go through, and that is certainly our expectation, then as soon as those go through, we're effectively out of self-bonding, and we won't need any of the $190 million. And that's the plan, the track we're on, and we're waiting to hear from the Wyoming DEQ.

Okay. So I'm not sure if I fully understand all of that. Does that mean that you do not have to put down additional collateral?

Yes. We've got the bonding in place now with the new group of sureties. And now, what we're waiting for is for the calculations to be accepted, the calculations that include Wyoming DEQ's new – the numbers they issued – their numbers. When they [indiscernible] (47:36) those and made sure they're comfortable with them, then we should find our total bonding coming down to about that $440 million level that we've already bonded to.

Yeah. I understand. Okay. that makes sense. Thank you for that. And then, if I recall correctly, this bonding reassessment was kind of a stepping stone to, maybe, greater things to do on your balance sheet. That repurchase is something that comes up frequently, how do you think about that?

Well, we think about all of those things an awful lot. And, obviously, yeah, it's very – let's get this bonding thing done and, obviously, when anything – we've got anything to report, we obviously will.

So maybe to try another way, how do you think about your priorities following the completion of the bonding requirements there?

To try and answer it the same way, I would say that we'll look at all the – once we've got the bonding in, we'll look at the financial opportunities available to us and the different things we are able to do, and we'll let you know as soon as we've got something concrete to report.

All right. Well, good luck with everything.

Thanks a lot. And then, the other thing I should always tell you that is we are not idle, we're some very busy people, because we want to do the right things for the business and take in opportunities we can. But, obviously, we can't speculate anything until we've got something complete to report.

Thank you. There are no further questions in the queue at this time. I'll turn the call back over to Colin for closing remarks.

Well, thank you very much for taking the time to listen in. And, obviously, while 2016 is going to be a difficult year for coal producers, the hot start to summer has greatly improved the outlook after a very slow first half. And – but I'll say I am proud of the way our employees have adapted to the realities of market, which will help us considerably, going forward. So with that, I would like to thank you for taking the time to listen in. And we will look forward to updating you again in Q3 after, hopefully, a sustained hot summer. Thank you.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. This concludes the program. You may now disconnect. Good day.