Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Karla J. Kimrey — Vice President-Investor Relations, Cloud Peak Energy, Inc.
Colin Marshall — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Cloud Peak Energy, Inc.
Heath A. Hill — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Cloud Peak Energy, Inc.
Gary S. Rivenes — Chief Operating Officer & Executive Vice President, Cloud Peak Energy, Inc.
David K. Deterding — Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC
John D. Bridges — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC
Lucas N. Pipes — Analyst, FBR Capital Markets & Co.
Michael Goldenberg — Analyst, Luminus Management LLC
Jonathon Troy Fite — Co-Founder & Managing Member, KMF Investments Management LLC
Jeremy Sussman — Analyst, Clarkson Capital Markets LLC
Patrick Clement Marshall — Analyst, CRT Capital Group LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Cloud Peak Energy First Quarter Earnings Conference Call. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call maybe recorded.

I would now like to turn it to your host for today's conference, Karla Kimrey, Vice President, Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Thank you, Christie. Good afternoon and thank you for joining us. With me today is Collin Marshall, Cloud Peak Energy's President and CEO; Gary Heath (sic) [Heath Hill], CFO; and Gary Rivenes, COO.

Today's presentation may contain forward-looking statements regarding our outlook for our company and industry, financial and operational guidance, volumes, prices and demand, the regulatory and political environment, growth strategies, capital resources and other statements that are not historical facts. Actual results may differ materially because of various risks and uncertainties, including those described in the cautionary statement in today's earnings release and in our 2015 Form 10-K, and our first quarter 2016 Form 10-Q.

Today's presentation also includes non-GAAP financial measures. Please refer to today's earnings release for the reconciliations and related disclosures. Our earnings release is available on the Investor Relations section of our website at cloudpeakenergy.com.

I'll now turn the call over to Collin Marshall.

Thank you, Karla. Good afternoon and thank you for taking the time to listen into our Q1 2016 results call. As Karla said, I'm joined by Heath Hill, our CFO; and Gary Rivenes, our Chief Operating Officer.

Our adjusted EBITDA at minus $1.3 million, reflects the very low shipment rate experienced by all PRB producers during the quarter. The operation's ability to reduce costs when shipments were greatly below plan, demonstrate the flexibility of our workforce and the effectiveness of the cost reduction measures that were taken.

However, cost cutting could not overcome the reduction in revenue during the quarter. The midpoint of our full year guidance range has only been reduced marginally, as we expect shipments to pick up significantly in the second half of the year and the customers who do not want to take their contracted coal will provide appropriate compensation during the year.

I am proud to be able to report that during the quarter there were no reportable injuries at any of our sites. Indeed it is now over six months since we had a reportable injury, which is a significant achievement given the uncertainty that surrounds coal industry. It demonstrates how our employees remain focused on working safely during these uncertain times.

There were 121 MSHA inspection days at our sites in first quarter with only five substantial and significant citations written. So far we have been assessed fines of $2,300 on four of the citations. There were no environmental citations at any of our sites during the quarter and it is now over two years, since our last environmental citation.

As we explained during our full year results call in February we expected first quarter shipments to be slow, but not as slow as they turned out. The winter has been exceptionally mild with energy used for heating 34% below average and electricity demand down 5% from last year. These are very large decreases by any measure.

Low heating demand reduced natural gas prices, which displaced forecast coal burn for many of our customers. The stockpiles had filled up at the end of last year so they curtailed shipment sharply in Q1. When combined with the reduced exposure in Spring Creek, this caused a reduction in our shipments of 34% compared to Q1 last year. This was inline with the overall PRB shipment reductions report in recent MSHA data.

Across the business, we have been adjusting our operations to reduce costs in the face of this dramatic slowdown in shipments. We've reduced the use of contractors and over time adjusted retiree medical benefits, not filled vacant positions, intensified early retirement, and parked surplus equipment as well as many other measures.

As we look forward, it is clear that the dynamics of the coal industry have permanently changed. Where coal used to provide based load generation, it is now much more variable depending on power demand, renewable output and the price of natural gas. We are currently adapting to operating in an environment where shipments vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter. This is likely to be the case for the foreseeable future as coal competes with natural gas on marginal power demand, rather than providing reliable low cost base load power as it has historically done.

We do believe there will be significant long-term U.S. coal and international thermal coal demand even with proposed anti-coal regulations around the world. This is why we have continued to progress the Big Metal project based on the Crow Tribe Reservation, adjacent to our Spring Creek Mine. We are currently working with the Tribe to understand culturally significant sites, so they can be excluded from our proposed mining area. As we continue to evaluate this project we are increasingly confident there will be domestic as well as export demand for this coal and for coal from the nearby Youngs Creek project. It is also expected to get increasingly difficult to lease federal coal due to the action of anti-coal NGOs, and administrations.

Therefore we believe the development of Big Metal and Youngs Creek mines will take place in a few years as leased reserves decline. You may be aware that work on the environmental impact study for the Gateway Pacific project in which we have a 49% interest has been halted. This is to manage costs as we await the Army Corp of Engineers much most delayed decision on the Lummi Tribe's request that the project be cancelled.

I'll now hand over to Heath to run through the financials before returning to cover the outlook.

Thank you, Colin. I would like to begin with an update on our reclamation bonding activities, which have been of particular focus during the period. In the normal course we have received our approval from the State of Wyoming, Department of Environmental Quality to renew a total of $190 million of reclamation self-bonding at our Antelope Mine, and our Cordero Rojo Mine. While we are pleased that our consolidated financial position allows us to meet the requirements for self-bonding with the State of Wyoming, we are proactively working to address the ongoing regulatory uncertainties regarding self-bonding programs by seeking to voluntarily transition fully to third-party surety bonds.

We are in discussions with surety bond providers to potentially increase the bonding capacity by offering approximately 15% collateral in the form of letters of credit under our credit agreement. We also recently updated our reclamation bonding applications to include Wyoming DEQs, lower diesel fuel price assumption and to reflect updated reclamation plans. Bond release applications, which incorporate recently completed reclamation were also submitted. Assuming these applications are approved by the State of Wyoming our total bonding amount would be reduced in line with the State and Federal regulations.

Our cash flow from operations was negative at approximately $700,000. This however, did include a $6.4 million interest payment on our 2024 bonds. We ended the period with $79.4 million in cash. When the cash balance is combined with the available borrowings from our credit facility and our AR securitization program available liquidity remains strong at $558 million. It should be noted that our liquidity will be reduced by the amount of letters of credit expected to be issued during the second quarter for the increased third-party surety bond capacity. As we consider the operating results for the period it was mentioned during the year-end earnings call that the primary variable driving our 2016 results would be the total volume shipped.

During the first quarter of 2016, our shipments and shipments from the entire Powder River basin decreased 34% as compared to the first quarter of 2015. The average realized price per ton for our three mines during the quarter was also down, about 3% to $12.65 as compared to the prior year of $13.05 per ton. While we reduced our mining cost by nearly $25 million as compared to the first quarter of 2015, our cost per ton increased to $11.15 as compared to the prior year of $10.02 due to the lower shipment rate. While $1.50 per ton margin was realized in our mining operations, when this is applied to the lower 13 million tons shipping rate for the quarter, fewer earnings were generated to offset our continuing logistics negative adjusted EBITDA of $6.9 million.

The loss within our logistics business was as expected, at the $8 million of take-or-pay expense associated with our amended contracts with the port and rail was partially offset by the collection of $1.7 million of Newcastle hedge gain in the period. Consolidated adjusted EBITDA for the first quarter was a loss of $1.3 million as compared to the positive $39.4 million reported for the first quarter of 2015.

As we look forward, in consideration of the low level of first quarter shipments and with the continuing expectation of shipping our contracted tons we are reducing our 2016 full-year shipments guidance. We now expect to ship between 60 million tons and 65 million tons. Our expectation for 2016 adjusted EBITDA is in the range between $75 million and $95 million. There are several reasons why the decrease in forecasted volumes is greater than the decrease in our adjusted EBITDA range. These points include, first, while certain customers have communicated a need to lower volumes in the current year we expect to maintain value through contract buyouts.

Second, in keeping with industry standards we have evaluated and adjusted certain of our employee and retiree benefits, which will provide significant expense reductions over the coming 3.5 years, as previously accrued amounts are reversed and incremental costs are avoided thereby reducing costs independent of tons shipped.

Finally, workforce planning is key to aligning our team size to the lower and varying production volumes. Our incentive-based exit programs and shift modifications will provide further cost savings going forward. A new range of $25 million to $35 million for capital expenditures will provide for completion of the dragline rebuild at our Antelope mine and maintain the health of the equipment fleet across the mining operations. Depreciation, depletion and accretion expense will be approximately $100 million and cash interest for 2016 is expected to be approximately $41 million.

In conclusion, we are working to protect our liquidity, which remained strong at $558 million at the end of the first quarter. We are focused on managing costs in a time of varying shipment rates. And assuming a normal summer we are preparing to run much harder in the second-half of this year.

With that I will hand the conversation back to Colin.

Thank you, Heath. Now I'd like to cover the international outlook. Seaborne thermal demand continues to be oversupplied due to the combination of a large reduction in Chinese thermal imports, reduced Indian thermal import growth and the strong U.S. dollar. These factors are currently keeping international coal prices down. We have seen Indonesian exports reduced due to low prices and increased domestic demand.

The recent strengthening of the Australian dollar will help reduce shipments and continue to delay capacity additions. Our existing customers in Japan and Korea are staying in touch, that they would like to take our coal again when it is economic for us to export. In addition we have recently – we've received several inquiries from Southeast Asian utilities seeking reliable coal supply for their new power plants. It is encouraging to see the met coal prices start to recover with increased Chinese steel production, as they have effectively put a cap on thermal coal prices for some time. Overall we continue to believe that international thermal coal prices will rise due to supply and demand coming to balance and we'll look to restart exports when they become economic.

Turning to the domestic environment. Last year we saw utility coal burn down by around 18% across the nation. So far this year shipments are down by around 29% with PRB down 34%. And I previously said the very mild winter and subsequent very low natural gas prices have reduced coal burn and increased coal stockpiles to record levels. The amount the PRB coal burn is down for the whole year will depend on the summer cooling demand and the price of natural gas. We are currently forecasting PRB demand to fall from around 405 million tons last year to around 320 million tons in 2016 as stockpiles are reduced. This would be a 21% year-on-year reduction.

In 2017 PRB coal demand is expected to rebound to around 350 million tons as stockpiles normalize and natural gas prices rise to more sustainable levels. When gas prices rise and coal stockpiles start to decrease there will be room for coal prices to increase to more sustainable levels too. How long this will take is unclear but the sharp reduction in oil and gas drilling and steep production declines from many new wells now appear to be starting to reduce U.S. oil and gas production. Hopefully the reduction will become significant over the next few months.

The other factor that is increasing important to coal burn is the weather, as we have just experienced a mild winter had a dramatic negative impact on heating demand, natural gas prices and coal burn. It would be helpful if we have a hot summer. This could rapidly increase gas and coal burn. Since our last call we reduced our contracted position for 2016 by 1 million tons through a buyout agreed with the customer. We now have 63 million tons contracted for 2016 at an average price of $12.72 per ton. Apart from additional in-year sales we normally make to certain Spring Creek customers we're not expecting to make any other 2016 sales as utilities are looking to reduce their stockpiles.

We are in discussion with several customers regarding compensation for contracted coal, they no longer want to take this year. There is a growing acceptance among our customers that they must pay a compensation if they do not take their contracted tons, which will reduce the impact on our adjusted EBITDA. Due to low prices and a lack of RFPs we did not make any new sales for 2017 in Q1. The price was fixed on nearly 1 million tons of indexed coal and 600,000 tons were moved into 2017 from this year.

As a result, for 2017 we have currently committed to sell 42 million tons. Of this committed production 39 million tons are under fixed price contracts with a weighted average price of $12.53. Due to current high stockpiles and the uncertainty of the future in natural gas prices and power demand the utilities appear to be delaying their normal contracting activities for next year. There have been few RFPs out so far this year, but more are expected as utilities focus on the projected 2017 coal burn over the next few months. We will update you on contracting during our next call in July.

To sum up before we take your questions. This has been a very difficult quarter due to our customers delaying shipments due to reduced burn and high coal stockpiles. Our operations have adapted well, but we are taking additional measures to control costs and increase the flexibility of our mines. Six months without a reportable safety incident is a great achievement by all our employees during this period.

As Health mentioned we are in discussions with a group of experienced surety providers to increase our third-party bonding and have submitted applications to the Wyoming DEQ. This should reduce our bonding requirement. When these things are complete we expect to be able to exit self-bonding with Wyoming. We are expecting slow shipments in the second quarter, which normally has the lowest shipments of the year. The second half of the year should be much stronger after the summer burn and as utilities focus on meeting their contracted shipments to avoid penalties – paying penalties on rail and coal contracts. As we had last year that's a key to our performance in 2016, we'll be getting our customers to take their contracted coal and the compensation paid by those who don't.

We can now take your questions. [Operator Instructions]

Our first question is from the line of David Deterding of Wells Fargo. Your line is open.

Hi, guys. Colin, thanks for taking my question.

Hi, David.

Hi, we've talked to more investors. You're actually getting bullish on natural gas as some of the drilling has fallen off here. I know you talked about needing a hotter summer. But what net gas price do you think it takes to see more switching back to coal for you guys out of the PRB and to really how long do you think it will take to work through the stockpiles?

Okay, yes in terms of the decline in the gas space, it does seem to be some sort of consistent commentaries now. So the decline is actually clearing as it has in the oil which from the decline, because I have seen quite a few of the basins sort of make sense with the rapid decline in the actual amount of drill rigs drilling even with efficiency improvements from the rigs.

What we see here is that historically when gas was above $2.50, we'd see people start switching back towards PRB, and we reckoned that all switching would be done from our customers by the time gas got to $3.50. So somewhere between that $2.50 and $3.50 range we'll be shipping – sorry they will be switching back towards coal. And clearly when you're $2 I think anyone who can burn gas is doing. Certainly that's the way it feels in terms of the shipments.

Great and I think the last time I'd seen the number on potential self-bonding it was around $400 million, is that correct?

No, the total...

Total bonding is approximately $600 million.

Okay.

It's broken out between $400 million of our third-party surety bonds that we had historically and the $200 million roughly of self-bonding. So we're looking to replace that self-bonding amount with third-party bonds.

Yes, and we're doing now as I said – as we said, by increasing the amount of third-party bonding above the $400 million and also working with Wyoming DEQ to get recognition for work, reclamation work we've done some new plans going forward and the lower fuel prices that they want us to assume to sort of bring the $640 million number down and the expectation is with the top coming down and the surety bonding going up that we'll be able to – just when those things occur we should be able to exit self-bonding.

Okay and do you have an estimate for how much that might come down of the $200 million and you got self-bonded now?

I think at this stage let's leave that until it occurs. But it sort of will be going up from underneath and there will be a reduction from the top.

Correct.

Okay. And just last question, I'm looking at your liquidity very strong again $557 million, $780 million in cash. And if you say, you have $200 million, you have to put up the 15%, I think that's very minimal, leaves you with over $500 million in kind of liquidity. And you could take out 60% of your kind of long-term debt for $150 million. I mean, I guess, I'm wondering, one, how do you think about that? And two, how do you think about your liquidity need, as you run through now and 2019, it seems pretty strong?

Okay. The first point, just to clarify, the 15% collateral will be on all the bonding we have. So it will be on a number of between whatever it is, more than just the incremental $200 million. So we are putting in place bonding for – they will have collateral for all of it. But as I say, within the group of experienced bonders who are comfortable at that level given the outlook for our business, which is what we want, some sort of comfort that they – they're comfortable at this level.

In terms of liquidity, we're really – obviously, we're looking at all our different numbers, where we're focused on, first of all, getting the self-bonding issue, getting comfortable with that. We felt that was the first thing we need to deal with. We're obviously talking and considering all the different things we can do with our balance sheet and we are looking at the outlook for the business.

So the discount on the bonds hasn't escaped us – hasn't escaped our notice. But I'll just say we're working through things and we'll take actions as we feel they are appropriate at the time that makes sense. But the first [ph] cap (21:30) of the rank was definitely sorting self-bonding and we are in the thick of that.

Great. Thank you, guys.

Thanks.

Thank you. Our next question is from John Bridges of JPMorgan. Your line is open.

Evening Colin and everybody. I just wanted to – just curious you mentioned tweaking the way the mine operates or the more flexible demand that's being put on you from the utilities. What sort of things you are doing?

Well, John, this is Gary. First off, we're doing a lot of scheduling to make sure that our overburden movement is matching our coal needs at the time. Our employees are having to reduce some various schedules. So a lot of scheduling going on. We have reduced back our workforce a little bit. We've offered some early retirements and voluntary leave programs and reduced some hours. So bottom line is, we're trying not to run. And then a couple of other things is, we do have the ability to allow our equipment outages to be a little bit longer, because some of the equipment we don't need. And so we can do that a lot cheaper with our in-house labor. And then we're doing as much work in our rebuild shop as possible to try to eliminate our outside costs.

Okay. Well, it's certainly showing up in the way your costs have been relatively immune to the lower throughput. Congratulations. [indiscernible]

(23:02)

Well, word on the street is that the rail companies are hurting too and they are pushing back and raising rates. I know you are not directly exposed to that. But are you hearing that your carriers are threatening to put rates up?

I'm certainly not hearing that. I'm certainly – I'm hearing that they are suffering the same amount of downturn that we are, obviously. The trains aren't turning up. The one thing I would comment on that is that they have pretty strong contracts with the utilities and they were expecting the utilities to perform with them. So that, as we saw, I think at the end of last year when one of the reasons why we shipped so much coal, even in the November and December when the demand was down was because utilities were keen to fill their contracts, both with us and with the rail.

Our expectation is that after the summer burn, shipments will increase. And one of the reasons will be utilities' desire to make sure they meet their minimums into their rail contracts. But in terms of actually anything to do with raising their rates at the moment, I haven't heard anything on that.

Okay, great. Well done, guys. Best of luck.

Thank you.

Thanks.

Thank you. Our next question is from Lucas Pipes of FBR & Company. Your line is open.

Hey, good afternoon, everybody.

Hi, Lucas.

So it sounds like you are making some very painful cuts in terms of – on the cost side, in terms of just trimming down further and scaling this business appropriately. And I wondered kind of what are you trying to manage this business to, if you look out a few years, I'm sure you must have a view on where are long-term gas prices, where are long term coal prices, where is coal demand for the PRB? Can you give us a sense on what kind of what do you have in your model? What should we be thinking about here? What is this business being scaled for?

Okay. Yeah, that is something we spend a fair bit of time thinking about is where is this business, the demand going to settle out. Our expectations are, at the moment, is something for the PRB roundabout 350 million tons between now and say 2020, or when the next round of reductions come through from regulations, would make sense. But the thing that's really struck me is that, I think we won't do 350 million in many of those years. It will either be above or below depending on the other factors such as the gas price and the weather and the subsidized renewable production.

So I think what we are trying to do is build the flexibility in around the number that I think of about 350 million tons. But we're also very conscious at the moment because of the way things have lined up with all the closures last year and then the extraordinary mild winter with the very low gas prices. We've – it's sort of we probably started off with a trough, at least, I hope that's the way it plays out, and that the amount of coal that is produced this year is actually a low because it should increase back, I mean more like 350 million, which seems like a sensible number for the next few years.

We'll have to – I'll say out to 2020 after that we'll have to wait and see what the regulations and the environment brings and where natural gas prices settle out. But that's one of the reasons why we're very keen to work flexibility into the way we work and operate with our employees because that's what we're going to need to be profitable going forward and obviously now is the time to do it. But at the moment until it actually settles down and we hit a bottom, it's pretty tough to know what you're trying to direct around.

Lucas one other thing is, our equipment still is in very good shape. We are not cutting where it doesn't make sense. and then we are investing in making sure equipment is in the right places as well. We're still in the middle of a large dragline move from Cordero to Antelope so that's been going pretty well and that machine should come online in the summer time this year.

Got it. Okay. And then maybe to turn a little bit to the near-term, Colin. I think in your prepared remarks you mentioned some numbers for demand, I think for 2016 and 2017. I didn't quite capture them. So if you could maybe just repeat them and then I have one more question after that.

Sure. I reckon this year, our best guess at the moment is 320 million tons the PRB production and then maybe going back to 350 million tons next year once we've had some reduction in the stockpiles. But around those numbers. If there is a hot summer, it will be different. If it's a mild winter, and similarly if it is a mild or cold winter. But that's sort of the best range at the moment, 320 million tons this year, 350 million tons next.

Got it. Now I would reckon at 320 million tons you would be taking a little bit of market share this year. Just top of my head, do you think that's about right?

I'm sorry I don't – could you explain what you are after?

Meaning that your production declines less than your peers, if the production has declined to 320 million total?

Well, really, that one we're going to have to wait to the end of the year, because it's really, it's obviously it's a lot more opaque now than it used to with the – our peers not reporting the way they did, and we'll follow the amateur data. But exactly how it that plays out between the mines, we'll have to wait and see. But that's not a precise number. That's a best estimate at the moment. We'll have to see how it pans out. But clearly, nobody is immune from the reduction in shipments to the utilities because we all sell to the same people. And they're – if they're not taking their coal then we're all going to be slow.

Great. And then – and just one quick last one. Obviously Q1 was pretty brutal, and I'm just trying to get a better sense for what exactly happened in terms of, I mean clearly shipments are down. But how did the conversation happen between you and your customers. It was a clear understanding that they would be taking the shipments in the back-half of the year. I'm just trying to get a feeling for why do you expect their production to increase in the back-half of the year as they clearly didn't want the coal in Q1?

Okay. Well, The conservation, there weren't that many of them. They just didn't send the trains and said, we've got full stockpiles and we are either burning or competing with very low cost gas. The reason why I think the shipments will increase is first of all they always do. If you look historically, Q2 is normally the slow quarter. So the first half I'm afraid won't be great, and the second quarter is, we'll need to pick up in May and July – so May and June, because they haven't got into any sort of summer burn and initially coal will come off the stockpiles because to make some room, so that utilities can actually take some coal.

But I think it's – the expectation is – there is still a lot of coal will be burned. But what we did find is that quite a few utilities actually sort of let their coal plants go cold because the gas – there was enough gas, they could see their way in January through the rest of the winter, and let them go cold. So until they fire them up for the summer burn, they really haven't being burning much coal at all.

That's obviously some of them, but still, we still shipping at a 50 million ton rate. So there is a fair bit of coal being burned. But the marginal stuff that we are expecting to be shipping to get to a 60 million to 65 million ton rate that's – a lot of that is because some of the plant – demand is down, but also some of the plants were cold. We are hearing that different ones are being fired up now in expectations for the summer burn and that should increase through May.

But clearly we're hoping that there is an early start to summer, so that they get fired up and then they can run, because once they're running they do produce very low cost electricity. But the other thing we do need obviously is gas to go up a bit because it's below $2, it's – I'd say the only people losing more money than coal people then are the oil and gas producers. But that's cold comfort at the moment.

Well, I appreciate all the detail and good luck.

Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question is from Michael Goldenberg of Luminus Management. Your line is open.

Just had a couple of bookkeeping items. On the cash, let's say you have a non-cash logistic agreement expense of $8 million. Where does that show up in the income statement, is that in COGS?

That is in cost of goods sold.

So is that in the – in cost of goods sold on the mine side or in the export side?

On the export side.

Okay, so basically the exports even though it says EBITDA of minus $7 million, is that non-cash or cash EBITDA basically zero or is the minus $7 million non-cash – is actually cash EBITDA?

At this quarter, it's mostly non-cash. Some of that's just timing of the payments.

But what I'm saying, when you say logistics and related adjusted EBITDA of minus $7 million, given we have an $8 million add-back in cash flow statement. Is your adjusted EBITDA for the quarter, the cash adjusted EBITDA actually is zero?

I think that's a fair way to characterize it. I would look at it as – that's a pretty unique three-month period that just- going forward, we look at longer term for the full year.

Okay. And then the other part is, on the Burlington Northern deal, I thought there would be a cash payment this quarter for the Burlington Northern, am I correct in that?

They are combined. Those port and rail logistics contracts. That's a combination of the amounts paid to both BNSF and to Westshore.

But last quarter in Q4, 2015, there was a specific payment to Westshore where you basically paid to get out of the contract so to speak. Was there a similar payment this quarter to Burlington or am I wrong in that?

I'd be happy Michael to explain the specifics of the cash payments in each contract individually. But as we talked about at year end, when we announced the logistics deal, they roughly mirror each other in amount of upfront payment, amount of expense to be amortized and the amount of cash flow in each of 2016, 2017, and 2018.

Okay, fair enough.

So we didn't make payments, yes.

We'll take it offline. Thank you very much.

Okay, thank you Michael.

Thank you. Our next question is from Jonathan Fite of KMF Investments. Your line is open.

Good afternoon, everyone. Thanks for taking my call.

Hi, Jon.

Just want to make sure I heard the numbers right. So after kind of voluntarily removing self-bonding, and if you're able to get the third-party surety bond players to step up, but roughly around $600 million of total surety bonding would be there and about 15% of that would be collateralized. Is that kind of ballpark figure is about right?

Well, that's probably be on the high side, but we didn't give a specific number because until – the reason we were even prepared to talk about it is first of all is very important and we do believe that we're in a good position to actually get the increase in third-party bonding through. We just papering it up but obviously and we'll actually make an announcement when we issue the letters of credit.

Yes.

So that will come out and you will see the exact number then, which is a bit below $600. But let's not be too precise just now.

Yes, correct.

And then the other factor is, we'll also go to work with Wyoming to bring sort of the total bonding calculation down to get recognition for some lower fuel assumptions and for work we've already done and plan to do in the future.

So given – thank you for that clarity, Colin, and so given that you guys are talking about this on today's call, this is something that you would expect to finalize some time in Q2, I'm expecting or...?

Let's give it little bit more time. The important point is we're good for $190 million of self-bonding today, that's all approved. We've just got – it will depend on things like how quickly Wyoming process the applications we put through. And as you can imagine, they're getting quite a few amendments to them at the moment. So it's more – we believe it's more of a sort of just the processing go through, but obviously until it's done, we can't tell you the exact number. But our expectation is – so I'm not saying Q2, but we'll be pushing to get it done as soon as we can.

Great and that 15% number, there is a high degree of confidence around that as you guys go forward with the process?

Yes.

That's really fantastic news. I think again kind of speaks to you guys being able to continue to address these, as I recall that's dramatically lower than some of the collateral requirements when you were spun out of Rio Tinto, is that correct?

That's correct. It's 40% when we started off, yes. And quite frankly we didn't depending on which bonding guys you talked to some are very comfortable with zero, but to get the whole lot together and to get them comfortable we settled at 15% and we believe that's a solid number given all the information we've got and we've given to them they are comfortable with that number that would increase above the $400 million we got at the moment.

So what we trying to put in place is something that will see us through for the next few years given the current outlook, and get rid of sort of any concern about running into issues with Wyoming off the table and we think obviously it's good for Wyoming as well to have – to not have to worry about self-bonding tests with Cloud Peak Energy.

That's, again I think it's fantastic news. I think there was a 40% kind of data point from a few years ago. I think market expectations might have expected something even worse than that. I think this is a really good number. If we look at what's happened over the last couple of years, or really last 18 months with some of the liabilities, with Rio being settled, the port rail settlements, you secured the self-bonding. And now perhaps the last kind of big piece of the balance sheet on structure – or balance sheet uncertainty being the surety bond piece. Would you see that as kind of last bit of uncertainty before you guys could maybe turn to the debt piece that was mentioned earlier. Or do you see any other items that you would want to address maybe before you addressed the discounted bonds?

Well, I think we will obviously – we will be looking at the whole balance sheet. The debt coming due in 2019, the revolver in early 2019, and obviously our potential take or pay obligations with rail and port going forward. Those are the big items and we're obviously looking at all of them and trying to address them as sensibility as you can in what would be a – whatever the best order is but we're not idle.

Well, congratulations on that. That's I think a great achievement. Thanks a lot.

Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question is from Jeremy Sussman of Clarkson. Your line is open.

Hi, thanks very much for taking my question. Colin, you mentioned a number of cost initiatives. I was hoping you could elaborate on that, and I guess specifically if I look at your kind of Q1 operating cost level, is that a good base line to work with for the rest of the year or are some of the reductions towards the end of the quarter where you we should see that kind of base line number come down throughout the year?

Obviously that – some of the costs there were to do with things like – yes, just a low production at these mines. But in terms of some of the measures we've taken, things like the adjustment that Heath was talking to, to our retiree benefits going forward, that will come in from now onwards. And that's quite significant. So we're bringing them into line with where the rest of the industry is.

So I think – the answer is yes. As time goes on more of the cost benefits will come in. But what we'll also obviously then, we'll hopefully will – what will really make the difference is when we can actually ship at a more sensible rate for our – against our contracts. And then you will see the big decline in cost per ton, because we will actually get some volume, which is obviously what we really need to get the business working properly, which is what we expect in the second half. But, yes, obviously as time goes on, more and more of the cost saving things come in and there will be a change, bit of a step for the rest of the year.

That's helpful. Just along the last lines with the volume step up. Should we expect much in Q2? I know you mentioned earlier seasonally Q2 usually isn't the strongest. So – go ahead...

Yes, I'm afraid, no. Q2 is pretty slow. You only have to look at the rail data that comes through. There's not been much of a pick up yet. And so we're optimistic it will occur. We didn't expect it in April, which is normally one of the slowest months of the year. And really what we're looking for is for the summer burn power demand to go up, which means you need some – to switch from – you need switch to a cooling demand, which hopefully will start coming in May.

Perfect. Thank you very much.

Thanks.

Thank you. Our next question is from Patrick Marshall of CRT Capital Group. Your line is open.

Hi. Just again on the surety bonds. I was wondering if you guys could give me some color on, I guess, kind of the rationale, is it just being proactive and reading the tea leaves, or did you receive some indications from Wyoming that they might be looking to do away with self-bonding?

It was absolutely being proactive. Wyoming have been very supportive. It's actually – I think it's pass through this – well, it's a regulation that they passed, so to change it would be a big deal. You'd have to go through the legislature. But no, we were trying to be proactive. And also, yes we are conscious that as some of our – it's done against financial tests and on a trailing 12-month basis. And as time goes on, as we weather through this, obviously our finances are getting weaker before they get stronger in terms of the some of the trailing 12-month numbers. So we saw this opportunity to be proactive and we'd rather do it now, rather than we got the phone call and we got a problem.

Sure. And then in these negations with the third-party surety bond providers. What is the, I guess, what is the timeframe under which they can, I guess, look to reopen negotiations like, I mean, so you can agree to 15% maybe today, but 12 months down the road, is there the possibility that they could ask for more?

There is an ongoing conversation. They will be paying attention to this call, on each quarterly call, and we host separate tours for them. So it's an active dialogue. Their contract does allow for increased collateral. But we feel that in this more of an insurance business type arrangement, it will be very deliberately measured against our sales positions going forward and the activity in the mine, and how responsible we are in our reclamation activities by keeping up with that. And there is absolutely a financial component.

So liquidity, we get good credit to our liquidity. So these are all components that are very active and they're monitored by them as well. But this is a very good introductory level and we were pleased to get that.

Right. So can they look to – it's on a rolling basis essentially, if they decide they need more collateral, they can ask it any time?

They always could. That's the nature of this sort of arrangement, that's just the way they work. But I think the important point is that, we've been very open with them. They understand what they're getting into. And as I said a few times, we've been very clear about the outlook, our expectations. They understand the mines, they've been around and if you look at the engineering, they get into some remarkable detail, they're very knowledgeable. And so they know what they're getting into. So we have a pretty good level of confidence, that 15% is the right number for quite a range of scenarios going forward. But obviously, they do have the ability to ask more collateral and that's just the nature of sort of the insurance.

If I could offer too, the regulations with self-bonding are binary. It's a pass-fail mechanism. There is less flexibility. So when you work with the third-party surety bonds, we're coming in at a specific collateral level. That helps that company manage their risk exposure to our business. And so that conversation, it's all about risk and risk management takes it a little bit beyond just the mechanics of the financial ratio on the balance sheet.

Sure. And then one final question. Do you guys have any expectations for working capital this year whether that's a source or use of liquidity?

Not expected to change meaningfully. You've seen that the AR balance has come down, with the lower sales volume, but that could rebound later in the year. We're not forecasting other meaningful working capital and cash flow items.

Okay. That will be all. Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you. And our last question is from the line of [ph] Ann Kapelli of STIC (45:12) Your line is open.

Hi. Thanks for taking the questions.

Hey, Ann.

I just have a few questions on the cost side. So the first one is your SG&A expense on an absolute dollar basis went up quite a bit year-over-year. And I was wondering, if you could address why that would be?

Yeah, I'd be happy to just highlight two points. Last year there was an adjustment for some stock comp release. So we had a credit last year that didn't repeat this year. And we had some unusual medical claim activity this year. So when you put the lack of a credit and incremental cost that's the differential of the 2.5%.

All right. And then I know you mentioned cutting outside contractors. I'm just wondering if you decreased any of your own labor force positions.

Yes. We're actually in the process of doing that right now through a volunteer program. So far our employees have been reduced on their – some of their overtime hours as well and some of their base wage hours. So we are cutting labor, where we can and then looking for volunteers in the meantime.

And we've also, for an extended period now not been replacing people in many positions. And there's over 50 positions we had a couple of years ago that no longer exist. And obviously we – every time somebody leaves, we look for every reason we can to see if we cannot replace the position, and so far that's been over 50 people.

So you put it all together and there has been actually quite a substantial decrease as we've come down in our production over the last few years. But we've done it sort of steadily and we use attrition a lot. Now we've been incentivized early retirement. So we haven't had to sort of announce large layoffs. And the other point is that, if we are going to run and get somewhere near 60 million tons of production this year, we are actually going to have to run pretty hard in the second half of the year. And we would – we're going to need the employees we've got to get the equipment going.

So the thing we are going to come to terms with is that, at the moment, we're running a 50 million ton rate, and if we're going to do 60 million tons, we are going to have to run at 70 million ton right say the second-half of the year. And that that's quite a big swing in terms of the day-to-day operations at the mines. And that's what we're trying to get the flexibility, so we can do that. So actually we need these employees. We've got to make sure they are there when the trains turn up.

Makes sense. And then I guess a longer-term question I have is with the majority of the coal companies in the PRB in bankruptcy, and it seems like a lot of them are going to get rid of substantial amounts of debt. Do you think you can complete long term by having debt on your balance sheet when they're going to be able to get rid of that much easier through the bankruptcy process?

Well, I think – well obviously going through a bankruptcy process there's quite a few changes that take place. We will have to see what level of debt they come out with. Obviously, we'll be looking at what measures we can take with our debt as we – at our balance sheet as we go forward. My expectation at the moment is that, we won't be that much different to them when they emerge from bankruptcy.

And clearly, and if you actually look at the amount of debt we've got, probably one of the reasons why we're – we've managed to avoid Chapter 11 is because it actually is a reasonable level for the size of our business. And obviously the burden is never quite as large as the ones that they're bringing down. And my expectation is, I'm sure their expectation is that, they would have some debt when they emerge, because they need to be structured appropriately to go forward and the new owners presumably would want that.

Okay. And then probably just one more from me. I just – I'm wondering long-term over the next 10 years, if you've looked at the return on invested capital number and backed into what price you would need for new capital to make that IRR as good as buying back your bonds. And kind of what kind of price level you are expecting to get over the long-term?

Okay. Well, we haven't done exactly that fulcrum calculations for you. But we've always said when it get to about $70, $75, it should become economic first to ship, and those would be tons that we couldn't sell domestically. So we'll – that's always been the sort of number that works. So that's what we're looking for. And it's – we still believe that that market will come back into balance. The growth in Japan, Taiwan, Malaysia, Vietnam, really, is very real. Obviously, the Chinese what they are doing at the moment we'll have to see how it plays out. Last month they imported quite a bit more coal in the fall. So they are the sort of 800 pound gorilla. But it's clear to me that it's a commodity market, that at the moment there's over supply, people aren't making money.

Those are the reasons it will come back into balance and people will make a return and eventually have to be able to invest in new capital. It's certainly a lot higher than $75 to be able to actually do that and at the moment at $50 bucks, it's – there is nobody really making any money. So that can only go on for so long.

Okay, thanks for taking the question.

Thank you.

Thank you. And that does conclude the Q&A session for today. I would now like to turn the call back over to Mr. Colin Marshall for any further remarks.

Well, first of all thank you very much for listening into the call and for your questions. Clearly 2016 is going to be a very difficult year for all coal producers. And I would say, I'm very proud of the way our employees are adapting to the realities of the market and doing everything they can to keep our business viable.

We're obviously expecting an increase in the second half of the year. I'm afraid the first-half, including Q2 are going to be slow just, because of the stockpiles and the external environment we've seen. But we're confident that shipments will step up significantly in the second half. With that we'll look forward to updating you during our Q2 call in July. Thank you very much.

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. This does conclude today's program. You may all disconnect. Everyone have a great day.