Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Karla J. Kimrey — Vice President-Investor Relations, Cloud Peak Energy, Inc.
Colin Marshall — President and Chief Executive Officer, Cloud Peak Energy, Inc.
Michael Barrett — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Cloud Peak Energy, Inc.
James M. Rollyson — Analyst, Raymond James & Associates
Shneur Z. Gershuni — Analyst, UBS Securities LLC
Andre Benjamin — Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co.
Mitesh B. Thakkar — Analyst, FBR Capital Markets
Lance Ettus — Analyst, Tuohy Brothers Investment Research, Inc.
Brandon Blossman — Analyst, Tudor Pickering Holt & Co. Securities, Inc.
Brian D. Gamble — Analyst, Simmons & Co. International
David Gagliano — Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc.
Chris Haberlin — Analyst, Davenport Securities
Richard Garchitorena — Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC (Broker)
Dave A. Katz — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC
Lucas Pipes — Analyst, Brean, Murray, Carret & Co. LLC
R. Wayne Atwell — Analyst, Global Hunter Securities LLC
Mark A. Levin — Analyst, BB&T Capital Markets

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Third Quarter 2012 Cloud Peak Energy Incorporated Earnings Conference Call. My name is Shanelle and I'll be your operator for today. At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Ms. Karla Kimrey, VP of Investor Relations.

Thank you, Shanelle. Good afternoon, and thank you for joining for us today. With me is Colin Marshall, Cloud Peak Energy's President and CEO, and Michael Barrett, Cloud Peak Energy's EVP and CFO.

Today's presentation may contain forward-looking statements regarding our outlook and guidance, economic and industry conditions, volumes, prices and demand, LBAs, business development plans, regulations and energy policies, capital resources and other statements that are not historical facts.

Actual results may differ materially because of various risks and uncertainties, including those described in the cautionary statement in today's earnings release and in our 2011 Form 10-K.

Today's presentation also includes non-GAAP financial measures. Please refer to today's earnings release for the required reconciliations and other related disclosures. Our earnings release is available on the Investor Relations section of our website.

I'll now turn the call over to Colin Marshall.

Thanks, Karla, and good afternoon, and thank you for joining the call. I'll make some opening remarks before handing over to Mike Barrett, our CFO to cover the financials and our guidance.

I'm happy to report that Cloud Peak Energy had a great quarter with strong shipments and good cost controls producing record adjusted EBITDA of $108 million. We are now well place for Q4 and for 2013 when we'll hopefully see prices rising to more sustainable levels.

Looking at the internal environment we are facing, Q3 has played out as we had hoped with a hot summer and rising natural gas prices, moving utilities to burn more coal over the last few months.

CIA reported that coal generated 39% of U.S. electricity in August, up from the low of 32% in April. The increased burn has brought PRB stockpiles down to around 90 million tons, which is back within the five-year average range. Obviously, coal demand for the rest of year will depend on the intensity and timing of the winter season and the price of natural gas.

Since mid-July, the hot summer and associated increased coal burn has led to increased shipments to our customers of 24.4 million tons for the quarter. The increased shipments and good cost control were major factors in our cash costs coming down to $9.14 for the quarter.

We exported 1.5 million tons to Asian customers through the Westshore Terminal during the quarter. This was up slightly from the 1.4 million tons exported in the third quarter last year.

Moving to our safety performance, which has continued to show a consistent improvement over last year. In the first nine months of 2012, Cloud Peak Energy had an MSHA All Injury Frequency Rate of 0.73 with three minor reported injuries to employees during the quarter.

During our 75 MSHA inspection days, we were issued 11 substantial and significant citations. I'm very pleased with our improved safety performance this year, which is a credit to our employees and goes hand in hand with our good operational performance.

Looking at Exports, while current pricing for export coal is very low, Asian demand for sub-bituminous coal from the Spring Creek mine continues to be steady. Our Asian customers continue to express their desire for long-term supply from Cloud Peak Energy and are as focused as we are on the development of additional Westcoast Terminal capacity.

Reports of the significant increase in capital and operating costs of Australian coal mines appears to be changing the international cost curve in North America's favor. With that in mind, I'm pleased that the Westshore Terminal is currently undergoing the final outage that will increase its annual capacity from 32 million tons to 36 million tons.

We're planning to increase our future Westshore exports in proportion to this expansion to around 4.5 million tons from next year. We'll continue to work on several other potential export opportunities and we'll keep you updated as things develop.

With that I'll hand over to Mike to run through the financials and our full-year guidance.

Thanks, Colin. Both in operational terms and in financial terms, we had an excellent third quarter. A number of factors came together to generate the record adjusted EBITDA of $108 million. For the nine months, we're now at adjusted EBITDA of $250 million and we're slightly raising our full-year guidance ranges.

I'll start by reviewing the financials for the quarter. As anticipated, shipments were strong and we were able to realize gross coal prices averaging $13.28 per ton, approximately 3% higher than this time last year. As a result, our gross revenues increased to $426 million.

We continued our focus on cost controls across the entire business. This enabled us to hold operating costs largely fixed while shipping 20% more tons than the second quarter. As a result, cost per ton from our three mines was $9.14 for the quarter.

It's impressive to note that this is also a year-on-year improvement from $9.17 last year from a ship to similar tonnage. This resulted in operating margin from the three mines of $4.14 a ton for the quarter.

SG&A costs were a little higher in the quarter as we investigated a number of business development opportunities and invested in programs to support coal and the benefits of port developments in the Pacific Northwest.

We generated $121 million of cash from operations, invested $14.5 million in capital expenditures and completed the last of our 2012 LBA installment payments of $60 million.

At the end of the quarter, our cash and investments totaled $266 million, up from $222 million at the end of the last quarter. Our balance sheet remains strong, with our $500 million revolving credit facility continuing to be undrawn giving us available liquidity of $766 million.

We have no debt to maturities due before 2016 and our leverage remains robust at 1.7 times for gross leverage and 0.97 times on a net basis. Switching now to the accounting associated with our annual update to the tax receivable agreement.

You'll recall that the tax basis of our assets was stepped up following our IPO and secondary offering. This allows us to take additional tax deductions, primarily depreciation. Under the tax receivable agreement, each year we vote Rio Tinto 85% of the resulting cash tax benefit and on the U.S. GAAP, we recognized an undiscounted liability of the total future amounts that we estimate as owed to Rio.

During the third quarter each year, we update our life of mine plans and we use these to update CRA liability estimates. Our updated projections showed a decrease in the expected overall taxable income with the business primarily due to updated price forecast curves reflecting current market conditions.

As a result, our estimated CRA liability was reduced by $29 million to $141 million. The $29 million reduction in the liability is a non-cash, non-operating P&L benefit which is recorded to other income.

The update also affected the income tax expense line on the P&L with a net reduction in income tax expense of approximately $6 million. Both of these benefits are removed from our adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EPS metrics to better reflect the underlying performance of the business.

Turning now to guidance for the rest of the year. For 2012, we continue to expect to ship between 90 and 93 million tons. We remained focused on capital expenditures throughout the year and have prudently invested in operations plant and equipment. We've consistently said that we will not compromise integrity our equipment and maintenance programs to achieve short term cost savings.

Our operations continue to focus on condition based monitoring and its approach is once again paid dividends with low operating costs and extended equipment lives. As a result, based on equipment condition we have been able to defer a number of capital projects to future periods and we are improving our expected capital expenditure range to be between $50 million and $60 million.

In line with our strong third quarter and continuing cost controls we are increasing our adjusted EBITDA guidance. We now expect to generate between $310 million and $340 million for the year, up from the previous range of $300 million to $330 million. This range includes a benefit from our export sales hedging program. As we highlighted earlier this year we have put in place a series of hedge positions when New Castle prices were higher than they are now. As a result we expect to benefit from these hedges as they close out during the fourth quarter. The exact benefit will depend on New Castle prices of the date the hedge is settled.

We have also continued our oil-hedging program, using costless collars to help protect against our diesel cost against extreme price swings. You can find full details of these hedging programs in note five of our Form 10-Q which we expect to file soon after this call.

Neither of the programs qualify for hedge accounting under U.S. GAAP and their value is mark-to-market each quarter. We removed this mark-to-market adjustments from our adjusted EBITDA and EPS metrics.

To wrap up we are well positioned to finish 2012 strongly. We continue to maintain a strong balance sheet, with available liquidity of $766 million ample headroom under debt covenants and no debt maturities due before 2016. This enables us to run the operations and invest in the business appropriately even in tough market conditions.

With that I will hand back to Colin.

Thanks, Mike. Looking forward to Q4 we are expecting steady shipments through the end of the year. Annualized shipments from our three mines have increased over a d90 million ton rate recently. We have not seen any decrease in shipment rates in the last few weeks.

The level of shipments we see in 2013 will depend on the winter heating season, assume we get a normal winter and gas prices should stay above the levels with significant PRB coal is displaced. And utilities will take their contracted tonnages.

We are currently talking to a handful of customers about differing contract in shipments into next year which is normally the case at this time of year. Our shipment guidance reflects our estimates of the total tonnage that we expect to carry, to be carried over.

Given the very low 2013 prices during the quarter we limited our contract into 3.4 million tons for next year bringing our total 2013 committed tonnage to 84.6 million tons. Of which 74.6 tons have fixed prices that average $13.58.

We are not excited about the prices of 3.4 million tons we contracted but are comfortable with the benefit of having committed sales that let the mines run fairly through the year justify making them. This year's low prices will also come to our 10 million tons of index contracts for next year.

The overall result is that if prices remain at their current low levels and we are not expecting any increase in our average realized domestic price over this year. We do still have some uncontracted tons for next year most of which relate to our planned export sales from Spring Creek.

As I said previously with the expansion of Westshore we are targeting around 4.5 millions tons next year. As export prices for next year are currently pretty low we have only fixed prices for the first quarter shipments. This does give us the chance of benefiting from any rise in export prices during the year.

Looking further ahead to 2014, we currently have 54.7 million tons committed of which 43.3 million tons are under fixed price commitments with the weighted average price of $14.49. Assuming a normal winter with natural gas prices around current levels, I would expect it to take until mid year for our coal prices to return to 2011 levels.

Optimistically, if we have a cold winter, it is quite possible to have a gas price spike that could wash through to coal prices as many utilities could be looking for end year [ph] tons (12:31). We'll have to wait to see how the winter turns out.

To sum up, we're very pleased with our third quarter performance and are encouraged by the outlook for the full year. Natural gas prices have risen to a level, which they do not displace much PRB coal. And accordingly, coal share of total electricity generation has risen from April's lows.

The improving shipments and good operation performance have allowed us to raise our adjusted EBITDA guidance slightly. While we will not be giving 2013 guidance until February, I would caution that as you consider your projections, make sure you take into account that we're not forecasting any increase in next year's realized domestic prices. And then current export prices will reduce our export margins next year.

At the same time, cost will rise due to increased workload at the mines. That said, I'm comfortable that Cloud Peak is coming through a tough 2012 very well and we're well placed for 2013. We have a strong balance sheet and we'll benefit from any upturn in domestic and international prices that will hopefully appear next year.

With that, we'd like to take your questions.

[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Jim Rollyson with Raymond James.

Good afternoon, everyone.

Hi, Jim.

Colin, fantastic job in the quarter and again really good cost control. A question for you on that at least as you go into the fourth quarter because I know next year still not the – still a little bit hazy. But from the combined guidance or the 90 to 93 million tons for the three mines you operate. Kind of implies you're going to see fourth quarter volumes somewhere in the neighborhood of what you saw in the third quarter, plus or minus. Do you think you can hold costs per ton somewhat similar to what you saw in the third quarter? Or do you expect those to bounce back up a little bit?

I think, Jim, when we look at the cost, you got to be very careful with the final cost and they can jump around by few things in year-end and all the rest of it. So I'm very comfortable that if we get those tons and performance of the mine should be good. I think when we are projecting for that EBITDA range they're slightly higher per ton. But there is sort of actually we're very comfortable those volumes will help. So I'll ask Mike is there anything you'd add to that?

Jim, I'd say that fourth quarter costs will probably be along the lines of our year-to-date numbers so far. We are roundabout 964 on a year-to-date basis and I'd expect that when we look at the full year we will around about that for the full year.

Okay. That's helpful. And Colin, obviously, depends on gas prices holding up in the winter weather. But if those both come to fruition and as you think about things going into next year, how do you think about demand for PRB coal with gas prices haven't recovered are you're thinking, you will see a pick up in domestic burn for PRB and do you think that that will lead to a natural increase in volumes coming out of the PRB? Or do you think your customers are more looking to just draw inventories down?

Well, I think they are already drawing inventories down. I think we've seen that they've come down to -- they're sort of now -- I think estimates I last saw about 90 million tons within the five-year ranges they were. I think clearly the coal burn has gone up as well with the gas prices as we expect, because that's something that's pretty dynamic.

In terms of when it will come through to PRB prices, my guess is that it will take a while, because people have go to -- get through their – get comfortable their stockpile position is coming down from a high level, which is obviously different this time last year when they were rising from low levels. And I think -- so I'm thinking maybe mid-year if it's just a normalish winter.

But I would flag that it's quite possible that if its cold winter then the -- with the amount of drilling rigs coming off, the gas prices could go up appreciably and that would certainly drive some people to look at India buying of coal. And I think that will happen at some stage, exactly when I am not sure. But it should happen, I guess, over the next 18 months, hopefully sooner rather than later.

Thanks for the color and again good job.

Thanks.

Our next question comes from the line of Shneur Gershuni, UBS.

Hi, good afternoon guys.

Good afternoon, Shneur.

First question I wanted to chat about was about your export opportunity, you sort of through a cautionary statement at the end of your prepared remarks. I guess, where I wanted to focus on – you are trying to gain more exposure through Westshore. How dependent is it on you on maintaining volume through there to maintain your overall position in the port if run into a scenario where you can have a negative margins, let's say, if new gas let's say stays at $75 throughout all the next year, would you still be forced to ship through it just to make sure that you maintain your position and have to tolerate a loss or you would be able to manage around that?

Well, I think if you look at the way we put in place the financial hedges, which I think currently have got of sort of paper benefit to us about $11 million for next year. That's one of the things that helps us keep the tons going through Westshore. Obviously, the agreements we have do have some take or pay elements with them which obviously motivates it to keep shipping coal and with the rail as well which is quite normal for these sources of agreements, but I'm very comfortable given our cost position, our ability to manage around that, the financial hedges that we're in a good position. I am encouraged by the evidence, anecdotal and for the rail that the Australian guys cost has really gone up and a change in the dynamic and certainly seeing the interest in keeping our coal going from our utility customers and their understanding that we only want to lock in the first quarter of the year because of the pricing, all points meet that we will be able to as we did in 2009, get through this period in a way that is – it's a tough market we might not make much money I don't think we are going to lose our shirts.

Okay. Follow up question just more about the PRB market in the U.S. You contracted some tons for 2013, you know we see gas prices going up and so forth the volumes are coming down and what not. Is there a hesitation on your part to try and hold back as long as possible to try and gain some sort of leverage with the utilities? And as you discussed that if you can tell us what your thought process is on the RFP market right now, is it picking up, is it slowing down or is it average for this time of the year?

Okay. Well of the 84.6 million tons, there's only – most of those are actually the sort of three quarters worth of export tons that we're looking at. So the actual amount we've got to sell domestically. I think we are pretty sure we've got identified homes for it. I like to get to positions where we're effectively sold out for the end of the year. I'd actually like to be oversold if you were, but I don't think that's realistic given where the market is, so that we can then run the mines effectively and efficiently and I think that gives you a bigger benefit than trying to chase, leave yourself open and trying to chase end year tons, which every now and again do spike but I think we realize those in the forward prices we achieve.

So when we look at it, it's definitely a tradeoff between holding back and going for a level – base level of tonnage that will let us know where we're running the mines. I'm comfortable that we will always have the ability for to get a million or two tons out if the prices spike but often the smart thing to do is actually to let the prices go up and contract that in future years. So, there is – every now and again – I'm happy we only locked in a few tons this quarter. I think they were tons we felt we needed to and some of those actually came with contracts in 2014 and 2015 which made them more attractive to us. So, given where we are, when prices are low, you are always hesitant about locking in certainly for long periods unless they are attractive in out years.

So there's a lot of different things going into it, but I'm comfortable with the position we are in and that will let us run our mines in a stable manner next year.

Okay. Then in terms of the RFP interest out there right now, is it...

[indiscernible] (20:56) It was actually pretty thin, which is another reason. The utilities aren't putting out massive amounts of RFPs, because they're burning off their stockpiles. And they're also, I think, hesitant given the swings in the gas price to lock up too much.

Obviously, that leaves them exposed if there were to be a cold winter and a lot of gas going to domestic heating. But we'll have to wait and see how that plays out. Equally, they could be waiting to make a killing on low priced gas if there's a similar winter to last year, which hopefully there won't be.

Great. Thank you very much, guys.

Thanks.

Our next question comes from the line of Andre Benjamin, Goldman Sachs.

Hi. Good afternoon, guys.

Good afternoon, Andre.

My first question would be – could you please discuss your plans for the recently acquired reserves? Any evolution in plans of kind of when you're thinking about when that mine will get probably developed? And is it really still just a binary issue of whether or not the Asia export terminal gets built or are there some other opportunities you're seeing as you're talking to your customers?

Okay. In terms of the Youngs Creek reserve and the way we're certainly looking at it is more of adding reserves to what will become a Spring Creek complex. Obviously, when we're looking at developing that, the key drivers for us are the port terminal capacity.

First of all, it will actually take a few years even to get permitted. If we said we want to go today, it will actually take a few years to get everything lined up to get coal coming out of there. So we're using that time to make sure we match it with the terminal development. If there is significant terminal capacity coming on in four or five years, then it would drive us to go in there with a 10-million ton mine or so and be able to optimize it.

If things are lower and we're actually looking for the quality, the lowest sodium coal there, to supplement our domestic market, then maybe we'll go in with a smaller operation in three or four years. This is when we get a permit. So I'm afraid it does depend – it will evolve.

The one thing I'm sure is, even if there is no additional terminal space, it was a good purchase in that it gives us options and quality – air permit, location and quality options at Spring Creek. So all of those things underpinned the purchase in our minds and there's tremendous upside given it's the – I think it gives us the ability to match our production and capital spend to terminal development, as that comes along.

And then, I guess, the fact that you have been pretty honest about the long lead-time in getting that developed. So it's effectively, I would say, kind of sunk capital now. How do you think about where you need to think about PRB prices being long-term as you continue to bid on these LBAs and look at other development opportunities? Do you think that near-term, I mean, the traditional mid-cycle price of $13 or $14 is just good enough or do you need to see something higher than that to continue to try to move forward with some of these projects?

Okay. First thing, I would – if you think about the Youngs Creek acquisition is similar to an LBA, which typically we buy, I don't know, five, 10 years before we mine the coal, and there is no difference to that. So the timing isn't any different for this one. If you just want to say well, basically it's like an LBA apart from it has the upside of being ideally placed for the export market, you wouldn't be far wrong, you know, it's a decent thing way of thinking about it.

Yeah.

In terms of the pricing, obviously we'll – it's $13, $14 and certainly where, the curve is going forward a few years. Yeah, we got a good business and if you look this quarter what we got, realize prices are $13, just over $13 and we had record EBITDA. So, the business works at those levels. Obviously, it's a lot better at $15 and $14, but going forward we're on a sound footing.

Thank you. It's helpful.

Our next question comes from the line of Mitesh Thakkar, FBR.

Good morning, everybody.

Hi, Mitesh.

I am sorry. Good evening. My first question is just on the cost side of the equation, great job on the cost this quarter. When I look at year-over-year again, you know, cost about holding pretty steady. How should we think about long-term changes to the stripping ratio? And how should we think about annual inflation playing into the picture too?

Well, I think the way we'd normally characterize, as you know, in the pattern of the basin all coal basically dips away to the west in the southern part of the basin and therefore your cost go up steadily and your whole businesses get longer as you mine away from your low downs and that's true for everybody.

I think you have those workload cost that increase and then you also have other things that go, you know, whether its labor, health cost, I think next year explosives are going to go up a chunk more than inflation. So, you always have different things going on.

The way we try and sort of give – give sort of guidance. I guess, when your – you're looking forward Mitesh is to if you look at our underlying cost, without the royalties which were about 30% of the selling price, then you take out whatever you assume for diesel, which typically that 9% of cost, I think it's in our presentation. The rest of the underlying cost are going to go up somewhere between 5% and 8% typically if you look back over several years.

That sort of trend going forward, we'll obviously try and push it down towards the 5s but we're not always successful. So I think it's somewhere in that range is the way we consider it. And if we're holding there then that bundle of things workload and other inflation tends to work out, that's what we face.

Great. And just a word on the contracting side, you mentioned you had some index contracts. Can you give us a sense of what kind of quantity we are looking at and what is the timeframe you are looking at to lock-in those contracts. I mean, is there a specific time by which you need to finish contracting those index tons?

The domestic contracts, as I said, there's about 10 million tons of those for the next year. And they – there's a range of different price in there, but I think it's – for your assumptions they fix – some fix on the last quarters average OTC prices of around six months. And so there's a range of different things in there.

Typically, if you look at the previous six months OTC prices average, OTC price, you won't be too far wrong. So unfortunately that does mean that at the moment some of those are being – the weighted average is being drawn down by the lower prices in the last six months and that's just this last year – six months and that's just this last year they were being ramped by the $17. So you're saying this year they're being drown down and I'm afraid that's just the way the index contracts work. So it will be a weighted average of what's going on this year, we will see in next year.

Great. Thank you very much guys.

Thanks.

Our next question comes from Lance Ettus, Tuohy Brothers.

Hi, guys. Really, really great quarter actually. Just wanted to ask you the Morrow port that's being developed by Ambre Energy, I think its 8 million tones. And I think that's on track to kind of be ahead of the other two larger ports, because there's a little bit of difference in the environmental assessment.

Just wondering, I guess, if you guys are already currently involved with talks, and I guess more wondering is how do these talks progress? Do they have to sort of – once they get the permitting done, then they speak to coal producers and look for a long term contract? Or is it earlier in the process, I guess, how does that – how does that time table work?

Lance, if you forgive me, I won't say anything about the Ambre port, because you might be aware we're actually in litigation with them...

Yeah.

So I think it's probably best if I don't go anywhere near that. In terms of ports and how they go, look the different port developers at different stages as they go forward they want to talk to potential throughput customers. They are also taking to utilities and they're putting the pieces in place as we move forward. So there's a lot going on.

As you get sort of – as things firm up, then people tend to want to start writing more commitments. Obviously, everything depends upon when you get terminals and the ability to actually go ahead. And when you do, would expect to get into agreements, more like we have at Westshore with a term and a take-or-pay and sort of fixed cost would escalate it.

I'm not – we're not at that stage with anyone yet because their ports haven't developed that far. But we're – we are and others, that I'm aware of are all in talks as these ports are being developed to move forward. And you can see all the effort that's going into the port development and overcoming or countering some of the opposition to it, because there is lot of effort from all the producers, the railways and the port developer are going on at the moment.

Thank you.

Our next question comes from the line of Brandon Blossman, Tudor, Pickering, Holt.

Good afternoon, gentlemen, Karla.

Good afternoon.

Good afternoon.

Let's see, how about on the 2014 contract, Colin, can you give us some color as to when that was done, what was – if any – what if any was done incremental quarter-to-quarter?

Okay, I don't actually have the number in front of me, but there's not been that much activity for 2014. And I think what you're actually seeing, what we got what 55 million tons contracted for 2014. What we've actually seen particularly with the rail or gas prices and the uncertainty on the regulations is that utility customers are less comfortable buying forward over several years than they used to. Three or four years ago, we used to sell for whatever effectively five years. I'd say now it's more like three and certainly this year, we have not contracted a full sort of 90 odd million tons that you'd obviously want to contract each year to sort of make sure we sell 90 million tons in the next year.

And that's to be expected given the uncertainty in the market and the very low price is the ability to switch to gas. So, I think we're obviously adjusting our strategy to fit with that. Eventually the utilities do actually have to come out and buy the coal and the PRB is still very well place. So, there will have to activity at some time. One of the things that sort of sometimes quite nice is that when prices are lowest, often is when the utilities actually go out for the least coal which seems counterintuitive, but it sort of happens that way.

As they go out for some more, then it's quite possible prices will rise and at some stage, they'll have to [indiscernible] (31:40) for $14 and $15.

Fair enough. Will be interesting to see how that trajectory plays out. How about on the cost side, CapEx trimmed again for 2012, is that going to recoil to some degree in 2013, and then kind of the of the opposite question on SG&A, little bit of a spike in this quarter. Is that the new run rate? Or should we see it back down couple of million dollars on a go-forward basis?

Yeah, Brandon I can take those. On the CapEx side, we have been able to push a number of projects out this year. So, we have watched CapEx very, very carefully and the guys in the operations and maintenance group are doing a tremendous job. From the perspective of the condition monitoring and maintenance programs that they run which has extended equipment and enabled us to push some of those projects out.

As we look forward to next year, we always look to start-off with the CapEx numbers based on all the projects that we expect and then as we go through the condition monitoring, we are generally able to see extended equipment lives and CapEx being able to be more controlled as the year goes through. So it is an evolving process and one that we'll watch again very carefully next year. But it certainly reflects very, very well on the operations.

In terms of the SG&A costs we have seen a little bit of a spike in the third quarter, a few things have gone into that. We've put some particular support around the port development opportunities in the Pacific Northwest and also up into Canada as well whether it's up a number of different port opportunities around the Vancouver area.

So there's a little bit of additional money going in there which we're very comfortable with given the importance in the leverage of the port opportunities for the business. Overall, as we look at the year for SG&A I expect it's going to trend up a little bit compared to where we were last year and I would expect that trend will probably continue but it's certainly not blowing out by any stretch of the imagination. And we're continuing to watch those costs carefully.

The other thing I would add on the SG&A is the extra money is really is going into development things that could payoff very big. So I would hope that you'll trust us on that and someday you'll spot it as the smartest money we spent in a long time.

Trust probably well-earned guys. So thank you very much. Good color.

Our next question comes from Brian Gamble, Simmons & Company.

Hi, guys.

Hi, Brian.

Actually wanted to kind of follow on that thought in regards to increased export opportunities outside of the Pacific Northwest. You mentioned Vancouver, but obviously, Ridley is still up there to some degree.

Has there been any change in attitude with the rails because of either the softer met market or the availability in prices of PRB coal? Have you seen them change their tune as to what they're asking for to get coal up to Ridley or just north of its current destination?

I'll have to say certainly not enough to overcome the sheer distance up to Ridley and so when we got coal through there – prices were on their way up to $120 or whatever and obviously now they're near term closer to 80. So you're not going to overcome that with the rail.

So I think we're optimistic. We put the coal through there. We didn't make a great deal of money on it but we leant an awful lot about the logistics and how it happens, I think we'll be ready to go when the prices rise to a certain level assuming that the three rail haul they want to do it and that the coals got capacity but at the moment I'd say that unfortunately the new car sold sort of make that port has something that's not close to being in the money.

And then little bit of a speculation question Colin, I know you don't necessarily like those but when you looked at – when you look to the market this quarter and thought about what you guys actually got priced for next year. Do you think that was a normal share of what was actually priced or you think because you may have been asking for higher prices and some that there may have been some coal that was priced that you normally would have a shot at them maybe some people were undercutting you because of various open positions for next year?

I suppose I'll give you the same flavor. The answer is normal. We bid on – yeah obviously we didn't win every RFP that came out, some of them we won and some of them we lost and a couple of them we got we through the process you found out what we have understand the price was that you were undercut by -- and I'm glad and I don't want to go there. So there is a range of different prices, presumably we were the lowest bidder on some but far for most and I'm comfortable with that. We sold those tons and put us is in a good position for next year. We are very nearly there and that's where I like to be at this time of the year.

That's a fair answer. Thanks, Colin.

Thanks.

Our next question comes from David Gagliano, Barclays.

Hi, thanks for taking my question and congratulations on a great quarter. I wanted to ask just a bit about the couple of things that have already been asked. On the unit cost line, I'm just curious, I think I thought I heard you say near term that costs are going back into that 9, 69, 70 range for Q4. And I'm just wondering if that's correct. I'm wondering what's behind that if volumes are sequentially going to be flat?

David, as we look at the Q3 results we obviously had a very, very good quarter to come in at $9.14. Part of that reflects the fact that we had a slow second quarter, so we had some good uncovered coal available as we started the third quarter that enabled us to be shipping coal with some low costs around it. We've obviously just had a very strong shipping quarter in the third quarter, so we are starting with a little bit less inventory as we come into the fourth quarter. We're also seeing the whether the level of volumes actually stays quite as good as it was in the third quarter; we'll obviously have to see how the year end actually plays out. But as we look at the full year costs, to be around the 960 mark for full year is around about where we are expecting things to fall out at the moment, yes.

Okay. All right. That's helpful. Thank you for the additional color. And along the same lines for 2013 unit cost, based on what Colin said, you kind of do the math on 60% up 5% to 8%, with everything else flat, a little recovery on the 30% obviously the tax if prices do come in lower all in average basis and net result call it 3 or 4% increase, is that based on that 960 number and is that math about reasonable for next year's unit cost?

We obviously haven't given guidance for 2013 yet, but I think that the logic that you are using makes sense, yes.

Okay. The only other question I had for the 14 contracts, just to follow up on the question earlier. How much of that 43 million tons that's committed in price, how much of that – I know you don't have an exact number, just ballpark – how of that is actually signed this calendar year versus say last year.

I can't honestly say. I don't have that information in front of me, I would say, probably not that much, because this has been a slow year for contracting.

Okay, all right. Thanks very much.

I am sorry, I just don't have it.

All right. No problem. Thanks.

Our next question comes from Chris Haberlin, Davenport.

Hi. Good evening.

Good evening.

Given the weak price environment that we're in currently, I know you all like to go into a year fully committed, but would you consider going into 2013 less than fully committed if you see pricing rising in order to realize some of that upside.

I think the way I characterize it is that, we've only got domestically most of our uncontracted tons are export ones, which is, I'm very comfortable with that position. And then the domestically, we have only got a few tons – few million tons to go. We've sort of got a home for those. We have identified and also will depend on the pricing at the time those get contracted. But we do have the ability. Ideally I would like to go into a year-over – of oversold and then manage that through the year. We're not going to do that. I wouldn't think this year because of the environment for 2013. And so that does give us some ability to sell a million or two of [ph] mid-year (40:28) tons and manage the operations around that. But as we've said many times, we think as long as you can get to a position where you've got a pretty good idea where you are going to run your mines and they're going to run steadily and smoothly from quarter to quarter in terms of production, that gives us tremendous advantage on the operations, we believe, and that outweighs trying to hold tons back for price spike that may or may not occur.

Okay. And then on the interest expense, you had a pretty nice step-up in Q3, can you just talk about what's going on there and then just kind of give us an idea of, is that a good run rate to use or should be see it step back lower to kind of levels that we saw in Q1, Q2?

Certainly, Chris. The interest expense for the third quarter is a good run rate to use as we look going forward. You will recall that prior to that we were capitalizing a certain amount of the cash interest. So some of that was going to the balance sheet, which is why the previous quarter was that much lower. Because we have put one of the projects that it was being capitalized against, because we put that into service, we are no longer capitalizing that interest, which is why you see the step-up in interest expense. So, yes, the third quarter is a good run rate to use going forward.

Okay, thank you very much.

And none of that makes any change to the cash interest side of things.

Our next question comes from the line of Richard Garchitorena, Credit Suisse.

Great. Thanks, guys. My first question just on – you mentioned hedges I guess, I have some on New Castle. I know in the past you've also put hedges on in the oil. Can you remind us how much you have in each? And then also I know in the past you've given some sensitivity around your – with oil every 10 [ph] origin (42:18) change in the oil price was roughly $10 million in net income, I believe. What is that today?

Okay, Richard. On the oil hedging, what we've done is continued our program with costless collars. So we've got floors and ceilings in place. The ceilings are around about $107 on average and the floors around about $67 and that's based on a WTI oil price. So as long as the oil price is floating within those ranges we're not actually seeing any need to exercise any of the hedge positions that we've got in place.

So from that perspective, we're seeing exactly the same sensitivity of our diesel costs to the oil price within those ranges. If we step outside those ranges then obviously we'll start getting the benefit from the hedges.

Great. Thanks. And then I guess, one other question it looks like you have 6 million tons of additional fixed price tonnage in 2013 versus last quarter. And when you back into it, it implies the price of about just under $11, around $10.70. Are there some contracts that just rolled over or is that a function of where pricing kind of is right now?

That's a function of three things; one is pricing for 8400 and 8800. And also we have some fixed contracts that during the quarter would have fixed for next year as it were. So it's the mixture of those things. And if you look at where – and obviously, the ratio of 8400 to 8800 Btu coal. If you look at those things then, yes, that's how the weighted average of it turns out for those 6 million tons.

Okay. Great. Thank you.

Our next question comes from the line of Dave Katz, JPMorgan.

Hi, just coming back to the prior question with the $10.72, I mean, it was $10.70 in the quarter before that. So what would actually cause to move up, is it a cold winter or is there something else that would lead to that increasing?

Well, obviously, what will cause that to go up, the PRB prices to go up and, yes, I think you need – a normal winter, well actually you don't need a cold winter. A cold winter could do it soon. A normal winter I think the prices will start moving steadily up. And one of the things that's quite interesting to consider, Dave, if you think back to exactly this time a year ago. The PRB price was $16 or $17, gas was what $3.80? It wasn't wildly different and the stockpiles were actually at about the same level. But at that stage they were going up, rather than coming down. At the moment, the big difference is the coal price, and that's because we've gone – we went through that extraordinary warm winter, stockpiles went up and gas went down and we all know what happen.

But I think, if you actually look – things are actually set to support higher coal prices, you just actually got to work through winters, the utility to see the burn. Obviously with people reducing their coal production there's been plenty announced production cuts, all the things are in place for the price to go, now we just needed to work through and the fact to that that will make – would speed that up would be a cold winter, but a normal winter will make it happen.

Okay. And then on the payments on the federal coal leases, you have 129 million scheduled for this year what would that be in 2013 and 2014 based on, I guess, current holding?

Through our committed payments for 2013, it will be $79 million in installments and for 2014 it will be $69 million.

That's fine. Thank you.

Our next question comes from Lucas Pipes, Brean Capital.

Hey, good afternoon, everyone.

Good afternoon, Lucas.

Colin, you mentioned the possibility of appreciably higher natural gas prices left in PRB, coal prices et cetera. Let say this were to happen, would you be able to increase production in response to such a pricing move and if so by how much, and if you can't, how would you expect to capture the price appreciation in your forward contract?

Okay. Lucas, as I said before, if the prices go up we'll – we might be able to find another million or two tons for next year, because obviously we reduce production from what 96 or something 95, 96 couple of years ago.

So, we'd be able to see how we did it then. But the real way we capture the prices, not on one or two million tons in year, it's on the hopefully 90 million tons we sale spread forward over the four years, and what you typically see is when the PRB prices near term and go up the forward years go up sometimes more dramatically.

We would be selling into those, and I often said I'd rather than throw sort of move heaven and earth, try and chase 1 million tons in year with the associated disruption to the operations, and increased operating cost, I'd rather chase a higher price of 90 million tons in after years and that's where we capture the leverage and that's what we've done in previous years.

That's very helpful. Thank you. And then as we think about kind of the use of your cash, could you walk us through a few priority lists on that one?

Sure. As we sort of say in our standard investor presentation, the first thing to do is run the operations as well as we can to maximize the cash which we are trying to do. Then obviously the next thing is looking at the LBA the reserves we need to position ourselves to maintain that cash flow, which I sort of consider buying the raw materials for the business as it were.

Beyond that we are looking for anything to do with export opportunities which is where the particular traction of the Young's creek reserves around Spring Creek to actually position us there. So anything to do with exports whether it would be those reserves, other opportunities and then beyond that we look at non-contiguous things.

Typically we were comfortable in the Northwest, the U.S. the West surface mining, large drag line operations, but obviously we look an awful lot of things and we just want to make sure that we think we can capitalize and maximize the value of anything that does comes along but like everyone else, we look at many things and you just got to be disciplined to grab the ones that makes sense and obviously Young's Creek made great sense to us.

Great. Fantastic quarter. Thanks a lot, guys.

Our next question comes from the line of [ph] June Puck, Morningstar. (49:00)

Hey, guys. Thanks so much for taking my call. I am going to ask about something that was asked earlier about the CapEx projections that's coming out to about $0.60 per ton for 2012 which is pretty low by industry standards and lower than your historical average. So is this reduced CapEx for 2012 just a temporary measure to deal with the low prices or is that the type of CapEx spending we can expect going forward?

[ph] June (49:34) we've been able to reduce some of the CapEx this year as we have extended equipment lives and pushed some projects out to next year but I would also point you to the previous couple of years. We brought quite a lot of CapEx forward into last year, so we had two additional shovels that came in last year and also a truck fleet that we paid for in last year as well.

Some of those were quite opportunistic, particularly one of the shovels we were able to buy in the second-hand market and when you see good quality equipment like that coming up at a good price and with our maintenance guys saying that we're able to refurbish and get the equipment into good shape then we like having the strength on the balance sheet to be able to go ahead and make those sorts of acquisitions.

So that puts us in good shape. So I think it's a little bit misleading to take CapEx on just a one year basis and if you look over sort of a three year average we are very comfortable with where we are.

Okay. Thanks for that and my second question is have you guys seen any test burns by utilities maybe using some more expensive coal that we were looking to shift their mix more towards PRB during the quarter.

I think [ph] June (50:46) this year given where we're coming from there haven't been many domestic test burns we have had some international ones obviously we are encouraged by those. But realistically what's happening now is we are – people who were looking, who were burning a lot of PRB coal, that were set up for it, the impact to this year was, them switching to gas when it was half the price it was now or a lot lower.

And they're now switching back which is what we are seeing, but in terms of actually going forward and burning more new test burns then the answer is no, and to me, that's not a surprise. I am very encouraged that actually the people who can burn PRB cheaply actually are doing and that's reflected in the stockpile measures. So I'll take comfort from that just now.

Great, thanks and congrats on a good quarter.

Thank you.

Our next question comes from Wayne Atwell, Global Hunter.

Thanks very much for taking my call and congratulations on that strong performance. Actually all my questions have been answered. So thank you very much and I'll turn it back to someone else.

Thanks.

Our next question, our final question comes from Mark Levin, Branch Banking & Trust.

Okay. Thanks very much. Just two very quick questions, the first is if New Castle prices remain around current levels how much margin per ton contraction would you expect on the export tons for 2013?

Look if export tons say were for 2013 they're what about $93 and last year we were doing $110, $115 so you'd get that much times our percentage which we typically get, which we don't disclose. But you would be looking at a significant amount which is what I was flagging that lower New Castle prices do make a difference.

Okay, great. Yeah that's what – okay, that's fine. And in the second question is just when you look at kind of forth coming LBAs in 2013 what is, is there anything out there, are there a few that are out there that could be of interest to you guys?

We've got the, if you look at our investor presentations you can see we have got at Cordero we got the [ph] mazed off (52:58) two LBAs which has been split into a North and a South. We're currently expecting that to come up some time next year and that one has been flagged for a long time. So that's the – only one that's sort of adjacent to our business, our mines and all the details are in the investor presentations.

Perfect. Thanks very much guys. Appreciate it, congratulations on a good quarter.

Thank you.

Now I would like to turn the call back over to Colin Marshall for closing remarks.

Okay. Well, thank you very much for your interest in Cloud Peak Energy. Obviously we're very pleased with the quarter and we're positioned to go forward into 2013 and obviously beyond.

Our business is well placed for the rest of this year and next. We've got the strong contracts position and the balance sheet. So, quite frankly, we look forward to updating you in February and hopefully we will have had a cold winter and quite a bit of skiing in and then things will go in our favor. But we are well placed regardless of how the winter turns out.

So, once again, thanks for your interest and good afternoon.

Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes the presentation. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect. Have a great day.