Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Karla J. Kimrey — Vice President-Investor Relations, Cloud Peak Energy, Inc.
Colin Marshall — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Cloud Peak Energy, Inc.
Michael Barrett — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Cloud Peak Energy, Inc.
James M. Rollyson — Analyst, Raymond James & Associates
Brandon Blossman — Analyst, Tudor Pickering Holt & Co. Securities, Inc.
Lance Ettus — Analyst, Tuohy Brothers Investment Research, Inc.
Shneur Z. Gershuni — Analyst, UBS Securities LLC
Brian D. Gamble — Analyst, Simmons & Co. International
Lucas Pipes — Analyst, Brean, Murray, Carret & Co. LLC
David Adam Katz — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC
Mitesh B. Thakkar — Analyst, FBR Capital Markets
Jamie Melzer — Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
David E. Beard — Analyst, IBERIA Financial Services LLC
Mark A. Levin — Analyst, BB&T Capital Markets
Wes Sconce — Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2011 Cloud Peak Energy Inc. Earnings Conference Call. My name is Tom and I will be your coordinator for today. At this time all participants are in listen-only mode. We will be conducting a question-and-answer session towards the end of today's conference. [Operator Instructions]

I would now like to turn the presentation over to Ms. Karla Kimrey, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please proceed.

Thank you, Tom. Good afternoon and thank you all for joining us. With me today on the call is Colin Marshall, Cloud Peak Energy's President and CEO and Michael Barrett, Cloud Peak Energy's EVP and CFO.

Before I turn the call over to Colin, please note that today's presentation includes forward-looking statements. Examples may include statements about our outlook and guidance, economic and industry conditions, volumes, prices and demand for coal, LBAs and other coal acquisition plans, government regulations and energy policies, operational plans, our cost structure, capital resources and other statements that are not historical facts. Actual results may differ materially from those projected or implied in these statements because of various risks and uncertainties including those described in the cautionary statement in today's earnings release and in our 2010 Form 10-K filing with the SEC.

Today's presentation also includes non-GAAP financial measures. Please refer to today's earnings release for the required reconciliations and other related disclosures. Our earnings release is available on the Investor Relations section of our website at cloudpeakenergy.com.

I'll now turn the call over to Colin.

Thank you, Karla. Good afternoon and thank you for joining the call. Mike and I would like to give some commentary on the quarter and outlook for 2012 before we take your questions.

We had a good third quarter and now well-placed for the full year. As we hoped the BNSF Railway has recovered from the flooding that has impacted them since May, allowing our shipment rate to recovery in mid September. We continue our strong export growth and are now planning to export over 4.5 million tons for the full year.

Cleary disappointment in the third quarter was the five reportable injuries our employees suffered that brings our All Injury Frequency Rate at the end of September to 0.91 injuries per 200,000 employee hours worked, this is up from 0.58 for the whole of last year. Thankfully, the injuries our employees have suffered this year have been minor in nature. We'll continue to focus on proving out safety performance, which I believe goes hand-in-hand with good operating performance.

During the third quarter, MSHA conducted their normal site inspections. We received three MSHA S&S citations with a proposed total fines of less than $2,000.

Turning to our operating and financial performance during the quarter, the operations ran well through the summer generating adjusted EBITDA of $88 million on shipments of 24.8 million tons.

Quality shipments were down 700,000 tons compared to last year due to the flooding which reduced real capacity. However, year-to-date shipments of 71.5 million tons are marginally up from this time last year. Accordingly, we have raised our shipment forecast slightly.

During the quarter, we took the opportunity provided by the reduced shipments to carry out several major maintenance jobs and complete capital projects. We are in the process of assembling two shovels, which will allow us to maintain current production levels in the face of steadily rising strip ratios. We are assembling a new shovel at the Spring Creek mine and are rebuilding a used shovel Antelope that we acquired – were acquired at an attractive price.

At Cordero Rojo, I was pleased that due to the good operation performance of the mine, it was possible to complete the earthwork associated with a major capital project to redirect the Belle Fourche River with our own equipment rather than using outside contractors. We estimate we saved around $6 million.

It was a credit to the operation that during quarter even with the reduced shipments and major projects they turned in cost of $9.17 per ton.

Looking at electricity demand, the EIA data to the end of August showed domestic electrical generation has been essentially flat with coal generation down around 4%. The reduction in coal generation is closely matched by the increase in hydro generation, which makes sense given the wet winter and flooding that occurred through the year. The rising gas generation has been closely matched by a decline in nuclear generation.

As you would expect, utility stockpiles of PRB coal reduced during the summer to their lowest levels since 2006 due to the hot weather and reduced shipments. Rebuilding the stockpile should help shipments through the end of the year as utilities prepare for the winter.

A major uncertainty for the medium-term is the impact of the multiple environmental regulations that are currently facing coal burning utilities. Since the Cross-State Air Pollution Rule was announced, with its January 1, 2012 start date, there has been increased interest in our low sulfur Antelope coal and associated increase in price relative to the standard 0.8 sulfur product. However, the uncertainty around CSAPR and possible delays related to the many legal challenges are now causing some utilities to hold back on coal purchases as they try to work out the best approach for their power plants.

For Cloud Peak Energy it currently appears that CSAPR will increase demand for ultra low-sulfur Antelope coal while the impact on domestic demand for Spring Creek and Cordero Rojo coal is not yet clear. The impact of CSAPR will depend on the final form and possible delays to rule, the extent of fuel switching, [indiscernible] (5:20), plant closures and rationalization of lignite production to name but a few things.

CSAPR and other proposed rules such as the Utility MACT are creating great uncertainty, which is never good for investment or long-term decision-making. However, it does appear that increased regulation will increase the cost of electricity with the associated reduction in U.S. job creation and economic growth.

I'm pleased that we continue to find ways to increase our Asian exports in the face of tight West Coast terminal capacity. This quarter we exported 1.4 million tons, up from last year's 900,000 tons. Year-to-date we have exported 3.7 million tons compared to 2.5 million last year, and expect to export over 4.5 million tons for the full year. Four million tons will go to the Westshore Terminal in Vancouver with the balance going to the Ridley Terminal in Prince Rupert. As we previously pointed out, we do not make the same margin through Ridley or through Westshore due to longer multiline rail haul.

While demand from our Asian customers remains strong and new cost prices attractive. Next year's exports will again be limited by available terminal capacity. In 2012, we will aim to export a similar tonnage through Westshore by working to maximize shipments as opportunities arise through the year. We currently have 300,000 tons contracted to go through the Ridley terminal next year. We'll continue to look for opportunities to make additional sales through Ridley and to Europe when prices and transport costs have been viable.

As we previously announced we have throughput agreements with Westshore that run until 2023, aligned to maintain our long-term export position. We continue to work with several developers and are looking for any opportunity to increase our export in the near and medium term.

Looking at the rest of year, with the recent recovery in rail performance and steady operation of the mines, our annual shipping rate has recently increased to around 94.5 million tons from our three managed mines. Assuming no major disruptions to shipments, we now anticipate we'll ship somewhere between 94 million tons and 95.5 million tons for the full year and realize an average price of around $12.93 per ton.

The outlook for 2012 is positive with the operations well-placed and domestic demand forecast to be stable. As in previous years we expect to achieve our sales target entering each year essentially fully contracted. Along with increased royalties from high selling prices we will face normal cost pressures due to increased workload and rising input prices parts, tires, wages and fuel. Knowing how much we expect to ship reduce the production variation at the mine greatly improving operation efficiency and allowing us to concentrate on productivity improvement to help offset cost increases.

Prices have been good over the last few months allowing us to lock in attractive contracts for 2012 to '14. For 2012 we currently have 92 million tons contracted from our three managed mines, of which 82 million tons are in the fixed price contracts with an average weighted price of $13.44. For 2013 we are currently contracted to sell 73 million tons, of this, 57 million tons are in the fixed price contracts with a weighted average price of $14.25 per ton.

With that I'll hand it over to Mike.

Thank you, Colin. Once again, we have some accounting noise this quarter associated with the tax receivable agreement or TRA, which I will cover first and then I will review our operating performance in more detail. You'll recall that TRA allocates between us and Rio Tinto the benefit of the higher future tax depreciation that arose in connection with Rio Tinto sale of the business under the IPO and the Secondary Offering. Rio Tinto gets 85% of the actual tax benefit that we realize each year and we book an undiscounted liability for our estimate of this amount over the life of our mines. We update our estimates of the liability when we have significant changes in our business and we also complete an annual update in the third quarter.

You will remember that in the second quarter we won the West Antelope II LBA Coal Tracts, which was a significant change in our business. That increased the estimate for TRA liability by $43 million in the second quarter. There is also a net increase in our differed tax assets of $93 million.

In the third quarter we've made two further updates to the TRA, which have reduced the estimated liability owed to Rio Tinto. Firstly, in the third quarter we were able to calculate the final value of the step up in the tax basis of the assets received from the IPO and the Secondary Offering. The result was a reduction in the final value of the step up and a corresponding reduction in the TRA liability of $30 million. This came about as a result of the operation of tax partnership rules as Rio Tinto sold out of the partnership under the Secondary Offering. If anyone is interested in the detail I can cover this offline afterwards. Because this was an equity transaction, the $30 million reduction in the liability does not benefit the profit and loss account it goes directly to the equity section of the balance sheet and appears in additional paid in capital.

The second update was to apply our latest projections of future taxable income from our annual life of mine plans to the now final step up. Our updated life of mine projections show an increase in the overall value of the business, however, this was outweighed by the reduction in the value of the step up. The net effect was a further decrease of $23 million in the estimated liability due to Rio Tinto. This is a $23 million benefit to non-operating income for the three months ended 30 September 2011. These updates also affected the income tax expense line on the P&L. In the third quarter the net effect is an extra charge of $35.5 million to income tax expense relating to changes in our net deferred tax assets as a result of the updates.

So to summarize, for the 30th of September 2011 the total estimated undiscounted liability now stands at $180 million, of which $9.4 million is a current liability. The P&L impact in this quarter is a benefit to EBITDA of $23 million and a charge to income tax expense of $35.5 million. For the nine months, the P&L impact is a charge to EBITDA of $20 million and a benefit to income tax of $58 million.

You can see each of these line items in the tables at the back of the earnings release, which present adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EPS. It's important to note that these tax receivable adjustments are non-cash and non-operating and we present adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EPS to remove the effects of the Tax Receivable Agreement and give a better picture of our underlying financial performance. On an underlying basis, without the Tax Receivable Agreement, we still expect an effective tax rate of approximately 36% for the full year. Cash taxes in 2011 will be around $6 million and we now expect to pay Rio Tinto $9.4 million under the TRA this year.

Overall, due to the timing of the various transactions with the West Antelope II leases being awarded in the second quarter and the tax returns and life of mine updates being completed in the third quarter, the TRA has created some choppiness between these quarters. However, we have tried to clearly identify the impacts to enable you to look through them and get to the good consistent underlying performance of the business.

Finally, in the absence of any triggering events such as new LBAs, we do not expect any further update to the TRA until this time next year when we will again complete our annual review of our life of mine projections.

I'll now switch to the underlying operating performance of the business this quarter. Our third quarter adjusted EBITDA was $88 million, compared to $94.5 million in the prior year. Given the heavy rain and resulting flooding of rail lines, which slowed shipments from May to September this year, we were pleased with this result. This brings year-to-date adjusted EBITDA to $159 million compared to $253 million last year.

Our third quarter domestic sales realized an average price of $12.91 per ton, an increase of 4.44% compared to last year supported by our strategy of entering each year essentially fully sold and layering in prices over time.

Despite the slightly lower tons, we were very pleased with third quarter costs. The three mines achieved costs of $9.17 per ton below the second quarter costs of $9.23. This gave us a strong margin of $3.74 per ton. Costs for the nine months are at $9.12 per ton which reflects our ongoing focus on efficient to low cost operations.

Third quarter cash flow from operations was $94 million and capital expenditures were $30 million, which included part payments for the new shovels at Spring Creek and Antelope mines. In addition, we made the fourth of five installment payments of $50 million for the [indiscernible] (14:31) South Coal lease at Cordero Rojo.

During the quarter, supported by our strong operating track record, we were able to secure reductions in collateral requirements from almost all of our surety bond providers. This enabled us to reduce our restricted cash from $161 million last quarter down to just $74 million at the end of this quarter, freeing up $87 million worth of cash. We ended the quarter with unrestricted cash of $438 million, giving us total available liquidity of $927 million. So our balance sheet is in good shape and our cash holdings continue to strengthen. All of this has enabled us to tighten and slightly improve our guidance for the full year.

We now expect the full year shipments to be between 94 million tons and 95.5 million tons. Full year costs are expected to be between $9.10 and $9.30 per ton. The risks to the higher end of this range would be that we haven't yet seen the full reduction in diesel prices come through our supply chain and the possibility that shipments are at the lower end of our range.

SG&A costs are now expected to be between $50 million and $55 million. You can see the full table of guidance in our earnings release.

Lastly, I would like to update you on some hedging activities that we have started this quarter. As you know, we've been steadily growing our export sales to Asia. To support this growth we contract the port space and rail delivery. This builds certain fixed costs and commitment into our export business. At the same time, the historic nature of export markets means that most prices are agreed with our customers in a relatively short window of a few months towards the end of each year. This exposes us to short-term fluctuations in prices during that period. We've been evaluating how best to secure our export prices to reduce our risk to short-term price fluctuations and lock in a price and margin at the time of our choosing.

This quarter we entered into our first hedging transaction to secure a fixed price for 75,000 tons of our expected 2012 export sales. This is a small initial trial and we will now look to put in place a larger program for our 2013 export sales. We will look to continue to use financial hedging to allow us to lock in export pricing over time and to manage our exposure to short-term fluctuations in price and fix export costs.

Given the form of these contracts, we expect to be generally using mark-to-market accounting. We will identify the effect that this will have each quarter in order to best present the actual operations outside the noise of the mark-to-market accounting.

In addition, we are continuing to evaluate potential diesel hedging strategies. However, as we buy diesel consistently throughout each year, the business rationale is quite different to the rationale for export sales where year's worth of sales are exposed to short-term price fluctuations. So far we have not entered any diesel transactions. We are continuing to look at alternatives in that area.

With that I'll hand back to Colin to wrap up.

Thanks Mike. Before we take your questions I'll wrap by saying we are very pleased with the way the year is shaping up. The mines are well-placed to meet our full year guidance and the railway appears to have recovered from the flooding. It is good to be growing our export business and we're hopeful there will be some movement on a major West Coast export terminal that will allow a significant increase in capacity in the not too distant future.

As we approach our second anniversary as a public company our operations are sound and our financial position is strong, allowing us to look for opportunities to grow the business. But we're in no hurry and we'll wait for something that we believe will add value.

With that, Mike and I would be happy to take your questions.

[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Jim Rollyson with Raymond James. Please proceed.

Good afternoon, gentlemen and Karla.

Hi, Jim.

Jim.

Colin, maybe first, you mentioned in the prepared remarks the rail issues that happened earlier in the quarter and it sounds like things are kind of back to normal now and I think for the full quarter you guys produced about 400,000 tons more than you ship. Curious if you think you might be able to get some of that shipped out the door in the fourth quarter if the rails continue to run at better rates?

Well, I wouldn't hang too much on 400,000 tons between production and sales. But the rail performance absolutely took a step up in the middle of September when the BNSF got back some critical bits of line for them and since then we've seen an encouraging increase in our shipment rates. That gave us the confidence too to slightly increase the bottom end of the range. Given there isn't that long to go to the end of the year, we're not going to get much more than – I can't see us sailing past 95.5 million tons and equally the 94 million tons looks like a good bottom end if allowing for – maybe if we had some very bad weather in December, something like that, which is no reason to expect. So I think we're well-placed to be in the middle of that range, which is what we're aiming for at the moment. And I wouldn't read too much into that 400,000 tons.

Okay. On the export side, things obviously worked very well this quarter and you maintained kind of the 4.5 plus million for the year. Thinking ahead to next year, I think you made comments about the port size going to be the limitation. Couple of questions around that. One, just kind of curious what you're seeing from your customers, Asian customers in terms of continued demand for exports, would be number one. And number two, do you feel like next year you could top this year? Just – I know this year you've benefited somewhat from competitor issues getting coal to the port and you've been able to slot some coal in there, so just kind of curious on the year-over-year basis how you're thinking about next year.

Okay. The first question in terms of demand, that's still very strong and we have no trouble placing any coal that we can ship and I think given the numbers we are talking about, that looks to be the way it will be going forward. So demand is solid. In terms of demand we can ship, obviously, we put some tons through Ridley this year. We've got less contracted for next year and whether we do any more through that will depend upon [indiscernible] (21:21) pricing and the rail and the rates we can achieve from the railway. So we could be down on that tonnage but that tonnage, as we've said before, it does not give us significant margins above domestic sales.

Through Westshore, I think we said we'll aim to do about the 4 million tons. Given that Westshore is going to dump our outage then that might be a stretch but we'll have to wait and see, but we'll obviously be doing everything we can to maximize our shipments through Westshore. But given the dump per outage – and obviously you can't plan on other people having any issues in opening up slots. So I do think that if we got 4 million tons as I sit here today we'd be happy with that.

Fair enough. And last question, cash balance continues to build outside of LBAs, coming forward just what are you thinking about uses for cash?

Jim, its Mike. I'll take that one. Yes, cash balance does continue to build which leaves us in a good position as where we're very comfortable with. As we said before, certainly looking to the LBA side of things as the first use for that cash, after that really looking at where the business development side of things can take us. So we we'll continue to be very careful with that cash balance. We'll continue to look for the organic growth of the business through the LBAs and then we'll be looking for the development opportunities.

Excellent. Great job, guys. Thanks.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Brandon Blossman with Tudor Pickering Holt. Please proceed.

Afternoon.

Good afternoon, Brandon.

Let's see. Let's touch on costs. $9.17 looks like a particularly good number given that production was probably a bit light versus what you were hoping for and as you did a lot of ancillary activities. So those extra projects that you did, would that impact that cost number or were those largely capitalized?

Well, the one I mentioned, the river diversion, that would be capitalized and so that was just a difference in cash but a very real one rather, yeah, doing stuff with your own work rather than spending, giving $6 million to a contractor. The other point is that obviously when you do that you – there is always the maybe some costs that would get expensed in the quarter. So I think that the guys did a very good job given that we were working on many different projects and tonnage was slightly down, they managed the operations very well and we actually – some of the other maintenance, major maintenance jobs would obviously expensed. Not everything is capitalized during the quarter. But they did very good job of lining things up, planning the work and then making sure we executed on it efficiently and at lowest cost we could.

Okay. Good to see cost going on that direction. Spring Creek production was very robust – production was very robust this quarter. Was that driven by availability of [indiscernible] (24:24) or something else?

Spring Creek, the things to remember is Spring Creek is obviously we do have a low first quarter because the shipments that we do, do go into the north and east across the Great Lakes, get taken out basically because the lakes freeze up and the terminal does maintenance. So we always expect a low first quarter, pretty good second and strong third and fourth. We have had the opportunity to get some extra. Some of the shipments to Ridley started to go this quarter. I think that's probably as much as anything, the difference. The other thing is the flooding that we had in the second quarter for a while there particularly impacted Spring Creek. So first and second quarters were impacted with negative things and third quarter we got the extra plus of Ridley.

And then just real quick on your incremental contracting in '12 and '13 quarter-over-quarter. Can you give me sense of what the blend was as far as 8800 and 8400?

No, I wouldn't, other than to say it's – look at our production, the overall production, there wasn't anything particularly skewed that I'm aware of.

Fair enough. Thank you very much.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Lance Ettus with Tuohy Brothers. Please proceed.

Thanks, guys. Just wondering about – bit more about the future export story, any kind of updates on what you've out there on any West Coast ports or the potentials get built. Also, I had heard that there are some people even looking to shipping out West Coast coal or PRB coal through Mexico. I'm just wondering if you have read or heard anything like that or if you had looked in to that.

Okay. I've got nothing new to report on the West Coast stuff. It's a fair measure I think of the amount of activity going on that – I think as I drove in yesterday there was MPR news article on the town of Bellingham discussing the issue. So it's fair to say there's an awful lot of things going on and fair bit of activities in the public domain and also activity that's still sort of behind the – they're quiet at the moment as people look for every opportunity to find extra incremental tons or to develop big ports. So there's lot of things going on. I haven't really got anything to add. I'm just going to say that everyone understands the opportunity and is trying to come up with ways to ship coal.

In terms of Mexico, that's one that people ask you every now and again. I think we looked at it a long time ago. The trouble is, it an awful long way away and so far it's not economic but it's certainly one that gets talked about form time-to-time as people look in every direction to see where we would export coal.

Your next question comes from the line of Shneur Z. Gershuni with UBS. Please proceed.

Hi. Good afternoon, everyone.

Hi, Shneur.

A lot of my questions have been asked and answered. But inventories right now are much lower than they were last year. Someone argued they are well-below normal. Can you sort of give us a view of kind of where the psyche is for the utilities in terms of the negotiation process? Is there a little bit panic at the levels? Are they trying to wait and see with respect to CSAPR? In kind where you expect 2012 to kind of shake out in terms of any incremental volumes that you would be contracting at this point?

Okay. I think the clear thing that I've picked up from different utilities with a consistency is just how uncertain it is and also how different it is between individual utilities. Some of them you talk to and they say, CSAPR, no problem, we're all set, we're good to go. Other ones say, my goodness, we're basically scrambling, looking at all alternatives, we've got 15 plants, we're running through different scenarios. So it really does depend who you're talking to and even then, obviously, within the larger utilities, within which states the plants are located and the different impacts of CSAPR state by state.

So I think some are in great shape, others ones aren't sure. As I said in my notes, when CSAPR was first announced there was definitely a bit of scramble, some people are looking for low sulfur coal. At the moment things have sort of calmed down, I would say, as people got some coal they needed. And I think people are sitting back, obviously, some are waiting to see if the rule is delayed or not. And so uncertainty is the key thing that they're facing, which is not good.

I'm not planning on any great additional sales. I think as we go through next year, actually the margin, the tonnage is going one way or another, it won't be that large. And as you know, our strategy is to be pretty well sold out going into the year, which is what we're aiming towards. So I'm not looking for any or expect any great tonnages in the year. I think what you'll find is it's – there's a very hot summer, something like that and inventories will go down a bit, if there isn't then they'll build a bit but I don't think it should swing people massively in or out of the market.

As far as pricing for your remaining tons right now, the curve is a good indication?

Yeah. I think, as I always say, we tend – if a RFP comes out, we will certainly take as a major factor, one of the factors we take and present a significant one is where is the curve and then sort of base our business relative to that above or below depending on how things are going. I think it is worth obviously pointing out that the – if people are after the low sulfur coal then we'd expect the adjustment in relation to the value of sulfur the CSAPR credits.

Right. And just – are there any opportunities for you to replace some lignite? For example, in Texas, is that an opportunity for you guys longer term or no?

Maybe. Once again we got to look through and find out but certainly that is one thing that potentially could happen.

Okay. And one final question on the cost side, you kind of had a big surprise on bonus payments in the fourth quarter last year and it has gone up like a bit of catch up and so forth. Is that been accrued appropriately this time or is there potential for that or is that part of the cost guidance changes?

Shneur, I'll take that one. Yes, we do believe that that's accrued appropriately this year. There were a couple of additional things that came into last year that did result in those changes in the last quarter that we really didn't know about. As we look at things today, it seems more clear with less uncertainties around that last quarter and particularly things like – there was an additional benefit for Sarbanes-Oxley, the very clear result we got on Sarbanes-Oxley last year, which we clearly didn't know about until we got to the end of the year. That kick up isn't in there for the bonuses this year, so I think that we're probably in cleaner shape.

Okay, great. Thank you very much guys.

Your next question comes from the line of Brian Gamble with Simmons & Company. Please proceed.

Good afternoon, guys.

Good afternoon, Brian.

I wanted to stay on that cost topic for a second. Collin, you mentioned some of the projects that you were working on were to mitigate some of the potential cost risks to lower strip ratios for next year. Do you think that the projects you have completed and ones that I'm sure you're continuing to do can mitigate those risks or do you think that strip ratios alone could cause some cost creep next year?

Strip ratios alone, it would be a close thing maybe, but unfortunately we've got – we know we've got increases in parts and tires, mostly we'll get some increases in our health costs and it's likely that these increases in overall labor costs. So I think probably the one item, we probably could offset all of them, then – no, I'm afraid that's not the world we live in.

I appreciate the extrapolation of it. I was hoping you'd go there. I didn't really want to ask you what your costs are going to be next year because I didn't think you'd answer my question. So thank you. So that worked out well. Thanks.

On the – when you noted in the release – I wanted to talk about the CSAPR real quick. You mentioned, obviously, that you've seen higher demand for the Antelope coal but you noted in an earlier answer that you hadn't necessarily seen any difference in your contracting from normal. So is that to say that you're just being patient with the demand for the Antelope coal and waiting to see what comes of it? It seems like you probably could have signed some of that up earlier in the quarter at rates that might have been more attractive than they typically would be during that time of the year.

And I think we did. The – pretty quickly, certainly with the CSAPR credit coming out we were building in an adjustment or selling as a 0.8 project with the adjustment in. So I'm very comfortable with the prices we got for the coal we contracted in the quarter and I don't think we missed out on anything. Obviously, we don't win every RFP and everyone was selling coal but I think we got our share and we didn't – we were happy that as the – some people came in to the market and there was a rise in it that we benefited from that. And I think if you have – when I worked out the numbers on the incremental tons we've sold, I was – considering they're a mixture of all our mines, I was very pleased with the number that I calculated from the numbers we've given you.

Okay. That does also means that the remaining tons that you have are spread as it typically would be based on – or roughly based on the production from each mine and there is no waiting that should noted in the remaining tons?

Yes, absolutely. And we're not down here. Assuming we do the same sort of what we've contacted, what we say in 92 with the index up. It's fair to say it's a pretty representative mix at this time of the year but if you consider the index and the unsold, yeah, I think you'd be right.

Great. And then last question, on the DD&A number for the quarter, obviously you took the guidance down considerably for the full year, just a little detail around why exactly that was and whether that means that it's going to stay at that level or we won't see the increase until '12?

The DD&A guidance came down slightly from last quarter, yeah. And that was really to catch up in the accretion side of things that we brought in as we made the adjustment on the ARO expense last quarter.

Perfect. Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Lucas Pipes of Brean Murray Carret & Co. Please proceed.

Hey, good afternoon, guys and congrats on the good quarter and outlook. Just to follow-up on CSAPR, you mentioned that there was increased interest for the low sulfur coal. Would you say that the utilities that expressed interest, did they have like common threat to them whether they're primarily burning Illinois Basin Coal for instance or lignite or whether they are in a particular area? Could you maybe just give your thoughts on that?

I'll have to think about it. One, there are definitely some people in Texas – it's not surprising because they were surprised by the announcement. I wouldn't say there was any obvious – that would have been the main theme of it, plus there were other people around who were slightly – the rules were slightly more draconian than they had expected. So [indiscernible] (36:07) if you look – I wouldn't say that there was a clear shift in people who had been burning Illinois coming straight to us, that wasn't what was happening, it was more spread around people who – in other areas.

Okay, that's helpful. Thank you. And just in terms of the rail rates, is that – are you looking at that? Has that given you cause for concern? Or would you say that's pretty consistent?

It consistently gives us cause for concern, I would say. The rail rates are always a significant cost for our utility customers. The railways are facing cost pressures as we are and they're putting cost increases through. I wouldn't say there's anything abnormal at this – as we sit here today than any other time. Obviously, we'd like the rates to gone down but I don't think they're going to.

That's helpful. Thank you much.

Your next question comes from the line of David Katz with JPMorgan. Please proceed.

Hi. I was just hoping to follow up on some of the CSAPR questions. Where I was a little confused is you seem to be indicating that you've had some customers holding off but yet you guys have repeatedly said that you're able to sell everything you produce if you so choose. Could you just connect those two pieces for me?

Okay. Let's see. Well, obviously in the last quarter I think we contracted about 30 million tons, so we're already pretty well sold for next year. So we'd already built a very strong sell position as we normally do and that those tons would have been sold over the – or contracted over the previous three years. So we're building our sales book as we normally do.

Initially when CSAPR came out, there was a flurry of activities from some utilities. They've now got themselves – that sort of quieted down, which I assume means they've got themselves in a position they're comfortable with given where the current state of play with CSAPR. In terms of the tons we've got to go forward, we've only assuming we say we're to do similar tonnage to the amount we're looking at this year, we would only have few million tons to sell. It would be quite normal to place those between now and the end of the year given the level of RFPs which come out, which about this time of year they actually start dropping off. So we're towards the tail end of the season as it were. But we're very comfortable with our position and we don't – we're not – there's nothing unusual in terms of our current position and where the market is at the moment.

So to summarize, what I'm hearing you say is whereas what you're observing was more an industry thing, given your contracted position it really didn't affect you that much. Is that fair?

Well, it was certainly an industry thing. And the demand is strong for the next year and for '13 and we've been able to sell into that. And there was this extra blip from the – when the CSAPR thing was announced, which now seems to have calmed down and we're back maybe a bit more to business as usual.

Okay. Thank you very much.

Your next question comes from the line of Mitesh Thakkar with FBR. Please proceed.

Good evening, everybody.

Good afternoon.

Just a quick question on the growth and expansion side. Is it possible for you to eke out some more tons assuming that you said that demand is not an issue maybe next year from your existing production base, from your existing asset base? And are you comfortable at this point to move in new equipment to add capacity a little bit?

Okay. When I said demand wasn't an issue that was in relation to exports, very clearly isn't. And I – the issue there obviously is the West Coast terminal capacity, which will limit our sales next year. In terms of the equipment, we're adding and our strategy for the last five of six years is definitely being to try and match our production with demand. We're not in any race to increase production. And given the uncertainty that's out there, I'm very comfortable that the PRB is – the demand for it will be steady. It might grow a little bit through CSAPR but at the moment it's too early to say that there would be a significant long-term step up that would warrant investing capital to increase demand. We'll have to wait and see how things pan out. So the capital additions we're making at the moment are to maintain our production and to meet our – the demand that we can see out there. It's too early to say if things have fundamentally changed for the PRB and obviously we're watching that but it's too early to say.

Okay. And one last question on the cost. When you look at the strip ratios right now, when you say strip ratios are increasing, what is the trend? Can you give us some color around it?

We would say that the – the strip ratios and the [ph] patternization (41:11) for everybody increased by what? Two – the coal actually dips at two or three degrees. So every year they increase and obviously you also get further way from your load out, so that proportion of your cost increase a little bit. It's more of a steady grind in terms of the increase rather than any sort of step change, particularly across three mines when you look at the average for all three. So it's one of these things, it's not that significant one year to the next but when you look over 10 years, you're doing an awful lot of more work to get the same amount of coal and it's one of the reasons why actually the steady cost pressure in the PRB as well as inflation in the other elements.

And when you look at your – the new LBAs and reserves, when does that start helping the strip ratio a little bit?

That doesn't help the strip ratio because those coal – that coal is generally filled into the west and will be under slightly deeper cover because it's further down to three degree, two or three degrees slope. So that doesn't help, that's just the next area to – for coal for us to mine.

Okay, sounds good. I think that's all my questions now. Thank you very much.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Jamie Melzer with Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Please proceed.

Hi, good afternoon.

Good afternoon.

I guess following up on that. What is your current strip ratio kind of averaged across the mines?

About three and a bit prime strip ratio 3.3 or 3.4 or something like that.

Okay. And then looking into 2012 is there anything on the CapEx side that's going on this year or planned for next year that would materially change what you'd be spending kind year-over-year?

Jamie, we haven't given guidance yet for 2012. So I won't go into too much detail but I don't think there's anything that would be too surprising.

Okay. And then just to clarify, so the $9.4 million of the obligation owed to Rio Tinto, is that to be paid in the fourth quarter?

Yes, it will be.

And then can you just remind us I guess what that cash calculation is based on if there's any way to model that going forward?

Sorry, the cash calculation of the payment to Rio Tinto?

Yeah. And like of the $180 million is there any that's expected to be paid in 2012? I guess just what is that cash payment based on?

The cash payment is based on the – this is Karla. Jamie, if you look in the Q you will see that it estimates what the average annual cash expense will be for the next five years. Right now in the K it's showing at $24.5 million for the next five years and we will update that with our next K but that's what the cash is on the outlay. It depends on the profitability per year.

It's $24.5 million per year for the next five years?

Correct, as of our last K.

Okay. And if I remember you started out the year with a higher estimate for 2011, as well, is there a reason that that came down?

Yes, absolutely. As we worked through the change in the step up, which I talked about through my prepared remarks, that was part of reason that that number came down. The other part of the reason was that the change in bonus depreciation legislation this year.

Okay. That's helpful. Good quarter guys. Thank you.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of David Beard with IBERIA. Please proceed.

Hi, good afternoon.

Good afternoon.

Could you just talk a little bit about the ultralow sulfur premium pricing? What you're seeing in the market and what percent of your product could compete in that segment?

Okay. The ultralow – the standard product is 0.8 and ultralow is anything significantly below that. The Antelope coal is that – our only product that would fall into that basket is Antelope. So that which is what? 36 million tons last year is what we did. The way it works out is that there's an adjustment based on the value of the sulfur credits which currently are what – $900, the CSAPR sulfur credits. And in relation to that you adjust for the price generally if the product you sold is 0.8 you're adjusting relative to it. Typically at the moment $900 equates to somewhere around about $2 premium.

Okay. And as it relates to your contracts book, mostly in '13 but to some extent for '12, first of all, did you contract relatively more tons for '13 than you normally do in other years?

Not significantly. I wouldn't have though – not significantly.

Got it. And then I did notice the incremental tons signed for '12 were at $14.61, where all the tons for '13 were at $14.25. Given that the curve is generally positive,

what would account for tons in '12 being sold at higher than '13?

Okay. You're comparing the incremental tons with the total tons. So yes, the incremental 13 million was sold in the quarter at $14.60, the tons that we'd incrementally would have sold to '13 would have been at a higher price from that because the curve is in contango but the total weighted average you are looking at is actually brought down by the tons we sold in previous years.

Okay, that's good. Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Mark Levin with BB&T Capital Markets. Please proceed.

Thank you. My questions have been asked and answered.

Your next question comes from the line of [ph] Jack Frank with Point State Capital (47:00). Please proceed.

Hey, Colin. Just a quick question to follow up on the 2013 pricing, where approximately is the – would you say where the market is relative to the $14.61 in '12?

If you just bear with me a second. So you're asking where is the current market in '13 and '14?

Yeah. For '13 cost, if you said that the '12 was $14.61 – like you said, you guys got $14.61 on average. How big is the contango back there.

Okay. So you got to be very careful not to get confused. The $14.61 is the weighted average price we achieved last quarter for the mixture of coal we sold from all our mines.

I understand that.

Okay. Well, so the contango at the moment say for 8800, if I've got the ICAP numbers here you'd say '12 they say its $14.76 and then '13, $16.55 and then '14, $17.75 for 0.8 product. So and that – it was a bit steeper, it came down in the last week or two but – so it's up to nearly $18 in 2014 for 8800.

Right, in '14, okay, and '13's a little bit less, so maybe it's $1 higher or something.

Yeah, $1.50 or something, yeah.

Okay. Thank you.

Thanks.

[Operator Instructions] . Your next question comes from the line of Wes Sconce with Morgan Stanley please proceed.

Hi, afternoon everybody.

Hi, Wes.

Hi, Wes.

Just curious on the – of the 92 million tons you have booked for 2012 is there any wiggle room in your contracts with customers to reduce shipments to the extent they are impacted by CSAPR for 180, 400 or Spring Creek coal?

Sorry, would that be if our customers that?

Yeah.

We'll always work with customers. If for some reason they can't take any coal and – these are long term relationships, so depending on any reasons and how we're approached then obviously we'll work with people if for some reason they can't take some coal. And particularly if maybe if someone didn't want some coal we that could sell and sell them some other coal. So we'll always see what we can do and generally we work things out one way or another.

Okay. And then as a follow up on the export theme, are you rail rates to Westshore more or less fixed-in to 2012 or are these going to be re-priced on a quarterly or train by train basis?

I think they've got some small escalators and then – so there's nothing that would happen in '12 that would be dramatic.

Great. Thanks a lot guys.

Okay. I think we're done with the questions. Thank you very much for being on the call. We appreciate your interest in our company. And we'll talk to you again at the end of the year.

Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference. This concludes the presentation. You may now disconnect. Have a great day.