Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Colin Marshall — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Cloud Peak Energy, Inc.
Heath A. Hill — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Cloud Peak Energy, Inc.
David Francis Gagliano — Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (United States)
Paul Forward — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.
Lucas N. Pipes — Analyst, FBR Capital Markets & Co.
Patrick Marshall — Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC
Arvind Mallik — Managing Member, KMF Investments Management LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Cloud Peak Energy First Quarter Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded.

I would like to turn the conference over to Bryan Pechersky, Executive Vice President and General Counsel. Sir, you may begin.

[06M17Z-E Bryan Pechersky]

Good afternoon and thank you for joining us. With me today is Colin Marshall, Cloud Peak Energy's President and CEO; Heath Hill, CFO; and Gary Rivenes, COO.

Today's presentation may contain forward-looking statements regarding our outlook for our company and industry, financial and operational guidance, volumes, prices and demand, the regulatory and political environment, growth strategies, capital resources and other statements that are not historical facts. Actual results may differ materially because of various risks and uncertainties, including those described in the cautionary statement in today's earnings release and in our most recent Form 10-K and Forms 10-Q.

Today's presentation also includes non-GAAP financial measures. Please refer to today's earnings release for the reconciliations and related disclosures. Our earnings release is available on the Investor Relations section of our website at cloudpeakenergy.com.

I'll now turn the call over to Colin Marshall.

Thank you, Bryan. Good afternoon and thank you for taking the time to listening to our Q1 2017 results call. As Bryan said, I'm joined by Heath and Gary.

After the drop in shipments we saw in Q1 last year, we were pleased to see shipments continue steadily through the first quarter. We shipped 14 million tons as our customers took their contracted coal. Unfortunately, while most of the country had a very mild winter, our shipments to Asian customers were limited to 500,000 tons by severe weather in the Pacific Northwest, which impacted rail capacity.

In April, we've seen a marked improvement in export rail service. Adjusted EBITDA of $20.4 million during the quarter was much better than last year when shipments were significantly below plan. During the quarter, there was one report of a medical injury at our Antelope Mine. An employee required stitches after cutting his hand. The one injury means our year-to-date all injury frequency rate is 0.34. There were 36 MSHA inspection days at our sites during the quarter with one significant and substantial citation issued. There were no environmental citations at any of our sites during the quarter and it is now over three years since our last environmental citation.

The operations ran well during the quarter as we shipped our planned amount of coal. To put this in context, last year we had contracted 65 million tons going into the year, but were shipping at a 51-million ton rate at the end of Q1. This year we've contracted 56 million tons, but are currently shipping at a 58 million ton rate. Shipping at our planned rate helps operational efficiency greatly.

The cost reduction measures we put in place last year allowed us to keep our cost below $10 per ton during the quarter. We continue to increase our operating efficiency and improve our maintenance practice to help offset rising strip ratios and hole distances. I continue to be impressed by the ability of our employees to find ways to improve our operation safety and efficiency.

The new administration has clearly brought a completely different approach to the fossil fuel industry and coal in particular. Immediate actions such as those to halt the Stream Protection Rule, lift the moratorium on federal coal leasing and suspend the change to coal valuations are most welcome after years of anti-coal regulations.

While the immediate relief from new and pending rules is very important, we need to work with the administration to establish a framework where coal can have a stable long-term future. The first goal will be to establish an environment where utilities have the regulatory certainty they need to stop closing coal plants and then to consider building new ones.

Given the long-term nature of such decisions, achieving this will not be easy. Reducing the massive subsidies to renewables and switching some portion to develop advanced coal technologies such as carbon capture storage would also be a great first step.

I'll now hand over to Heath to run through the financials before returning to cover the outlook.

Thank you, Colin. In contrast to the first quarter of last year, this year has started with customers taking their contracted coal. In Q1, we shipped 14 million tons which is 1 million tons greater than the first quarter of 2016. This higher volume as well as the continuing effect of our prior year cost control efforts, supported our first quarter cost per ton of $9.78. This is a $1.37 per ton improvement as compared to the cost per ton in the first quarter of 2016.

With our realized price per ton of $12.10 during the period, we were able to record a first quarter cash margin of $2.32 per ton and our owned and operated mine segment generated adjusted EBITDA of $33.7 million. We also shipped 0.5 million export tons during the first quarter. As this was fewer tons shipped in the period than we had contracted, we incurred a negative impact from the quarterly rail and port payments charged during the period. We also incurred higher demurrage expense because of the adverse weather conditions for rail shipments.

The logistics segment adjusted EBITDA loss was $2.6 million for the period. While this compares favorably to the prior-year loss of $6.9 million, it is not indicative of the expected full year results. We continue to expect full year export volumes of approximately 5 million tons and positive full year segment adjusted EBITDA.

SG&A costs were $10.7 million for the period which is $3 million lower than the first quarter of 2016. This continues to show the impact of our work to reduce labor and benefit cost across the company. Our consolidated adjusted EBITDA for the first quarter was $20.4 million as compared to the $1.3 million adjusted EBITDA loss reported for the first quarter of 2016. We ended the first quarter with $100.5 million in cash. Our total available liquidity at March 31st was approximately $455 million, which is the aggregate amount of our cash balance and available borrowing capacity on our credit agreement and our AR securitization program.

Throughout 2016 and early 2017, we made considerable progress in improving our financial position. We exited reclamation self-bonding and reduced total reclamation bonding by over $190 million. We completed an exchange offer on our senior notes that reduced our debt by over $90 million. We renegotiated our throughput contracts with Westshore and BNSF that removed over $480 million of contractual commitments, while retaining the access to ship to our seaborne thermal coal customers. In continuation of those efforts, during the first quarter we issued 13.5 million shares of common stock for net proceeds to $64.7 million.

The equity proceeds allowed us to retire the remaining 2019 senior notes for $64.5 million. The combined transactions have reduced our outstanding debt by over $150 million and we now have no debt maturities until 2021. As we look forward, we are able to reaffirm our range of 55 to 60 million tons of shipments for 2017. Even with the challenging ramp up and weather interruptions to our export business, we continue to anticipate exporting approximately 5 million tons during 2017.

As we explained during our February call, reaching the top of our adjusted EBITDA range would require an increase in the price of our export sales from then prevailing levels. As this has not yet occurred and to reflect sales during the quarter, we are lowering the top end of our adjusted EBITDA guidance range by $10 million. Our 2017 adjusted EBITDA guidance range is between $80 million and $110 million. The midpoint of our adjusted EBITDA range does assume some improvement on export prices for the remaining unpriced export volumes or some incremental in-year domestic sales.

With the focus on necessary capital repairs to maintain the health of our equipment along with the anticipated land purchases, the guidance range for capital expenditures remains between $20 million and $30 million. Depreciation, depletion and amortization expense is expected to be between $70 million and $80 million for the year and cash interest for 2017 as updated for the impact of the 2019 bond retirement will be approximately $45 million.

With that, I will hand the conversation back to Colin.

Thank you, Heath. I'll now cover the international outlook before moving to domestic.

Since mid-2016, we've seen international coal prices rise rapidly, largely driven by increased Chinese imports and then retreat before Cyclone Debbie disrupted Australian coal exports in late March. The main impact of the cyclone appears to have been in disruption to the rail infrastructure that served the met coal mines in Queensland. The supply disruption pushed up met coal prices sharply and helped firm thermal coal pricing. Even as the rail lines come back into service, I think the full impact of the cyclone will not be clear for some months. Overall, any reduction in supply should help coal pricing.

We are encouraged by the 7% electricity demand growth in China. They've reduced domestic production and the large increase in Chinese thermal coal imports since last year. Our coal mainly competes with Indonesian suppliers as subbituminous coal, who've not had any major supply disruptions recently. However, our Asian customers continue to tell us that Indonesian coal quality is deteriorating and quite variable from ship-to-ship. Cyclone Debbie also reinforced many of our customers the benefits of having a diverse supply base. Given this background, we are continuing to receive strong interest from our Asian utility customers.

We've currently contracted 3.3 million tons for delivery in 2017 and are planning to export 5 million tons for the full year. To reach 5 million tons, we will need to see the recent improvement in rail service continue for the rest of the year. As I'm sure you're aware, yesterday Premier Clark of British Columbia sent a letter to Canadian Prime Minister, Trudeau urging him to ban U.S. coal export through British Columbia in response to U.S. duties on Canadian softwood lumber. We value our Canadian trading partners and hope the decision-makers will act in the best interest of all involved and we will continue to monitor any further developments.

On the domestic front, it is encouraging that utilities are taking their contracted coal after a second extremely mild winter. The impact of $3 gas prices on PRB coal burn is clearly shown by PRB coal burn being up 16% in Q1 this year compared to last year when gas was below $2 even with a milder winter. PRB stockpiles of 82 million tons do remain at elevated levels after the mild winter, where they are down from 97 million tons last year. While there was very little buying going on in Q1, we've recently seen an increase in RFPs as utilities look to contract coal for the second half of the year.

We are currently contracted to sell 56 million tons this year. Of this committed production, 55 million tons are in the fixed price contracts for the weighted-average price of $12.19 per ton. The 2 million tons we contracted or priced since our last call were at a weighted average price of $11.39 per ton reflecting the mix of [ph] 8800 and 8400 (12:10) coal and prevailing prices. Currently we've contracted 29 million tons for delivery in 2018 and of this committed production, 27 million tons are under fixed price contracts with a weighted-average price of $12.51.

To sum up before we take your questions, 2017 appears to be playing out as we planned with customers taking their contracted coal. It would appear that the large drop in domestic demand we've seen in recent years has leveled off as coal plant closures have slowed and gas prices increased.

We are currently expecting coal production to remain relatively flat this year, though hot summer could cause an increase in second half demand. Our exports are picking up after a slow start due to weather-related rail delays. We continue to see strong interest from Asian customers who want to take all the coal we can get to the port. While we would like international prices to a bit higher, we are encouraged by strong import growth into China this year.

With that, we can now take your questions.

Thank you. [Operator instructions] And our first question comes from David Gagliano from BMO Capital Markets. Your line is now open.

Hi. Thanks for taking my questions. I had a couple questions on the export volumes. First of all, what's the assumed EBITDA contribution now for 2017 within the range from the export business?

Just to refresh, when we talked in February at the earnings call we talked about 5 million tons at about a $5 margin and we only shipped 500,000 tons. We still are reaffirming the 5 million tons, though clearly the margins, we incurred some loss there. So if you back into maybe a range of expected results of backing off, we came down $10 million off the high end of the range, but if you attribute maybe some of – it is a component of that. So if we were 25 million at February and with the tons that we priced at prevailing prices, we're probably saying it's in the $15 million to $20 million range contribution coming from logistics. So we need you know $5 million to $7 million a quarter going forward.

Okay. That's very helpful. Thanks. And then just somewhat related question. I know it's early days in terms of the development in British Columbia and I realize you commented briefly on it in the prepared remarks. You're monitoring the situation. I'm wondering if you have any preliminary thoughts on what Cloud Peak's options are should it go the wrong way?

I think really David as it's probably about 24 hours since [indiscernible] (14:52) went down, it really is too early to give any specifics. So I'm sorry, we don't have any further comments other than to say obviously we're very watchful.

Okay. Fair enough. Thanks.

Thanks.

Thank you. And our next question comes from Paul Forward from Stifel. Your line is now open.

Thanks. Good afternoon.

Good afternoon.

Just wanted to ask on the logistics segment adjusted EBITDA for the first quarter it was negative $2.6 million. Is there a number that you've got in terms of delays in demurrage cost and so on for the weather? Can you give us a number on what the approximate impact of those weather issues might have been during the quarter?

I think really, Paul, the impact was that we only shipped 0.5 million tons and we also incurred some demurrage. So it's all in there. I think Heath's guidance that we expect it to maybe come out to 15 to 20 million for the full year. Hopefully, we'll get some of the prepayments on some of the shipments back. We have seen a marked improvement in April. I think you might have loaded four ships already. So that's great to see and I think to go into the specifics any further really is just going to get us all confused.

Okay, but it was certainly a significant loss that you expect to make up with future shipments. I guess you'd mentioned you had loaded four ships in April. If you've got – okay if it was 0.5 million tons in the first quarter for exports and you're planning on five for the year, that implies a quarterly rate that's about 1.5 per quarter for the balance of the year. I was just wondering are you exporting at that rate now or is there a further ramp from current levels baked into the 5.0 million tons number?

If we carry on, on the rate we got in April, we'll be comfortably there and it's looking good. There was some very bad weather in the Pacific Northwest even while the rest of us had this extraordinarily mild winter. So we've been very pleased with the way things have stepped up in April. And as we said in the remarks, as long as we continue at that pace, we're comfortable that the rail import system can handle 5 million tons.

Sure. Okay. And I guess I know you can't really comment too much on the BC Premier's actions, but I think you can without commenting specifically on that, I would say how important is the export avenue to potential future project developments of yours? And I guess related to those comments yesterday, how can you commit capital to new projects serving the export markets if the right to ship can be taken away on a whim?

Okay. Well, I think if you actually go back over our comments over the last few years in terms of the development of the Spring Creek Complex, which is obviously our big opportunity, we've been pointing out more and more that we see the domestic market for that coal, which we've been talking to customers about and developing. So obviously exports are important to us. We want to develop the 5 million, but whatever you do, don't – well first of all, I certainly am very optimistic that we will continue to be able to export as we are at the moment and that there is also a domestic market for those development projects, particularly because of the cost of leasing high quality reserves in the southern Powder River Basin and as existing reserves run down. So yeah, don't get ahead of yourself on the potential impact on the Spring Creek Complex.

Okay. Thanks a lot, Colin.

Thanks.

Thank you. And our next question comes from the Lucas Pipes from FBR & Company. Your line is now open.

Yes. Thank you and good afternoon, everybody.

Hi, Lucas.

My first question was on the domestic side. Colin, I think you broke out the price per ton of incremental 2017 domestic contract. Would you mind sharing where you sold for 2018?

Yes, I think – I've got that. So we contracted 27 million tons. Sorry, we contracted total 29 million tons, of which 27 million tons are the weighted fixed average price of $12.51.

Got it. And if I compare that to your prior quarter guidance, I think, the average price was at $12.55. So if I did the usual math and back into that difference, that would give me a pretty clean estimate of where you've contracted over the last three months. Is that right?

Absolutely. And look you can see that it is roughly at roundabout where OTC have been bouncing around in that quarter. As normal, this contracting is not too far away from where the OTC is.

Perfect. Great. Thank you. And then turning to the export side. I'll try to take another crack at some of the recent developments and the way I wanted to ask the question is in what was reported in the press, there also seemed to be a focus on kind of the larger issue with thermal coal exports from British Columbia. And I wonder how do you view the social license of thermal coal exports from British Columbia and how big an issue do you think is that on the ground that maybe this is just – the most recent developments are just kind of a catalyst on maybe something that's been going on for a little longer? I would appreciate your thoughts and comments.

Well I think we should acknowledge that obviously Canada exports a lot of coal, out through Vancouver, through the Neptune and the Westshore Terminal. U.S. coal is only a small – maybe I'm not sure exactly what [ph] center (21:23). I'll say 20% of that. We believe as we saw with the response from Westshore to the Premier's letter that it's valuable business. It's important and supports a lot of economic wealth and jobs in Vancouver.

So, we think it is important. We also think that Canada is a minerals resource-based company and so they're certainly planning to export. There was no indication to me that there was a wanted ban of coal exports. It was more specific than that and I think that's the important thing I took from that and hopefully that's why it'll be possible to resolve the actual issue. And of course, there's a lot of things going on at the moment between the U.S. and Canada. This is one small part of it. So hopefully it'll all get moved forward. And the other thing I'd say at the moment it was only 24 hours ago and our ships are still going so we've seen no impact yet. Let's see how this plays out.

And I hope cooler heads will prevail in this and good luck with all of that. Maybe one last question on the export side. Colin, I think in your prepared remarks, you mentioned that your guidance assumes an increase in export prices. I think the Newcastle [ph] perf (22:50) is in slight backwardation. Any particular reason that makes you optimistic that prices may increase a little bit over the balance of the year?

Well, I'd say there were two things actually that Heath said on the guidance. One is we'd like a few more bucks on the export coal or a few more domestic tons and I think we haven't seen the increase in the thermal may be the Indonesian pricing that we generally sell against, which has been a pretty decent level but we'd like a few bucks more on that.

There's still plenty of time for that to play out and I think as we said, the increase in Chinese import is really being quite large this year. So I think there's still plenty of time for that to play out in terms of pricing for the Indonesian coal that we sell against. So I think there's opportunity there, but compared to three months ago, I'm more optimistic that we'll sell additional tons in year. I'm not sure what price they'll be at, but I think domestically if there's any sort of summer then it does appear that with gas staying above $3, people are burning the PRB coal and they're starting to get interested in buying a bit more. So, I think there's those two levers to get us further up the guidance range but obviously we'd like both to occur.

Great. Great. Well I appreciate your color. Thank you and good luck.

Thanks.

Thank you. [Operator instructions] And your next question comes from Patrick Marshall from Cowen & Company. Your line is now open.

Hi. So, I know you guys don't really want to answer a ton about the terminal issues, but maybe to come out from a perspective of your contracts. If the worst were to happen, do you guys have a [ph] Mac (24:42) clause in place that would nullify the contract?

I'm sorry. We can't go into that. As I am sure you can work out, it would depend on an awful lot of maybe you don't exactly have something happen. At the moment, we're planning to export that coal. We've got it contracted and we're going to continue contracting other coal. As I said, as you read the letter it was a request. It wasn't actually – and we don't know of any trains that have been turned back at the border yet. So I think we've got a long way for this one to run.

Okay. Understood.

Thank you. And our next question comes from Arvind Mallik from KMF Investments. Your line is now open.

Good afternoon. Thank you for taking my question. First of all, as longtime shareholders in Cloud Peak, I'd like to thank Cloud Peak management and employees. You've done a really good job of protecting the company through your good operations and financial stabilization in particular with self-bonding, port and rail agreements and the various refinancing actions you've taken.

So these are all really excellent achievements, which we believe, are not really being appreciated by the market today and the shares are deeply undervalued, because it looks like investors are focused on some secondary issues at the moment. I want to return to the go-forward strategy of the company especially now that your PRB peers have emerged from Chapter 11 which Cloud Peak was able to avoid because of the prudence of management and employees.

Colin, on the last earnings call, you noted that while the industry seems to be stabilizing, there's still quite a bit of over-capacity. It seems that there is now an opportunity for consolidation among the PRB players to achieve even better cost efficiency and supply rationality. And if you get efficiency PRB can take on its real competitor which is natural gas. And by gaining share, it seems like this could be a win-win for PRB producers, rail partners and the utility customers. So we appreciate your perspective on consolidation in the PRB sector as well as what you see as the next step to creating value within this whole ecosystem of PRB coal producers, logistics partners and customers.

Well thanks for the question Arvind and thank you very much for the kind comments about the way we've managed to navigate this pretty tough time for the coal industry. So, thank you for that.

As we look going forward, I think there's two things that strike me. One is at $3 gas PRB coal is being burnt by our customers and so that's why I talked about the leveling off in the rapid decrease we've seen. We've seen lots of plant closures. We've seen them slow up and now we've actually seen at $3 gas that people are burning a lot of coal. It will bounce around. I think, the actual demand from year-to-year dependent on gas prices and weather. And how they interplay and obviously demand – industrial demand and GDP. So I think as we look forward at the moment, it looks a lot better than the last four or five years, that just demand being driven down which has been very, very tough for us to handle.

So I think there might be some stability appearing. Within that at the moment, I think pricing for the coal doesn't actually determine its value against $3 gas, but rather the fact that there is overcapacity in the basin. And I don't know when that overcapacity will be used up, but that I know that pretty soon if we're an example than if we want to increase production we'll either have to go into higher strip ratio areas or take on more employees.

And once we actually have to look at those decisions, then actually we're going to need incentive pricing to make it worthwhile doing that and we're also using up reserves. So as I look at those things, I think there will come a point hopefully soon when the price will go up because we'll get off the cost base and look more at the price we need to actually make sure it's viable to mine the next ton and hopefully we're moving towards that.

As that happens, then we'll find out where the true value of the coal is against $3 gas. Obviously gas above $3 is good if you really believe it's down at $2. We saw it happened long-term at $2, then we saw what happened last year when people burnt a lot more gas, but I think all the indications are that many drillers need $3 gas to make money. So that gives me some comfort.

In terms of the further on possible consolidation M&A, then I'm sure you understand I can't talk about or speculate about any specifics. I absolutely understand where you're coming from and if you look at a large fixed cost heavy capital business that's going through some structural changes where demand is being driven down to a new level, then you'd expect there to be economic drivers to consolidation and I would actually agree I see those.

How something might play out? Obviously, I'm not able to comment on those. Obviously, I think anyone who looks at the business can see what you're seeing in terms of potential efficiency. So I think we'll have to wait and see, but the first thing is if you look at the Powder River Basin now, we've actually got producers who have come out of Chapter 11. We've got maybe a floor on demand. We've got gas settling out. So we're in a whole lot better shape than we were for the last year or two years. So I think with those things we can actually now all start looking forward and looking to what might be the next rational moves in terms of increasing the economics and productivity of the basin, but I think the important thing is that people are burning the PRB coal and we've got a stable business as we go forward.

Thank you for your comments.

Thank you.

Thank you. I am not showing any further questions at this moment. I would now like to turn the call back to Colin Marshall for any closing remarks.

Well, thank you very much for your interest in Cloud Peak Energy. Obviously, we'll look forward to see how the summer plays out and to talking to you in July when we do our Q2 call. So with that, we'll leave it at that. Thanks.

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. This concludes today's program. You may all disconnect. Everyone have a great day.