Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Bryan J. Pechersky — General Counsel, Corporate Secretary & Executive Vice President, Cloud Peak Energy, Inc.
Colin Marshall — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Cloud Peak Energy, Inc.
Gary S. Rivenes — Chief Operating Officer & Executive Vice President, Cloud Peak Energy, Inc.
Heath A. Hill — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Cloud Peak Energy, Inc.
Mark Andrew Levin — Analyst, Seaport Global Securities LLC
David Francis Gagliano — Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (United States)
Paul Forward — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.
Jonathon Troy Fite — Co-Founder & Managing Member, KMF Investments Management LLC
Lucas N. Pipes — Analyst, FBR & Co.
Stephen Comerford — Analyst, Brandes Investment Partners LP

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Cloud Peak Energy, Inc. Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later we'll conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference call may be recorded.

I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference Bryan Pechersky, Executive Vice President and General Counsel. Please go ahead.

Good afternoon and thank you for joining us. With me today is Colin Marshall, Cloud Peak Energy's President and CEO; Heath Hill, CFO; and Gary Rivenes, COO.

Today's presentation may contain forward-looking statements regarding our outlook for the company and industry, financial and operational guidance, volumes, prices and demand, the regulatory and political environment, growth strategies, capital resources and other statements that are not historical facts. Actual results may differ materially because of various risks and uncertainties, including those described in the cautionary statement in today's earnings release and in our most recent Form 10-K and Form 10-Q.

Today's presentation also includes non-GAAP financial measures. Please refer to today's earnings release for the reconciliations and related disclosures. Our earnings release is available on the Investor Relations section of our website at cloudpeakenergy.com.

I will now turn the call over to Colin Marshall.

Thank you, Bryan. Good afternoon and thank you for taking the time to listen in to our Q2 2017 results call. As Bryan said, I'm joined by Heath Hill, our CFO; and Gary Rivenes, our Chief Operating Officer.

The second quarter was a great improvement on last year, as our shipments were up 21%. This allowed us to reduce our per ton costs and produce first half adjusted EBITDA of $50 million.

With natural gas around $3, our customers are taking their coal but generally continue to hold off contracting for 2018. Export demand continues to be solid and there has been recent increases in near-term Newcastle prices as buying interest has resumed. We are optimistic that rail delays that reduced our first half exports are now resolved, so we can increase shipments in the second half and export around 4.5 million tons for the full year.

I will now hand over to Gary to give a safety and operations update before Heath covers the financials.

Thanks, Colin. During the quarter, there were no reportable medical injuries at any of our sites. Our year-to-date all injury frequency rate is 0.17. There were 39 MSHA inspection days at our sites during the quarter with one significant and substantial citation issued. There were no environmental citations at any of our sites during the quarter and it is now over three years since our last environmental citation.

Our Cordero Rojo Mine was recognized for its outstanding safety performance in 2016, receiving two awards, the 2016 Safe Sam Award which is presented by the Wyoming Mining Association to the mining operation with the best safety record and the Wyoming Governor's Safety Award for the large mine category. I would like to congratulate the Cordero Rojo team for their hard work as recognized by receiving these awards.

Operations ran well during the quarter as we shipped 14.3 million tons. This was close to our planned rate, which helps operational efficiency greatly. The cost reduction measures and efficiency projects we put in place in the last few years helped reduce our cost to $9.72 a ton for the quarter.

In addition, the operations team has been able to stay focused on maintaining the mining fleet's condition. For example, the Antelope team has made nice progress in assembling a dragline tub to be installed later this summer, which is our most significant 2017 capital project. Our capital spending was managed to only $3.8 million for the quarter and is now forecast to be below $25 million for 2017.

I will now hand over to Heath to run through the financials.

Thank you, Gary. During the second quarter, we shipped 14.3 million tons, which is 2.5 million tons or 21% greater than the second quarter of 2016. When combined with the first quarter, the 28.4 million tons shipped in the first half of this year is approximately 50% of our 2017 contracted volumes. Our first and second half domestic shipments are currently expected to be relatively equal, which would be unusual as compared to historical norms in which second half shipments are typically greater.

The consistent pace of shipments during the second quarter as compared to the first quarter of this year demonstrates that our domestic customers continue to take their contracted coal and reflects the benefit of stronger export sales. This consistent shipment pace supported by our continuing cost control efforts resulted in our second quarter cost per ton of $9.72. This is a $0.78 per ton or a 7% improvement as compared to the second quarter of 2016. With our realized price per ton of $12.25 during the period, we recorded a second quarter cash margin of $2.53 per ton and our owned and operated mines segment generated adjusted EBITDA of $36.7 million.

We also shipped 1.3 million export tons during the second quarter, which demonstrates improved rail performance as compared to the first quarter of this year. We did incur unexpectedly high demurrage expense during the period caused by rail delays as shipments ramped up. The logistics segment adjusted EBITDA was $1.6 million for the period.

SG&A costs were $9.6 million for this quarter, which is $3.7 million lower than the second quarter of 2016. Reduced labor due to lower head count across the company and lower benefit costs were the primary drivers of this decrease.

Our consolidated adjusted EBITDA for the second quarter was $29.6 million as compared to the $19.3 million for the second quarter of 2016. It should be noted that the prior year results included $18.8 million of contract buyout settlements that did not recur this year.

We ended the second quarter with $80.5 million in cash, which is only $3.2 million lower than where we began the year. Our total available liquidity at June 30 remained at approximately $455 million, which is the aggregate amount for our cash balance plus available borrowing capacity on our credit agreement and our AR securitization program.

During the period, in consideration of our improved financial condition and overall coal industry conditions, we worked with our surety bond providers to reduce the required amount of collateral supporting our reclamation bonds. Since the end of the first quarter, we have reduced the letters of credit outstanding by nearly $39 million. We now have $28.6 million of letters of credit outstanding. This represents an average of 6% collateral, down from the previous 15% level.

As we look forward, we are able to narrow our range of expected shipments for 2017 to between 56 million and 59 million tons. Within that amount, we now anticipate exporting 4.5 million tons. This is 0.5 million tons lower than discussed during the last earnings call, as it has been determined that the first quarter ramp-up delays are not expected to be recovered during the remainder of the year.

We are also narrowing our 2017 adjusted EBITDA guidance to a range of $85 million to $105 million. The midpoint of our adjusted EBITDA range does assume export prices for the 1 million open export tons that are consistent with our most recent sales and full delivery of our contracted domestic volumes.

While we continue to focus on the necessary capital repairs to maintain the health of our equipment, we have refined our estimated capital needs for the year and are able to lower the top end of our guidance range for capital expenditures. The updated range is now between $20 million and $25 million. Our depreciation, depletion and amortization expense range continues to be between $70 million and $80 million for the year. And cash interest for 2017 will be approximately $45 million.

With that, I will hand the conversation back to Colin.

Thank you, Heath. I will now cover the international and domestic outlook. We continue to experience strong interest from our Asian customers for our Spring Creek Mine coal. During the last quarter, while there was not much purchasing activity, we continued to see the developments we've previously reported of reducing Indonesian coal quality, rising demand in South Korea and China's internal production influencing international pricing.

China's electricity demand is up 7% so far this year due to economic growth and hot weather. Much of the increase is being met by coal power generation, which is helping support domestic coal prices and raise coal imports.

South Korean imports are up 7 million tons so far this year as new coal plants come online. There also have been disruptions to Indonesian and Australian coal production due to rains and strike action. The rapid rise in near-term Newcastle price we saw last week coincided with an increase in activity by Asian buyers. We will now look to contract our remaining 1 million tons of unsold forecast exports which will be shipped in the fourth quarter.

On the domestic front, while the slow start to summer was frustrating, it was good to see utilities continue to take their contracted coal as natural gas remained around $3. PRB stockpiles only reduced slightly in June as cooling power demand was subdued and ended the month around 78 million tons. This is down from 91 million tons at this time last year. Stockpiles should fall further through the summer as temperature and cooling demand increase.

After first half total PRB production of 160 million tons, we expect full year PRB shipments to be between 310 million and 340 million tons. Natural gas prices and summer demand will be the key drivers of shipments in the second half. Additional shipments could be limited by mine and rail capacity if utilities were to want significant amounts of coal in Q4.

We are currently contracted to sell 56 million tons this year. All of this committed production is under fixed price contracts with a weighted average price of $12.18 per ton. The 1 million tons we contracted or priced since our last call were at an average weighted price $11.63 per ton, reflecting the mix of 8,800 Btu and 8,400 Btu coal and prevailing prices.

Currently, we have contracted 34 million tons for delivery in 2018. Of this committed production, 32 million tons are under fixed price contracts with a weighted average price of $12.49 per ton. 5 million tons were contracted during the quarter at an average price of $12.38.

As we have planned to export 2.7 million tons in the second half of the year, without any additional in-year sales, our second half domestic shipments, to meet the midpoint of our guidance range, would be slightly below first half shipments. While we are planning to reduce second half shipments from Cordero Rojo as a major customer takes a scheduled plant outage, this pattern of domestic shipments would be unusual. I believe it indicates that many utilities are comfortable with their current coal stocks and believe that additional coal and gas is readily available.

To sum up before we take your questions, 2017 continues to play out as we planned, with customers taking their contracted coal but waiting to see how summer demand and natural gas prices play out before committing to additional contracts. Our export shipments for the second half are forecast to increase and recent price increases are encouraging for the remaining 1 million tons we have to contract for delivery.

With that, we can now take your questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Mark Levin from Seaport Global. Your line is now open.

Yeah, thanks. I appreciate the time. On 2018 for a second and you mentioned what you've contracted and what you haven't contracted. Is there still a lot of 8,400 Btu PRB coal to contract? And the reason why I ask that, Colin, is, is just given where prices are in the 8,400 Btu market, would you be able to generate cash from those mines at current prices? And if not, would you keep the coal in the ground or would you produce it next year if 8,400 Btu prices didn't improve?

Okay. So, I think – well, we've still got some 8,400 Btu coal to sell for Cordero Rojo for next year. And in terms of your overall question of where do we go on – what level we produce it at, I'd point out that Cordero Rojo used to produce 40 million tons. And this year we'll be down to, I don't know, maybe 18 million or so. So we'll look at making sure we run the mine as well as we can and manage the costs. But if there's no profitability in it, then we have to – we've had to reduce production and preserve capital and we've demonstrated we've done that. For the moment, we do have some tons to sell, the pricing is not very attractive for 8,800 Btu at the moment. So we're looking at that and we're looking to adjust the production and our costs accordingly so we can remain profitable with our operation, but clearly there is a lot less margins in the 8,800 Btu mines.

When you think about sort of the trajectory of utility inventories, if we assume that natural gas kind of stays around where we are today, around that $3 level plus or minus, and the rest of the summer is normal, can you kind of put your forecast hat on and say where you think utilities would be as we get to the end of the year and heading into the wintertime? Would we be above normal, normal, what do you think the environment would look like if you fast forward into an environment in which weather is normal and gas is $3?

Okay. So the way it looks to me is that the – clearly May and June were slow starts to the summer. Now there's a fair bit of coal being burned. I'd expect the stockpiles to come down reasonably steeply July, August. What will matter is the burn in September. Then, as the utilities have been holding off their purchasing, I think, assuming that happens, there will be some purchasing in the second half of the year, but overall I'd have to say I think the utilities are comfortable with their stockpiles overall and how they perceive the availability of gas and coal going into the winter. I think if there is a cold winter or an extended end to summer, then utilities would be more likely to be buying for delivery in the first half of 2018 going into the summer. But it looks to me like they must be either they think there's coals available or gases available at very short notice or else they are comfortable at the moment. And I suspect it's that they are comfortable with their stockpiles.

That makes sense. One last question related to exports. Maybe can you provide some color around the rail issues that you referenced during the press release and the impact on the export? What exactly was going on with the railroads that caused you guys to reduce guidance by 0.5 million tons?

Okay. Well, as we said in Q1 call, the Northwest was – there wasn't much winter across most of America, there actually was up in Northwest and they were certainly impacted by snowfall and bad weather and lines being washed out and all the rest of it in Q1. After that what we found was it took longer than expected in Q2 to actually get the system up, the trains, where they should be up and cycling as we like them to be. It looks like in the last sort of month or so, that's occurring and now we do have a higher level of confidence that the rail system will run. It always seems to take a frustratingly long time to get the system up and running, which is one of the reasons why we would like the shipments being smoothed through the year, and I think once you've actually seen it working and the trains are actually cycling, then you have increased level of confidence that that should be maintained, and that's how it looks for the second half of the year. So it was a combination of poor weather in the first half and then just I'd say frustrating delays in Q2.

Got it. Thanks very much. I appreciate the color, Colin.

Thanks.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of David Gagliano from BMO Capital Markets. Your line is now open.

Thanks. First of all, just a couple of follow-ups to the previous questions. On the priced volumes for 2018, first of all, the tons that were sold this quarter, 5 million tons at $12.36, I just want to confirm, that was all 8,800 Btu coal, correct?

Not all of it – searching for the bit of paper in front of me, David. But it wasn't all. But there clearly was a fair – most of it was and there is some Spring Creek in there as well. So, yeah, it was predominantly Spring Creek and Antelope coal, yeah.

So the Spring Creek coal, is any of that export?

Yeah, but not the stuff we coaled in the quarter. So the stuff we exported – sorry, we didn't sell any export coal in the quarter.

Okay. What I'm getting at is where is the market right now for, say, 8,800 Btu coal in 2018?

I'd say just look at the OTC price, as always. It's about $12, a bit above. We got some good sales there, a few – a bit on the upside of that through the quarter, but overall the OTC is a pretty – the published numbers are pretty good.

All right. That's helpful. Thanks. And then just bit of a bigger broader picture question. There is obviously kind of a bit of a no-man's-land right now for PRB coal in terms of pricing. It's been that way for a little while. And I'm just curious, from your perspective, do you think there are opportunities for further consolidation in the Powder River Basin or do you think there would be any trust issues?

Yes and yes I think is the answer to those. And I think our response to this question we've been asked has been pretty consistent for a while. We can absolutely see why people are talking about consolidation in a high fixed cost business that's – demand has been reduced significantly, and equally, yes, there is likely to be issues. I think there always has been in the Powder River Basin if you look at previous transactions.

Okay. And would Cloud Peak more likely be a buyer or a seller in that?

I think you will understand if I'll stop – I won't comment on that.

All right. Well, let me ask you this. Are there assets in the Powder River Basin that Cloud Peak would be interested in pursuing?

I think we'd say that there'd be opportunities for consolidation and for – we think that that – obviously you could see that makes sense. And what combination could possibly happens, who knows.

Yeah, okay. Worth a try. Thanks, Colin.

Okay. Thanks, David.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Paul Forward from Stifel. Your line is now open.

Thanks. Good afternoon. Wanted to ask about just – the operating cash flow number I think for the first six months was at $12.5 million or so. But it had been in the – as of the third quarter was $19.7 million, so I guess there was a working capital build during the quarter. Heath, I was just wondering, was that related to the reduction of the outstanding LCs or were there some other items that pulled down operating cash flow during the quarter?

Paul, I'd be happy to follow up with you on that, but I think we just looked at the overall cash balance and trying to emphasize that we are right on track for the year as we expected to be with our cash hurdle rate really reflecting the cash interest and the low level of CapEx to maintain the equipment fleet, which is around $70 million. So if we hit our EBITDA guidance midpoint, we should be growing cash by the end of the year and those are the key points we were trying to emphasize.

Okay. Colin, I think you'd mentioned in the release the British Columbia of kind of a transfer of power between parties. Just wondering if you had any further comments about the outlook for – do you anticipate any concerns over the next couple of years as you still have the planned take-or-pay obligations through the export terminal or has there been a – could you expand on what you said in the press release here about B.C. and the likelihood of being able to hang on to those volumes?

Sure. I mean, as we said in the press release, Christy Clark who is the previous premier, British Columbia Premier who proposed the taxing or limiting exports through British Columbia just before the election in response to tariffs on the softwood lumber, she didn't form the next government. And I'd sort of point you mainly to what the new British Columbia Premier John Horgan said just recently when he was asked about it when he was up in Toronto and he was quoted as saying that it's best to leave – well, what's the quote I've got here? "There was some saber-rattling during an election campaign on that, and I believe the linkage on trade matters are best left in the hands of the negotiators at the federal level." So he seems to be leaving it alone and doesn't want to tie coal shipments to – wasn't planning to seek a ban on coal shipments. So there's a different – quite a change there. So we are not expecting anything to occur at the moment. Obviously we will watch it, but we think that appears to have receded for now.

Okay. That's all I've got. Thanks.

Thanks.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Jonathon Fite from KMF Investments. Your line is now open.

Good afternoon, gentlemen. Thanks for your time today. Just got a couple of questions. Given your comments on the unusual nature that first half and second half balance shipments would be unusual, if restocking picked up in the back half of the year, is there anything inhibiting your ability to actually ship at higher levels if the demand was there?

Yes. So I will let Gary answer specifics, but, yeah, it does actually take some time to get things spooled up. You can have a few tons relatively easily, but if it was more than just a few trains here or there then I think, depending on which mine – we'd have more tons maybe at Cordero Rojo than at Antelope where we can be limited by crushing capacity pretty quickly. But as I said in my remarks, if utilities were to seek substantial amounts of coal – I'm not exactly sure how much it is, but more than just a few trains, then it is likely that pretty quickly you'd either run into mine or rail limitations. Gary, what's your...?

No, that's about spot on. It's just you run out of time in the year. But we do have some opportunities there. It's just making sure the system can get the tons out.

So if a utility wants them in Q4, then pretty well we bind them – or contracted and making sure the rail's there pretty soon.

And on the call with one of your PRB peers, they had some commentary around – similar I think to what you were saying earlier, Colin, but they were a bit more specific looking at by yearend stockpiles falling from 110 days of burn to kind of 70 days of burn on average. Are you seeing something similar? And at what levels do stockpiles have to fall before you just inherently become supportive of prices? I mean, can they be taken down to 30 days, 40 days or is 70 a level where you really start to become supportive of prices at that level?

Well, I think the reality is we actually don't know anymore because the business has changed so much. When you talk about how many days of stockpile are utilities comfortable with, when coal was truly baseload and they ran it and knew exactly how much they were going to run it, those were meaningful calculations.

I think now it will – the amount of – whether a stockpile is healthy or not depends on what the gas price is and what demand is over the immediate period that the utility is looking at in front of it. A stockpile in a shoulder season with low gas prices, I think your coal stockpile could be many more days than in a cold winter with high gas prices. So I think this is where we – this is the new world we are adapting to.

And I think one thing that struck me is for the last – well, last two winters have been extraordinarily mild. One had very low gas prices, this last one had gas prices above $3 and that meant that people burnt coal and ran their coal plants [ph] even though we see (26:49) less coal plants than there used to be five years ago.

So I think the system hasn't been sort of tested yet in terms of if we got something like another polar vortex, just what would actually happen and how much coal could be burned or gas supplied and that's going to be tested at some point. Until it does, we don't know what will happen is my thought.

The other point about what it will do with sort of support for pricing is the real factor for me there is that there's still overcapacity in the basin because obviously demand has been reduced significantly over several years, but quite drastically last year. If it's now stabilizing, to really get any sort of price support, we need demand to be more than the mines can supply and then we can actually see our ability to get away from sort of incremental pricing. Until that occurs, it's likely to be low prices. So I think stockpiles are one factor, but the real point is that when we actually see utilities coming out for coal and mines having to look to hire or spend some – recommission some equipment or going to higher strip ratio areas, that's when we will be able to see real price support, and we obviously haven't been in that environment for several years. So some of us have – some people have forgotten what it looks like, and it'll be very obvious when it does change though.

Hence the case for consolidation. Let me turn to a different front. Over the last year you guys have dramatically reduced both your on and off book liabilities, the export business seems to be kind of coming back, and your operations continue to be run extremely safely, extremely efficiently. And yet your stock is basically flat year-over-year. Does that make sense to you?

I think it does. Whilst – obviously it's not quite flat, it's come up a bit since – I guess since the lows when it was down [indiscernible] (28:44) above $1. But I think, yes, it does make sense. It's come back up, but now we actually – we've got a business that can go along at sort of cash neutral, generate a bit of cash, we don't have any big outlays at this moment. I think that the market is – my take on it is inventors are looking at the business saying well, I really need to see some price increases going up and then there will be some obvious reasons to see the value of the business going up, and I think they're waiting for that because they're uncertain about when that might happen and how it will play out, but that's my take on it. And I do think it makes some sense. But the thing that will really improve it is when we get a dollar or two on pricing and then we will return to more sustainable profitability levels, which I think we have to do as long as the U.S. needs a fair amount of coal.

Well, given that I think you talked about towards the end of the year you all will be building cash, and your current liquidity is nearly twice your current market cap, given your peers are now having returned to the market, returning capital to shareholders through dividends, share repurchases, how do you see Cloud Peak over the next six, 12 months as you continue to build cash and your liquidity is twice your market cap? How do you exploit that on behalf of shareholders in the interim?

Well, I wouldn't get ahead of yourself on the cash build. I mean, an important point is we are not losing cash. What we really need is a price increase so that we can actually deliver on the operational efficiency and the volume we've got so we can actually generate some decent cash and then we can have the issue of what we do with it, which – but let's not get ahead of ourselves.

Yeah, I would just comment that a lot of the liquidity is based inside the credit agreement. So it's not cash on the balance sheet, it's borrowing capacity.

All right, gentlemen, thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of [indiscernible] (30:49). Your line is now open.

Hey, guys, thanks for taking the question. I just wanted to kind of dig in a little more into the rail issues that you had. It looks like on the cash flow statement you had kind of the logistics cash outflow of about $3.4 million. Did that go – was that on the rails contract or was that at the ports that you had to pay that?

Yeah, I think...

I apologize. We'd be happy to follow-up with you, but that's pretty specific.

No, I think if you think about the $3.4 million, that's the operating income loss you are looking at. I think that was actually the noncash item.

Okay.

Yeah. No, we produced – we were cash positive in the exports, but only about $1.6 million.

Okay. Well, you said there was still some of the contracts that you didn't meet, so would that be on the port side of the contract that you had to pay to?

This quarter we were pretty much at full contracted volume. So take-or-pay really wasn't much of a factor in this quarter.

Yeah.

Okay.

We were close enough, so, yeah, there wasn't any great take-or-pay commitment [ph] or pay (31:58).

Okay. And then, looking at your – you have 1 million open tons out in the fourth quarter you're looking at for the – and you see the Newport (sic) [Newcastle] (32:07) prices, how do those prices compare with where you contracted your shipments that you made in the second quarter?

So the previous stuff we've done, you can see if you divide the – just whatever, $50, if you divide the numbers through in that table. The Indonesian price, which is the one we were looking at, has gone up to – I think it's about the Kalimantan price, about $59 now for the rest of the year, which is better than it was. So a few dollars more. We'd like it – so there's potential upside there. We're in no great rush to sell those 1 million tons yet and we believe there is opportunity maybe to go up a little bit more. We will talk to our Korean customers. We're obviously visiting them. They are keen to get the coal for these new power plants they've got. So, we think there's some opportunities. But it will only be a – it's only 1 million tons, but it will be nice to get a few extra bucks. And we're certainly comfortable we can place it and it's nice to be thinking about going into a market that appears to be rising with some sort of underlying reasons why it should. So based on that, we will let you know in Q3. By the Q3 call, we will have sold that coal and we will let you know what we actually managed to achieve.

Okay. So for your contracts that you've been looking at, it's no longer right to look at it based on Newport (sic) [Newcastle] (33:33) price, it's more closer to the Indonesian price, is that fair to say?

Yeah. We've always said that whilst the – we've always talked about the Newcastle as it's the readily available benchmark. But our subbituminous coal...

Newcastle, sorry.

...our subbituminous coal is – when we have discussions with our customers, it's about pricing it relative to the Kalimantan price, which is the similar quality coal.

Okay. And then lastly, is the kind of current increased prices that you've seen in that out into the fourth quarter, is that better than what you are expecting or I guess what you have – can you tell what you've locked that third quarter in for, are the prices higher then?

No, the third quarter was done a while ago. So it's basically the same price we've got all year, about the $50. So there is an opportunity to – at the moment, if we were to get a few dollars more, but not crazy amounts more.

Okay.

But the third quarter will be similar pricing to the second quarter.

All right. Sounds good. Thanks.

Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Lucas Pipes from FBR & Company. Your line is now open.

Hey, good afternoon, everybody. I wanted to ask a little bit about the kind of contract pricing cadence. So I think you were 32 million tons priced for 2018. Where would you like to be at the end of the year in terms of fixed price contracts for 2018? Thank you.

Okay. Lucas, well, thanks for the question. I mean, we'd like to be fully contracted at higher prices obviously. I think one thing that's very obvious as our industry has changed, which is what we are all sort of adapting to, is that the utilities are not buying forward the way they used to when coal was truly baseload. They used to buy forward over basically five years. Now that forward contracting position for several years now just has kept on decreasing as utilities are being comfortable to leave more and more tons uncontracted for years out and now for the prompt year, so we will see. We are comfortable with our position at the moment. It would appear – we think there is a fair bit more coal to be bought for 2018, but I think we'd like to be sold out going into the year, but I think that's probably unlikely to happen just because that's not the way that utilities are contracting anymore.

That's helpful. Thank you. And then this is more of a bigger picture question. And I often get kind of asked, or rather told that Cloud Peak would fall into the category of a company with a shorter reserve life. I would say kind of back of the envelope, you are about 15 years or so of mine life. And I just wanted to kind of give you an opportunity and how would you answer that question in terms of your mine life and your position there? I think you are fairly adequately positioned, but again, this is something that comes up from time to time in various meetings and I would appreciate your perspective.

Okay, well, yeah, I'm intrigued that you asked that because we look at our reserve position and feel very comfortable. Obviously, Antelope we got the LBAs a few years ago, we finished paying for, which means we've got 550-odd-million tons there, which will leave us in good shape.

Cordero Rojo, the reality is we've got long reserve life there because the [ph] production (37:11) is reduced so much. And if you remember, we passed on LBA there to save the capital three or four years ago.

But the area we have been focusing on is obviously the Spring Creek complex where we've got the 300 million tons or so of coal at Spring Creek, but we've got the 290 million tons of coal at Youngs Creek which is the [ph] feed (37:32) coal we've leased there. And then there's the 1.4 billion tons of coal under the Big Metal agreement on the Crow reservation that we are continuing to progress. So as we look at that and the relative quality of that coal, let's say we are very comfortable that we expect our production maybe to move more towards the Spring Creek complex, say, over the next five, 10 years, but based on that, we've got 2 billion tons of coal potentially up there which – of good quality coal which leaves us we believe in a very good position.

And the other point about the Youngs Creek and Crow coal, of course, is it's not federal. So we believe that has additional potential advantages as well. So, yeah, we are pretty comfortable on that and we are working a way to make sure that our reserves and our mine have continuity and the ability to produce good quality coal that the people want without having to lay out large amounts of money on LBAs.

That's helpful. And then in terms of the need to invest capital to sustain production at current levels, call it a 60 million ton run rate, anything coming down the pipe or anything that you could point to? I know you kind of moved the dragline a couple of years ago, but any major projects that you'd have to consider over the next call it 15 years in order to maintain production at current levels?

15 is quite a ways out to be thinking about this way. In the more medium term, there is nothing out there that's really outstanding. We are going to focus on keeping the gear in good condition, so most of our capital is associated with fixing that and making sure that stuff is ready. So beyond a few replacement of equipment here and there, there is nothing out there that requires that. And then out there 10 years or so, we do have some LBAs and stuff like that that we continue to study. There is coal next to Antelope and then Colin just spoke to some Cordero coal, so things like that. But 15 years is a big runway there.

Absolutely.

And the next sort of chunk of development capital would be to build the haul road to get into the Youngs Creek Big Metal areas, and we can do that incrementally when we feel – that's more like a brownfield expansion rather than starting a new mine [indiscernible] (39:52) plonk down the money for an LBA. So we are comfortable we will be able to manage that to meet demand as it appears for that quality coal. So we are pretty comfortable that we don't have – we are committed to any big chunks of capital until we are confident that there is the demand to support them.

I assume you would look towards some sort of price point to give you that confidence. Thinking of Newcastle price, what price approximately would you need to see in order to make an investment in a Youngs Creek haul road for example?

Well, I think Youngs Creek haul road, make sure – that's not just an export project. That's looking at the domestic market. And if we – given the quality of the coal and stuff, not that much higher than where we are now. We are just – we are going through a development process. If the coal price goes up a couple of bucks, it should be quite comfortable, but let's wait and see. So at the moment, we are getting through the permitting, getting everything lined up so that we can have it all ready to go once we are confident that the price is there, but not far from where we are at the moment. And we're probably more likely to [ph] carry on (41:01) – the actual export [indiscernible] (41:05) come from the Spring Creek Mine as they do today, but we will obviously be able to play that between the two. But there is a real potential for meeting the domestic market from Youngs Creek .

Yeah, and it has some mining cost advantages as well and then we have equipment that we could redeploy down there if that happens sooner than later.

Interesting. What's approximately the development timeframe for that project?

Probably about 2021 for sort of first proper production given the time it takes to get permits and everything but we might be able to do test burns before then if the customers are interested in them.

And just to make sure I understand this correctly, those would be – would you think of that as growth tons or replacement tons?

That's a good one. I think they'd sort of be potentially for us sort of growth/maybe a bit of replacement for some Spring Creek customers who are going away as we'd be able to access more markets – or more customers from Youngs Creek, but also a little bit of growth as well. So we are not talking massive tons initially, but then as time goes on they would absolutely be replacement tons as southern PRB reserves are reduced – or production is reduced.

And what sort of CapEx figure would we be talking about for this project?

It's the haul road, power and stuff, so it's 100-ish million dollars, a bit over $100 million. But the important point is we can actually decide how quickly or slowly we go at that. There's several different development options and that I believe has tremendous value in terms of the optionality it gives us so that we are not committed to sort of starting a new mine. Think of it as developing a new mining area when we are confident that it actually support – the demand's there to support it.

That's all very helpful. I appreciate it. Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Stephen Comerford from Brandes Investment. Your line is now open.

Thank you. Yes, Colin, a question regarding British Columbia, the Westshore terminal. If shipments were to get blocked, do you have enough capacity in the California terminal to meet your obligations?

No, we don't export anything through California and logistically it doesn't make sense given the rail haul down there. So I don't think we've ever exported anything through California.

Okay. And so, with regard to British Columbia, do you feel confident that everything that went on in the previous government that there aren't going to be any trade wars or blocked shipments or what have you going forward?

Based on what I'm reading in the quotes from the new Premier John Horgan and the dynamics of lumber and potential trade tiffs with the U.S., I think, yes, I am. It doesn't seem to make any sense. It was something that – as John Horgan said, it was some saber-rattling during an election campaign seems to be maybe the right way to – the way he characterized it, that appears to be the way it is. So it appears to receded now and it's not obvious why it would – there doesn't seem to be any appetite now to follow on that line.

Do you know, is it a decision of British Columbia or the Canadian federal government? Ultimately one way or another, if they wanted to block shipments, is it something that's out of the hands of British Columbia and...

That was all the conjecture about can you actually do this, what would it actually matter on trade. If someone tried to do this, that would all have been played out and tested because there's an awful lot of people who'd say well, you can't actually do that. So I think that's the things at the moment we were – people were speculating about and now we're not heading down that path.

In the big picture, it's shaping up to be a non-issue you think?

That appears to be the case for the moment, yeah.

Good. Thank you very much.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Mark Levin from Seaport Global. Your line is now open.

Yes, one more follow-up question, and I wouldn't expect you to obviously answer this question as it relates to your own portfolio. But, Colin, thinking generally about the basin and 8,400 Btu mine cost structures relative to 8,800 Btu cost structures, is there a discernible difference or is it fair to say that the cost structures for most 8,400 Btu mines are not materially different than 8,800 Btu mines?

It depends. The mines, depending exactly where they are and what qualities they've got, the cost structure overall [ph] are similar (46:12), but some mines only have 8,200 Btu coal but they might have very low strip ratios so they can carry on producing. I think clearly overall the 8,400 Btu mines have thinner margins, so their costs don't make up for the price difference due to the quality and that's why we've seen the reduction in 8,400 Btu production in the last five years being greater than 8,800 Btu.

The one thing I would say about that is don't expect any mines to close in a hurry, because whilst the mines might run at sort of minimum production levels to meet their royalty commitments, it has always made sense in the Powder River Basin, if an area isn't economic one year, maybe five years or maybe more later as the other mines advance, their cost structures will go up and an area that used to be high cost will eventually come back to be economic again. And we've seen that before and there is no reason why that wouldn't play out again in the future.

I got you. But there is no – I mean, obviously the margins are thinner but there is no – the cost – when you just think about the geology of the basin in general, and clearly different mines have different strip ratios and qualities et cetera, but there is no material or significant difference in cost if you think about it from just a general perspective.

No, it's just your strip ratio and then your haul distance. There is nothing more than that, it's just the coal you dig up is lower quality.

Yeah, got it. Fair enough. Thanks very much. I appreciate that.

You're welcome.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of [indiscernible] (47:48) from Legal & General. Your line is now open.

Thank you. Hi, guys. Two questions. A question like three calls ago, you guys were talking about growth CapEx as a ticket, which is unusual to hear growth in CapEx with a coal company, but you said maybe a couple of bucks higher on coal to justify it. And I understand gas better than coal. So like what type of net gas price would it have to be to justify, call it, growth CapEx? And then I have a different question on the cap structure.

Okay. So I think the thing you're trying to get at is – the reality is at $3 gas, for PRB coal, given that the actual delivered price of the coal, a big, big chunk of it is rail, there is actually a lot of room for the price to go up by more than a couple of bucks to still be economic against $3 gas on a delivered basis to many, many plants, most of our plants.

The issue at the moment as I said before that's probably keeping – I believe is keeping the price down is the fact that there is – due to the reduction in demand, there is overcapacity in the basin, therefore we are struggling to – we tend to be pricing on marginal incremental costing rather than on what's the coal worth on a delivered basis versus $3 gas. But there is plenty of room I believe for the price to be a few dollars higher without gas going anywhere – going up much from $3.

Okay. So like when I hear you say that, if we have normal winter, not a vortex, summer is going to finish up pretty constructive from the reports I get, we [ph] only (49:27) need like a $4, $5 [ph] premium (49:29) on that gas January, February, let's say, $3.50, that's a good thing.

That would be good. But, yeah, what we need then is for the mines to have to look at taking some people on, getting some equipment back in service or some driver to actually say well, we need – we haven't got an incremental low price ton to try and place in the market, we've actually got one that we need a price that supports some effort to deliver it.

Okay. And then a follow-up – not a follow-up, a second question, different. You guys, you have an interesting bond out there, the secures you did when you did the financing of all the other bonds there, the 12 percents. How are you guys thinking about that? I know it's a ways off until it can be called in November of 2018. Assuming good things happen – I mean, I'm sure you guys have some kind of playbook how you're thinking about at first call date dealing with that, because it is a very high nominal rate that's there. Any thoughts on that?

We just have to wait, and as we work through next year and we'll be monitoring and considering.

Yeah. Let's wait and see what happens, and when we do it, it will be – obviously it's one of the things that we will obviously look at, along with all the other options of what we could do. But first of all, let's get there and let's generate – get some [ph] hopes (50:50) in pricing so we can generate some meaningful cash and then work out what to do with it.

Okay, good. Thank you, guys.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Lucas Pipes from FBR & Company. Your line is now open.

Yes. Thank you for taking my follow-up question. And I wanted to ask on the political environment. Here we are six months or so into the new administration and obviously there have been some announcements, Stream Protection Rule comes to mind for example, Clean Power Plan. But what else? I'm sure you have folks in Washington and are talking to elected officials and in the new administration. What's your sense, what else could come in terms of supporting the coal industry? I would appreciate your thoughts. Thank you.

Okay. Well, obviously you mentioned – there's things like the Stream Power Plan (sic) [Clean Power Plan] (51:45) were stopped. Other things, an awful lot of them are actually being taken back to be rewritten or reviewed and that will take some time. So we'll have to wait and see what comes out of those different reviews. Obviously the Clean Power Plan [ph] stopping is good (51:59).

What we are really looking for and we're advocating for is some things that will give some long-term certainty to utilities so that they can actually plan on burning coal and investing in their coal plants. So for us the things that we're trying to push is the extension, the 45Q carbon capture tax credit which we think is very important to actually develop that technology so that there is a reason to be able to keep coal plants open, because you can – if society wants to incur the cost of capturing carbon, then there is a way of doing that and a reason therefore to keep existing coal plants open. So we're looking more for those long-term things because I think one of the things we've got to watch out for is that whilst this administration is clearly very supportive of coal and energy in the U.S., the utilities are making decisions for 20 years down the road, and those are the ones they need a certainty and a framework that allows them some confidence to make decisions and we want them to be making decisions to keep coal plants open to invest in them. And so we think that developing the technology so we can actually capture carbon efficiently and put it in the ground is very important.

Obviously we'd like things like these subsidies on wind and solar to actually go away now that their proponents say that they are commercially cost effective. That would be great. And we'd say that some of the money should maybe go across to developing coal technologies and giving them the same support that wind and solar have had for so many years.

So those are the sorts of things we're talking about. It's about the future long term. But we are certainly very grateful for the short-term relief from what we'd experienced before.

That's interesting. And maybe to follow up on the competition from the renewables, how much of an impact do you think it's having right now? And when you think about Texas, for example, where in certain parts a lot of power is coming from wind and solar these days, what's the situation, what are the headwinds from the renewables side? Thank you.

Well, obviously if you've got subsidized – when you subsidize renewables to get them built, once they are built, they dispatch at effective zero cost. So at any time that they are blowing or they are producing power, they're displacing gas, coal, nuclear and that obviously messes up the economics of those baseload power things. So we are seeing – as I think I've talked, the theme through this talk and we've faced for a few years is that our industry is changing. We are not producing baseload capacity anymore because things like the renewables particularly are just coming and going when they are, and that means coal and gas are being cycled up and down. So that's what's happening.

It means it's one of the reasons why we're producing a lot less coal than we used to. That and obviously the amount of gas available. But the overall impact of it is that the utilities aren't sure how much gas and coal they're going to use in any period, certainly at the margin, and that means that their uncertainty is coming through to not being able to give us certainty about what we're going to have to produce – sell and produce in any given period.

The underlying theme of it all though is that it's going to put up the cost of electricity for everyone because it makes it so much less efficient to run the power system. And whilst that's being hidden maybe with subsidies and other things, that's what's going on and you can see that around the world and there is a real cost to supposedly free power from the wind.

Yeah. Thank you. And then in terms of call it 2018, 2019 outlook, is there going to be slowdown in the buildout of renewables or do you think it's going to continue at the run rate it's been going for the last couple of years?

It will keep going as long as the subsidies are there. And they are supposed to be reduced but they've been supposed to being reduced for 20 years. So, well, let's wait and see.

Good luck with everything. I appreciate your color. Thank you.

Okay. Thanks.

Thank you. And at this time, I am not showing any further questions on the phone lines, and would like to turn the call back over to Colin Marshall for any closing remarks.

Okay. Well, look, thank you very much for taking the time to listen in and for all your questions. We are very proud of what we achieved in the first half of the year. It's obviously greatly up on where we were in terms of the outlook from this time last year and we will look forward to updating you in October on how we went in Q3 and hopefully I'll tell you what we sold the export tons for. So with that, thank you very much.

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. This does conclude the program and you may all disconnect. Everyone, have a great day.