corrected transcript


Cloud Peak Energy, Inc.
 
CLD
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 4, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the Third Quarter 2010 Cloud Peak Energy


Earnings Conference Call. My name is Tom and I will be your coordinator for today. At this time, all


participants are in listen-only mode. We will be conducting our question-and-answer session


towards the end of today’s conference. [Operator Instructions]


As a reminder, this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.


I would now like to turn the presentation over to Karla Kimrey, Vice President, Investor Relations.


Please proceed.


Karla Kimrey, Vice President, Investor Relations


Thank you, Tom. Good afternoon and thank you for joining us. I’m Karla Kimrey, Vice President,


Investor Relations and with me today is Colin Marshall, Cloud Peak Energy’s President and CEO


and Michael Barrett, Cloud Peak Energy’s EVP and CFO.


Before I turn the call over to Colin, please note that today’s presentation includes forward looking


statements. Examples may include statements about our outlook and guidance, economic and


industry conditions, volumes, prices and demand for coal, LBAs and other coal acquisition plans,


government regulation and energy policies, operational plans, our cost structure, capital resources


and other statements that are not historical facts.


Actual results may differ materially from those projected or implied in these statements because of


various risks and uncertainties, including those described in the cautionary statement in today’s


earnings release and in our Form 10-K filing with the SEC. Today’s presentation also includes non-


GAAP financial measures. Please refer to today’s earnings release for the required reconciliation


and other related disclosures. Our earnings’ release is available on the Investor Relations section


of our website.


I’ll now turn the call over to Colin.


Colin Marshall, President and Chief Executive Officer


Good afternoon, and welcome to Cloud Peak Energy’s third quarter 2010 earnings call. I’d like to


begin by discussing the third quarter and our first nine months results before commenting on the


outlook for our business.


Michael Barrett, our CFO, will then take you through the financials and guidance before we take


your questions. We had another very good quarter with adjusted EBITDA of 94.5 million and


adjusted earnings per share of $0.60. This was a result of strong domestic demand for PRB coal.


Exports, which are now on track to be around 3 million tons for the year and tight cost control,


which partially offset the impact of high fuel prices and increased strip ratios.


I’m very pleased with our strong results for the quarter and the first nine months. Accordingly, we


are raising our guidance for domestic and export shipments and reducing our cost range in line with


our improved performance. Our adjusted third quarter earnings per share of $0.60, which we


believe show the underlying performance of the business, were turned into a reported loss of $0.22


per share by a non-cash charge of $0.82 per share related to our tax receivable agreement with Rio


Tinto.
corrected transcript


Cloud Peak Energy, Inc.
 
CLD
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 4, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


As Mike will explain, this was a consequence of our improved life of mine valuation, increasing the


size projected future tax payments. Before discussing demand and our operations, I’d like to cover


our safety and environmental performance.


According to MSHA Data in 2009, Cloud Peak Energy had the lowest All Injury Frequency Rate


among the 10 largest U.S. coal producers of 0.66 reportable injuries, per 200,000 employee hours


worked.


For the first nine months of 2010, our 1,340 operational employees have suffered eight reportable


injuries. Their All Injury Frequency Rate at the end of September, was still at 0.66, which we’re all


working to reduce. We have maintained our record of not receiving any notice of environmental


violation under the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act since 2002.


On a very positive note, our Antelope Mine recently received a prestigious national reclamation


award from the Office of Surface Mining and the National Mining Association. This excellence in


Surface Mining Reclamation Award recognizes the mine’s successful shrub establishment on


reclaimed land.


I continue to believe that good safety environmental performance is a good indicator of well-run


operations. Our strong operational performance in the third quarter were due to two main factors.


Customers were keen to take their contracted coal, and our mines were positioned to run at near


record pace to supply them.


At this time last year, utilities had high stockpiles due to reduced demand from the poor economy


and a cool summer. Several were looking to differ contracted delivery, where possible or claim


force majeure. Recent reports of reduced stockpile levels indicate they are well down from this time


last year, after the hot summer and increased demand for electricity.


In the third quarter, our three operated mines produced 25.1 million tons, up from 24.1 million tons


last year. This increase was due to customers taking all their contracted coal that their stockpiles


decreased during the hot summer and the railways’ performance improved compared to the first


half of the year. Our operations ran well without any major issues or interruptions. We were able to


deliver the increased production at low incremental cost without additional contractors or significant


overtime.


One of the reasons, we were able to do this is that the maintenance programs we’ve been working


on for several years are now showing tangible benefits that we are able to build into our short and


long-term plans. For example, we have been able to extend the lives of the engines in our haul


trucks. Five years ago, we would have planned on replacing truck engines every 20,000 hours.


We’re currently planning on engines lasting 28,000 hours, a 40% improvement. The improvement is


due to better maintenance practice, fuel and lubricant cleanliness programs and real-time


monitoring of engines’ condition.


The other real benefit we’re are seeing is that if our equipment is running longer between


maintenance and major overhauls, we’re spending more time in the field uncovering and loading


coal. Given the strength in domestic environment, an increased demand for electricity, OTC prices


of thermal coal, including PRB coal strengthened steadily through August. At the beginning of the


year, 8800 BTU coal for 2011 was priced at 12.15 per ton.


In the third quarter, it moved up past $15 and has pulled back recently to below $14 per ton. Due to


our sales strategy, we have benefited from this increase in forward pricing and the tons we have


sold for 2011, ‘12 and ‘13 and then benefited in 2010 from higher prices on our index contracts.