corrected transcript


Cloud Peak Energy, Inc.
 
CLD
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 4, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Quarter 2 Cloud Peak Energy


Incorporated Earnings Conference Call. My name is Michelle and I will be your operator for today.


At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later we will conduct a question-and-answer


session. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded for replay


purposes.


I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today, Ms. Karla Kimrey, Vice


President of Investor Relations. Please proceed.


Karla Kimrey, Vice President of Investor Relations


Thank you, Michelle. Good afternoon, and thank you for joining us. With me today on the call is


Colin Marshall, Cloud Peak Energy’s President and CEO; and Michael Barrett, Cloud Peak


Energy’s EVP and CFO.


Before I turn the call over to Colin, please note that today’s presentation includes forward-looking


statements. Examples may include statements about our outlook and guidance, economic and


industry conditions, volumes, prices and demand for coal, LBAs and other coal acquisition plans,


government regulations and energy policies, operational plans, our transition to a standalone public


company and cost structure, capital resources and other statements that are not historical facts.


Additional results may differ materially from those projected or implied in these statements because


of various risks and uncertainties, including those described in the cautionary statement in today’s


earnings release and in our 2009 Form 10-K filing with the SEC.


Today’s presentation also includes non-GAAP financial measures. Please refer to today’s press


release on the required reconciliations and other related disclosures. Our earnings release is


available on the Investor Relation section of our website at www.cloudpeakenergy.com.


Now, I’ll turn the call over to Colin Marshall.


Colin Marshall, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Karla. Good afternoon, and welcome to Cloud Peak Energy’s second quarter 2010


earnings call. And thank you, all, for taking the time to join us.


I’d like to begin by discussing the second quarter and the first half results before commenting on


the outlook for the rest of 2010. Michael Barrett, our CFO, will then take you through the financials


and guidance before we take your calls or your questions. Obviously, I’m very pleased with our


strong financial performance and operating results for the first quarter and the half year. We believe


we’re on track for a good full year.


For the second quarter, earnings from continuing operations were 39 million, or $0.51 per share, up


from 29 million, or $0.38 per share in the first quarter. As we said, at the time, the first quarter was


impacted by the low planned shipments due to weather slowing rail transportation and interrupting


our customers’ operations.


The cold winter weather did have the benefit of increasing demand for electricity resulting in a


reduction in our customers’ coal stockpiles. During the second quarter, shipments increased to


catch up leaving us well-placed to have a strong 2010.
corrected transcript


Cloud Peak Energy, Inc.
 
CLD
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 4, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


The key areas I’d like to cover include our operations, which ran very well with no significant issues


and good cost control, the domestic market developments and utility stockpile position, our exports


and our sales position, obviously our safety performance, and an update on our reserve addition


through the LBA process. Mike will then cover some of the financial highlights in more detail.


Our three operating mines produced 23.9 million tons during the quarter, up from 21.8 million tons


last year. This 10% increase was mainly due to strong customer demand as they caught up on their


contracted shipments after a slow first quarter and stronger demand from – for exported coal from


our Asian customers.


Operationally, performance at the mines was excellent. Even with an unusually wet weather across


the PRB, the mines remained on plan. When our mining operations were slowed due to rain, we


took advantage of the pre-stripping we had completed in the first quarter when shipments were


slow.


Domestically, many factors are moving in a favorable direction relating to the overall market for


PRB coal. Electricity demand is up due to some recovery in the economy, the cold winter weather,


and the hot summer we are currently experiencing. This has led to an increase in coal burn from


last year’s depressed levels.


High natural gas prices have also reduced much of the fuel switching that occurred last year. I


should point out that this fuel switching impacted eastern coal more than PRB due to PRB coal


generally being used in the lowest cost power stations that continued to be dispatched when gas


prices were low.


In the east, increased exports and reduced production have decreased overall domestic supply. It


is interesting to note that several utilities have recently included PRB Illinois Basin coal in their


RFPs as they seek to establish alternative future coal supplies. I would expect PRB coal to


increasingly move further east to backfill reduced production over the next few years.


The overall result of this is that while non-PRB stockpiles continue to be high, the hot summer has


caused all stockpiles to decline. Overall, our customers are drawing down their stockpiles and are


taking all of their contracted 2010 coal. Some are now asking for additional tons in 2010. This is


very different from the second quarter of 2009 when customers had too much coal contracted in the


face of the recession and the cool summer. Given this domestic environment, OTC prices for


thermal coal, including PRB coal, have strengthened steadily.


At the beginning of the year, 8800 Btu coal for 2011 was priced at $12.15 per ton. It is now well


over $15 per ton, a 25% increase since the start of the year. We have been and will continue to


capture this increase in forward pricing in the tons we are selling for 2011, ‘12 and ‘13, as well as


benefiting immediately in 2010 from higher prices on our indexed contracts.


Moving on to our export sales, we have recently expanded our customer base by adding four


additional Asian utility customers. For the first half of 2010, we have exported over 1.5 million tons,


compared to 1.1 million tons for the first half of 2009. We now believe that we can increase 2010


full year exports to over 3 million tons, up from 1.6 million tons last year, and that we’ll benefit from


higher prices in the second half of 2010.


Our ability to ship coal from our Spring Creek mine, which has a favorable coal energy content and


shorter rail haul than other PRB mines, combined with our strengthening relationships with Asian


utility customers creates a valuable opportunity for Cloud Peak Energy that we are continuing to


develop.


There has been some discussion about increased west coast terminal capacity. We are very


encouraged by the discussion and believe that the international demand for PRB coal will support