corrected transcript


Cloud Peak Energy, Inc.
 
CLD
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 24, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2010 Cloud Peak


Energy Earnings Conference Call. My name is Tecia and I’ll be your operator for today. At this time,


all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session.


[Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.


I would now like to hand the conference over to Ms. Karla Kimrey, Vice President of Investor


Relations. Please proceed.


Karla Kimrey, Vice President of Investor Relations


Thank you, Tecia. Good afternoon and thank you for joining us. I’m Karla Kimrey and with me today


is Colin Marshall, Cloud Peak Energy’s President and CEO, and Michael Barrett, Cloud Peak


Energy’s EVP and CFO.


Before I turn the call over to Colin, please note that today’s presentation includes forward-looking


statements. Examples may include statements about our outlook and guidance, economic and


industry conditions, volumes, prices and demand for coal, LBAs and other coal acquisition plans,


government regulations and energy policies, operational plans, our cost structure, capital resources


and other statements that are not historical facts.


Actual results may differ materially from those projected or implied in these statements because of


various risks and uncertainties, including those described in the cautionary statement in today’s


earnings release and in our 2010 Form 10-K filing with the SEC.


Today’s presentation also includes non-GAAP financial measures. Please refer to today’s press


release for the required reconciliations and other related disclosures. Our earnings release is


available at our Investor Relations section of our website at cloudpeakenergy.com.


I’ll now turn it over to Colin Marshall.


Colin Marshall, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Karla. Good afternoon and welcome to Cloud Peak Energy’s Full Year and Fourth


Quarter 2010 earnings call. I’ll make some general remarks before Mike Barrett, our CFO, will take


you through the financials and our 2011 guidance. I’m pleased to be able to report that Cloud Peak


Energy had a very successful first year as a public company. Coal demand recovered from the lows


of 2009 and our operations ran well, which allowed us to produce strong financial results. The


December secondary offering to sell down all of Rio Tinto’s remaining interest was a great end to


the year.


Our adjusted EBITDA for the year was 323 million from revenue of 1.37 billion and cash flow from


operations was 325 million.


A highlight was the increase in Asian exports from 1.6 million tons in 2009 to 3.3 million tons last


year. While we produced 93.8 million tons during the year, due to reserve additions of just over 61


million tons we start 2011 with 970 million tons of reserves, equivalent to over 10 years production


at current levels.


Turning to our safety and environmental record during the year, according to initial MSHA data in


2010, Cloud Peak Energy again had one of the lowest all injury frequency rates among U.S. coal
corrected transcript


Cloud Peak Energy, Inc.
 
CLD
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 24, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


producers of 0.58 reportable injuries per 200,000 employee hours worked. This rate was 12% lower


than our 2009 rate of 0.66.


During the year, our Antelope Mine was recognized with two prestigious environmental awards


from the Office of Surface Mining and from the Wyoming Department of Environmental Quality.


Both awards recognized our success in shrub development on reclaimed land, which is vital for


establishing sustainable wildlife habitats.


I was very pleased with our environmental performance during the year where we continued our


run of having no SMCRA violations since 2002 and were able reclaim 963 acres at our three mines.


You will not be surprised to hear that we will continue to focus on improving our safety and


environmental performance, both because it’s the right way to run the mines and as it is a key


foundation to allow us to achieve the ongoing operational improvements we strive for.


Looking at the external environment, at this time last year, the outlook for the U.S. and world


economies was uncertain. U.S. utilities had reduced their contracted positions and international


coal prices that fallen significantly. Throughout the year, the U.S. economy began the slow recovery


that now appears to be gathering some pace. In addition to the recovery -- the recovering economy,


we benefited from the weather. There was a cold start to the year, followed by a hot summer with


cooling degree days 19.4% above average.


This hot weather helped to increase electricity demand while the economy was weak. Overall,


electricity demand was up 4.6% from 2009, with coal power generation up 6.6%. For the full year,


45% of U.S. electricity was produced from coal even in the face of ample supplies of natural gas.


As in 2009, it would appear that low gas prices displace more eastern coal than PRB [Powder River


Basin] coal. While overall coal stockpiles came down, we once again saw western stockpiles


reducing before eastern stockpiles and ending the year at near long-term average levels.


At the same time, utilities, who were reluctant to contract their normal amount of coal in 2009,


rebuilt their forward positions. During the year, we contracted over 125 million tons, mostly for


delivery in 2011 to ‘13. We’re now effectively sold out for 2011. While we initially plan to produce


around 91 million tons in 2010, strong export demand, additional domestic sales and good


operational performance allowed us to produce 93.8 million from our three managed mines. I


should emphasize that these additional sales were driven by customer demand.


During the year, we were able to add coal reserves to partially offset our production. We started


2010 with just over 1 billion tons of reserves and produced 94 million tons during the year. Coal


was acquired through the LBM at our Spring Creek mine and the purchase of some private coal in


land at Cordero Rojo. In total we added 61.4 million tons of reserves during the year. The net result


of all this is that we start 2011 with 970 million tons of reserves, equivalent to 10 years’ production


at current levels.


As you know, several NGOs are trying to delay the leasing of coal by the Wyoming BLM across the


whole PRB. Last quarter, I reported that the Interior Board of Land Appeals had dismissed one of


the legal challenges on its merits and supported our view that the BLM’s environmental process is


sound. Unsurprisingly, this decision has since been appealed. Earlier this month, the Department of


Interior formally rejected a petition by the NGOs that the PRB be recertified and the carbon fee on


new coal leases be established. While we expect there to be ongoing appeals and challenges, the


clarity of these administrative decisions is positive. We currently expect the WA-2 track near the


Antelope Mine to come up for bid in the middle part of the year. These tracks contain approximately


380 million tons of coal.


Turning to the regulatory environment, we continue to follow the EPA’s proposed regulations


closely. There is still the possibility that the range of overlapping regulations could significantly