Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Aaron Skidmore — Treasurer & Investor Relations Director, Cobalt International Energy, Inc.
Timothy J. Cutt — Chief Executive Officer & Director, Cobalt International Energy, Inc.
David D. Powell — Chief Financial Officer, Cobalt International Energy, Inc.
Ryan Todd — Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc.
Robert Alan Brackett — Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC
Anish Kapadia — Analyst, Tudor, Pickering, Holt & Co. International LLP
David Epstein — Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC
Joseph Bachmann — Analyst, Scotia Howard Weil

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Greetings and welcome to the Cobalt International Energy Second Quarter 2017 Financial Results Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. An interactive question-and-answer session will follow formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Mr. Aaron Skidmore, Investor Relations. Thank you. You may begin.

Thank you, Matt. Good morning, everyone. Welcome to Cobalt International Energy's second quarter 2017 conference call. My name is Aaron Skidmore, and I am the Director of Investor Relations for Cobalt. As a reminder, today's call is being recorded.

Before we get started, one housekeeping matter. This conference call includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws. The risks associated with forward-looking statements have been outlined in this morning's earnings release and in Cobalt's SEC filings, and we incorporate these by reference for this call. Joining on today's call are Tim Cutt, our Chief Executive Officer; David Powell, our Chief Financial Officer; and other members of our executive team.

I will now turn the call over to Tim for his opening comments.

Thank you, Aaron, and good morning, everyone. This morning I will provide an update on the North Platte appraisal program, the Gulf of Mexico sales process, and the status of Angola prior to turning the call to David Powell to discuss the financials.

I committed during the last quarterly call that we would update the resource estimate for North Platte once the data from North Platte #4 Sidetrack number 2 had been incorporated into the field model. The sidetrack was drilled on the crest of the field and contained approximately 400-foot of high quality Lower Wilcox reservoir, which was filled to base with oil. The well helped to confirm more than 2.75 billion barrels of oil equivalent in place in this giant field. Using a recovery factor of 20% yield to recoverable resource greater than 50 million barrels of oil – 500 million barrels of oil equivalent. A reservoir of this quality connected to the large mapped aquifer could yield recoveries as high as 30%.

Dynamic data gathered once the field is in production will be used to confirm connectivity with the aquifer. Given the positive results of the appraisal program, Cobalt's board has approved moving from appraisal to the select phase of the project. North Platte remains a significant portion of Cobalt's approximately 500 million barrels of oil equivalent fully appraised net resource in the Gulf of Mexico.

We continue to market all of our Gulf of Mexico assets. We have hosted a number of major integrated oil companies in the North Platte data room. Given the breadth and volume of recent appraisal data available in the field, we are allowing prospective purchasers additional time to evaluate North Platte, and therefore, would now expect to finalize the bid process during September.

The decision of the operator at Shenandoah to slowdown the appraisal program had a negative impact on our marketing process for the field. And as a result, we may not receive offers to purchase our interest until the forward plan for the asset has been clearly described to the market.

During the quarter, the co-owners held several constructive meetings to identify the most appropriate development plan for the field. Cobalt is using development economics for a 60,000 barrel a day facility, assuming a 15 to 20 barrel of oil equivalent development cost and a 5 to 10 barrel of oil equivalent operating cost at consensus pricing from 2023 forward. Under this scenario, Shenandoah development is economically justified.

At Anchor, we were pleased to announce the agreement with our co-owners to include Cobalt's Anchor South leases in the Anchor unit, which should lead to an optimized development plan and increased oil recovery from the Anchor unit. Cobalt opened the data room for Anchor during the quarter and we would expect to finalize the bid process during September.

We made best attempts to accelerate the data room and bid process for the Gulf of Mexico assets into a three-month period versus a more typical six-month period. We understand that our investors are keenly interested in the results of the process and we will press to complete the process in a timely manner without sacrificing value.

Now to Angola. We have received interest from new prospective buyers in evaluating our Angola assets. These potential buyers have not previously evaluated these assets. As we work with these parties, the arbitration process is progressing as planned, and currently the arbitral tribunals are being constituted. In addition, we recently met with representatives from Sonangol and the Angolan government, and we believe we share a common goal to resolve this amicably.

As you know, the Angolans have an important election coming up towards the end of August. So I think the reality is that their primary focus is on the upcoming election and the resulting transition. I am hopeful that once that occurs, we will be able to come to an amicable solution. Having said that, until this matter is resolved to our satisfaction, we will continue to vigorously prosecute our claims in arbitration, and seek all available remedies.

As a final point, I should mention that uncertainties surrounding Angola, combined with the broad sales process in the Gulf of Mexico, have resulted in increased workforce attrition at Cobalt during the first half of the year. In response to this, the company is taking steps to ensure that we have the continued services of our management and key employees. Specifically, we will disclose in our 10-Q that the company has entered into retention agreement with certain officers and employees of the company.

The retention agreements will provide for a onetime lump sum payment and amounts determined by Cobalt's board. Each of the payments will be subject to a claw back and repayment by the applicable boss or an employee in the event that that individual resigns without good reason or is terminated with cause on or before the one-year anniversary of the agreement. The program is designed to ensure that we retain the necessary management, technical, and operational capability to maximize the value of the corporation.

Summing this up, our Gulf of Mexico marketing efforts continue and we were still working very hard on Angola. By the time we speak on our third quarter earnings call, I should have more definitive news of where we stand on these efforts and how they will guide the company's strategic path forward.

I will now turn the call over to our CFO, David Powell, to discuss our financials.

Thanks, Tim. As noted this morning in our second quarter 2017 earnings release, Cobalt announced a net loss of $186 million, or $6.28 per basic and diluted share. This compares to a net loss of $206 million, or $7.52 per basic and diluted share, for the second quarter of 2016. This decrease in net loss compared to the same period in 2016 was largely driven by $113 million reduction in dry hole costs and impairments, offset by a $26 million increase in interest expense and a $72 million non-cash loss on debt-related embedded derivatives associated with the recently completed debt exchanges and an increase in the market value of secured debt during the quarter.

The $42 million of second quarter dry hole costs and impairments is largely associated with approximately $37 million of impairments of unproved leasehold. As of June 30, we had approximately $597 million of cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash, short-term investments, and other assets. This amount includes the $250 million paid to us by Sonangol, pursuant to the 2015 purchase and sale agreement that we intend to retain until the matters with respect to arbitration are resolved and it excludes the $159 million of receivables owed to us by Sonangol.

We expect our 2017 capital expenditures to be approximately $250 million, consistent with previous guidance. This amount excludes general and administrative expenses and interest expense. As of the end of the second quarter 2017, approximately $216 million of capital expenditures have been spent, with considerably smaller spend expected in the second half of the year, given the drilling operations included in late July.

Estimated total use of cash for 2017, including interest expense and G&A, is expected to be approximately $550 million, of which $359 million has been spent in the first half of 2017. We anticipate ending the year with a cash balance of approximately $400 million, excluding any impacts of payments to or collections from Sonangol.

In May, we entered into the final exchange of convertible debt for second lien debt, where we issued approximately $32 million of second lien notes for $61 million of convertible senior notes due in 2024. This exchange realized a $29 million par value debt reduction. This last exchange utilized the remainder of the $350 million of capacity for follow-on debt exchanges allowed under the terms of our first and second lien indentures. Over the course of our debt exchanges since December 2016, Cobalt exchanged approximately $1.27 billion of unsecured convertible notes or $935 million of second lien notes, and thereby achieved $339 million of net par value discount.

I will now turn the call back to Tim.

Thank you, David. And, operator, I think we're ready for the questions.

Thank you. At this time, we will be conducting a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Ryan Todd from Cobalt (sic) [Deutsche Bank]. Please go ahead.

Thanks. Good morning, guys. Maybe first off, I mean, can you talk about what a reasonable range for cash burn would be in 2018? I know there's a lot of uncertainties around what the capital budgets could like. Can you maybe talk through some of – some book ends around what you might be thinking from a capital and activity point next year? And maybe as a follow-up to that, what the anticipated potential drilling activity would be at Shenandoah?

Yeah. Well, Ryan, thanks for the question. In 2018, we have no obligation now that we have a new ruling in place for the 365 days to drill anything before about mid-year next year. Until that time, our burn rate is $20 million to $25 million a month, primarily on kind of G&A and studies. And so we're kind of looking at that runway right now to say how do we work through the sales process, what do we have.

Answering the question on what the burn rate will be really depends on what we sell. At Shenandoah, to retain the leases beyond mid-year next year, we would be obligated to drill a well. Obviously, 20% of that cost – you know what our overall cost have been in the past on that. We're working with the partners to say where would that well most likely need to be placed, and you continue to test that with east, you drill a keeper well in the core of the field, what's the next best step. I mean, we believe with the resources discovered, we have developable assets, so it could be that you moved straight into development drilling to hold the leases, but that's yet to be finalized on Shenandoah.

So, I think, it's been productive over the last few months since the last call on Shenandoah. I think all the partners see, there's something there to develop and we're trying to get our head around it. So, again, trying to speculate on what the burn rate is in the second half of next year will really depend on kind of what we retain and what fields we're drilling on. But it will go up in the second half of the year.

And other than meeting, potential drilling requirements next year, what would be the purpose I guess of drilling the Shenandoah well in the first half of next year?

Yeah. In my mind, it wouldn't be in the first half of the year. So, because it's all around lease retention, at both North Platte and at Anchor, we do believe we're in a good position now with all the wells have been drilled, the appraisal program is complete to file for the SOP. We'll be filing the SOP in the first half of the year and that allows us time to finish out the study work, move the projects into the slick phase and then really determine the development plans. So, really on those we'd anticipate receiving the SOP. We can't assume that completely but we're going to certainly put all the data forward. And then really on Shenandoah, our preference as a non-operator is to file an SOP, but we believe the field is well delineated. If there's not full alignment on that then we would be studying our participation and obviously preference on drilling good useful wells for the development versus drilling appraisal wells off the flank.

Okay, thanks. And then maybe one follow-up on the Gulf of Mexico bid process. I mean, is there a level from a price point of view below which you wouldn't sell the assets? And in the case of an unsuccessful sell price, so what would be your – what are your view as your options going forward in terms of from a funding point of view?

That's a good question. I mean, obviously it would be very important if we don't have a successful sales process in the Gulf of Mexico or the price is just still a bit too low, price of oil we do believe will recover, we think the price of the assets, the value of the assets continues to improve, certainly has over the last year and a half. But if you got to a point where the bids were just too low, we wouldn't want to sell it at any cost, but it would be important for us to understand where we are in Angola.

Again, we stay engaged, I'd say hopeful. When you look at the Angola situation, we've certainly moved past the point of talking about extensions. We're in the financial resolution, and I think there's a win-win there for both the government, Sonangol and ourselves to move past this. So, again, I think we move through the election. We're staying engaged. We're reengaged post the election see who is in place, and so that would be an important part obviously if you didn't have the sales on the GOM.

Again, the assets in the GOM are extraordinarily strong assets. We've had good interest. We still have active participants in the data room. We push really hard to try and get this thing done in a very short period of time. If you recall Ryan, from the last call, we were just TDing the final sidetrack on North Platte and we were working our own models and then handing this off into a data room. And so, we understand completely that the companies need the time to get through this, but I think most companies are kind of coming to the end of the analysis. So, I'd say, September, certainly within the quarter, we're really going to understand where we are on the bids on the individual assets.

All right. Thank you.

Our next question is from Bob Brackett from Sanford C. Bernstein. Please go ahead.

A quick follow up on the North Platte bids. Is it an all or nothing where you're going to give up 60% or would you perhaps retain half of it or some fraction of it?

Yeah. That's a good question. I mean the answer and what we've put in the bid package it's really whatever the bidder wants to bid. I mean, I think the minimum we'd be interested in selling would be 20% and the maximum is 60%. So, obviously, the players are looking at this – most have the wherewithal to operate. And so, there'll be a keen interest in larger amounts. There could be some that would allow us to maintain a working interest of 20%. We're fine with that. For us, where we are financially, I would think we'd be aiming at a kind of a 40-plus percent type sale of the asset, which would mean, we would likely relinquish operatorship at that time, but it's a good reflection of where we are I think.

Yep. And on the Angola side, the interest in new buyers, is that contingent on the arbitration process or could that be independent of the arbitration process?

Well, I think where we are on that is, if we actually brought a good viable buyer to the table, I think that's one of the ways we could resolve this. So we can always lay down the arbitration process at any point. We're moving forward to at the pace we should be right now. The tribunal's coming together as it should, but if we have a buyer with the right value and it's a buyer that Sonangol feels they can work with over the long-term, I think that resolves the issues. So I can't see a process where you have a good sale and then the process has to continue. So I think that's why I feel confident between either financial settlement with Sonangol, the government or a third-party coming in with a reasonable purchase price, all those things can solve the issue.

And is there an example or an analog for the timeline of an arbitration process? Is this something that happens in a quarter, two quarters, a year?

Yeah I think not in a quarter or two. I think the tribunal comes together usually in the first six months. You have your initial meetings in the next six months and you get into the process in earnest beyond that. So I think a number beyond a year is probably what you should be thinking. And again, that's why it puts a lot of pressure on us and Sonangol and the government to look for a resolution because for Angola and for the industry, the best thing that can happen is to see these great assets get developed.

The country is going into decline. We don't want to see that. Nobody wants to see that and moving this things forward is a positive thing. It takes planning time. It takes development and building time to get these assets online. So a year may not sound like a long time, but it really is when you think about delaying these things out. Nobody wants that and so therefore we stay engaged in what I think is a good positive discussion.

Great. Thanks, Tim.

Our next question is from Anish Kapadia from TPH. Please go ahead.

Hi. Just had a question on Angola. We've seen BP this quarter it appears written off its stakes in your joint venture assets. Just wondering what's the kind of the read-through from that in terms of how you see kind of the value of the assets. And you also mentioned some new prospective buyers for the Angolan assets. Can you characterize what types of buyers those are? Are they kind of local players NOCs, integrateds, what you're kind of seeing there?

Yeah, so on the first question, quite frankly I'm not really familiar with the comments you made. So, I have to follow up on that. I would say that the good news about the process we've been through over the last year is the market understands the asset. Sonangol understands the assets. We have put forward a declaration of commerciality for the block that BP is in, Sonangol has agreed to that. They're moving forward with us on that. So, we feel good about that.

The other asset on that block is Golfinho. Golfinho is more oil and gas. We feel good about that. So we feel like we've got good developable assets. And then Block 20 (sic) [Block 21] with Cameia. Again, we've had that out in the market for a while, so everybody understands kind of the value of this. And in addition, there's a huge amount of gas on these blocks. Sonangol really controls how that is monetized in time there's onshore LNG, there is onshore need for that gas. So you've got a huge amount of hydrocarbon concentrated in two blocks that should allow interested parties to come forward. And so when you think about the types of parties that continue to come in, I mean obviously all the major players in the country came through the process. So they understand what the assets are and they'll have all their own reasons for when they would move and not move.

But you can imagine, there are big international companies outside of those core companies that can have some interest. And those are the types that are starting to show a bit more interest to say, how could you work something. Would they join up with a current operator? I don't know. There's a lot of [indiscernible] (21:59) around, why the interest now. But, we're not spending any time with small companies that would waste everybody's time. These have to have a certain balance sheet. They have to have a certain amount of ability to engage with the country and those are the kind of companies or investment firms that we would engage with.

And just another one on Angola. In terms of Cameia and where it's at for the moment, do you see that as basically FID ready and with the kind of fiscal terms that you have is that something that's viable in the current environment? And the reason I say is you haven't seen a lot of projects being FIDed in Angola because many of the other players complain about the fiscal terms?

Yeah. When you do the economic math on Cameia, it is FID ready, I mean, all the work – we did enormous amount of work on that. We went in the preliminary bid process on Cameia, look to the FPSO's design, compression design and all that. And so, it's very ready, all that has to be dusted up and brought forward to today's date. As far as the economics, it's definitely an economic project. We have let the buyers know that we think it's even more economic if you come up with a way to tie Golfinho because you have a more of an oil prototype prospect in Golfinho.

As far as the fiscal terms go, that's where the buyers, the current operators, sellers like ourselves have to continue to work with the government. These things move when they're competitive with other places and other countries and other things. We're seeing a few things start to move in Brazil. When you think about everything outside of local content, the Brazilian terms might be a little bit better. So, that's the ultimate test, right, is how does this investment look compared to my other choices. I think the good news for us, there aren't that many big oily choices in the world right now. You've got Brazil and a few small things around. You've got lot of gas available, but ultimately the buyer has to weigh those couple of things.

And shifting back to the Gulf of Mexico, just wondering if you can give a bit more detail on the forward plans for Anchor? And when is the – I suppose the earliest that you could potentially take FID in? And is it potentially feasible that you could develop Anchor and Shenandoah using a joint kind of hub-type facility?

Yeah. So, if you think about moving from – so I'll go back into kind of North Platte right now – if you think about moving from into the select phase, I would think and FID is probably in about 2020 and the first oil could still be achieved in 2023 on that.

On Anchor, quite frankly we're on about the same timeframe and the good news about that is, we're working on some new technology, working with big major operator like Chevron is a real positive thing for us and we're going to have to look at kind of how do you sequence those things. But right now they're on a pretty similar glide path.

At Shenandoah, of course, we're looking at all the options there. We're looking at smaller standalone facilities. We're looking at existing facilities that could be brought across and used and retrofitted. And we've had a little bit of discussion on how do you – could you tie Shenandoah and Anchor together. I don't know that that will move forward to land on anything, but it's certainly the kind of idea that we've got to keep alive. So we remain hopeful on Shenandoah. I'm not sure if I got the whole core of your question, but...

Yes, that answered it. And just one final one, so assuming you do manage to execute some kind of deal in September, how would you split the cash price? How much of that would need to go to paying back debt and how much cash would you kind of need to retain on the balance sheet?

Yeah. So I mean the way it works with the secured debtors, is you've got kind of a 50-50 split up to a – in the very simplest of terms, 50-50 split up to a certain level, I would say on the kind of proceeds we'd be expecting probably a maximum that would go to the debt holders would be about $400 million, and then the rest of the proceeds are available for us to move forward. And that was a key part of the structure of getting the additional funds that would allow us to kind of take the next step for the company.

That's great. Thanks very much.

Thank you, Anish.

Our next question is from David Epstein from Cowen & Company. Please go ahead.

Hi. On that last question, I think you said maximum $400 million of proceeds would go to the debt holders. Do you have any sense of how if you do end up selling up to all of North Platte, where the rest would it go? Would it mainly be – then it's less necessary to sell Anchor, and you put some of the proceeds towards that, or is it some new prospects?

Yeah, I mean that's the ultimate question. And so, we've thought a lot about that. I mean obviously the core of our company is exploration. Tim Nicholson is a fantastic explorer. He's been involved in all of the Angolan, all of the Gulf of Mexico. His team are working furiously. He never wants me to really pinpoint exactly where they are, but if you look down towards the Caribbean, that will be a good backyard to be thinking about where we're next. And so we are ready to acquire leases, acquire seismic. The great news is most things in the areas we're looking at are fairly inexpensive right now and that process takes a bit of time.

So, we would certainly take some of the proceeds into that process. There are – the one thing our balance sheet needs is more of a revenue stream, right? So, we would look at some of the smaller, [ph] likely (28:11) offshore companies that would be looking at wanting to participate in some of the long-term aspects we have along with us taking on some of the near-term cash flow. And so, that is an option. We'd certainly looking – depending on how the bonds would trade, we'd be looking at buying back on the bonds. And I would say, we take a very rigorous approach to kind of the next five-year plan. We're closely with the shareholders on that and kind of step ourselves out of it.

Part of the answer is again around what happens in Angola, did we settle that before the end of the year, are there additional proceeds and where do we take the next step? And so, it really is – we've got a plan, we work that plan with the board, we continue to progress things, we continue to look at seismic opportunities and lease acquisition opportunities, we stay active there, but we're being very prudent and that spend is quite small now. But we're hopefully sitting on the start gate, get some proceeds in and then make some of those strategic choices.

Thanks for that. And then, if I just could on the GOM barrels, you gave a little bit more color around North Platte, but can you tell us, maybe elaborate a little bit more the data that you studied since May? Has it made you more or less sort of positive on the size of North Platte and can you give us a sense of whether the top-end of that that 500 million to 800 million range for North Platte had come down, whether the range is just high-end and just what's the P50 mean for North Platte and for the GOM generally?

Yeah. So, it's [ph] interesting (29:54). We've debated a lot about kind of where we are in the process and [ph] should I quote exact P (30:01) means and at that point of time, I'd say, the thing that we've gotten extraordinary comfortable with is the size of this giant field.

I mean, if you put in every one of the zones, you get close to 3 billion barrels of oil equivalent and I quoted 2.75 billion to be a bit conservative. If you look at the aquifer that surrounds this field, again, if you have connectivity to the aquifer all the way through the field, you would say you could see recoveries up to 30%.

So, when we do our planning, we typically would use a bit more conservative high-teens, low-20s. And so, again, it's hard for me to kind of hone in until you get the additional data.

So, again, in the last call, I've put a number out there. I would say that I've not changed my views, I've just – I think now, when we've kind of finished off on the appraisal, the reality is there's lots of work to do on the simulation and really understanding which parts of the field will be absolutely connected to the aquifer and which parts might not be.

So, you're probably going to end up with something in the range I've quoted. So, the reason I've not moved off of the 500 million barrels of oil equivalent for the Gulf is because we prefer for planning purposes, for investment decision purposes to stay more at the low-end of that. I mean, I think it's a pretty common thing in the industry, big field gets bigger and we also are in a neighborhood that's really interesting with some of the prospects that we continue to pick up. We're successful on the Grizzly prospect.

We see other prospects around the North Platte area, that would say this area is oil prone, we can understand the structures better now. And this is something that where it's not just in North Platte to think about, you should think about the neighborhood buyback opportunity. So, I know that was a little evasive on being really firm on a number, but I think the good news is with all the work we've done, we stay kind in the same [ph] area code (31:53).

So, you still can get pretty close to that 500 million without Shenandoah, which obviously the world likes somewhat less?

We still put some recoverable barrels in Shenandoah on the 500 million. Again, it's one of the things where it's small enough to where if we do more work on North Platte, I mean drilling to the north and south on North Platte, although is not required to justify an economic project map, we do believe we have an economic project, that can raise that.

So, again, I think, if you think about Cobalt as right now having about 500 million barrels of fully appraised resource in the GOM, I think that's a good number. Shenandoah could move around a little bit, but we're going to push hard and the great news is, the other non-operators of Shenandoah are also pushing hard and I think we're very like-minded around this being a very strong asset, large amount of oil and something we've got to figure out how we move forward, especially as price continues to recover.

Thank you.

Bye.

Our next question is from Jeb Bachmann from Scotia Howard Weil. Please go ahead.

Good morning, everyone. Tim, just curious looking over in Angola, just wondering with all of the previous interests that you mentioned from the current operators in the country and now getting new interests from internationals that don't operate in the country, just wondering if the guys had looked early on, that are in the country are still hung up on fiscal terms and maybe that's preventing them from making a bid and if that's going to be any different for these new parties?

Well, based on my experience and working with large international companies with the majority of my career, there's no doubt, they would be talking to the government, talking to Sonangol around, how do we collectively move this forward. And so, we wish them luck with that, right. We'd like to see the fiscal terms continue to improve. The projects are economic with the current terms. Having said that, like I mentioned when I was answering Anish's question, I think the whole story is, how do you get the entire investment climate in the country to the point where it's competitive with the other [ph] oily (34:05) basins in the world?

They're competing with Brazil and their competing with U.S. onshore shale and those two things – and they'll continue to compete with the Gulf of Mexico. And when you think about that, along with what's going on in Ghana and Suriname and some of that, that's the full area code and the good news is, most of those other companies are operating in those other basins.

And so, I'm sure there's a good healthy conversation going on. We're obviously behind that, supporting that conversation, because until all those things line up, the whole thing doesn't move forward as quickly as it possibly can. So, again, great technical assets. I'm guessing that all the operators are working commercial terms and the hope is that that all moves in a positive direction, because I think there is room between all parties to move a bit and have something that is quite supportive and quite competitive across the other basins I talked about.

And last one from me, Tim, just honing on the arbitration process, how you guys bring the value of the Angolan asset to that – to the table in that process? In other words, what are you going to include or what's do you include in the value that you're seeking to get from Angola?

Well, we've claimed certainly over $2 billion in the process and we've also claimed the receivable of plus or minus $170 million. And so, we go forward, that is the proper assessment at this time. And then obviously through the process, the panel will understand the technical aspects of the assets, will understand all the commercial things, all the things we're committed to and make a final determination. And so, it's a large thing, it's a large number, it's something we need to push forward. Having said that, we also need to be reasonable and we need to be reasonable for our company and for our shareholders to make sure we can agree to something at the end of the day for [ph] solving this (36:05) in an amicable way, that is kind of a win-win for all.

Okay. I appreciate, Tim.

Thank you. This does conclude the question-and-answer session. I'd like to turn the floor back over to management for any closing comments.

Yeah. Just a few things. I just like to say, thanks for your patience. Again, we pushed really hard over the last few months to get the sales process complete in the Gulf of Mexico. We didn't want to push to the point where we started hurting value and we feel for the sake of a few months that's the smart thing to do.

We still have plenty of cash. We got time to work through this. And we also need a little bit of time on Angola to get through the election process and re-engage after that. So, again, I'll be back on the call late October, early November talking to you again. A lot things will happen over that period of time. We remain confident. We remain stead fast. We got a strong employee base. We've maintained and retained all of our capacities to do the things we do, drilling wells, finding oil, we're excited about that. We are a small company, but I think we can compete with the very best and so we stay positive and we are moving forward.

And I really do appreciate the questions and appreciate your patience as we work through these things and we are going to continue to be transparent with you. Thank you very much.

Thank you. This concludes today's teleconference. Thank you for your participation. You may disconnect your lines.