Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Joseph H. Bryant — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Cobalt International Energy, Inc.
John P. Wilkirson — CFO, VP-Strategic Planning & Investor Relations, Cobalt International Energy, Inc.
Van P. Whitfield — Executive Vice President-Operations & Development, Cobalt International Energy, Inc.
Evan Calio — Research Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC
Joe D. Allman — Senior Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC
David M. Heikkinen — Managing Director, Tudor Pickering Holt & Co. Securities, Inc.
Brian A. Singer — Vice President, Goldman Sachs & Co.
Ed G. Westlake — Research Analyst, Credit Suisse (United States)
Richard M. Tullis — Senior Analyst, Capital One Southcoast, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, everyone, and welcome to Cobalt International Energy's Second Quarter 2011 Conference Call. Just a reminder, today's call is being recorded. Before we get started, one housekeeping matter. This conference call includes forward-looking statements. The risks associated with forward-looking statements have been outlined in the earnings release and in Cobalt's SEC filings and we incorporate these by reference for this call.

At this time for opening remarks and introduction, I would like to turn the call over to Chairman and CEO of Cobalt, Mr. Joe Bryant. Please go ahead, sir.

Good morning and thank you for joining us on Cobalt's second quarter 2011 earnings and operational update call. Joining me on the call the morning is John Wilkirson, our Chief Financial Officer.

I have few brief comments before I turn the call over to John for a quick review of our financial results. We focused all our attention in the second quarter on five principle areas that we believe will deliver value to our shareholders. These include one, completing our successful follow-on stock offering which provided Cobalt an even stronger balance sheet; two, completing our operational readiness in Angola to spud our initial pre-salt exploration wells, Bicuar and Cameia; three, completing negotiations with Sonangol for our eventual 40% working interest in Block 20; four, submitting all required material for a North Platte and Ligurian applications for permit to drill in the Gulf of Mexico; and five, continuing our efforts to minimize cash outlays while ensuring that we are fully prepared to resume operations in the Gulf of Mexico in 2011. I'm happy to say that we were successful in each of these in endeavors.

As you know, we launched our follow-on offering on April 5 and closed the transaction on April 15, having raised an additional $499 million before expenses. I want to thank all of the shareholders who participated in this offering, including those of you who are new shareholders of our company. With our successful offering, we feel that we are well funded to execute our planned expiration and appraisal program through the end of 2013.

In Angola, we were ready to begin our drilling program by the end of the second quarter, but were not able to commence the operations until July 14, 2011 due to the late arrival of the Diamond Offshore Ocean Confidence drilling rig. On July 19, we commenced our initial two-well pre-salt exploration drilling program on Block 21 offshore Angola by spudding the surface hole of the Bicuar #1 exploratory well.

On July 20, after setting the 36-inch conductor casing and drilling approximately 200 meters of surface hole, we encountered an over-pressured water sand, resulting in a water flow with very limited quantities of natural gas. No safety or environmental issues resulted from this incident. We are focused now on our abandonment procedures for the Bicuar #1 exploratory well surface location.

Given the unique nature of encountering pressured water sands in Angolan waters, we have agreed with Sonangol that we would take our learnings from this incident and reexamine our shallow hazard analysis of our proposed Cameia and Bicuar drilling locations before we move the drilling rig to Cameia or a different surface location here in Bicuar.

Also in Angola, we've completed all Production Sharing Agreement negotiations with Sonangol, covering our 40% working interest in Block 20. The negotiations went as expected with no surprises or deviations from the agreement terms that we had anticipated prior to the award of our interest. We have not yet closed this Production Sharing Agreement and we are waiting on notification from Sonangol as to when closing will occur.

I want to emphasize that we are in constant contact with Sonangol on this issue and are absolutely confident that this agreement will close in the near future. However, I'm not in a position to forecast with any accuracy when that closing will occur. Let me point out that no money has been deposited or pay down and will not be until closing.

We are especially proud of the progress that we've made in the Gulf of Mexico in the second quarter in supportive our plans to return to work in a very near future. On June 3, the BOEMRE approved the Exploration Plan for Cobalt at Ligurian prospect and on July 7, the BOEMRE approved the Exploration Plan for additional locations in the North Platte prospect area.

Additionally during the second quarter, we submitted our final applications for permit to drill, or APDs, for both North Platte and Ligurian. We were requested by the BOEMRE to provide a few additional points of clarification for our Ligurian APD, which we have now provided. Through various conversations we have had with the BOE, we now believe that the only remaining outstanding item for final APD approval for both North Platte and Ligurian is a Coast Guard Certificate of Compliance for the Ensco 8503 drilling rig. This certificate cannot be issued until the rig arrives back in the Gulf of Mexico. As you are aware, we sublet the 8503 to Tullow for a well in French Guiana. We are expecting the rig to be returned to us sometime like this quarter.

Assuming success in securing the APDs for both Ligurian and North Platte, our drilling preference continues to be to drill Ligurian first, followed by North Platte. We currently estimate that we will be able to spud either well sometime in late September or early October. Finally in the Gulf of Mexico, we have initiated the well planning process in order to file before that on our next two exploration wells, which we'll test again in our Aegean prospects.

We've also continued to focus on our cash burn rate. The balance that we seek is to minimize all unnecessary costs while at the same time investing money in key strategic areas, including safety, people, data, long lead items and technology that will yield significant economic advantage as our business grows.

I will now turn the call over to John for a few words on our financial results.

Thanks, Joe. With respect to the operating results for the second quarter, Cobalt's net loss was $19 million, or $0.05 per basic and diluted share. Our cash expenditures excluding working capital changes for the quarter were $22 million. Relative to the first quarter, the major component of the increased cash expenditures was items related to preparing to begin drilling operations offshore Angola.

We continue to operate from a position of financial strength. Cobalt has no debt and over $1.6 billion of cash, equivalents and investments, including the net proceeds of the approximately $478 million from our April equity offering. As Joe mentioned, our liquidity position provides the financial resources to execute our plan through 2013.

For the full year, our cash expenditures forecast excluding working capital changes remains $325 million to $400 million including the forecasted cash expenditures associated with Block 20 offshore Angola. Most of this year's Block 20 cash expenditures will be first year social bonus contribution to the payment closing of the Production Sharing Agreement.

The expenditure forecast excludes the cash to collateralize our Block 20 work program letter of credit of about $210 million that, after closing, will be reported in restricted cash on our balance sheet.

The full year forecast range depends principally on when Cobalt recommences Gulf of Mexico drilling activities in the second half of the year with the Ensco 8503 rig. Excluding the Block 20 first year social bonus contribution payment, our estimate for third quarter cash expenditure is $60 million to $75 million, with the Angola drilling operation being the primary use of cash. We estimate the gross cost of drilling test Cameia 1 and Bicuar 1 to be $80 million to $120 million gross each, with our net cost share for each well being $50 million to $75 million.

We expect that our full year 2011 earnings will align with our cash expenditures, excluding the Block 20 first year social bonus contribution payment that will be capitalized. Of the remaining cash expenditures, the primary earnings uncertainly will be neither the capitalization nor expensing, but the drilling costs associated with our Angola pre-salt wells.

In addition, we anticipate having approximately $20 million to $25 million of non-cash earnings-related items spread broadly relatively evenly through the rest of the year. In conclusion, we are well funded and ready to execute our planned exploration program.

With that, I would like to turn the call back to Joe.

Thanks, John. We'd now like to open the call for any questions that you might have. Operator?

Thank you. We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley. Please proceed with your question.

Good morning guys. How are you doing?

Good morning Evan.

Yeah, maybe we could refresh West African timing, given today's news. I mean at least your opening remarks appear maybe a little less ambiguous than in the press release on timing. I know you all have to wait for Sonangal's acquiescence/approval, yet is it your intent to move as soon as possible to the Cameia location and could we see a spud there in the August timeframe?

Let me answer the question this way, that if I step back and look at a – look at our Angolan drilling on a programmatic basis between the two wells, Cameia and Bicuar, we have roughly, in a successful case which we certainly anticipate, about 240 days for the two wells. And you know I certainly have every expectation that we'll get both those wells done in 240 days from, say last week sometime.

So I don't anticipate the overall program timing to slip at all. I do hope that we're over at Cameia drilling sooner than later. I hate the preempt any conversations that we're having with Sonangol in terms of whether it's this week or next week, but I would certainly be hopeful that it's not much longer than a few weeks. But I can't promise that. At this point in time, I'm optimistic that we'll get over there sooner than later.

Good. That's good news. And then if we think about post-EMEA, again as you know it today, I mean are the plans to return – because I know you have the three slots – return to Bicuar or is it a possible to drill another target if Bicuar, the water well's been produced out or you upon review see a more broadly associated risk in this large structure? Are you limited from going to another – I know you haven't closed entirely Block 20 going to launch or going to some other prospect in your large inventory?

Right, I think your – the general question is does water flow at Bicuar condemn drilling opportunities for us to Bicuar and the answer to that is unequivocally no. Even – there were offsets to the surface hole we drilled that were actually depleted in the sand. They were not at an optimum location that we wanted to drill the prospect from, but I don't want to leave anybody the impression that this water sand condemns our ability to test Bicuar and test it sooner rather than later i.e., immediately after Cameia. We will obviously conduct the surface hole operations in a different way next time, but our unequivocal plans as of today are to monitor this well for a few more days, move to Cameia, drill it to TD, test it and move back to Bicuar at a different surface location and test that prospect.

That's great. And then just maybe lastly and more general question, if you could maybe, the over-pressured sands, kind of water production the shallow water hazard. Just maybe idea of just understand how common this is, or are there wells in the Kwanzaa basin that have experienced this risk and how we should maybe think about it going forward? Thanks.

Real good question. Just about everywhere offshore in the world, you worry about shallow water hazards. I frankly don't know anywhere you wouldn't worry about them. But we did an extensive shallow water hazard analysis at this location, as we do at every location including Cameia. The good news is is this sand was absolutely seen on our shallow hazard. It actually came in, or we drilled into it, I would say, really within inches of where we saw it on our survey data. Where we were wrong was the two offset wells that we had in the general area, circa 10 kilometers or so away, both drilled into this sand and it was depleted i.e. they lost circulation in this sand rather than it flowed.

At the same time, there are two pockmarks on the sea floor surface adjacent to this which are strong indications that the sand has effectively blown out or depleted and you see those pockmarks all over on the sea floor all over the world. So we – the mistake we made is we took all of that data, which was pretty accurate data, and said by all intents and purposes, this should be a depleted surface water stand, and it wasn't.

And I think the good news is that the drilling team on the rig, the drilling team in Angola and the back-up team in Houston responded like true champs and got the situation under control and everybody out of harm's way and have responded to it like anybody in the world could have. So, while it's disappointing, the follow-on sequence of the events has happened just like it should.

Great. The color is very helpful. I'll leave it there for others. Thank you.

Thanks, Evan.

Our next question comes from Joe Allman with JPMorgan. Please proceed with your question.

Thank you. Good morning, everybody.

Hi, Joe.

Joe, is your expectation now to not do the batch drilling between Bicuar and Cameia?

Yeah, I would say that is absolutely the case, simply because we will want to really think long and hard about where the next surface hole is at Bicuar and we wouldn't want to wait on that to get over to Cameia. So our plan A is to get the rig over to Cameia, drill the TD, and by that, use that time to replan a surface hole for Bicuar.

Okay, that's helpful. And then as of right now, I know it's still early, but what precautions or what adjustments are you planning on making when you drill Cameia and then when you go back and drill Bicuar?

Yeah, fair question. The – first of all, the nature of the surface hazards at Cameia are completely different. They have a completely different Seismic signature than what we've seen at Bicuar. So, the territory is completely different, number one. We're not taking that as granted, though. We're relooking at all of that again and retesting our hypotheses on what could be there. We're also considering a belts-and-suspenders approach, which would include for example, drilling a pilot hole to make sure that there are no over-pressured sands in that surface hole location. And we haven't finalized that plan yet, but it's not unlikely that we'll do something like that. And let me say – one thing I will say is that when we did this shallow hazard analysis – and of course, we have third parties involved in all of this work – as near as we can tell, the last time anyone in Angola has drilled into a pressured shallow hazard sand is about 30 years ago in 1981.

And just think of all the wells that have been drilled since then and that was about 500 kilometers away from here. So that's no excuse. We thought we had done our homework. We thought that we understood the risks and we just happened to drill in the one place that had pressured water sand and we'll deal with it.

Okay that's very helpful. And then for you, John, when we look at your press release, it looks like your cash flow from investing for the first half was about $551 million, $450 million to $460 million of that being in the second quarter. Could you lay out for us what exactly that is?

Sure what you're seeing there is the effect of the proceeds from the follow-on equity offering that we completed in April. It is invested into short-term securities and so it's not just sitting on our balance sheet as unutilized cash. So, from an accounting standpoint, it shows up as investments, not cash or cash equivalents.

Okay, that's very helpful. Thank you. And then in terms of when we look out to 2012, John, do you expect that you will have to raise some more money in 2012 based on what your vision is for spending? And if so, do you think it would be in the form of some high yield offering or equity? What are you thinking about that?

Well with success, there is the potential that we will be looking for opportunities, but what the nature of the vehicles will be will be strictly a function of where we are in our program. Obviously, we have enough cash on the balance sheet with no debt today to be able to manage the exploration program that we envision for the next two to two-and-a-half years. But hopefully, we have success in the near-term and we're looking at ways to fund that going forward. But that's, again, totally depend upon the success we would have.

John, could you describe some – what the options would be for financing success?

Well, I think there's a variety of different types of options. I mean obviously, we've got a good potential for equity, as well as the different types of – we could be looking at different types of debt if the – it's a function of what the market availability is and the cost of those particular vehicles would be. So, it's premature at this point to be pretty much beyond that.

Got it. Okay. All right, very helpful, guys. Thank you.

Our next question comes from David Heikkinen with Tudor Pickering. Please proceed with your question.

Good morning. Just, I was thinking about your Gulf of Mexico program and Ensco 8503. How is that rig performing for Tullow currently?

Fantastic question, David. I'm also – I'm remiss in introducing Van Whitfield on the call as well today and a great lead-in to let Van talk about how the 8503 is doing and maybe follow-on questions about our permitting status. Van, go ahead.

Thanks, Joe. In reference to the question, as Joe said, the 8503 as a new rig is probably performing as well if not better than any new rig I've seen on a measure that we usually use of non-productive time. We're in the single digits probably less than 5% on that rig, which is phenomenal. So, the issues, if you say they're issues, are more with the actual drilling to the objectives, but definitely not the performance on the rig.

Okay, and then so you don't see any reason why the rig wouldn't get through the Coast Guard certification once sailing back to the Gulf?

No not at all. Matter of fact, as you recall, this would be the fourth of the 8500 series of rigs working for Ensco in the Gulf of Mexico, and the other three rigs are currently working. They had no problems obtaining their certificates and we had a pre-inspection before it ever left for French Guiana and we're very confident that that will be a short duration exercise.

Okay and then thinking about well timing and just thoughts around Ardennes as well, can you just walk us through time to drill each well, including the next two Gulf of Mexico wells, kind of outlining through 2012 it sounds like?

Again, this is Van Whitfield. What we're looking, at least for both our North Platte and the Ligurian prospects, we've estimated it will take about 6 months of time to drill them and when you look at both Ardennes and Aegean, which are the next two wells after those that we'd previously identified, they will be very similar in depth and timing for those two wells. So, I think if you put it into a perspective with the four wells that we've got planned and laid out, that's pretty close to a continuous two-year cycle or program that we would be embarking on once the rig returns to the Gulf.

And just AFEs for those in that type of timeframe as far as a range you'd expect, both drilled dry hole and then for a completion and if you had a drill sim test or anything along those lines?

,Well, I think the easiest way to look at it would be if you just figured the spread rate and all with that rig is approximately $1 million a day.

Okay.

So I think that gets you pretty close.

Okay.

And yeah, the only other thing that I should point out, our growth will be impacted by both the – our networking interest and the adjustment based on our alliance with Total.

Yeah. And then just on to – back to Angola, I thought of each of those wells as kind of an 80- to 120-day well. So thinking about the 240-day timeframe that you have somewhere in the, call it 40 to 80 days of cushion built into that schedule. Is that a fair way to think about being able to absorb all of this shallow water flow into the 240-day timeframe of contingency? Is that fair?

That's exactly right. The 120-day range assumes success in testing, so we've got some flexibility in there to ensure that we've got enough time not only to get it drilled and observed, but to do the testing. So, we're pretty confident we'll fit in that time range.

All right, that's helpful. Thanks guys.

Okay

Our next question comes from Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs. Please proceed with your question.

Thanks. Good morning

Good morning, Brian.

Going back to the Bicuar 1 well, to the extent that the shallow zone you encountered there is over pressured more widely over the Bicuar prospect area, what would the cost impact be to either use mud or other measures that would allow you to continue to test Bicuar at a different surface location?

This is Van Whitfield again. When you look at that, I think it's kind of normal practice that we would drill and put our surface pipe in using sea water, but in this case as you identified, we will have to mud up. And so what I would say the incremental exposure might be would be the need for one additional catch and strain shallower that we would set above this zone and then we would proceed. It's really early to say exactly the total program changes, but if we assume that's the case, we're going to be looking at an incremental three or four days to run that pipe and get it set and we would proceed with drilling and our well costs in Angola are averaging – they're definitely between $500,000 and $1 million a day. So, it's a lower price range, so you can figure – just say roughly five days in that range incremental.

Great, thank you. That's helpful. And then secondly, more broadly, can you give us any more color on any seismic work or reprocessing you've done in recent months in Angola and Gabon? Any conclusions as it related to the ore-salts and your location selection?

Certainly can do that. This is Joe again. We've made tremendous progress in the last several months, I think across the board in West Africa, both in terms of the definition that we see in Block 21 and the prospectivity in that Block, as we continue to reprocess more of the 3D seismic that we've been working with over the past several years. We've, at the same time as you know, finished all of our 3D acquisition on Block 9. And we're just now working through the reprocessing on that and beginning to understand both the post-salt and the pre-salt prospectivity on Block 9. And I think as we've said in the past, hope that we have some well locations picked by the end of this year and hopefully drilling in Block 9 sometime next year.

At the same time, as soon as we get the Block 20 PSA signed, we're all lined up to begin our 3D Seismic acquisition there almost instantaneously. And then I would hope that we can be drilling in Block 20, I'm going to say 18 months to two years after we sign that PSA later this year, I hope.

I think not – last, but certainly not least, the 6,000-square kilometer 3D Seismic that we've done in Diaba is well into its reprocessing and I just can't contain my enthusiasm for what we're seeing there below salt. It looks like all of the structures that we saw on the 2D are conforming to the 3D, which is an incredibly positive signal. So in other words, the big structures that we anticipated to be there, based on what we see now are there. And I can't say they're going to be full of oil, but I can say it looks like the structures are there.

We're also encouraged by – you know there has been a couple of smallish pre-salt discoveries announced to the past few months east of our block in Gabon, which is certainly encouraging in the pre-salts up there. So I think despite the recent setback in Bicuar, we've not lost one bit of enthusiasm for the ultimate outcome of our West African pre-salt position, which we believe is pre-eminent in the industry.

Thank you.

Our next question comes from Ed Westlake with Credit Suisse. Please proceed with your question.

Hi. All our questions have been answered. Thank you very much.

Thank you, Ed.

[Operator Instructions] . Our next question comes from Richard Tullis with Capital One. Please proceed with your question.

Thank you, good morning. Just a couple of questions that haven't been hit on yet. Joe, could you remind us the size of the two prospects you're targeting now in West Africa, the growths on risk potential of Bicuar and Cameia?

Yeah, both – we've always quoted both of Bicuar and Cameia being well over a billion barrels.

Were you looking at Bicuar as being a decent amount larger than Cameia?

To be honest, at this point it's just difficult to say. We just need to drill the wells and find out how big they are. And, before I get the bit in the ground in the pre-salt, I'd just hate to guess with you because, we just don't know. It's – there is several different kinds of reservoirs we're testing in both Bicuar and Cameia. They're somewhat similar, but somewhat different, so it's just time to drill wells and find out how big they are.

Sure, that's helpful. And what do you – you may have mentioned this and I missed it, but what do you plan to drill after these two wells are done in West Africa?

Well that's a great question. We talk a lot about that internally and I think with success, we'll be looking at follow-on or appraisal drilling on one or both of these structures. In addition to that, we've identified numerous additional structures on Block 21 that we would want to drill. At the same time, as I mentioned, we see some very interesting things in Block 9 and then again, in terms of West Africa drilling in general, we would – we hope that we're drilling in the Diaba sometime in 2012 as well.

We just have a lot of options. I would also point out that we feel pretty good about where the industry is in West Africa pre-salt right now. It seems like everybody's talking about what we've been talking about for 5 years. When you look all the way up and down the coast, people are talking about their pre-salt drilling plans. So, I'd encourage all of you to look not only what Cobalt is doing, but what other operators are doing in terms of their pre-salt drilling, from all the way from north to south, because that will inform everybody's drilling plans based on what the industry finds there, not just Cobalt.

Okay. Well, thanks very much. That's all I have today.

Okay. Thanks for your interest.

We have a follow-up question from David Heikkinen with Tudor Pickering. Please proceed with your question.

I was just curious thinking about the bond, did you all have seismic over the harvest discoveries and kind of thinking about any ties or correlation to geoprospects or how have you thought about that? They are obviously much smaller, but.

Yeah we have 2D Seismic but we don't – I wouldn't say to – with any degree of specificity at all. What we did do, though, was we did shoot our seismic – we expanded our seismic off of our block to an elf discovery that was made in 1982, I believe, that tested about 1,250 barrels a day. So we covered with our 3D Seismic. We covered that 1982 discovery so we could tie that actual successful well into our seismic in Diaba.

Okay. That's helpful. All right, thanks. I was just curious.

Great. Yeah.

There are no further questions in queue at this time. I would like to turn the call back over to management for closing comments.

Well, great. Thank you all for your interest and for your questions today. I think the second half of the year is shaping up in a very positive way for us here at Cobalt. We'll shortly have two drilling rigs operating in both the Angola and Gulf of Mexico, testing world-class prospects by anyone's measure. We anticipate closing on Block 20 and beginning our seismic acquisition there, shortly thereafter, as I mentioned.

We're very excited about the pre-salt prospectivity that we see in Diaba. And we think all of this work will position us very well for an active 2012 in which we expect activity in all of our West African blocks and drilling several operated and non-operated blocks and prospects in the Gulf of Mexico. So again, let me thank all of you for your interest in Cobalt. As always, if you have any questions don't hesitate to get in touch with John or myself. Thanks again and have a good day.

This concludes today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at this time and thank you for your participation.