Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Joseph H. Bryant — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Cobalt International Energy, Inc.
John P. Wilkirson — CFO, VP-Strategic Planning & Investor Relations, Cobalt International Energy, Inc.
Van P. Whitfield — Chief Operating Officer, Cobalt International Energy, Inc.
Evan Calio — Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC
Brian A. Singer — Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co.
David M. Heikkinen — Analyst, Tudor Pickering Holt & Co. Securities, Inc.
Ed G. Westlake — Analyst, Credit Suisse (United States)
Al J. Stanton — Analyst, Royal Bank of Canada (Europe) Ltd. (Broker)

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, everyone, and welcome to Cobalt International Energy's Third Quarter 2011 Conference Call. Just a reminder, today's call is being recorded. Before we get started, one housekeeping matter. This conference call includes forward-looking statements. The risks associated with forward-looking statements have been outlined in the earnings release and in Cobalt's SEC filings, and we incorporate these by reference for this call.

At this time for opening remarks and introduction, I would like to turn the call over to the Chairman and CEO of Cobalt, Mr. Joe Bryant. Please go ahead, sir.

Good morning and thank you for joining us on Cobalt's third quarter 2011 earnings and operational update call. I'm joined on today's call by John Wilkirson, our Chief Financial Officer and Van Whitfield, who has been recently announced now holds the position of Chief Operating Officer.

I would like to make a few brief comments before I turn the call over to John for a review of our financial results. First, I'm pleased to be able to report that as of last week for the first time in our history, Cobalt is actively participating in drilling wells in both the deep water offshore Angola and the deepwater Gulf of Mexico. These two wells, the Cameia #1 in Angola and Heidelberg #2 in the Gulf of Mexico are literally the leading edge of what we believe will be a continuous drilling program focused on some of the world's most significant oil prospects.

With Cobalt's material position in each of our highly prospective basins, I'm confident that we will create significant value as we execute our drilling plans. Much has been achieved over the last quarter. We prioritized our results in three principle areas. One, commencing the drilling of our pre-salt exploration drilling program in Angola with the Bicuar and Cameia exploration wells. Two, continuing our technical evaluation of additional pre-salt prospectivity of Block 9 and 21 in Angola and Diaba in Gabon. We also obtained partner in Sonangol agreement to initiate a large 3D seismic acquisition and processing program on Block 20 in Angola. And three, ensuring Cobalt's operational readiness and full compliance with all the rules and regulations in preparation for the return of the ENSCO 8503 drilling rig to the Gulf of Mexico.

I'm happy to report positive results in all three of these areas. On August 29, we commenced drilling the Cameia #1 pre-salt exploration well on Block 21 offshore Angola. Drilling operations have gone as expected thus far. Geologically, the well has progressed consistent with our pre-drilling diagnosis. We are some 60 days into our anticipated 80 to 100 day drilling program to reach total depth.

However, the Ocean Confidence drilling rig has experienced approximately 2 to 3 weeks of rig downtime due to mechanical issues. We believe these rig issues are essentially behind us, and therefore we expect to reach total depth sometime in the next month or so depending upon the actual drilling penetration rate. So I don't have any more information that I can share with you today on Cameia, but we do expect to announce results in December.

Once we complete our drilling and evaluation operations on the Cameia #1 well, we will commence drilling operations on the Bicuar to #1 well, to test the Bicuar pre-salt prospect from a surface location different from the one that experienced the shallow water flow last summer.

We anticipate this well to take 80 days to 100 days to drill and an additional 10 to 20 days to evaluate if successful. Following the Bicuar #1 well, our plans are to return to Cameia for appraisal drilling operations if Cameia #1 is successful.

With regard to Block 20 in Angola, we are waiting confirmation from Sonangol as to when we will execute the Production Sharing Agreement. As you know, we have been designated as the operator of Block 20, and we hold 40% interest in the Block. As I've stated previously, the agreement has been fully negotiated with Sonangol, and we remain confident that this agreement will close in the near future.

As I mentioned and anticipating, on the execution of Block 20 PSA, Cobalt and our partners have executed an agreement with our seismic contractor to acquire and process approximately 4,200 square kilometers of 3D seismic data on Block 20. This data acquisition, which was initiated last week, will allow us to remain on schedule to drill the much anticipated [ph] Losser (4:48) prospect in Block 20, as planned.

In Block 9, we expect to drill – we expect to complete our 3D seismic processing effort in the first quarter of next year, which is approximately two months ahead of schedule. But most significantly, the data quality is exceeding our pre-acquisition expectations. We will begin prospect maturation at well signing next year, and we are currently targeting drilling the first pre-salt exploration well in Block 9 by the end of next year.

In order to carry out our multi-year Angola drilling program for Blocks 9, 20 and 21, Cobalt well initiate rig tenders to drilling contractors by the end of this year. In addition, we are tendering for long-lead items for this exploration drilling program.

With regard to the Diaba Block in Gabon, the final processing of the 6,000 square kilometer 3D seismic acquisition is on track for completion in this quarter. Total as operator intends to initiate tenders for a drilling rig zone with a target to spud the first Diaba exploratory Pre-salt well by year-end 2012.

We are well positioned in West Africa with a series of catalytic events as we expose the resource potential of our Pre-salt portfolio through the exploration drill bit. As we experience success, we are prepared to implement our appraisal operations to move these assets to production.

I would now like to move to the Gulf of Mexico, and the good news is that we are back to work in the Gulf of Mexico. Anadarko, the operator of our 2009 Heidelberg discovery, commenced drilling the Heidelberg #2R appraisal well last week. We look forward to broadening our understanding of the extent of the Heidelberg structure. We anticipate the return of the ENSCO 8503 drilling rig, which as you know has been drilling a well for Tullow in French Guiana under a sub agreement.

Tullow has informed us that they expect to release the rig in mid November. And if so, the rig would arrive in the Gulf of Mexico in mid December, at which time we will obtain the Coast Guard Certificate of Compliance for the ENSCO 8503. Once we submit the Coast Guard Certificate of Compliance for the 8503, our APDs for Ligurian #2 and North Platte #1 will be approved. We will then commence the drilling of the Ligurian #2 well followed by the North Platte #1 well. We project that each of these wells will take approximately six months to drill and evaluate.

In addition, we have completed the well planning process for our next two exploration wells, which will test our Ardennes and Aegean prospects. We will submit our Aegean exploration plan to the BOEM this week and plan to submit our Ardennes exploration plan before the end of the year.

In September, we announced that Van Whitfield has been promoted to the new position of Cobalt's Chief Operating Officer. At that time, we initiated a reorganization of the company to drive increased accountability, capital efficiency, and capability to further ensure the execution of our business plan. For your information, we've also named Rick Smith to the position of Vice President, Investor Relations and Planning. I encourage you to contact Rich with your investor relations questions.

I will now turn the call over to John for a few words on our financial results. John?

Thanks, Joe. As reported in this morning's release for the third quarter 2011 Cobalt's net loss was $47 million or $0.12 per basic and diluted share. The net loss includes drilling related impairment of $21 million associated with the shallow water flow expense in initial deepwater location in Offshore Angola and $8 million that remained for the Criollo #1 well drilled in 2010 in the Gulf of Mexico. While we continue to view the Criollo area positively due to its proximity to the Tahiti platform, accounting practices drove the need to write off the remaining costs for the exploration well during this quarter.

Our cash expenditures excluding working capital changes for the quarter were $60 million. Compared to the first half of 2011 the higher cash expenditures in the third quarter resulted from our Angolan pre-salt exploration drilling program. The quarter's cash expenditures are consistent with the range provided on our last call.

Our balance sheet remained strong with over $1.6 billion of cash, cash equivalents or investments. In addition and not reported on our balance sheet are drilling promote funds for our Gulf of Mexico program with Total of just under $200 million.

At the end of September, we had just under $1.3 billion of unrestricted cash and investments, plus an additional $340 million of cash and investments designated for future operations held in escrow and collateralized letters of credit. We continue to have no debt.

For the full year, our updated cash expenditures forecast, excluding working capital changes, is $170 million to $190 million, implying $77 million to $97 million for the fourth quarter. As Joe mentioned, significant activities anticipated in the fourth quarter include continued pre-salt drilling in Block 21, spudding the Heidelberg appraisal well, initiation of the Block 20 seismic acquisition, and the return of the ENSCO 8503 drilling rig to the Gulf of Mexico. The range of cash expenditure forecast depends principally on when we commence cobalt-operated Gulf of Mexico drilling activities in certain year-end items.

The forecast excludes the Angola Block 20 first year social bonus contribution. We plan to release the detail of our multi-year social bonus obligations upon signing the Block 20 PSA.

After the holidays, we will provide guidance on our 2012 cash expenditure expectation. Next year's cash expenditures will be higher than 2011, as we expect a full year of Cobalt-operated drilling in the Gulf of Mexico, plus partner operated drilling in both the Gulf of Mexico and Gabon.

We also just completed the renewal of our Gulf of Mexico insurance program and effective today we have $1 billion of coverage, including $500 million of operator's extra expense and $450 million of general and excess liability. We decided to increase our general and excess liability from our previous $300 million coverage level. While the cost of our renewals are slightly higher than the pre-Macondo vintage policies that we had in effect, our insurance costs continue to not materially affect our prospector development economics. New policies will be effective until November of 2012.

I will now turn the call back to Joe.

Thanks, John for those opening comments. John, Van and I now look forward to taking any questions that you may have. Operator?

Thank you. We'll now be conducting a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you. Our first question is from the line of Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley. Please state your question.

Good morning guys. How are you John?

Good morning Evan.

I have a question on in Angola, I mean you talked about the mechanical rig issues and the Ocean Confidence. I mean do you expect to TD the well in early December? I mean I guess I'm trying to see how close we are to year end with the – path dependent 10 to 20 days additional for testing?

Yeah Evan, good question. I honestly believe we'll get to TD here in November.

Okay.

But I can't guarantee that. And we'll take as long as it takes to test, so I can expect something between now and the end of the year, but that's, as I said, that's my best guess.

Will you press release the TD?

I doubt we'll press release the TD. I'm sure we will get you as much information as we can as quickly as we can, but I can't describe exactly what that will be or when it will be.

Perfect. And then after Cameia you return to Bicuar, same rig, just to confirm the third slot back to Cameia there is – the first shot of Bicuar when you hit the shallow water hazard. That does not count as a slot of the rig, so you are pretty confident you have two more slots after this rig, after the first Cameia well?

Evan, this is Van Whitfield. Yeah, we are very confident that we've got the two more slots, and so we want to use the first one to get back to Bicuar and make sure that we have the opportunity to test that structure and then that gives us flexibility to proceed with – hopefully the appraisal in Cameia or even in Bicuar, so those two slots are available.

Perfect. And do you have another – prepared another prospect if the rig doesn't return to Cameia on that third slot?

No, I would say we are either going to use that third Cobalt slot for something on Bicuar or something on Cameia but we are – we certainly wouldn't anticipate a different prospect being drillable at that time.

Okay great. I will leave it at that and let somebody else on queue.

Thanks Evan.

Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question is coming from the line of Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs. Please state your question.

Thank you, good morning.

Hi Brian.

You made some comments in your opening remarks on Criollo, can you just add a little more color on those – kind of the account discrepancy relative to your plans or the potential for a tie in and kind of what the next – what the chronology is of future action there?

Sure. Brian, its John. As I mentioned, the Criollo well was drilled last year -- we continued to view Criollo as a potential opportunity. At this point we're involved in the queue of activity that we're pursuing. We're required by accounting practices to write off remaining costs to the wellbore. We believe the wellbore will potentially have some future utilization that's – we're just complying with the accounting requirements.

Okay. Thanks. And then you may have mentioned this in your comments, but on Gabon, can you talk about a bit more color on the plans for next year -- is the first well spudding at year end or, are there activities in CapEx throughout the year?

This is Joe, again, I think what I would say is right now we're wrapping up the processing on that 3D seismic. We've already been in conversations with Total about some preliminary tests on drilling locations. I think that both the Cobalt and Total themes will have those locations fairly defined some time in the first quarter. My expectation is Total maybe tendering a rig late this quarter, early next quarter and I think best case we would be looking at some time early in the second half of next year to spud a well in Gabon, but certainly in the second half of next year.

Thanks. And I guess then some ideal situation if you have to chose between a spud in Gabon and a spud in Angola based on your kind of optimism reservoir wise and rate of return wise, do you have a give preference?

I can't imagine us having to choose between the two, but both have unique characteristics that are very attractive to us. As we talked many times, Gabon has a different reservoir characteristic than what we would expect in Angola; it has a lower working interest, but it has better financial terms. And on the other side of the coin is Angola, where we have a very large high working interest operated portfolio with marginally less attractive terms. So our strategy all along has been to diversify the portfolio in West Africa and drill wells in both places.

Great. Thank you.

Our next question is coming from the line of David Heikkinen with Tudor Pickering Holt. Please state your question.

Good morning guys. Thinking about the Gulf of Mexico program, how many outside operated wells would you anticipate to participate in for the remainder of this year and next year?

Well the – for this year of course, we're talking about Heidelberg and next year the Heidelberg will carry over the end of the year. We anticipate probably two to three new spuds next year for outside operated activity.

Okay. Okay. And then on Heidelberg, if you think about this appraisal well, will this be enough to think about sanctioning a development or will there be additional appraisal drilling that would be needed?

– [082TXB-E Van Whitfield]>: This is Van Whitfield. I'd be very hesitant to speak for the operator out here for Anadarko. I think that that will be the decision that they have to make, but I can assure you that we will be working very closely with them to evaluate the results and then if we can get it to the point that it could be moved forward as commercial, we'll be working with the operator to make sure that happens as soon as possible.

Have you put together any preliminary thoughts of development plan or is it way too early to that?

No I think even as outside operated -- but because of the proximity of Ligurian for several months or maybe closer to several years we've developed some preliminary development plans for all of our prospects and have those in place with some fairly definitive ideas on how we could go forward to move them to production sooner rather than later. So it's available for this as well as North Platte and other prospects.

Can you share those, kind of how think about cost development and then overall scheme at this point, is there any update?

Well no. I'm a little hesitant to do that on the basis that the options we look at would be tied to whether or not there is excess capacity and some in the nearby structure for facilities like Heidelberg, Ligurian versus standalone. But I think it's appropriate to say that we've looked at the different varieties, and what I will share with you I think you can feel fairly confident that there will be subsea development that we will utilize whatever facilities we can to accelerate production.

Okay. And then you talk about CapEx post the holidays, as you think about the outside budgeting process for your partners. Do you get a good indication of what their proposals will be at that point in time -- how does that coming because you should have very good idea of your operated program, is that the timing of CapEx details?

It's John again. We do get information from time to time from our – the operators of the partner property on what they anticipate the timing and the cost of the operations will be, so that will factor into our 2012 estimates when we release those.

Okay. And I guess the thought process on Coast Guard certification of compliance, is there anything that would cause you to think the 8503 wouldn't get Compliance and are there would be any delays on an APD post compliance award?

This is Van Whitfield again. No, we're very confident that the fact that it's the fourth of a series and the other three rigs are working in the gulf. We would be extremely surprised if it was to get back into the gulf and we couldn't get that certificate of compliance.

Okay. And the Block 20 awaiting confirmation from Sonangol process seems like it's taking a while, not expecting to put that capital into your 2011 program. Does that mean that the PSA should be executed after year-end or is that the wrong way or would you just have it additive to your overall fourth quarter CapEx?

I would say it this way, I don't think it's – first of all I don't know for sure whether it will be executed this year or not. We're certainly hearing rumblings that they would like to get it done this year. But I think more importantly, as John alluded to, that if we – the structure of the agreement is such that if we close Block 20 in December that the proceeds won't move until the month following, which would be next year. So that's why John structured his comments the way they did. I'm not certain that we're going to get it done this year. If we don't, it will be done right after the first of the year. I think there is a possibility we can get it done before the end of the year. But I think the real important thing is that we are acquiring the seismic now and we're keeping the well on track for a 2013 spud.

Okay. Thanks guys.

Thank you. Our next question is from the line of Jeff [indiscernible] (23:30). Please state your question.

Good morning, guys.

Good morning, Jeff.

Joe just had a quick question for you. Just looking at the Total alliance in the Gulf of Mexico, I'm wondering if there has been any change in their body language regarding that activity and how committed they are to that program going forward at this point?

Well I can only speak from what it looks like on my side. I – we know have a lot of conversations with them. They're literally working here every day. I think they like us are very disappointed with what we've accomplished in the last 18 months due to circumstances outside of our control. On the plus side though, it's given us a chance to look at all of the prospectivity in the portfolio, and we're more convinced than ever that there is incredible potential in these assets and that is certainly the body language and certainly actually the verbiage that we get from Total. So I don't get any concern whatsoever voiced by Total other than the same disappointment we have that – due to the circumstances outside of our control the last 18 months we've been deferred a bit.

Okay, great. Thanks for the color.

Yeah.

[Operator Instructions] The next question is from the line of Ed Westlake with Credit Suisse. Please state your question.

Yeah. Good morning, everyone.

Good morning Ed.

Lot of questions already. Thanks for your answers. Just on the acreage expiry. Just in terms of sort of commitments perhaps in the Angola blocks and Gabon would be interesting and then obviously in the Gulf of Mexico it's a little bit more complicated by the issues you just been mentioning, but maybe talk to any issues there. You have a longer expiry window than it appears in the Gulf.

Yeah, I would put it in two baskets. One, first of all, there are zero concerns in West Africa with respect to expiry either in Angola or Gabon. There's just not any issues there at all and in the Gulf of Mexico, again you have seen in our presentation that expiry wasn't an issue for us really to begin with. The government I think announced yesterday, the U.S. government announced yesterday that they had extended several leases because of the moratorium for us that meant that about 57 of our leases actually were extended a year. We don't face really any expiry at all that's significant or bothersome until 2013, and then it's relatively insignificant but the vast majority of our portfolio is still standing after 2015. So expiry to Gulf of Mexico is not an issue for us right now at all.

And then just a follow-up on your zero concerns in West Africa, that's because you structured the contracts with another three, four, five years of exploratory phase?

Yeah. Just the nature of the contracts, of course there are really three different kinds of contracts in Blocks 9 and 21, those are risk services agreements and Block 20 that's going to be a production sharing agreement and in Angola that – or excuse, Gabon that's production sharing agreement as well. And they all provide ample opportunity to drill the wells that we have committed to and are the wells that John referred to being prefunded in our letters of credit. So the way it works is we have significant time to get those wells drilled, and then we have the option for an extended exploration phase if we so desire, which if you all add that together we're out probably six or seven years.

And then a follow on question on that reserve based lending -- a lot of French banks were involved in that and that market appears to be tightening up. Obviously that could be a source of funding for say Heidelberg given that that could be sanctioned at some point. Any comments you'd like to make on that, sort of how the market looks?

We're not in that part of the market at this point.

So no discussions at the moment, so no...

No, we've got [indiscernible] (28:05) any intelligence what's going on because we haven't been talking to anybody at this point about those particular types of products.

Right okay. Thanks very clear.

Thank you. Our next question is from the line of Al Stanton with RBC Capital Markets. Please state your question.

Yes. Good morning guys.

Good morning Al.

It's a simple question really about how much we should expect from an appraisal well in Angola in terms of would it effectively be a re-drill of a discovery well with a lot more coloring or would it be some sort of bold step out? So we could learn a lot more about the discovery?

We've had a lot of internal conversation on that and while some of that decision will be based on what we find in Cameia-1, I think our bias today would be a – what you described as a bold step out and prove as much of the structure as we can.

Right. And then just to make it a simple cartoon, I mean from the images you've got on the seismic today, can you see reservoir thickness at spill point, do you have an idea whether you'll encounter the overall to contacts or anything like that, do you have that clarity of image?

Well we can certainly see, what we call it as part of the target reservoir body.

Right.

But what we can't see of course is the pore space within those or whether or not the pore space is full of oil, gas or water. We think its oil, that's why we are drilling the well. So those are great questions. Once we actually finish up on Cameia here and we're able to tie what we see from a well log to our seismic interpretations that we've got now, and then we'll make some determination as far as what – how to interpret what we're seeing seismically in the well bore itself.

But you must have some sort of minimum commercial size that if you encounter the water contact then you know that it's got to be smaller than x and so in terms of if we see data on that in early December, should we be concerned or would that be in line with expectations?

Well, the way we think about it is probably this way, that we've done work on minimum commercial size and that's in the range of say 150 million barrels or so. And then we've got a maximum case which is several billion barrels, if the whole thing is fall to spill. So somewhere in there is the success case that will peak our interest and until we drill this well I can't – obviously I'm just not going speculate where we are in that continuum.

All right. Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question is from the line of Elliott [gavimarti ph 31:00] with Capital One. Please state your question.

Hey good morning guys. Thank you for taking my call.

Good morning, Elliott.

Good morning. Just wanted to see how closely you guys may be following the Tallow Oil discovery out there in French Guiana partnered with Shell and how you follow that? And also are those results encouraging to you in a sense because of the geology that you're seeing with some of your West Africa prospects, I just would like to know kind of intelligence you guys to have there or how close you follow that?

Well I'll answer the question pretty specifically. One is of course they have our rig, and while we have some Cobalt company people on the rig, we are not privy whatsoever to any of the confidential well information that they have. What we know is how well rig is operated and we feel really good about that, but beyond that we know what you know about the well and that's factually the case. What that play means to us in West Africa is immaterial because it's a completely different kind of play than what we are chasing in West Africa. I think it's probably more again to the Guinean type discoveries as I appreciated, but it would not be related whatsoever to the pre-salt work that we're doing further down the coast in West Africa.

Great. I really appreciate that answer. Thank you.

Thank you. There are no further questions at this time. I would now like to turn the floor back to management for closing comments.

Well, great. Thank you very much. As I said earlier, we've achieved a lot in the quarter. As we near the end of 2011, we look forward to the successful results of our Cameia pre-salt well and we look forward to drilling the Bicuar well here this quarter. We do hope that we can close on Block 20 in the near term, and we're certainly excited about the fact we gotten our seismic acquisition program kicked off. We're equally excited that we restarted our Gulf of Mexico partner operated drilling program, and we're also hopeful that we'll get our company operated Gulf of Mexico drilling program kicked off in this quarter as well.

We talked a lot about our balance sheet. Our balance sheet is still incredibly robust. We intend to keep it that way. We are confident that it has the liquidity that we need to get all of these prospects drilled both in the Gulf of Mexico and in West Africa. So again let me thank all of you for your interest and confidence in Cobalt, and I would certainly ask that if you any follow up questions don't hesitate to get in touch with any of us, Rich, John, or myself. Thank you all very much. Have a good day.

This concludes today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at this time. Thank you for your participation.