Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Rob Cordray — Director-Investor Relations, Cobalt International Energy, Inc.
Joseph H. Bryant — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Cobalt International Energy, Inc.
Shannon E. Young — III, Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President
Shannon E. Young, III — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Cobalt International Energy, Inc.
James W. Farnsworth — Chief Exploration Officer and Executive Vice President, Cobalt International Energy, Inc.
James H. Painter — Executive Vice President, Execution and Appraisal, Cobalt International Energy, Inc.
Evan Calio — Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC
Bob Alan Brackett — Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC
Richard Merlin Tullis — Analyst, Capital One Securities, Inc.
Anish Kapadia — Analyst, Tudor, Pickering, Holt & Co. International LLP

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Greetings and welcome to the Cobalt International Energy's First Quarter 2016 Financial Results Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Rob Cordray, Director of Investor Relations. Thank you, you may begin.

Good morning, everyone. Welcome to Cobalt International Energy's first quarter 2016 conference call. My name is Rob Cordray and I am the Director of Investor Relations for Cobalt. As a reminder, today's call is being recorded.

Before we get started, one housekeeping matter. This conference call includes forward-looking statements. The risks associated with forward-looking statements have been outlined in this morning's earnings release and in Cobalt's SEC filings and we incorporate these by reference for this call.

Joining me on today's call are Joe Bryant, Cobalt's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Shane Young, our Chief Financial Officer and other members of our Executive Team.

I will now turn the call over to Joe for his opening comments. Joe.

Thank you, Rob, and good morning everyone. On today's call, I will provide an update on a number of important topics. First, I will review the status of our Angola sale. Second, I'll focus on our liquidity and cash position. Third, I'll discuss our ongoing operations and fourth I'll update you on our organizational changes.

I realize that the lack of certainty on the timing of the closing of the Angola sale is as frustrating to you as it is for us here at Cobalt. However, I continue to expect this transaction to close. Through recent conversations that I have had with the principal involved on the Angolan side of this transaction, both parties, Sonangol and Cobalt, are aligned and have the full intention to close the sale transaction.

I continue to believe that this transaction is a matter of strategic importance to Angola and Sonangol. And Cobalt and Sonangol have agreed that if necessary, we would discuss options which will facilitate the closing of the transaction given the current difficult industry and market conditions.

The transaction does remain subject to the approval of the Angolan government and as of today, the Angolan government has given no indication that it does not support this transaction.

To the contrary, we continue to be told that the transaction will close and that we will need to be sure that Cobalt is in a position to effect a smooth transition of operations. Even with these assurances and indications, I want to confirm to you that we are at the same time protecting our rights to the Block 20 and Block 21 licenses and our discovered resources on these blocks, which includes a significant Zalophus pre-salt discovery that we recently have drilled on Block 20 along with the encouraging results that we've seen thus far from our Golfinho pre-salt exploration well also on Block 20.

I'll go into more detail about Zalophus and the Golfinho well results during my operational update. Over the past few months, we've continued to wind down our business activities and spending in Angola. We are currently completing drilling operations on our final well in Angola and expect to wrap these operations up over the next few days. We will then release the Catarina rig and all supporting services.

Additionally, in anticipation of closing the sale transaction, our team has developed a transition process and completed a handover data package to effect a smooth transition once the government approval is received.

I'll now spend a few minutes talking about our liquidity and cash position. Let me assure you that alongside closing the Angola transaction, preserving our cash is our highest priority.

At the end of the first quarter, we had approximately $1 billion of cash and cash equivalents held in continuing operations. And while we know that closing of the Angola transaction would add nearly $2 billion to this total, we recognize that closing is not guaranteed and we are evaluating various options that will preserve the value for Cobalt in the event the closing of Angola sale transaction continues to be delayed.

While our major firm financial commitments include only our Rowan Reliance rig contract and the interest payments on our convertible securities, we know that Cobalt's value is enhanced as we move our exceptional discovered resources through the value chain [ph] through (4:38) production, which will require capital to continue the appraisal and development of these assets.

Although we have a liquidity to take us through 2016 and into 2017 based on the current anticipated cash uses, we are actively developing strategies to extend our balance sheet and look forward to sharing the results of this effort when both the Angola sale transaction closes and our options are implemented to ensure our long-term financial position. Shane will provide more details on our cash position, balance sheet and financials later in the call.

I'll now turn to a discussion of our first quarter operations. Following the sale of our Angolan assets, our remaining portfolio was concentrated in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico. I want to reiterate that I believe our Gulf of Mexico portfolio is highly advantaged and attractive even in today's economic environment.

In the first quarter, we celebrated a significant milestone for Cobalt when production commenced at Heidelberg, representing Cobalt's first production and revenue. In addition, we continued appraisal operations in all three of our prolific Inboard Lower Tertiary deepwater Gulf of Mexico discoveries, which include North Platte, Anchor and Shenandoah. We believe that these discoveries collectively comprised 500 million to 650 million barrels of oil equivalent net to Cobalt.

Our Heidelberg field began producing in January from the first of three previously drilled wells and the remaining two wells came on line over the past few months. Plans are to drill and complete two additional development wells this year, which will result in a total of five producers by year end.

While the initial production rates from Heidelberg have not met our pre-startup expectations, it is very early in the producing life of the field. The operator and the working interest owners are evaluating several options to increase production at Heidelberg.

As we've previously disclosed, we reached objective depth in the North Platte number three sidetrack appraisal well in early February and those results indicate the well encountered approximately 500 feet of net oil pay in what appears to be excellent reservoir quality rock with an oil column in excess of 2000 feet.

Since our last call, analysis of fluid, core and pressure data obtained from the well confirms our initial views that North Platte could contain one of the largest oil accumulations in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico Inboard Lower Tertiary Trend and that the rock and reservoir properties are the best that Cobalt has seen to date, comparing favorably to properties we've seen in Miocene reservoirs.

I would like to remind you that these fluid and reservoir characteristics are precisely the geologic model that we predicted 10 years ago when we initiated the exploration of what we call the Inboard Lower Tertiary Trend. Our team is currently in the process of permitting the next North Platte appraisal well, which we anticipate will spud by year-end. Further, to mitigate risk and to enhance the competitiveness of North Platte, we are exploring a phased development with an early production scheme which would accelerate production from this world-class project with lower initial capital requirements, while leading to a full field development incorporating the learnings from the early production phase.

While still early in the evaluation, this would be an exciting development for Cobalt, likely lowering the minimum delineated volume requirement to sanction the early production phase and potentially opening up access to innovative financial partnerships that would further support capital requirements for Cobalt.

Cobalt, as operator, holds a 60% working interest in North Platte, which gives us great optionality and flexibility going forward. As we have previously mentioned, Cobalt plans to market some of our working interest in North Platte.

Moving to Anchor, we are currently participating in the Anchor #3 appraisal well and expect to have result sometime in the second half of this year. The Anchor discovery well and the first appraisal sidetrack well both encountered nearly 700 feet of net oil pay in an 1800 foot oil column in the Inboard Lower Tertiary reservoirs. Complete appraisal of Anchor will require further delineation wells and technical studies, but the data obtained to-date suggests that we will have well-developed reservoirs and that Anchor could be another very large oil accumulation in the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico Inboard Lower Tertiary trend.

Cobalt currently owns a 20% working interest in the Anchor unit. In addition, based on our mapping and well results to-date, we continue to believe that two Cobalt-owned leases on the south plank of the Anchor field, but outside of the Anchor unit, hold a large accumulation of hydrocarbons. We are continuing to evaluate the possibility of drilling a well on these leases and have begun the permitting process for a well to test the commercial feasibility of the hydrocarbons that we believe underlies these leases.

At Shenandoah, we are currently participating in the Shenandoah #5 appraisal well which we expect will help confirm both reservoir continuity and the commercial viability of this third significant Inboard Lower Tertiary discovery. We should have results from this well in the second half of 2016. Cobalt owns a 20% working interest in Shenandoah. Along with these appraisal and development operations, Cobalt also commands a Goodfellow #1 exploratory well in March. The Goodfellow prospect is a three-way closure, located approximately 18 miles southwest of Shenandoah. We consider Goodfellow to be another very attractive Inboard Lower Tertiary prospect. It's located near both the North Platte and the Shenandoah field, which we believe are in the sweet spot of the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico Lower Tertiary play.

Cobalt has a 72.5% working interest in Goodfellow. This is a higher working interest than previously disclosed due to one partner's election not to participate in the drilling of this exploration well. We expect to announce results of this well in the second half of 2016. And based on the results of this well, we would expect to market some of our working interest. We continue to bring several technical aspects of our unprecedented Angola and Gabon exploration success back to the Gulf of Mexico.

Just as we brought our understanding of subsoil imaging and drilling to Angola, we are utilizing our learnings of the [ph] Atlantic merchant (11:33) petroleum systems and applying them to what we've believe to be a new exploration province in the Gulf of Mexico. Over the past several years, Cobalt has successfully developed a large acreage position at very low cost in a new play in the Eastern part of the Central Gulf of Mexico.

As a first mover, we have been able to amass significant acreage position in the play with very little competition at a very low cost of entry. This is a similar play concept to very successful and prolific plays in other basins worldwide. If successful, this new play could be of equal potential to our exploration results delivered thus far. We plan to test this new exploration play as early as 2017.

On the exploration front, Cobalt participated in the recent Central Gulf of Mexico lease sale by placing six bids and was the high bidder on all six of our bids at a very modest aggregate capital cost of just over $3 million net to Cobalt. Each of these bid blocks was important for key prospects which we already own and have mapped adjacent to them. We look forward to being awarded these bid blocks over the next couple of months.

In Angola, as I previously mentioned, we successfully drilled our sixth discovery named Zalophus. This is our third pre-salt discovery in Block 20. Based upon the comprehensive data that was acquired during and after the drilling, we believe Zalophus is a significant condensate and gas discovery with positive implications for additional resources in both Block 20 and Block 21.

The Petroserv Catarina rig is currently nearing completion of drilling operations on an exploration well on the Golfinho pre-salt prospect, also in Block 20. While we'll learn more in the coming weeks, early analysis of the Golfinho data supports the view that we may have found another large mound-like feature with Cameia-like fluid and reservoir properties.

On confirmation of the data analysis, Golfinho will be another discovery in a remarkable run of exploration success for Cobalt and Angola. The pre-salt well will also fulfill the final exploration commitment that we have on Block 20. We estimate total discovered volumes for Block 20 and Block 21 to now be in excess of 2 billion barrels of oil equivalent, with over half being liquid hydrocarbon.

With this latest discovery, our pre-salt exploration success rate now stands at 100% in Block 20 and 85% across Block 20 and Block 21 with numerous pre-salt exploration prospects remaining to be drilled in both blocks. We are more convinced than ever, confirmed by the successful results of Zalophus and Golfinho wells, with the attractiveness of our Angolan Block 20 and Block 21.

We're extremely proud of our success in Angola and what it confirms about the quality and expertise of the Cobalt team and our execution capabilities. In our previous earnings call in February, I announced that we are implementing a significant staff reduction. In February and March, all of our personnel were informed of their job status, resulting in an approximate 60% reduction in companywide personnel, which is being phased in an orderly manner over a period of several months.

I want to emphasize that while our workforce has been considerably reduced, in fact to a greater extent than we stated last quarter, we have retained our proven and core exploration and operational competencies that have delivered our results today at scale to our current operational footprint. You'll have also seen our announcement in March that Van Whitfield, Cobalt's Chief Operating Officer, will leave the company effective June 30.

Van will continue as a special advisor to Cobalt until the end of the year. Van has been an outstanding leader and his contribution to store operational success are immeasurable. I will miss working with Van and wish him all the best as he transitions out of his role at Cobalt. Even though our professional relationship may be coming to a close, our friendship will certainly endure.

I'll turn the call now over to Shane who will discuss our financials in more detail. Go ahead, Shane.

Thank you, Joe. I'd like to quickly review Cobalt's first quarter 2016 financial performance, our March 31 cash and liquidity position, address our guidance for 2016 spending from continued operations and update our views on the economic value of our portfolio and strategic options.

As of March 31, we had approximately $1 billion in cash and equivalents on the balance sheet from continuing operations. Recall, this figure includes the $250 million in proceeds we have received from Sonangol pursuant to our sale of our Angola assets which we record as restricted cash, but excludes approximately $115 million of cash held in discontinued operations or assets held for sale.

Approximately $82 million of the cash and discontinued operations as of March 31 relates to LOC's, which cover a substantial portion of our final drilling obligations for Block 20. We expect the LOC's related to both the Zalophus well and the Golfinho well to be released shortly.

As noted in today's earnings release, Cobalt had first quarter loss from continuing operations of approximately $31 million or $0.08 per share. This compares to a year-ago first quarter loss of approximately $70 million or $0.17 per share, again, on a continuing operations basis.

This decrease in net loss was driven primarily by a decrease in seismic and exploration spending as we conserve capital and lower dry hole and impairment expenses. These reductions were offset by over $3 million of severance charges [ph] both to (17:48) continuing operations during the quarter.

In the quarter, I would also note that initial booking of revenue from our Heidelberg field. While the quarterly production volumes in revenue were modest, keep in mind the initial three wells were brought on line over the course of the quarter and two more development wells are planned during 2016; that should have a positive impact on total field rates and/or revenues.

Excluding changes in working capital, total cash uses in the quarter were approximately $136 million for capital and operating expenditures from continuing operations. This is relative to our anticipated full-year 2016 total cash uses from continuing operations of $600 million to $650 million, which also includes interest expense on our convertible notes.

These full-year amounts exclude restructuring expenditures which we now anticipate will be less than $15 million in 2016, but will benefit our G&A on a going forward basis from reductions in head count after our restructuring is complete.

Approximately half of the restructuring charge would be related to continuing operations. For 2016, we continue to expect to spend between $450 million and $500 million for capital expenditures in our Gulf of Mexico operations for drilling activities related to the Rowan Reliance rig as well as our OBO projects. We currently forecast that we will stay within – of this range in spite of the fact we have higher than planned working interest in the Goodfellow project at 72.5%.

We continue to believe that we will be able to execute our 2016 business plan within our original guidance based on successful realization of continued additional savings by the operating teams in other areas over the course of the year. We and our partners are also continuing to look for ways to reduce, defer or eliminate spending in all areas of our business.

Given where we are seeing market costs trending, we continue to believe our Inboard Lower Tertiary projects can be very competitive, delivering low $40 per barrel breakeven prices. We expect that the quality and scale of our Gulf of Mexico assets should be able to attract capital like few other upstream projects today.

Turning to Angola. We believe spending in the first half of 2016 will be approximately $120 million as we wind down our operations there. Recall, these expenses are largely covered by LOC's in discontinued operations and as well are reimbursable at the close of the sale transaction. As Joe indicated, we believe that our transaction with Sonangol will close and position us with a strong cash balance of roughly $2.9 billion on an as-adjusted basis as of March 31, 2016.

In the meantime, we'll continue to look for ways to reduce capital and operating costs and evaluate the strategic options Joe referred to earlier. While there is only so much we can say regarding these options, I would like to lay out the spectrum of things that we have been actively considering.

First, we have suspended virtually all new venture spending as is evident in our first quarter financial results. Second, we would consider stacking the Rowan Reliance rig, thus eliminating a substantial portion of the non-rig spread rate.

Third, we've reduced our overhead and non-essential G&A to minimal levels while maintaining our core technical strengths. Fourth, we continued to evaluate options with respect to our converts, particularly to address our 2019 maturity. Fifth, we're evaluating several M&A opportunities which would add production and cash flow to our business and could be coupled with creative financing structures that support the transactions.

Sixth, we have seen opportunities to reduce our working interest in some of our world-class projects. However, in today's market environment, they have not been compelling relative to the resource and value we see in the projects. But nonetheless, opportunities are there.

Seventh, while we expect the sale to close, the Angola transaction itself creates flexibility for Cobalt even if it didn't close. Specifically, it has put these assets temporally on the shelf and allowed us to take pause from spending and related activities while maintaining our ownership rights.

Further, if the deal were not to close, it would afford Cobalt the time and opportunity to renegotiate the terms of the contracts. Finally and only as a last resort, we would consider equity or equity-linked capital funding alternatives.

While we can't elaborate further on specific options under evaluation, many of these considerations are impacted by the visibility on the timing of the Angola sale proceeds. We will provide additional updates as and when there are material new developments.

With that, I will turn it back to you, Joe.

Thanks, Shane. Operator, we'd now like to open the line up for questions.

Thank you. At this time, we'll be conducting a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] One moment please while we poll for question.

Thank you. Our first question is coming from the line of Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley. Please proceed with your question.

Hey, good morning, guys.

Good morning, Evan.

Hey, Shane, I know – to maybe follow up on some of your comments, I know you addressed some of the flexibility that you have on Angola. Do I understand -I know you expect the transaction to close, but if you kind of pass that August 25 date without an approval, have you retained your capabilities in Angola to operate there?

And, I guess, with these exploration wells, have you – I guess, you've secured those blocks now to consider other strategic alternatives in the future. Am I understanding kind of where your capabilities are [ph] and understanding (24:42) that path?

Evan, this is Joe. I'll handle that. You're largely correct in your hypothesis. But what we've done first and foremost is, we did have two more wells to drill on Block 20 at the time we signed the actual sale agreement. A lot has happened since August 22. First and foremost, we made two more discoveries, we believe, on Block 20. Keep in mind that we used the rig to potentially drill out the production wells on Cameia.

Shasank and his team have put together basically what's an off-the-shelf development plan to put Cameia on line. And at the same time, because of the agreement or the sales and purchase agreement with Sonangol, we have the ability to essentially defer or put all future spending on the shelf.

So in the event that we get to the point where the sale transaction isn't going to proceed, what we would do then and what's called for in the contract is for us to sit down with Sonangol and basically renegotiate everything from scratch to reestablish our position to where it would have been had this never been established.

But as I said, we're in a lot better shape now and the assets are in a lot better shape now than they were then. I'd also mentioned that probably a month or so ago that Angola and Sonangol had communiqués that I think indicate they realize now that tying gas rights to oil rights in several key prospects over [ph] there and (26:18) projects are essential and that they made their blanket statement that in the future, they need to talk to the contractor group about tying those gas rights to oil rights.

So all of that says to me that we couldn't be in better shape. We expect the sale transaction to close. In the unforeseen event it doesn't close, we own what we believe is a kind of a top-shelf world-class asset base there that's ready for development.

Great. And maybe I should – can shift to Shenandoah. How do you think about your pref rights there? I don't know maybe it's – [ph] you did too great (27:02) a need for liquidity or higher carry costs, but clearly one of your partners transacted at a relatively low price. If you had a view on that value or how you think about your pref rights at Shenandoah.

Yes. We're obviously aware [ph] the transaction is (27:16) in the public domain. Clearly what we think is an undervalued transaction. Again for us, I'll be pretty blunt about it; there are two things. One, we look at our assets on the Gulf of Mexico; the Big Three that we have today being North Platte, Anchor and Shenandoah, we would probably put Shenandoah at number three on those assets for a couple of reasons; one, what our ultimate working interest is going to be and our ability to control the future development.

Secondly, it wasn't so much the cost exercise, the ROFR that we look at, but the ultimate capital exposure you'd have during the development phase. And frankly, we probably would want to spend our limited capital over the next several years on our – either operated asset like North Platte or in assets that we feel pretty good about in Anchor before we'd spend incremental capital at Shenandoah. So for us, [ph] they're great price (28:20), but we didn't want to expose ourselves to the future capital and be in a position where we couldn't spend that capital on assets that we would rank higher than Shenandoah.

Is that how you'd rank the resource size in North Platte, Anchor, Shenandoah from 1 to 3?

Based on what we see today, we would.

Appreciate it, guys.

The next question is from the line of Bob Brackett with Bernstein Research. Please go ahead sir.

Hi. Can you give some color on – I know you're getting asked different ways, the state of the government approval for the transaction, are there key milestones? Are there upcoming meetings? Is there anything we can watch externally? Is the reorg. of Sonangol impacting this at all?

Good question, Bob. And good to hear from you. I would say it's probably impossible to say it's not all related. Keep in mind that the government approval, the way we structured the deal on the first place, the government approval really is the trip wire for payment. And so, I can see where the government is intentionally holding back government approval until they have the financing lined up to pay us. That's one analysis that you could make.

Again, we are in constant contact with everyone both in the government through Sonangol to the [indiscernible] (29:48) in Sonangol and get no indication that this transaction is not going to close and it's not a matter of strategic importance for them. And we have every intention that it's going to close. And [indiscernible] (30:05) notionally talked about is that there's ways to restructure the phasing of the payments to make it easier for us to conclude the transaction. That's something we'll be talking to Sonangol about in the coming months. But again, I don't think there's nothing that we've seen that would suggest – all parties don't have the intention to close the transaction.

So you'd be comfortable [ph] in most (30:32) payments over time from Sonangol as the last resort where they get – I mean they've already forwarded the $0.25 billion. Perhaps there's a structure where that process continues over a period of time.

Well, actually, that's the way the structure of the agreement was – originally was that they paid us $250 million and then within 15 days of government approval, they paid us some more and then upon final transfer of operatorship, they made the final payment.

So that's what I'm referring to that if there's a more amenable way that that payment schedule can be organized for them, we're all ears. But we haven't had those direct conversations with them yet, but we've made it clear that we'd be willing to have those conversations at the right time.

Thank you.

Thank you, Bob.

Our next question is from the line of Richard Tullis of Capital One Securities. Please go ahead with your question.

Hey. Thanks. Good morning. Joe or Shane, you just touched on, I guess, one of the options available to dealing with the Angola transaction. Joe, are there other options out there also available? Are you possibly looking at any reduction in the sale price?

I can be clear on that that there's been no discussion whatsoever of a reduction in the sale price at all at this point.

Yeah. And Richard, Shane here, look, I would just say, since the signing of the deal, Joe talked about this earlier, we've completed some of the initial production wells at Cameia. We have two additional discoveries, price obviously dipped and has largely rebounded. And then as well, we've continued to see industry-wide massive cost deflation. And so, if anything, I think this is a more valuable asset today to somebody than would've been a year ago.

Okay. And then as far as the timeline for meeting certain requirements with the original agreements, are all those still in place where essentially you would have to have production, I guess, from the early discoveries on, I don't know what the timeline would be, sometime in the next year or two, to meet those agreements? And then, is it – at this point, you would sit down and renegotiate that agreement, but there's nothing contracted yet to give an extension? Am I understanding it correctly?

Largely, you're correct. To be clear, in all of those agreements, there's specific timelines that delineate how – when you have to drill the exploration wells, when you have to drill appraisal wells, when you declare something commercial, when you get approval for the project and when you have first production, etcetera.

Clearly, Shashank and his team are ready on Cameia to progress all of that, but because of the transactions, we have intentionally put all of that on the shelf. And so, there's no way that we could meet the contractual timelines required for something like Cameia and frankly the rest of our assets because we're not drilling the appraisal wells, etcetera.

That was all contemplated in the original agreement and basically [ph] said that (33:57) for any reason that doesn't close, then we do have to sit down and reestablish the contractors' group position vis-à-vis the date of closing, which was August 22. So, again, I think in some ways, we're in a really good position. We're going to plan on it closing, but if it doesn't close, we'll have time to renegotiate the contracts themselves in a way that works for Sonangol and works for the contractor group.

Okay. That's helpful. Thank you. And...

I guess I'm going to make this point very clear that under no circumstances will we lose the asset that we can contemplate anyway.

Okay. And then Joe, could you discuss the impact of that new concession area that I guess includes part of [indiscernible] (34:51)?

Frankly, it's our understanding that that was not entirely accurate and the government, including the petroleum ministry, is reconsidering that in terms of what they intended.

So, I can't be clear on that. What I've been told is that our rights are intact and that secondly, that the government and the Petroleum Ministry [indiscernible] (35:18) eventually the gas rights will have to be conveyed or somehow conferred to the contractor group to make all this work. So, a little bit of confusion, I think, on that, but I don't think there was an mal-intent based on what I understand today.

Okay. And then just lastly, what's the outlook for bidding on the Deepwater leases offshore Mexico at this point?

I'll let Jim handle that.

Yeah. The timetable currently stands at December of this year. Of course it's been delayed by more than a year to this point, but it looks increasingly firm for the Deepwater portion of Mexico.

Okay. All right. Well, thank you. Appreciate the answers.

Thank you.

Our next question is from the line of Anish Kapadia with Tudor, Pickering, Holt. Please go ahead with your question.

Hi. Good morning. Just – first of all on – a question on the Gulf of Mexico. [indiscernible] (36:18) on Shenandoah. I was just wondering if you could give a bit more color on some of the faulting that's being seen on Shenandoah and that's being picked up on seismic and the potential compartmentalization risk?

And secondly in the Gulf of Mexico, on Heidelberg, I just wanted to see if you could go into a bit more detail on what the issue is being with the wells. They seem to be producing two-thirds less than the level they were expected to be producing here.

So just if you can give some more color of, is it a reservoir issue, is it a well completion issue? What could be potentially done to rectify it and is there any impact on the RBL based on Heidelberg? Thank you.

This is Jim Farnsworth again, let me address Shenandoah. And I think James Painter is going to talk about Heidelberg. At Shenandoah, Shenandoah's structure is a very large structure and a relatively simple structure.

We do believe there is some faulting there. We know there is some faulting, but the appraisal wells are designed to evaluate any compartmentalization and that's what they're doing. So, the wells have been remarkably successful. And we continue to see the structure unlike some structures of that scale; it actually is a relatively simple structure.

On Heidelberg, this is James Painter, and I think the – the first one that we talked about is we were expecting four wells to be on line and we have three on line. For all of the other items, we continue to work with the operator to assess any remedial or any issues that we have with any of the wells that have been drilled or we plan to drill. And that's where we're looking to drill the two additional wells and have on line by the end of the year.

Yeah. Just to follow up on that. My understanding was in the development plan, the expected production rights were about 14,000 barrels a day. And it seems like given where production is at the moment, you're producing about a third of that level. But what's the reason for that?

I think all of those questions, you'd have to go back to the operator and discuss with Anadarko.

Okay. And then the impact on your RBL?

Yeah. Sorry, here, happy to – Shane here. I'll address that question. On the RBL, so we're probably a week or two out from completing the redetermination with our banks, our regularly scheduled redetermination, so we should have something definitive to file and share with you over the next coming weeks.

Suffice to say the impact of not only sort of the price environment we're in, but also at the same time some of the initial well performance will be likely a reduction in the size of the facility and quite possibly a material reduction in the size of the facility going forward. The facility would have room to grow again as additional wells would be added.

Can I just ask one additional question on Angola? Just wanted to understand what [ph] kind of has (39:46) been going on with Cameia from a Sonangol perspective? I know you've passed it over now to Sonangol. The original intention was to take final investment decision this year and award the contract. Is that something that you'd still expect to happen this year or does that [indiscernible] (40:06) put on hold until there's some decision on completion of the deal?

If I understood your question is, what's the status of FID on Cameia, is that it?

Yes.

Yeah. Well, you got be clear, and we've disclosed previously that with Sonangol's approval, where we were on Cameia is, we had actually tendered for all of the significant major development contracts for that project and we were at the point of sitting down with potential successful bidders and negotiating terms and conditions for those contracts.

Again, with Sonangol's approval, we put all of that on ice, if you will, notified all the vendors that we would not be proceeding with that and have essentially boxed everything up, ready to give to either Sonangol or the new operator.

So I would say in summary, there is zero chance that you could get FID on Cameia this year based on where we are on the project and where any successor operator would be. And again, we don't anticipate that it will be our issue, but we have everything ready for them to negotiate everything and continue on. But assuming you wouldn't reach FID until all of that was completed, I would say there's virtually no chance that Cameia would be sanctioned this year by anybody.

Okay, thanks very much.

Thank you, Anish.

Thank you.

I would like to turn the floor over to management.

I think that's all of the questions today. I appreciate everybody's time and attention and as is always the case, if you've got any follow-up questions, please get a hold of Rob or one of us here and we'll be happy to help you out. Thank you all very much.

Thank you. This concludes today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at this time. We thank you for your participation.