corrected transcript


Cobalt International Energy,


Inc.
 
CIE
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 12, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Greeting and welcome to the Cobalt International Energy Third Quarter 2010 Earnings


Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal


presentation. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.


It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Joe Bryant, Chairman and CEO of Cobalt. Thank you,


Mr. Bryant. You may begin.


Joseph H. Bryant Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Good Morning. Thank you for joining us today for Cobalt’s Third Quarter 2010 Financial and


Operational Call. Joining me today on the call is our CFO, John Wilkirson. I have a few brief


comments to make before I turn the call over to John to discuss our financial results.


Our third quarter highlights are dominated by significant progress on many aspects of our business


in Angola and the Gulf of Mexico. These were tempered by the lack of operational progress in the


Gulf due to the Drilling Moratorium. Let me spend a minute on a few of our accomplishments.


During the quarter, we opened our office in Luanda and are now a fully functioning operator in-


country. We also issued tenders and awarded contracts for long lead items necessary to drill our


first pre-salt wells in the first half of 2011. In addition, as this morning’s release announced, we


have secured the Ocean Confidence drilling rig for our pre-salt drilling campaign.


The rig is currently drilling in West Africa for another operator and will be delivered to us some time


in the first quarter. As our plans currently stand, we may farm the rig out to another operator in


Angola for a relatively short well prior to beginning our Angolan pre-salt drilling campaign.


Based on our current time estimates, we expect to spud our first well sometime early in the second


quarter. Establishing our operating office and securing the Ocean Confidence are significant


milestones for Cobalt. We are humbled to know that Cobalt will drill the first well specifically


targeting the pre-salt offshore Angola and likely deepwater West Africa. We’re in this position due


to the strong technical work that we have done over the past five years, and the impressions that


our work has made on Sonangol.


While I’m on the quality of our technical work, let me say that we continue to methodically progress


our entire West African pre-salt portfolio. One of the more interesting facts that I can share with you


as a result of that work is that in the shallower water portions of Angola’s Kwanza Basin, at least 10


wells have penetrated the top of the pre-salt section, as evidence by log data, and all 10 of those


wells were drilled prior to 2002. Of these 10 wells, all 10 have indications of pre-salt oil saturation.


We believe none of them were drilled with the pre-salt as a primary objective, but rather targeted


the post-salt section and were deepened for one reason or another. This, along with the fact that


they were drilled on 2D data infers that many of them were probably not drilled in an optimum


location to adequately test the pre-salt. This important observation has changed the calculus on our


risking of the pre-salt play offshore West Africa.


We began our West African pre-salt study nearly five years ago before the significant Tufi discovery


in Brazil. At that time, one of the biggest risks that concerned us was the presence of an active


hydrocarbon system. Our recent work combined with the unprecedented drilling results on the


Brazilian side of the Atlantic margin have given us confidence that this risk has been reduced.
corrected transcript


Cobalt International Energy,


Inc.
 
CIE
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 12, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


Our seismic work has clearly identified significant structural closures required to trap large


accumulations of oil. Our drilling objective for our first wells is to find large volumes of mobile oil in


porous rock.


Our work continues on several more prospects in Block 21, where we are in the final stages of re-


processing the current 3D survey over the entire Block. We have begun shooting 2,500 square


kilometer 3D survey in Block 9, and during the third quarter, we completed the acquisition of a


6,000 square kilometer 3D survey on our Diaba Block in Gabon.


We expect to spend the next year or so evaluating both the Block 9 and Diaba seismic surveys to


position us to begin drilling on both blocks in 2012.


As a reminder, the scale of our West African leasehold is enormous. We currently own a significant


working interest in just under 19,000 square kilometers on a gross basis in both Gabon and Angola.


This is equivalent to over 800 blocks in the Gulf of Mexico. It is very exciting to know that in less


than a year from now, we will have tested at least two world-scale prospects in our portfolio. All of


our work continues to confirm that the analogy between the pre-salt in West Africa and Brazil is


possible.


Turning to the Gulf of Mexico, we have made considerable progress on several fronts. We have


continued to fine-tune our technical work on several near-term prospects that we intend to drill once


permit – drilling permits are obtained.


Our current drilling schedule suggests that we’ll drill North Platte, Ligurian, Aegean and Ardennes in


that order. However, this order could change depending upon the timing of obtaining the drilling


permits for these early wells on the schedule. On a combined basis, the DeGolyer and


MacNaughton estimate that these four prospects contain just under 500 million barrels of net risked


resource. We are heartened by fact that our continued G&G work validates all four of these


prospects as world-class.


Our outside operating portfolio continues to mature as well. While it is somewhat more difficult to


predict when the operators will spud these wells, we are optimistic about the appraisal drilling at our


Heidelberg and Shenandoah discoveries. We’re also intrigued by the potential that we see in our


Keathley Canyon acreage that offsets the recent Lucius discovery. We are working that area very


hard now, and so far, we like what we see. I will have more on our thoughts on our portfolio in that


area in future calls.


Regarding the impact of the Drilling Moratorium, we have made considerable progress in our efforts


to obtain all permits necessary to resume drilling. Over the past few weeks, we have submitted


permit applications for two wells and are currently waiting on BOEM approval. Given the uncertainty


on when we can expect approval, we have taken steps to minimize our financial exposure to any


unforeseen permitting display of delays.


As you’re aware, we are awaiting delivery of the Ensco 8503 rig some time after the first of the new


year. The rig is currently in route from Singapore and will arrive in the Gulf of Mexico sometime in


the next few weeks. After her arrival, the 8503 will undergo final fit out and testing, which means


that it will not be delivered to Cobalt until some time in the late January 2011.


Due to the uncertainty of drilling permit timing, we have taken a few steps to minimize any financial


exposure to standby time for the 8503 once it is accepted by Cobalt. Specifically, we’ve done two


things. The first is that we have negotiated a reduced standby rig with Ensco for the rig in the event


that we do not obtain drilling permits on a timely basis. The second is that we are actively pursuing


opportunities to farm out the rig outside of the Gulf of Mexico for a period of time until the permitting


process becomes more predictable.