Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Rob Cordray — Director-Investor Relations, Cobalt International Energy, Inc.
Joseph H. Bryant — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Cobalt International Energy, Inc.
Shannon E. Young — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Cobalt International Energy, Inc.
James W. Farnsworth — Chief Exploration Officer and Executive Vice President, Exploration and New Ventures, Cobalt International Energy, Inc.
James H. Painter — Executive Vice President, Execution and Appraisal, Cobalt International Energy, Inc.
Van P. Whitfield — Chief Operating Officer & Executive Vice President, Cobalt International Energy, Inc.
Evan Calio — Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC
Ryan Todd — Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc.
Edward George Westlake — Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC (Broker)
Jeb Bachmann — Analyst, Scotia Capital (USA), Inc.
Richard M. Tullis — Analyst, Capital One Securities, Inc.
Shola Labinjo — Analyst, Tudor, Pickering, Holt & Co. International LLP
Michael Scialla — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, everyone, and welcome to the Cobalt International Energy Third Quarter 2015 Conference Call.

Now for opening remarks and introductions, I will turn the conference over to Director of Investor Relations for Cobalt, Mr. Rob Cordray. Please go ahead, sir.

Good morning, everyone. Welcome to Cobalt International Energy's third quarter 2015 conference call. My name is Rob Cordray, and I'm the Director of Investor Relations for Cobalt. Just a reminder, today's call is being recorded.

Before we get started, one housekeeping matter. This conference call includes forward-looking statements. The risks associated with forward-looking statements have been outlined in this morning's earnings release and in Cobalt's SEC filings, and we incorporate these by reference for this call.

Joining me on today's call are Joe Bryant, Cobalt's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Shane Young, our Chief Financial Officer; and other members of our executive team.

I will now turn the call over to Joe for his opening comments. Joe?

Thank you, Rob, and good morning, everyone. Before we get started on the financial and operational results of our third quarter, I would like to acknowledge and welcome Shane Young to the Cobalt executive team as our Chief Financial Officer. I know that many of you know Shane from various relationships and projects in the past, and hold him at very high esteem. Needless to say, he's made numerous significant contributions to Cobalt in the few short weeks that he's been with us. Welcome aboard, Shane.

Despite some of the overall gloom and doom that pervades our industry today, we're extremely proud of the results that we have delivered in the third quarter. At the top of the list is the transformation of sale of our Angolan assets for $1.75 billion, which allows us to reposition our business in what we believe to be higher margin barrels in the Gulf of Mexico.

In addition, as you all have seen in our earnings release, Cobalt delivered exceptional results in our deepwater Gulf of Mexico key focus area, where we participated in successful appraisal and development operations that further advanced all four of our significant deepwater discoveries towards various stages of development and, ultimately, production.

The combination of the sale of the Angolan assets and the positive results in the Gulf of Mexico means that we now have the balance sheet capacity for the next several years to position Cobalt for long-term success. We continue to believe that our Gulf of Mexico portfolio is one of the best in the basin and will deliver outstanding value to you, our shareholders.

Before I discuss our Gulf of Mexico activities in detail, I'd like to take a few minutes to update you on the status of our Angolan transaction. As you know, we announced in August that we had entered into a purchase and sale agreement with Sonangol to sell them our Angolan portfolio. We have received Sonangol's first payment of $250 million and are awaiting Angolan government approval of the transaction, after which we will close the sale to Sonangol.

Upon closing, Sonangol will pay us the second payment, which will consist of approximately $1.3 billion less Angolan taxes. We will also be reimbursed for all of Cobalt's costs expended from January 1, 2015 through the date of closing. A third payment of $200 million will be paid to us when we transfer operations on the blocks. We continue to anticipate that we will receive Angolan government approvals and we'll close the transaction with Sonangol before the end of this year.

Once closed, the sale of our Angolan assets further strengthens our already strong balance sheet, liquidity, and optionality to focus our investments on our high-value deepwater Gulf of Mexico assets. Our robust balance sheet will also provide us with the opportunity to selectively evaluate attractive new opportunities that we anticipate will arise in today's market related to our core strengths centered around our expertise in offshore exploration, appraisal and development operations.

Our Angolan sale is yet another example of how we will always seek to fiercely protect our balance sheet at all times so that we can adequately fund our appraisal and development activities in order to deliver first oil from our exceptional projects. This transaction indicates we are prepared to make tough decisions that we believe are required in every successful business.

I'll now discuss our third quarter operations and results in more detail. In the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, we recently completed drilling operations on the North Platte number 3 appraisal well and are currently evaluating the results from the well. While we still have a lot of work to do in this evaluation, we are very pleased with the results we have seen so far, which indicate that the well encountered approximately 550 feet of net oil pay, similar to the pay count we found in the discovery well.

We are particularly pleased that it appears that the appraisal well encountered better developed Inboard Lower Tertiary Wilcox reservoirs than those seen in the discovery well. This is the first appraisal well at North Platte, and we will need to perform additional appraisal and technical studies in order to confirm the commerciality of North Platte.

Right now, we are evaluating bypass coring and sidetrack options in order to determine our next steps following our ongoing logging and evaluation operations. As a reminder, the North Platte discovery well was drilled in 2012 and encountered 550 feet of net oil pay and multiple high-quality Inboard Lower Tertiary reservoirs.

Moving to our Anchor project, we are very excited about the results of our Anchor number 2 sidetrack number 1 appraisal well. The data from this appraisal well suggests that we have well-developed reservoirs and that Anchor could be one of the largest oil accumulations in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico Inboard Lower Tertiary Wilcox trend.

You will recall that we announced the results of the Anchor number 2 discovery well in January of this year. The Anchor number 2 sidetrack number 1 appraisal well was drilled down-dip to delineate the discovery, and appraisal results confirm the hydrocarbon accumulation found in the discovery well. The appraisal well encountered 694 feet of net oil pay and a hydrocarbon column of at least 1,800 feet in the Inboard Lower Tertiary Wilcox reservoirs.

Another benefit of the Anchor number 2 sidetrack was to provide higher confidence in the potential of two Cobalt-operated leases located just south of the Anchor unit boundary. During the third quarter, Cobalt began the permitting process which would allow us to drill on these leases in the future. These Cobalt leases are not currently part of the Anchor unit. A complete appraisal of Anchor will be required following further delineation wells and technical studies.

At Shenandoah, operations were completed on the Shenandoah number 4 appraisal well, which tested the up-dip limit of the basin. The subsequent Shenandoah number 4 sidetrack encountered over 600 feet of net oil pay, extending the lowest known oil column down-dip.

It's important to note also that we didn't establish an oil-water contact in this well. We're currently performing a bypass coring operation on the reservoir interval to establish the reservoir quality in the oil column. In addition to the appraisal operations, Anadarko as operator is conducting development concept activities and we anticipate that they will continue to advance Shenandoah towards sanction.

At our Heidelberg project, development drilling and production facility construction continues to advance towards initial production in the second quarter of 2016, which is sooner than our previous expectation of a mid-year startup. The initial production will be from three subsea wells, with two additional wells coming online later. The Heidelberg hull has been moored in place and the topsides have been recently installed, so we're very pleased with the progress that Anadarko has made in moving Heidelberg to first production.

I'll now move to our exploration activities in the Gulf of Mexico. We are continuing to prepare to drill our Goodfellow Inboard Lower Tertiary prospect and expect to obtain approval of our Goodfellow exploration plan very soon. Once we obtain this approval, we will file for approval of our drilling permit and we expect that we will commence the Goodfellow exploration well sometime in the first half of 2016.

We are definitely seeing a favorable environment to expand our exploration portfolio through acquisition of working interest and very high-quality prospects in the Gulf of Mexico on attractive terms. Budget cuts are hitting the industry very hard, and it seems that the industry is following the historical pattern of reducing exploration budget as a first priority, which in turn allows companies like Cobalt that have high confidence in our exploration skills to acquire quality assets at favorable terms. We are evaluating numerous opportunities that may fit well with our portfolio.

Our new ventures team is also hard at work monitoring and evaluating opportunities in Mexico and the East Coast of Canada. It's too early to say for sure how these opportunities may compete with our core Gulf of Mexico opportunities both technically and economically.

I'll now turn the call over to Shane to update you on our financials.

Thank you, Joe. It's a pleasure to have the opportunity to join you and the team today. I don't think I could have joined Cobalt at a more exciting time in its history, and I look forward to helping the team deliver the value inherent in our unique portfolio as we continue to mature our core projects. Moreover, I look forward to continuing to meet with those of you who've joined us on the call this morning.

Turning to the third quarter results. As of September 30, we had approximately $1.7 billion in cash on the balance sheet, including restricted cash and cash held in our discontinued operations. This number does not include funds available under our $150 million Heidelberg credit facility, but does include the initial $250 million payment we received from Sonangol pursuant to our Angola transaction. To clarify upfront, given the announced agreement to sell our Angolan assets, those financial results are now shown as discontinued operations or assets held for sale.

As you've seen in today's earnings release, Cobalt had a third quarter loss from continuing operations of $49.7 million or $0.12 per share. This compares to a year-ago third quarter loss of $67.1 million or $0.16 per share, again, on a continuing operations basis.

Excluding changes in working capital, we spent approximately $172 million on capital and operating expenditures from our continuing operations in the third quarter of 2015. This brings us to around $375 million in spending from continuing operations for the first nine months of the year, which is in line with our adjusted 2015 capital and operating expenditure guidance of approximately $500 million to $550 million. This amount excludes approximately $100 million of additional cash anticipated to be used for interest and other expenses during the year.

As Joe mentioned, we expect to close the Angola transaction by the end of this year, which would trigger the next payment of $1.3 billion as well as reimbursement of Cobalt's 2015 expenditures in Angola. In addition, the remaining $200 million payment would be received at some point on or before the third quarter of 2016 or earlier when operations of the blocks are transferred to the new operator.

In parallel, we'll be evaluating potential options for redeployment of a portion of this capital at attractive risk-adjusted rates of return. Of course, the most important of which is funding the needs for capital for continued appraisal and development of our robust set of projects in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, while also evaluating attractive exploration opportunities that are becoming available in today's market.

As Joe mentioned earlier, we'll continue to stay focused on our balance sheet and liquidity. At the same time, we will maintain a disciplined approach to ensure that the funds from our Angolan sale are invested in opportunities that provide the highest long-term benefit to our shareholders.

I will now turn the call back over to Rob.

Thanks, Shane. Operator, we'd now like to open up the lines for questions.

Thank you. We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Evan Calio of Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good morning, guys, and congratulations on three successful appraisal wells in the quarter.

Thanks, Evan.

Yeah. My first question is on North Platte. Can you tell us what you've learned here that's incremental? What did you find when you drilled to the deeper Lower Tertiary sand, I think, that you were targeting? And if you can, how this alters your 400 million to 850 million barrel resource estimate that you admitted this time around in the presentation?

Hi, Evans. Jim Farnsworth here. I'd say that what we've seen in this well is very consistent in many ways with what we saw in the first well, which is what we were expecting. What we did see, however, is it looks like a better quality reservoir and that has a potential for being well connected and essentially the same pressure regime. And a lot of that report is that would be an early indicator that potentially we would require a fewer development wells, if we were to take this into development.

So I would emphasize we're kind of halfway through our operations now. We have drilled this well, but we are preparing to do a bypass core, then sidetrack to the East. So, more news later [inaudible] (15:12).

And with regard to next steps, I appreciate the appraisal plan color. But the farm-down of interest, is that something that's kind of a post-appraisal process and does this also affect activity around the discovery?

I think we will look to decide whether we want to farm some interest down after all of our operations are completed. In other words, after our sidetracks.

Great. Great. And Joe, maybe a broader strategic question. And following up on your comments in the opening comments on potential assets or lease opportunities, given the tremendous stress to the industry. Can you just kind of talk about where you're focused and whether that's on – or interested on the production or near production side, given you're already very rich on the resource side? Or any color there on how you're looking at opportunities?

Yeah. Evan, I would say that, first of all, there's all kinds of opportunity that are coming in the door now that, frankly, weren't there even six months ago or certainly a year ago. Certainly, opportunities around very high-quality exploration prospects that fit very well with our understanding of the geology. So we do think we have a leg up both in terms of all of the technologies required to be a successful explorer in certain parts of the deepwater. But at the same time, there's a lot of opportunities around production assets that, frankly, weren't available at a reasonable price, we believe, I'm sorry, a year ago.

So we're not ruling anything in or anything out now. I think your point is a good one about one of the things that we will be very careful about is loading up with more balance sheet requirement in the next several years in terms of development.

So we think we have a pretty full plate of development opportunities that will yield exceptionally high return to our shareholders. And so that isn't the gap that we necessarily feel like we need to fill right now.

So, Shane, do you have anything to add on that?

No, Joe. Only that, look, I think it's fairly well established out there that a number of our peers have been reevaluating how they want to approach the deepwater market. And, obviously, we're watching that and listening to that over time. But I think the key focus that Joe has emphasized is we'll continue to be disciplined in terms of the way we think about this capital post-sale and how it gets deployed.

Great. And I appreciate that. If I could just slip one more small one, if I could. On Anchor, did I understand your comments in the open that you think the structure may extend on to your adjoining blocks where you have higher interest? And how does that affect your activity? Is that where the other drill slot in 2016 is going, or rig slot? Thanks.

This is Jim Farnsworth, Evan. So I think what we're clearly stating is that results of the initial well and the second penetration is greater confirmation that we do have a piece of that structure on our 100% blocks. Now, as to what our operations will be in the future, we're setting ourselves up for the option to drill either next year or the year after that on these two blocks, which actually have quite a bit of time left on them. And as you mentioned, we will operate both of them.

Great. Appreciate it, guys. Thank you.

Thanks, Evan.

Thank you. The next question is from Ryan Todd of Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead.

Great. Thanks. Good morning, guys. Maybe if I could follow up on the previous question a little bit in terms of the use of proceeds. I appreciate the color around maybe some of the types of assets that you might be looking at. But could you comment a little bit in terms of maybe how you view other options for these proceeds, whether you would consider things such as share buyback or retiring some of the converts? I guess what are the full range of options? And maybe do you have any idea in terms of how much cushion you feel like you need on the capital side, how much cushion you need to maintain on the balance sheet?

Yeah, Ryan, it's Shane here. Look, I'll take that to start. So I guess the way I would describe it is our first priority is making sure that we've got the balance sheet and the liquidity to continue to advance our core projects and the appraisal process and move them forward.

I think after that, at this point, we haven't taken anything off the table, including the full range of inorganic things that we talked about a moment ago. There are a number of things on the organic side that we continue to evaluate and may pursue.

And then there's the return of capital bucket that you referred to, and we would certainly consider those and compare the returns associated with those against the other organic and inorganic opportunities.

Great. That's helpful. And maybe as a follow-up to that, because I think there are probably still questions floating around about this. I mean, can you talk a little bit about how you view risk associated with the deal closing in Angola? What are the risks, if any, and what are your thoughts around that?

This is Joe. All I can tell you is what we believe and what we believe is that all the activities, both inside of Cobalt, which as soon as we announced the transaction we established a transition team that is rather complicated in terms of not only transferring all the operations but everything else financially with these assets to Sonangol. All of that work is underway at pace.

On the other side of the equation, all indications from Sonangol and Angola are such that they're moving at pace to close the deal and indications are what we said was we believe that we have every reason to believe that it'll still occur by year end. So that's all I can tell you, nothing more than that or less than that. We still are pretty confident.

Great. That's wonderful. And then maybe last one. Just I appreciate the commentary from earlier on Anchor in terms of the results. I mean, could you talk a little bit more maybe about how the results came in relative to pre-drill expectations and maybe what the timing at Anchor and North Platte would be towards – what you view is kind of the pathway towards eventual FID around timing in additional appraisal wells?

Let me start with the first and then maybe James Painter can take the second part of that. I think certainly the sidetrack easily met our expectations. It came in almost exactly on prognosis and we're really pleased with it. Whenever you push the oil-water contact down further, you're happy and you're especially happy when you have a nice big reservoir with clearly a significant [inaudible] (23:04). Those are kinds of the key elements of a great future development. So we're really pleased with it.

And I think as – Ryan, this is James Painter. As far as moving toward FID, I think what we'll see in 2016 is continued appraisal. We still have some items there and some uncertainties that we need to move forward on. So you'll see another Anchor well as well as another North Platte well after we finish our bypass and sidetrack. So you'll see continued appraisal within 2016.

Great. Thank you very much.

Thank you, Ryan.

Thank you. The next question is from Ed Westlake of Credit Suisse. Please go ahead.

Yeah. I guess a good follow-on to that, I mean, just in terms of the organic budget excluding external lease opportunities, I mean maybe just talk through 2016. You've got Goodfellow, as you mentioned, appraisal wells at Anchor and North Platte. Just initial – some expectations for the sort of range that it might come in at?

Yeah. I'm reluctant to talk about a range, but I think I can talk about activity. So we'll be finishing up with Heidelberg next year, so there's less of that. We have the Rowan Reliance rig that we'll be using for the entire year, similar to what we did this year. So, whether it's drilling this well or that well is a question only because it'll decide what our working interest is and what our budget is for that. We haven't nailed all that down yet. So all I can say for sure is that we will be drilling all next year with the Reliance.

And as, I think, Jim and James have just said, we expect appraisal activities ongoing in Shenandoah and we expect appraisal activities ongoing in Anchor. So, lots of work. I wouldn't suggest that – I wouldn't forecast a wild swing from where we'll end up this year. The project mix will be probably very slightly from what we did this year, but as I think – I and the rest of executive team look out for the next few years, anyway, kind of a steady-state spin about where we'll end up in 2015.

Okay. Great. Thanks very much. And then, on – I mean it's still clearly very early and there was a lot of chatter on the last call on the call below that, as oil prices come down about where these giant reservoirs will break-even. And clearly, there's always going to be a market at some point for these giant reservoirs. But I mean are you getting to the point where you can narrow down the F&D cost or some kind of economic break-even that we should be thinking about?

Yeah. Hey. Shane, here. I'll start off on that one, if you will. But look, I think, obviously, it's something we think a lot about and it's a very dynamic question, and we're constantly getting new data like the data the team's talked about today that sort of help us with that.

I would say a couple of things on the returns and ultimately the F&D that are going to impact it. One is going to be obviously the size of resource we have, and again, we continue to appraise that. But we're happy with the results that we're announcing this quarter.

And then the second piece is obviously going to be the cost side. And we continue to observe in the marketplace cost deflation that's been working through really over the last year plus at this point. And we would anticipate that we'll continue to see costs work their way down for the foreseeable future.

So those two factors will be pretty positive in terms of ultimately where the returns settle out and where the F&D settles out.

And so, just on the appraisal side, FID is probably still 2017 or 2018, given the work we have to do?

Yeah. I think that's a reasonable guess. Of course, it'll vary by project, but I think that's a reasonable guess for at least the big three projects.

Okay. Thank you.

Thanks, Ed.

Thank you. The next question is from Jeb Bachmann of Scotia Howard Weil. Please go ahead.

Morning, guys.

Hi, Jeb.

Just want some – see if you guys have any more commentary on the sand quality in terms of is it full to basin in those three appraisal wells?

Well, it varies amongst the different wells, and in some cases, we don't know whether they're full to base. But what I would say is we always talk about the cost impact of developments. One of the biggest drivers of that is just the thickness of the reservoirs.

And I'll give you an example. We've announced greater than 550 feet in North Platte, over 1,000 feet at Shenandoah, over 690 feet at Anchor, 250 feet at Heidelberg. These are each kind of world-class reservoirs. And on top of that, we have world-class [ph] columnites (28:11) which really drive the productivity in these reservoirs. So, in some areas, we've not seen oil-water contacts in all the sands, and in some cases, we have seen some oil-water contacts.

Okay. Great. And then, apologies if I missed this, but could you give any details on the Rocky Mountain prospect off to the East?

Yeah, we're still looking at Rocky Mountain, and frankly what decision we will make internally, the reason why that was – it's kind of up in the air a bit. It's a race between the permit for Goodfellow and whether or not we drill Rocky.

So, James, do you want to add anything on that?

Yeah, the thing I would add, Joe, is the other one is Rocky doesn't expire till 2018. So it's one of those that we can move around and be ready. So, if we have something else that comes in earlier that expires earlier, we'll move Rocky to the right. It doesn't mean anything about the prospect. Just we can always move that one to the right due to the time that we have in the prospect.

Yeah. And Goodfellow is next year...

Next year. Yeah.

Okay. And last one I guess. Any idea when you might test, which may or may not be the northern play in that new play area?

I think clearly we're looking at perhaps in 2017. So I think we'd schedule likely field for next year, 2017 probably looks like the earliest we get to the Eastern GoM play.

I appreciate it, guys.

Thanks, Jeb.

Thank you. The next question is from Richard Tullis of Capital One Securities. Please go ahead.

Hey. Thanks. Good morning and congratulations on a good quarter of well results, Joe. I think most of my original questions have been asked, but just a couple of housekeeping items. What was the cost to drill that North Platte appraisal well say versus the cost of the discovery well drilled a couple of years ago, Joe, or to drill say a similar type well a year, a year-and-a-half ago?

Are you trying to get at the cost of wells in this environment versus the cost of wells in the previous environment, or just the operational speed with which we drill the wells?

I'd say a little of both, but really more just a cost comparison now versus then.

I would say, keep in mind, this rig that we have now was contracted in the old price regime. So we're not seeing the full impact of what would be lower rig rates on this. But what I would say is that, if we think in terms of spread rates today in excess of say $1 million if you use the old cost deck, I think it's reasonable to think that those spread rates will be cut by 30%, 40%, maybe 50%.

Van, do you want to jump in?

Yeah, Richard, this is Van Whitfield. The one thing I'll build on from Joe's comment is the reality of us not being at $100 barrel crude is definitely in place. We are seeing some significant and I must say material adjustments. For new contracts, there's no doubt you're in double digits. But for our existing contracts, we're seeing a lot of movement in reducing cost of services like logistics, supply as well as for the implications on fuel.

So we're starting to see, let's say, on the spread rate, if half of it is ancillary services, we're seeing anywhere from 20% to 30% reduction on existing contracts, which is going to start to have a material impact.

Okay.

And I think the other thing that I'd want to point out is tip our hats to both Chevron and Anadarko that as we drill more and more of these wells in the Inboard Lower Tertiary, we are really getting our act together, not just Cobalt, but the operating gang out there. And Anadarko did a terrific job on Shenandoah 4. Anadarko did a terrific job on the sidetrack. And James and Van and their folks did a great job getting North Platte down even with the problem, of course, we had last spring with the rig.

So, personally I get pretty optimistic that as we see the costs roll back and the operational expertise increase that that's a lever for the future development of these giant reservoirs that really I don't think has been accounted for yet.

Thanks. That's helpful. And then just lastly, I noticed a pretty good drop in G&A for the quarter. Is that a pretty good run rate going forward for continued operations?

I think let us work that a bit. The complexion of our G&A will change dramatically just because of the accounting conventions of running a business in the United States versus the accounting conventions of running a business in a foreign location that uses production sharing contracts.

So we're working that pretty hard. And I think when we give guidance for 2016 forward, we'll have a lot to say about G&A in the future. But obviously it will be less, there's no question about that. How much less, we don't know yet.

Okay. That's all for me. Thank you.

Thanks.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And the next question is from Shola Labinjo of TPH. Please go ahead.

Yeah. Thanks. Good afternoon. I just had a couple of questions. The first is on your exploration strategy. I mean, you've exited Angola, and you're now focused on the Gulf of Mexico, Mexico and then probably Eastern Canada. Just curious to know if you would look to go further away from Mexico and North America, or as we think about Cobalt going forward, that should be kind of the fairway that you'll be spending most of your time?

And then the second question was just on the status of the rigs. I believe you've got the Rowan on contract for about three years and the Catarina that rolls off contract next year. Is that still the case?

Yeah. Let me take the second question, and then Jim will dive in on the exploration. Yeah. The Catarina expires like early May, middle of May, something like that. Of course, all of those costs are currently being borne by Sonangol, assuming the deal will close. And in the Gulf of Mexico, Rowan Reliance came on the payroll, I think, February of this year. So we'll effectively have a little bit more than two years left to run on it.

Jim, exploration?

Yeah. I guess the way I would describe it is we've spent good two years evaluating global opportunities. And where we have focused, for the time being at least, are the areas that you mentioned. Over the course of two years, a lot of things have changed, of course. The environment has really opened up some interesting opportunities.

Joe earlier talked about the Gulf of Mexico. That's an area where clearly some companies are choosing to make a decision not to compete there in the future. And I think that plays directly to our strengths and we're taking a hard look at the opportunities there and I think there'll be some options for us. So, anything we do, whether it's in Canada or Mexico, we'll have to compete with those opportunities we see here in Gulf of Mexico.

Thank you.

You bet.

Thank you.

Thank you. The next question is from Mike Scialla of Stifel. Please go ahead.

Yeah. Good morning. You talked a little bit about the 2016 outlook. Just wondering if that contemplates – I think you've talked about this some in the past, but want to get your latest thoughts on if that contemplates bringing in another rig? Would that be on a slot basis or how are you thinking about right now?

We don't. We think about rigs a lot, and right now what the whole operations team is doing is making sure we're drilling our best prospects with the rig we have. And at this point in time, we're not contemplating another rig in the Gulf of Mexico. I would say that I would rule that out if we needed it. I would certainly believe that that would be on a slot basis and not a long-term contract basis, just because of the softness we see in the high spec rig market that we need to do our work.

Okay. And then on the exploration side for next year, is it really Goodfellow and Rocky Mountain, you mentioned possibly extension of Anchor as well. Anything else that could possibly slip in there that you could drill next year?

I think those three are at the top of list for next year. And then we're working, of course, for the following year, which is when I mentioned the boost that we have in Eastern column would come into play.

Okay.

This is Van Whitfield again. The other one, even though those are explorations, reality is that we definitely will be wanting to look more at appraisal for North Platte. And that probably will occur in the latter part of the year, next year, for sure.

Great. That's all for me. Thank you.

Okay. Thanks, Mike.

Thank you. At this time, I would like to turn the conference back over to management for any additional comments.

Okay. Well, thanks, everybody, for your time today. As we started out the call today, we are pretty excited about our third quarter results. It's hard for us to really think of what we could have done more than what we did. That's about as good as you can do.

I would also just comment that we're approaching here in the next couple of days, as a matter fact, Cobalt's 10th anniversary. And heaven knows the obstacles that have been thrown in our way in the last 10 years cover a pretty wide swipe of a lot of different kinds of things, and yet we sit here today with a great company with great people and a great future.

And I think it says a lot about the people that are Cobalt. I don't know that we would have imagined being here 10 years ago today with the quality of the assets, the quality of the team, and frankly, the quality of the investors that we have that have shown confidence in us through good times and bad in the last 10 years.

So I want to close by saying thank you all for the confidence you've shown in us, and we won't misplace that confidence. Stay safe, everybody, and we'll talk again. Thank you.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at this time and thank you for your participation.