corrected transcript


Cobalt International Energy,


Inc.
 
CIE
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
May 3, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, everyone, and welcome to Cobalt International Energy’s First Quarter 2011


Conference Call. Just a reminder, today’s call is being recorded.


Before we get started, one housekeeping matter. This conference call includes forward-looking


statements. The risks associated with forward-looking statements have been outlined in the


earnings release and in Cobalt’s SEC filings and we incorporate these by reference for this call.


At this time, for opening remarks and introduction, I would like to turn the call over to the Chairman


and Chief Executive Officer of Cobalt, Mr. Joe Bryant. Please go ahead, sir.


Joseph H. Bryant, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Good morning, and thank you for joining Cobalt’s first quarter 2011 financial and operating results


call. I’m joined on today’s call by our Chief Financial Officer, John Wilkirson.


I have a few short comments today before I ask John to recap our financial results. During the first


quarter, we focused our efforts on activities, which will allow us to commence drilling in Angola and


recommence drilling in the Gulf of Mexico. We also limited our cash expenditures in all aspects of


our business. First a few words on our Angolan business activities. We’ve now received all


necessary permits required to commence drilling both our Bicuar and Cameia wells in Block 21. We


expect to get the Ocean Confidence drilling rig back from TOTAL in the next 30 days, at which time


we will commence our pre-salt exploration program.


Our firm plans are to drilling case the Bicuar service hole. We will then move the rig to Cameia and


drill that well to total depth and production test as necessary. When we complete the Cameia well


operations, we will move the rig back to Bicuar and finish drilling that well to total depth and


production tests as necessary. Regardless of the results of the Cameia well, we will move back to


Bicuar and drill into total depth. There are several operational and financial advantages of this vast


drilling operation.


We expect to have well results from Cameia, in the third quarter and results from Bicuar in the


fourth quarter. Our work on our newly acquired 2,500 square kilometer 3D seismic data in Block 9


is continuing as planned with our objective of drilling in this block sometime late next year. We’ve


also made considerable progress on our Block 20 negotiations with Sonangol, and we expect to


close that transaction in the second quarter. However, I would note that the closing date will be


determined by Sonangol.


We expect to begin a very large 3D seismic acquisition program in the second half of this year. We


and our Block 20 partners remain very excited about the opportunities that we see in this block.


Finally, in Gabon we and our partner have continued our reprocessing and interpretation of our


newly acquired 6,000 square kilometer 3D survey. We continue to be optimistic, that the numerous


pre-salt prospects we saw on 2D data are holding up well – very well with our much improved 3D


data set.


If all goes according to plan, we hope to be drilling our first prospect in Gabon sometime in late


2012. Turing to the Gulf of Mexico, all of our efforts are directed towards reinitiating our drilling


campaign this summer. We believe that we are very near, final well approval from the BOEMRE for


our North Platte well and we also believe that our permit for Ligurian, should not be far behind.
corrected transcript


Cobalt International Energy,


Inc.
 
CIE
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
May 3, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


Our plan is to get the ENSCO 8503 back from Tullow in mid-summer and time to spud one or the


other of these wells in the August timeframe.


We will determine which well to drill based on which of our permits have been approved at the time


the rig is returned to us. If we have a choice, we would like to drill Ligurian first given its relationship


to our Heidelberg discovery and a relatively shorter time required to reach total depth. Regardless


our intentions are to drill wells back-to-back, again spudding one or the other in August.


As I’ve previously, we have put the year-long drilling moratorium time to very good use, validating


our prospect inventories through various technical projects related to subsurface imaging. So far


everything is holding up very well and our enthusiasm for our Gulf of Mexico prospect inventory has


never higher.


Before I turn to John for a few comments on our first-quarter financial results, I would like to thank


all of our existing shareholders and our new shareholders to Cobalt who participated in our recent


$500 million follow-on offering.


We consider ourselves to be very fortunate to have such a strong support from our shareholders.


I’ll now have John update you on our first-quarter results and financials. John?


John Wilkirson, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thanks, Joe. As reported in this morning’s release, for the first quarter 2011 Cobalt’s net loss was


$16 million or $0.05 per basic and diluted share. Our cash expenditure excluding working capital


changes for the quarter were $11 million, which is below the $20 million to $25 million range


previously communicated due to lower expenditures associated with certification testing of the


ENSCO 8503 and with pre-drilled operations in Angola.


Our balance sheet remains strong now with over $1.6 billion including the net proceeds of


approximately $478 million from our recently completed equity offerings. At the end of March, we


had $843 million of unrestricted cash and investments plus an additional $350 million of cash and


investments designated for future operations held in escrow and collateralizing letters of credit.


In addition and are reported on our balance sheet is the joint promote funds for our Gulf of Mexico


program with TOTAL that totaled just under $200 million. We continue to have no debt.


For the full year, our updated cash expenditure forecast excluding working capital changes is $325


million to $400 million including our cash expenditures associated with Block 20 offshore in Gulf.


Most of the Block 20 expenditures in 2011 will be the first year social bonus contribution to be paid


at closing. The updated expenditure forecast excludes the cash to collateralize our Block 20 work


program letter of credits of about $210 million that will be reported in the future on our balance


sheet as restricted cash.


The updated full year forecast range depends principally on when Cobalt recommits its Gulf of


Mexico drilling activities in the second half of 2011 with the ENSCO 8503 rig and the production


testing and appraisal expenditures associated with any discoveries in Angola. Our previous


guidance for 2011 was $180 million to $350 million, which excluded all Block 20 related


expenditures.


Our estimates for second quarter cash expenditures is $180 million to $190 million, which includes


the Block 20 year one social contribution payment. The second quarter range is driven by when


during the quarter we begin pre-salt drilling operations in Block 20 – excuse me, Block 21. We