Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Rob Cordray — Director, Investor Relations, Cobalt International Energy, Inc.
Timothy J. Cutt — Chief Executive Officer & Director, Cobalt International Energy, Inc.
David D. Powell — Chief Financial Officer, Cobalt International Energy, Inc.
Bob Alan Brackett — Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC
Jeb Bachmann — Analyst, Scotia Capital (USA), Inc.
Anish Kapadia — Analyst, Tudor, Pickering, Holt & Co. International LLP

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Greetings, and welcome to the Cobalt International Third Quarter Financial Results Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Mr. Rob Cordray. Thank you, Mr. Cordray, you may begin.

Good morning, everyone. Welcome to Cobalt International Energy's third quarter 2016 conference call. My name is Rob Cordray, and I'm the Director of Investor Relations for Cobalt. As a reminder, today's call is being recorded. Before we get started, one housekeeping matter. This conference call includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. The risks associated with forward-looking statements have been outlined in this morning's earnings release and in Cobalt's SEC filings, and we incorporate these by reference for this call.

Joining me on today's call are Tim Cutt, our Chief Executive Officer; David Powell, our Chief Financial Officer; and other members of our executive team.

I will now turn the call over to Tim for his opening comments.

Thank you, Rob, and good morning to everyone. On today's call, I will update you on the work we've been doing to progress the priorities I outlined during the previous quarterly call. These priorities included advancing the sale of the Angola assets, addressing our liquidity position, and importantly, describing a clear path forward to move Cobalt's significant discovered resources through development and into production.

I'll start with the status of the sale of our Angola assets. We've been very pleased with the level of interest expressed by industry in our Angolan liquid-rich portfolio. We are actively engaged with a number of companies including super majors, NOCs and mid-sized E&P companies with international operating experience.

Many of these companies participated in the previous process, but we are pleased to have new entrants into the data room as well. As we have previously discussed, it will be important to the buyers for Cobalt to receive extensions to our current licenses on Blocks 20 and 21. Following a recent visit to Angola to discuss timing for the extensions, we set a formal request to Sonangol seeking extensions on both Blocks. Although I'm not in position today to discuss the specifics of these requests, the timeframes, if approved, would allow appropriate time for the new operator to transition into development phase of the projects and continue with the exploration program.

Finally, if everything progresses as planned, we should understand which buyers are interested in progressing to a definitive discussion on the sales and purchase agreement by the time we speak again during the year-end call. While we've seen significant third-party interest in our Angola assets, we continue to believe that it's prudent to create an option to farm-down a portion of our Gulf of Mexico assets as a contingency for the Angola marketing effort.

We are in the process of building data rooms for Gulf of Mexico assets with the target to open the data rooms prior to year-end. Our goal is to make proper decisions regarding our assets that will deliver maximum value. I will continue to keep you updated as we advance these marketing processes.

I'll now talk about the efforts to address our liquidity position. In September, we announced that we had amended the Rowan Reliance drilling contract to provide for an early termination date of March 31, 2017. We are very pleased to have reached the agreement with Rowan, which resulted in savings to Cobalt of approximately $80 million. In addition to capturing near-term value, the agreement established a framework for further work to be executed by Rowan that ensures that the rig day rates will be at a competitive market rate.

This agreement also provides us the opportunity to take a pause in our operated drilling program at the end of the first quarter of 2017, which will significantly reduce our overall capital spend for the next year.

In early September, we announced that we had retained financial and legal advisors to assist us in analyzing and evaluating potential strategic alternatives and initiatives to improve our liquidity. This work is progressing well and we are currently evaluating the viability of taking on new capital to provide additional time to execute the Angola sale and to bridge to a higher commodity price, which will improve the value of our Gulf of Mexico assets. At the same time, we are addressing the timing and quantum of our existing debt.

Our final area of focus is advancing our world-class projects in the Gulf of Mexico. We continue to believe that our deepwater Gulf of Mexico assets will deliver exceptional value as they progress through development and into production. As you saw in this morning's earning release, we are currently drilling appraisal wells at North Platte and Anchor, and expect to commence our next appraisal well at Shenandoah later this year or early next year.

We continue to see costs aligned with today's commodity prices, and as evidenced by our Rowan Reliance rig contract amendment, we are proactively working to further reduce costs in order to preserve value. We are committed to fully appraising each of our deepwater assets before considering a final investment decision. We believe that the wells to be drilled during the next 12 months will complete the appraisal process.

We remain confident that the timing of first production in the deepwater developments will coincide with a much improved oil price, and that regardless of whether OPEC members come to agreement at the end of the month, we will see oil price stabilize and continue to recover during the next 18 months, making our assets even more attractive and valuable to you, our shareholders.

We look forward to continuing to invest in our highest value development opportunities with the goal of first production by 2021.

I'd now turn the call over to David Powell, who will discuss our financials in more detail.

Thanks, Tim. As outlined in our third quarter 2016 earnings release, Cobalt announced a net loss from continuing operations of $213.7 million or $0.52 per basic and diluted share. This compares to a net loss from continuing operations of $49.7 million or $0.12 per basic and diluted share for the third quarter of 2015. The increase in loss is largely attributable to the Rowan contract amendment of $95.9 million and the additional write-off associated with the Goodfellow exploration well of $42 million. Combined, these items represent a loss of $0.34 per share for the quarter.

As of September 30, 2016, we had approximately $683 million in cash, which includes cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, long-term restricted cash and the $250 million we received from Sonangol pursuant to the purchase and sale agreement, which is classified as restricted cash. This amount excludes $16.7 million in cash and restricted cash held within assets held-for-sale as of September 30, 2016.

In 2016, we expect capital expenditures for our continuing operations in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico to be between $525 million and $575 million, of which approximately $380 million has been spent as of September 30, 2016. Including general, administrative and interest expense, we expect total use of cash for our continuing operations to be between $725 million and $775 million.

In Angola, we expect total cash outlays in 2016 to be between $130 million and $140 million, of which approximately $130 million has been spent as of September 30, 2016. We currently expect our cash position at December 31, 2016 to be between $300 million and $350 million, which is reduced from our previous expectation of $350 million to $400 million. The reduction in our expected cash position is a result of two payments totaling approximately $76 million related to the amendment of the Rowan drillship contract, which as Tim mentioned, will result in future savings to Cobalt of approximately $80 million.

For further details on the amended contract, please reference the 8-K that was filed in mid-September. The expected year-end 2016 cash position is also subject to additional working capital adjustments and assumes that we repay the $250 million initial payment we received from Sonangol net of approximately $158.5 million receivables Sonangol currently owes to us.

As Tim mentioned earlier, we and our advisors have been actively engaged in discussing liquidity options, including with some of our current bondholders. A key objective with this initiative is ensuring that we have adequate time and appropriate liquidity to close the Angola sale. We are encouraged with these discussions and believe it may be possible to raise additional capital while also addressing our debt maturity schedule.

It is the balance between these objectives that we are looking to optimize, enhancing the near-term run rate with an eye towards longer-term returns.

With that, I will turn it back to you, Tim.

All right, thanks, David. I think we're all ready to move to Q&A.

Thank you. We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Bob Brackett with Bernstein Research. Please proceed with your question.

Hi. Can I get a clarification on the return of the restricted cash, the $250 million and then the $158.5 million that you'll claw-back? Does your $300 million to $350 million at year-end incorporate that transaction closing?

Yes. The guidance that we gave includes the repayment on a net basis.

And what's the timeline of that return of the restricted cash? Why hasn't it occurred already?

Yes, Bob, we're in discussion, so we agreed to the amount. So it's clear that we owe the $250 million, they owe the $158 million, we're talking through the best mechanism to exchange that. I mean, sure that both parties receive their money. We actually have few of our executives in country today talking through that, so that's progressing well. We don't see any issue with that. But again, we're not at the point where we've actually physically exchanged the money.

Okay, great. And could you add some context on new capital, raising additional capital, is that more converts or debt or equity?

Yeah, we are actually looking at all sources. Again, like David said, we've reached out to a number of sources of potentially new capital. Our debt holders have been very positive and engaging with us to look for positive solutions to get more liquidity runway. And again, the whole intention of that is to buy the time we need to have a liquidity runway to close the Angola asset sale and also look at contingency of our Gulf of Mexico asset. So I'll tell you right now, those conversations with all parties are going well. People believe in the fairness of the company and also in the recovery in the price, and so the idea there is bring additional cash in from whatever the best source is to increase that liquidity runway.

And then the last one would be, can you talk about specific dates in the data room process, the data room close, bids due, announced, et cetera?

Yeah, I think the best – so the last quarter, I'd say, has been very active when looking at the technical analysis of the assets. And I'd say that has gone extremely well. So we've had, like I said, majors, mid-sized company, NOCs through and I feel really good that the companies that have come through the data room clearly understand not only the assets we had for sale last year, but also the culmination in the – in the increase in the addition of the Golfinho assets and a few others that we discovered after the first sale. So we've combined all that technically.

The process that the company is going through now are doing the financial evaluation. As I mentioned in the call, they are interested in the extensions, so we are on the ground again, as I mentioned, this week also talking about the extension timing, and they are working through the financial model and we are helping them through that. So I fully expect, as we go through the fourth quarter, we'll get to a point where we will start receiving the indicative bids from the company. Several companies are [ph] fairly close to (13:08) that process and we have another companies that actually just entered the data room in the process that are interested but joined in the last several weeks.

So what we are trying to do is not get too definitive on the date. We would expect the earliest bids to come in probably mid-November, and I think later in the year for the companies that have come through. So we're trying to work with Goldman on an appropriate process to [ph] not force an date (13:31) and make sure that the companies that are interested and the time they need to get through the process, and we are encouraged with where we are today. But that's where we're in the process. So technical done, financial analysis going forward, and then several companies have started the request – the sales and purchase agreement to start looking at the due diligence on that.

Great. Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Jeb Bachmann with Scotia Howard Weil. Please proceed with your question.

Good morning, everyone. Tim, just had a few quick ones. One, you had updated us on the formal – this middle of the extension to the exploration development licenses. Just wondering if you'd also done that with the lower cost structure framework on the smaller discoveries that Angola had talked about?

Yes, we have. In fact we've talked openly to them and so far there has been good discussion about – technically, the combination between Golfinho and Cameia for instance – there could be an interpretation that says, if you combine that and let's treat that as one entity, and then it doesn't meet the decree terms, I think we have general agreement that those should be looked at independently. They are on different blocks with different ownership and we have a support to continue that discussion. I think again those are going to be important things.

I think we can receive very positive bids without applying the decree laws, but certainly increase participation and enhance value from applying those. So those are the things – and that's why we're – I'm not trying to pin-down an exact day. As soon as we know the serious buyers, then I think – and I've said this before, I think there is going to be conversations on extensions and also decree laws with us, with the buyer and with Sonangol, and ultimately with the buyer and Sonangol separately. So that's kind of where we are in that process now.

Okay. Could you give us any kind of color on what – what kind of terms you'd submitted for those extensions to the licenses, whether or not included a well to hold out the leasehold or kind of – any kind of color there?

Yeah, I really don't want to get into the detail because we're in that conversation right now. I will say that the one thing we have good confidence with is into the – into our purchase and sales agreement, if the deal fell-through like it did, we should get the year back and then obviously we'll be seeking several years beyond that for the timeframe. We're also seeking extensions on the DOCD. So it's a full submittal and a full request, and we had good in-person discussions with Sonangol for putting forward those requests. We understand those requests are moving through the system as we'd anticipate, and again we're in country this week to get an update on that.

Okay. And then last one from me, just question on the acceleration. It sounds like of the Gulf of Mexico data room fell down, was that maybe because of interest from guys looking at Angolan assets and also wanted in on some of the discoveries in the Gulf?

Obviously, we have some people in the data room for Angola who are operators and interested parties in the Gulf of Mexico. I wouldn't say we've got an explicit [ph] time (16:43) at this point. Obviously, we're very open to people who wanted to look at both, but quite frankly, if we had a successful Angola sale, we'd not be overly interested at this point in selling our Gulf of Mexico asset. So it really is, you should be thinking about that set-up as a contingency to make sure we understand where we are with the Angola sale and how we could continue to improve our liquidity position.

Great. I appreciate, Tim.

Okay. Thanks, Jeb.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Anish Kapadia with Tudor, Pickering, Holt. Please proceed with your question.

Hi. A question on Angola, first of all. I was wondering if you see any risk at all on some of the Angolan licenses expiring and you being unable to sell those licenses or the assurances that you've got from [ph] some Angolan – (17:34) Angola give you 100% confidence in that.

Yeah, I mean, I think we outlined it in our quarterly update last quarter and we'll reiterate it this quarter. Those risks are there. Having said that, as we talk to Sonangol, whether it's us staying as an operator or a new operator coming in, those extensions are necessary. They understand that we're being cooperative and the reason that we're facing those extensions is that the deal we have in front of us had fallen through. So there is very little interest I think on their part of not seeing those licenses extended. So I can never answer a question to the 100%. We're working through the process. We're being prudent in that, but we're getting good feedback from Sonangol that it's in their best interest to extend as well.

Okay. And then second question with regards to the – you're looking to raise some further capital. And I missed right at the beginning of the call, but in terms of your maturities that you've got at the moment, it suggest to me that that you're seeing the risk that closing of the Angola deal could be delayed [ph] or late (18:54) into 2018. Would that be the reason you would potentially look to raise capital, it could be that far out until the deal actually close and not getting announced?

No, I don't think so. I mean, obviously with where we sit on liquidity today, we want to have enough to where we can get into 2018, but with the process going forward right now, if we get all of the financial work done in the fourth quarter and we receive bids, we'll negotiate that. The buyer [ph] builds (19:25) comfort with their offer and all of the terms, it's hard to think you wouldn't, through this process, know where you are by mid-year next year.

Now, I don't want to close the idea that some of the buyers in the data room are buyers that could come forward with less than a full 40% offer. We're the operator of the assets. The liquidity helps us maintain all of our options. We like the assets a lot. If the funding was available, from certainly my experience and the rest of the executives team, these are the assets that you'd like to go develop there [indiscernible] (20:05) technology, FPSO technology, not high pressures, gas recycling, all the things we know how to do. And so if we get through this process and don't have acceptable bids, we want to make sure that we can pivot to the Gulf of Mexico, maintain those assets, do the things we need to do. And I don't think we need to drill a well, for instance, to complete the appraisal and kind of continue the exploration program likely until about calendar year 2018. And so all of this is maintaining optionality to do a number of things, not just to extend on the Angola sale.

Okay. And a couple of questions on the Gulf of Mexico. I was wondering if you could outline what the Anchor 3 well told you about the discovery and what you're targeting with the fourth appraisal well that's drilling.

Yeah. It looks like the operator has released the technical results of the number 3 well. We're consistent though with our words with the operator that we remain encouraged by the results we're seeing in the appraisal program. The number 4 well is important, is just drilling into [ph] kind of hard in the field in (21:12) one of the major fault blocks, and it's in a little bit more [ph] opted (21:16) location than the previous wells, so we'll test kind of the – this extremity. So we feel we remain confident and comfortable with our overall appraisal program. Our belief is that fourth well should be the last appraisal well required in that field before you were to consider kind of going to an [ph] SOP (21:38) and then also moving forward to considering some sort of sanctionable project.

Great. And then just one follow-on on Heidelberg. And I was wondering if you could say what the current production is from Heidelberg from the four producing wells. It seems like the first two wells are producing pretty poorly at the moment. Wondering how the other two wells are doing, and what your expectations are in terms of what the fifth well should add in terms of gross production. Thank you.

Yeah. So right now, we're up very close to 20,000 barrels a day on a daily basis. So one of the other wells is doing quite well, and we are in the process of sidetracking the fifth well. I think with the original hole location we've defined the northern perimeter of the field, the northern flank, we're sidetracking across the fault now back into the hydrocarbon bearing fault blocks. And again, we're going a bit further down to – away from the salt, every indication is that those wells away from the salt will do a bit better. And so hopefully we'd see positive outcomes in the kind of the 10,000 to 15,000 barrel a day type of range from that well.

Thank you very much.

Thank you. There are no further questions at this time. I would like to turn the call back over to Mr. Tim Cutt for any closing remarks.

All right. Well, thank you very much for dialing in. I think this last quarter has been really important with kind of [ph] resulting where we were with the Rowan (23:09), making sure we have a clear path forward there and [ph] barely normally (23:16) on that is that when we do resume drilling later, we're going to be doing that at market rates. We're progressing working hard on our liquidity position. We have a number of interested parties willing and wanting to help us out to move that liquidity out some. And the appraisal programs are going well. So I think we've been working on these assets for a long time, the Gulf of Mexico. We are starting to understand them very well. We're finalizing that appraisal program, [ph] we've started to (23:42) bringing these things very close to a sanctionable type of decision.

And then Angola, the more we look at the assets, more we like them. We know there is more run room there for future discoveries. We have 88% success rate so far. So with the extra liquidity, we feel good about that, even if we stayed in it to some level of participation. The goal again is to sell the entire 40%, but we would not preclude staying in at some level of percentage and balancing that with the Gulf of Mexico.

So we feel good. The fourth quarter ahead is an important one. I think we'll have some very important updates. Hopefully a few updates throughout the quarter. But certainly by the time we get to the next quarterly call, we'll be past some – I think some very critical decision points for the company.

So thanks for your interest and appreciate you dialing in and thanks for the questions.

Thank you. This concludes today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at this time. Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.