Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Aaron Skidmore — Director, Investor Relations, Cobalt International Energy, Inc.
Timothy J. Cutt — Chief Executive Officer & Director, Cobalt International Energy, Inc.
David D. Powell — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Cobalt International Energy, Inc.
David Epstein — Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Greetings and welcome to the Cobalt International Energy Third Quarter 2017 Financial Results Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation [Operator Instructions] . As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Mr. Aaron Skidmore, Director of Investor Relations. Thank you. You may begin.

Thank you, Michelle. Good morning, everyone. Welcome to Cobalt International Energy's third quarter 2017 conference call. My name is Aaron Skidmore, and I'm the Director of Investor Relations for Cobalt. As a reminder, today's call is being recorded.

Before we get started, one housekeeping matter. This conference call includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws. The risks associated with forward-looking statements have been outlined in this morning's earnings release and in Cobalt's SEC filings, and we incorporate these by reference for this call. Joining on today's call are Tim Cutt, our Chief Executive Officer; David Powell, our Chief Financial Officer; and other members of our executive team.

I will now turn the call over to Tim for his opening comments.

Thank you, Aaron, and good morning to everybody. This morning, I will provide a brief operational update, an update on Angola, and then discuss the Gulf of Mexico sales process and what that means for Cobalt's strategic path forward. Then I'll turn the call to David Powell to discuss the financials. We continue to move each of our development projects in the Gulf of Mexico forward. We have completed the appraisal program for North Platte, and are progressing the [ph] select-phase (01:43) study and should be in a position to file for an SOP by the end of this year. As a contingency, we're planning to drill a potential well to ensure that we retain the leases in the event the SOP is not approved.

At Anchor and Shenandoah, steps are being taken to progress development of these high quality resources. At Anchor, the operator is engaged with BSEE, regarding expanding the Anchor unit to include Cobalt's southern blocks and that work is progressing as planned. Regarding Shenandoah, the operator is evaluating an economic development concept, which involves utilizing a more cost-effective facility to develop the field.

With respect to Angola, little has changed since our last call. The Angolan petroleum industry remains in a state of transition post election. Although, key government positions are getting filled, including a new Secretary of State for petroleum, it is clear that it'll take additional time to formerly engage in constructive conversations with the new administration and Sonangol. In the meantime, we have continued to progress the two arbitrations. The tribunals for each arbitration are now fully constituted with a President of each selected. We are currently planning scheduling conferences to agree on long-term schedules for both arbitration cases. We'll continue to seek a constructive dialogue with Angola to attempt to resolve our disputes amicably and, in a parallel path, we'll continue to prosecute the two arbitrations.

Now, with respect to our sales process in the Gulf of Mexico, given the size and scope of our Gulf of Mexico assets, the marketing of these assets has taken longer than expected. I anticipate it having more definitive news regarding the outcome of these efforts on this call, but I do not. However, I can say that parties are interested in our Gulf of Mexico assets, they're engaged [ph] in the day room (03:34) and discussion continued. The process has taken sometime, but it is still moving forward.

In addition, Cobalt continues to diligently pursue a sale of the entire company as one of our strategic alternatives. Although, we are not ruling out individual asset sales, selling the entire company is our primary focus as we believe it will maximize the value of our assets. Potential buyers of the entire company have evaluated our Angola assets during prior processes.

It is important to note that we have hired Houlihan Lokey as financial advisors and Kirkland & Ellis as legal advisors to advise the company on its alternatives to enhance liquidity and address the company's current capital structure. As you know from past disclosures, based on our current forecast should nothing change, Cobalt is at risk of reaching its minimum liquidity covenant in its secured notes sometime in the first quarter of 2018.

We have significantly reduced spend during the last year and have no long term contractual obligations. Already it's being placed on progressing North Platte sanction and maintaining compliance for the JOAs covering our non-operated positions. All discretionary spend is being eliminated. We have interest payments to go on our bonds in November and December that we are mindful of. Given this, we felt it's appropriate to engage these advisors to assist us in analyzing all of our alternatives, including a restructuring or reorganization under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. As part of Houlihan's engagement, they have recently initiated constructive conversations with our bondholders. That dialogue continues.

In summary, as I've said, parties continue to be interested in our Gulf of Mexico assets. But what that ultimately means for the company is currently unclear. I cannot speculate on the outcome of our sales efforts or any of the work I've just mentioned, and I'm not ignoring the possibility of restructuring. Regardless of the path forward, the Angolan arbitrations will be prosecuted to completion unless an amicable solution can be reached. We favor a sale of the entire company, but all options are open. And we're currently being considered and we will continue to work to maximize the value of the company.

I'll now turn the call over to our CFO, David Powell, to discuss the financials.

Thanks, Tim. As noted this morning, in our third quarter 2017 earnings release, Cobalt announced a net loss of $150 million or $5.05 per basic and diluted share. This compares to a net loss of $218 million or $7.98 per basic and diluted share for the third quarter of 2016. This decrease in net loss compared to the same period in 2016 was largely driven by $96 million reduction in loss on amendment of contract and a $11 million decrease in general and administrative expenses.

This was offset by a $27 million increase in interest expense and a $33 million non-cash loss on debt-related embedded derivates associated with an increase on the market value of secured debt during the quarter. The $46 million of third quarter dry hole expense is primarily associated with writing off our Diaman discovery in offshore Gabon. As of September 30, we have approximately $547 million of cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash and short-term investments and other assets. This amount includes the $250 million paid to us by Sonangol pursuant to the purchase and sell agreement that we intend to retain until the matters with respect to arbitration are resolved, and it excludes approximately $179 million of receivables owed to us by Sonangol.

In 2017, we expect capital expenditures to be approximately $250 million consistent with previous guidance, excluding general and administrative expenses and interest expense. As of the end of the third quarter – of 2017, approximately $226 million of capital expenditures has been spent with considerably smaller spend expected in the last quarter of the year as drilling operations concluded in late July. Estimated total use of cash for 2017, including interest expense and G&A, is expected to be approximately $537 million, of which $409 million has been spent in the first three quarters of 2017. We forecast ending the year with a cash balance of approximately $420 million, excluding any impacts of payments to or collections from Sonangol.

I will now turn the call back to Tim.

Thanks, David. I'll now open up for questions. But given where we are, I'll not be in a position to answer any questions about potential restructuring or Houlihan's work, but I will be happy to answer questions pertaining to our operations in the sales process.

With that, I'll turn it back to the operator to open up for questions.

Thank you. We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session [Operator Instructions] . Our first question comes from the line of David Epstein with Cowen and Company. Please proceed with your question.

Hi, folks, you guys were doing some work on North Platte. I think you said on the last call, you were trying to see if there was contact with the aquifer and that could potentially change your views on the size of the field. Any updated thoughts on that or the size generally?

Yeah, David, nothing's really changed on our view of the size. Still, as we've said in the past, north of 500 million barrels, we've done a very extensive appraisal process, really understanding aquifer comes later when you get into developments. And you actually have real time dynamic data, so kind of speculating on that at this point is just not even possible.

Thanks. Heidelberg, any update on production there?

Yeah, Heidelberg continues to produce plus or minus 40,000 barrels a day, feel good about that.

40,000 gross right, okay, thanks.

Thank you. There're no further questions. I would like to turn the call back over to Mr. Cutt for any closing remarks.

I think we...

Oh, I'm sorry. We have a few more questions.

Let's just give it a minute and make sure we don't, I'm not sure we do yet, but I just want to make sure we don't cut it too fast.

Our next question comes from the line of [ph] David Wind (11:13) with Jefferies. Please proceed with your question.

Hi, guys, thanks for taking time for questions. I just had a quick one. Did you guys have any updates to your cash burn guidance, maybe on a quarterly basis or what you might expect for 2018?

Yeah, I think, let me turn it over to David. But you broke up a little bit. I understand the question is on the cash burn, I'll take a stab at it, and see if David has anything to add. But we've taken our cash burn down substantially, so we don't have any drilling operations. We do not expect to have any drilling operations until more towards the end of kind of the first half of next year. And so we're in a place now where we're down to I think the number is....

$40 million to $50 million all inclusive excluding interest.

Right. So and that will continue on into the first quarter. Again, I think it's fair to say we've been very open with you that we have some covenants we're aware of in the first quarter. We were obligated to get to where we need to be before that point. So, we're focused on it. We're taking out all the discretionary spend, but we're going to make sure that we do everything we need to do to maintain viability for all the assets we have.

Right, and that was $40 million to $50 million on a quarterly basis, you said?

That's correct.

$40 million to $50 million...

Million.

And that excludes the interest expense, which is running at about $167 million on an annual basis.

But the $40 million to $50 million is quarterly?

Correct, that would be [indiscernible] (12:53) and capital [ph] project (12:56).

Thank you.

Thank you. There're no further questions at this time. I would like to turn the call back over to Mr. Cutt for any closing remarks.

Yes, really not much more to add. I mean, we're focused on the sales process that continues. We continue to reach out and have discussion in Angola, and we move forward with keeping open minded to all potential outcomes. So thank you very much for dialing in.

Thank you. This concludes today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at this time. Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.