Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Rob Cordray — Director-Investor Relations, Cobalt International Energy, Inc.
Joseph H. Bryant — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Cobalt International Energy, Inc.
John P. Wilkirson — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Cobalt International Energy, Inc.
Shashank V. Karve — Executive Vice President-Cameia Development, Cobalt International Energy, Inc.
James W. Farnsworth — Chief Exploration Officer and Executive Vice President, Exploration and New Ventures, Cobalt International Energy, Inc.
Ryan Todd — Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc.
Evan Calio — Analyst, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC
Bob Alan Brackett — Analyst, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. LLC
Richard M. Tullis — Analyst, Capital One Securities, Inc.
Michael S. Scialla — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.
Brian A. Singer — Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, everyone, and welcome to the Cobalt International Energy Second Quarter 2015 Conference Call. Now for opening remarks and introduction, I will turn the conference over to Director of Investor Relations for Cobalt, Mr. Rob Cordray. Please go ahead, sir.

Good morning, everyone. Welcome to Cobalt International Energy's second quarter 2015 conference call. My name is Rob Cordray, I'm the Director of Investor Relations for Cobalt.

Just a reminder, today's call is being recorded. Before we get started, one housekeeping matter. This conference call includes forward-looking statements. The risks associated with forward-looking statements have been outlined in the earnings release and in Cobalt's SEC filings, and we incorporate these by reference for this call.

Joining me on today's call are Joe Bryant, Cobalt's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; John Wilkirson, our Chief Financial Officer; and other members of our executive team.

I will now turn the call over to Joe for his opening comments. Joe?

Thank you, Rob. Our industry continues to feel the pressure of the decline in commodity prices and it is unclear when we can expect a price recovery. At Cobalt, we continue to focus on those things that we can have influence on and I want to emphasize to you that our absolute priority is to protect our balance sheet at all times.

We understand that our ultimate success and that of our shareholders will depend on the decisions and choices that we make over the next several months. While it is our goal to progress our successful discoveries through the value chain in order to deliver cash flows, we have to prioritize our activities to ensure that our best assets are always adequately funded.

Regarding the industry environment, the challenges that we face do appear daunting. However, from a pure operating perspective, one can't help but see the massive opportunities that this environment presents. There's no question that the deepwater service industry is significantly overcapitalized or the much reduced scale of activity that is anticipated over at least the medium-term.

While we have seen significant price declines over the past six months in the goods and services we purchase, we believe that we're still in the early stages of this cost shift back to historical norms. In the past few weeks alone, we have seen rig cancellations and at least one major deepwater operator announce plans to reduce or terminate deepwater exploration.

The pressure that decisions like these put on the service industry and suppliers is unmistakable. So at Cobalt, we see both sides of the coin; the corporate finance side, which puts pressure on our balance sheet that we clearly must address; and the opportunity side, which we believe can be the platform for the great deepwater E&P operating companies of the next decade. We believe that we have proven credentials as an explorer and an operator to take full advantage of the opportunity if we successfully manage our balance sheet.

I want to emphasize that Cobalt's success is directly tied to our discipline around our core mission of deepwater exploration and production. We continue to believe that once oil prices stabilize, costs will align with that price environment and that deepwater barrels will continue to be advantaged.

In support of our priority to protect our balance sheet, we continue to reduce our burn rate by identifying and seizing upon opportunities to reduce costs by increasing our operating efficiency; modifying our purchasing strategies to take full advantage of the drop in basic consumables; redesigning our wells and facilities; and refining the timing and structure of our major project tenders. In addition, following the May 29 signing of our Heidelberg reserve base lending facility, we continue to seek additional RBL financing for our other projects, including Cameia.

As I mentioned in our first quarter call, we're also actively pursuing asset-based partnerships involving our Angolan portfolio. We've been very pleased with the number and quality of the participants who have visited our virtual and physical data rooms to evaluate our Angolan assets. It is clear that these companies are devoting significant time and expense on this opportunity, which gives us some confidence that they see value in the assets. We expect to receive bids in the third quarter and, if an acceptable bid is submitted, we anticipate closing the transaction by year-end.

Let me remind you that we see the Angola asset sale as a financing opportunity to support our balance sheet, that it is not taking place due to our concerns over the asset quality or future exploration potential in Angola. We will evaluate any bids that we receive against other financing options in order to maximize the value of our Angolan assets for you, our shareholders. We look forward to sharing the results of this effort later in the year.

Operationally, we've had a very active second quarter, both in Angola and in the Gulf of Mexico. Our Cameia projects in Angola included, we recently completed the drilling operations on the Cameia #4 development well, and are very pleased with the successful results, which were consistent with our pre-drill expectations, with rock quality comparable to our extraordinary Cameia #1 well. We've now spud the Cameia #5 development well and expect to continue the Cameia development drilling program through the end of 2015.

Also at Cameia, we are in the process of tendering for the FPSO and all other major project packages. Given the dramatic downturn in worldwide industry activity discussed earlier, we fully expect to receive favorable bids in response to our tenders.

We continue to assess Cameia's project economics in light of the current commodity price environment and still believe that Cameia remains a highly attractive investment at today's prices. We stand by the cost savings of $2 billion that we communicated in our February 23 conference call.

Our current cost estimates for Cameia show a supply cost significantly below $50 per barrel, all-in, with further reductions anticipated after the bids are received. Our path to sanction is driven by securing financing for Cameia, which could be a combination of the RBL financing and an asset-based partnership, along with continued alignment with our partner.

So to summarize our Cameia project, we remain confident in the project's economic quality, our development drilling campaign is delivering the intended results, and we expect to have all major project bids returned and evaluated later this year. We're focusing our efforts for a sanction by year-end, but we'll take a balanced decision on the appropriate timing based on all of the above factors. Also at Angola, we continue to mature a number of attractive pre-salt exploration prospects and anticipate continuing our exploration drilling on Block 20 sometime next year. In fact, in Block 20 alone, we see the potential for an additional 1 billion barrels of oil in our latest analysis of our prospect inventory.

With our industry-leading track record of exploration success in the Kwanza Basin pre-salt, we remain convinced that our blocks are indeed the crown jewels, and we are optimistic that there is considerable remaining exploration potential.

In the Gulf of Mexico, the Heidelberg spar has been set and the mooring lines are installed, so it's now storm ready. The topsides have been fully commissioned in the Ingleside yard, and it will be scheduled for lift out beginning in October when the heavy lift barge is scheduled to be on location. So all of that's progressing very well.

Anchor appraisal operations began recently, which include a bypass core inside track of the Anchor #2 discovery well. We announced earlier this year that the Anchor discovery had encountered significant high-quality oil pay in multiple Inboard Lower Tertiary sands and we expect results from these appraisal operations in the second half of 2015.

At North Platte, we spud the Cobalt-operated North Platte #3 appraisal well on April 23, and North Platte #3 is being drilled to further evaluate the Inboard Lower Tertiary reservoirs encountered in Cobalt's 2012 North Platte #1 discovery well, which found over 550 net feet of oil pay in multiple Inboard Lower Tertiary reservoirs. We look forward to obtaining results from this well in the second half of 2015.

At our Shenandoah project, drilling has commenced on our third appraisal well, the Shenandoah #4. This well is designed to confirm the lateral sand quality, continuity, and stratigraphy of the reservoirs found in Shenandoah #2 appraisal well, which encountered over 1,000 feet of net oil pay and excellent quality Inboard Lower Tertiary aged reservoirs.

This well is located approximately 800 feet up-depth and about two-thirds of a mile northwest of the Shenandoah #2 well. Results from this well are expected also in the second half of 2015. In addition to appraisal operations, the operator is conducting development concept activities and we anticipate that the operator will continue to advance Shenandoah toward sanction.

Turning to exploration and new ventures. Last week, we were very pleased to execute a purchase and sale agreement to acquire ENI's working interest and operatorship of our Goodfellow Inboard Lower Tertiary prospect in Keathley Canyon in Walker Ridge. Combined with our existing working interest, our interest increases to 47%, subject to the other Goodfellow partners' preferential right to purchase.

We expect to close on this transaction by mid-August and look forward to drilling this very attractive Inboard Lower Tertiary prospect sometime in 2016. Our new ventures team continues to evaluate attractive opportunities in the deepwater oil-prone basins of offshore Mexico and Eastern Canada, and we'll provide more information on these as they mature.

I'll now turn the call over to John to update you on our financials.

Thanks, Joe. At the end of the second quarter, we had approximately $1.9 billion in liquidity, which includes funds available under the new Heidelberg facility agreement, and those funds held and collateralized in the letters of credit for future operations. As shown in today's earnings release, Cobalt had a first quarter loss of $67 million or $0.16 per share. This loss includes an impairment of $4 million from the previously announced North Platte #2 appraisal well.

Excluding changes in working capital, we spent approximately $205 million in capital and operating expenditures in the second quarter of 2015, which remains in line with our planned full-year 2015 expenditures of approximately $800 million to $900 million. This amount excludes approximately $150 million of additional cash used mainly for interest and social contributions during the year.

As previously mentioned, we received commitments from multiple banks for $150 million Heidelberg RBL facility, which we finalized and signed on May the 29th. The Heidelberg facility is first of its kind in the Gulf of Mexico and Cobalt's first entrance into the senior bank debt market, thereby diversifying our financing options.

We appreciate Soc-Gén's leadership and commitment in structuring, arranging and underwriting the transaction as well as support of the other three participating banks. We did not draw any funds from the facility during the quarter; however, we expect future draws from the facility will fund the majority of our remaining Heidelberg development costs.

Having established the Heidelberg facility, efforts are focused on progressing financing options for our Angolan asset, including preproduction, reserve-based lending facilities, our Cameia development, as well as our ongoing pursuit of asset-based partnerships. As Joe previously mentioned, we remain committed to maximizing shareholder value for these assets and will look to update you on our progress later in the year.

I will now turn the call over to Rob.

Thanks, John. Operator, we'd now like to open up the line for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Ryan Todd with Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead with your question.

Yes. Thanks. Good morning, gentlemen. Maybe if I could start with one question on cost. I mean, I realize that you have a lot of liquidity, but should the current price environment persist, how much flexibility do you have to reduce the capital budget? Any flexibility, I mean, you've mentioned talks about various things going on in the deepwater rig market with cancellations. Any flexibility in your contracts? Any ability to reduce activity levels or reduce costs at all?

Ryan, this is Joe. We obviously look at that in a lot of detail and we have been looking at that for probably the last 12 months. And I guess the way we look at it is we have a firm rig commitment in the Gulf of Mexico with Rowan Reliance that we're six months into or so. We have about two-and-a-half years remaining on that. And from that perspective, what we're trying to do is to ensure that operating team has done a fantastic job thus far making sure that we have extremely high quality prospects in that drill-out plan for that rig. So while we can't necessarily reduce the rig cost for the Rowan Reliance, what we can do is make sure that the wells it drills are world-class and, secondly, to make sure all the support costs for the rig are current market-sensitive and not – in a general sense, they're not long-term contracts by their nature. So that's what we're doing in the Gulf of Mexico.

In Angola, we have a little less than a year to run on that rig. And what we're focused on there is making sure that that rig is drilling value-add wells for us, which would include the development wells for Cameia. And if we get that done, we'll drill exploration wells in Block 20, which would largely be covered by the letters of credit that we have in place for Block 20, which wouldn't consume incremental cash. And by and large, those are kind of the two big contracts that we have. But overall, I would say that the operating effort this year has been all around reducing the spread cost and we've seen the spread cost drop both in the Gulf of Mexico and in Angola considerably, just with all the related services.

So on an operated basis, that's how we're seeing the flexibility in the business plan. On a non-operated basis, we obviously are going to commit and fund Heidelberg. We love Shenandoah and we love Anchor. So we're going commit to stay with our partners there. So we're throttling everything down as far as we can and not get overcommitted any place that we're not committed now.

Great. And the $800 million to $900 million capital budget that has been kind of the recent run rate, should we expect that there's essentially downward pressure on that? Or is the efforts to reduce spread costs being offset to some extent by faster drilling pace or other things?

Are you talking about 2015 or 2016?

Either.

Well, in 2015, what we're doing is we're getting a lot more efficiency out of the wells than we had – the rigs than we had before. So we're accomplishing a lot more at the same rig day rate, while at the same time we're decreasing the spread costs. And as far as what we do next year, we haven't lined all that out yet. But again, where we can and we don't have long-term contracts, we are absolutely having the conversations about reducing all the costs.

Great. And maybe one follow-up. You mentioned in your comments you expect overall costs in the industry to continue to trend towards a return towards historical norms. I know there are 1 million moving pieces in this and it's tough to speculate. But any thoughts on where you think costs eventually normalize? I mean, what would be a proper historical norm in your view, I guess, maybe in terms of a relative percentage down versus 2014 costs?

It's impossible for me to say, but having been involved in deepwater for, I guess, 20 some years now, the deepwater costs in the last few years have been orders of – almost an order of magnitude higher than they've been historically. And I would expect the cost to drop significantly. And as I've said before – I think you've all heard me say, if you think about – or at least the way I think about deepwater is that you kind of break the cost into three pieces. And this isn't exact, but it's just kind of a rule of thumb that about a third of the costs are from the seafloor to the reservoir, and about a third of the costs are from the seafloor to the ocean surface, and about a third of the costs are sitting on the ocean surface. That's kind of the way I think about deepwater. And if you look at the well costs, which are from the seafloor to the reservoir, there's no doubt that both in terms of operating efficiency and rig costs and spread costs, that those costs are at least cut in half, I would say. And the rest of the costs are going to not be far behind. So I think we have every reason to be optimistic that the costs are going to drop.

Great. Thanks. I appreciate it, Joe. I'll leave it there.

Okay.

Thanks, Ryan.

Thanks. And our next question comes from the line of Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead with your question.

Hi. Good morning, guys. Yeah, my first question is on Cameia. Just, I mean, consistent with your statements on protecting your balance sheet and assets, just to confirm that you only move to sanction on Cameia if you have suitable financing by year-end?

Was your question that we will only commit to sanction if we have suitable finance? Was that what you said?

Correct, yes.

Yeah, that's clear, that we wouldn't commit to it unless we can finance it.

Great. And so – I mean, as a follow-up, without any sell-down for whatever reason, I read your statements earlier. But could you proceed to FID solely on reserve-based lending, or any other non-equity financing routes? Is that a potential outcome here?

The way I would answer your question, Evan, is we're looking at all options. And I don't think that any option – there is a single silver bullet for any option, but there are a combination of silver bullets that can get us across the goal line, and that's what we're looking at.

Right. And the sell-down is a critical element in that combination for Cameia, just to be clear?

It can be critical, but it's a question of how big the sell-down is.

Yeah.

So in other words, you can sell down a little with the combination of reserve-based lending and other kinds of financing opportunities and still have a majority of the value going forward. So that's what we're looking at in a lot of depth right now.

And is there any – I mean, given the cost deflation and now you downsize the FPSO on the rebid, I mean, is there – can you share any estimate on range of development costs for Cameia? I'm sure there's numbers in the data room or at least the quantum that the development cost is down from your original plan?

We've said, and I'll get Shashank to say a few words here, but we said that about $2 billion of cost has been cut out. And on our investor presentation earlier this year, we've said that at that time, we saw an all-in cost of about $20 a barrel for the development. That doesn't include the operating cost element, but we still think those costs are good. I don't know, Shashank, do you want to add anything to that?

No, they're good cost. As Joe has mentioned earlier, we are waiting for bids to come in over the next two, three months. And I think we have timed the bids at a good time in the market. We expect some aggressive prices to come in.

Right. And I see you're also tendering for another rig in Angola, I think you posted that today. I mean, does that replace the contract on your current rig in April of 2016? Is that right or is that something different?

No, I would say what that's a market feeler, is what I would say. And depending upon what we do next year in Angola, what the scheme of our operating plan looks like, what you can't do, Evan, is decide you want to do something and then tender a rig. So it takes about a year to get this process started.

Yeah.

We're serious about the rig, but we're certainly not suggesting to you that we have a committed development plan for that rig next year.

Yeah. Maybe lastly for me. On Cameia, I know you show a 30% IRR at $75 in your deck, but I mean any – I mean, given how the RSA operates in Angola, can you share a number of Cameia IRR at the strip or where the breakeven might be under different development scenarios?

Well, first of all, I'd say we haven't run it on the current strip. But what – I would say that with supply costs kind of what we're talking about here, we mentioned earlier, it's clearly got a lot of legs on it even at the current strip, but we haven't run the numbers. And then given the nature of the RSA in this case, we feel that the project's pretty robust. And in addition to that, we're encouraged with the results of Cameia #4. Jim may want to say a few words about Cameia #4, but highly encouraging results on that which give us confidence that our resource numbers are in the ballpark. Jim?

Got it. You've said it accurately, Joe, that it met or exceed our expectations. But of course, you need to remember our expectations were quite high, based upon especially the first well results, Cameia #1. So Cameia #4 was a winner and certainly consistent with – and should be consistent with the reserve range we discussed earlier.

All right, guys. Thank you. I'll leave it there and look forward to further developments in the back half of the year.

Great. Thanks, Evan.

Our next question comes from line of Bob Brackett with Sandford Bernstein. Please go ahead with your question.

A question on the asset partnerships. What's your appetite to take somebody else's rig that they might have under contract to drill wells in Angola?

Probably zero. Simply because I don't think that anybody is going to have market attractive rigs that we would see at the market right now. And, frankly, this isn't about needing their rigs; it's about a financing partner. But I really don't think – to be honest, that's something we haven't considered because I just don't think it's a probable outcome.

And then a follow-up. What did you learn from the shallow water Mexico licensing round that might inform what you do with the deepwater there?

Well, I think what we learned – this is Jim Farnsworth by the way. What we learned as well as the rest of the industry is that the blocks that were offered were not very high quality and they probably were not of the right size. And I think to the Mexican's government credit, they recognize this and kind of called a timeout and give them some time, an extra couple months to review the results of their channel license round and especially review the terms they had identified for the shallow license round. So I think my expectation is that we'll see some changes. And I know that the Mexican government is out listening to companies like Cobalt and others and getting their feedback from the shallow license round.

Great. Thank you.

Thanks, Bob.

Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Richard Tullis with Capital One. Please go ahead with your question.

Hey. Good morning, everyone. Joe, just to recap, what are you looking at for drilling plans for next year at this point? I know you mentioned Goodfellow exploration well, a possible exploration well in Angola. What else would you be looking at?

Let's just go over Angola first. So Angola, the rig contract expires in May. And as we look forward for the Cameia development well drill-out, there's some questions how – we're drilling the wells pretty fast, so the question is how fast we can drill those wells. And if we need to, we've got a couple more wells we'd really like to drill, exploration wells in Block 20, that will fill out the dance card there for the Petroserv Catarina.

Jumping to the Gulf of Mexico and I'll address the company operated as opposed to the outside operated. As you're aware, we're drilling North Platte #3 now. If that appraisal well is successful, we have two or three follow-up well operations on that, which would include bypass coercion, maybe a sidetrack or two. For the rig, we also have an option in the Eastern Gulf that we're looking at, Jim and his team is looking at, which would be a shallower Miocene prospect that we've been wanting to drill for several years. And then that would take us into second half of the year, which would line up with when we'd like to spud Goodfellow sometime a year or so from now. So that's kind of what the Gulf of Mexico operated rig program looks like for next year.

And then say if oil is sub-$55 next year, even on Brent, would that impact your plans for exploration drilling?

Not so much. Of course, if we – this is the way I view it in terms of price. So if we all sit around the campfire and are convinced that the price of oil is going to be $55 forever, then we've got to get costs aligned with $55, which are not the costs we're seeing today. If we agree they're higher than that, then I think everything kind of goes back to where it's been in the projects or economics. So the point I'm making is with our assets, we're talking about how robust these assets will be in the 2020s, not for the remainder of this decade. And I just don't see a scenario that says the deepwater industry is going to go away.

And the other thing that we're very concerned about is we do believe we have an incredibly attractive asset base in the Gulf of Mexico that we do not want to see expire over the next few years. And, lastly, I'd say the lease sales coming up in the latter half of this decade in the Gulf of Mexico present tremendous opportunity for us. So we want to stay in the game and that's what we plan to do, but we have to fit it in the balance sheet and that's, as we've talked about, what we're trying to do. Jim, do you have anything to add?

Yes. So the only thing I would add is that we are very disciplined about only pursuing opportunities for really big discoveries. And when we make those big discoveries, we only pursue the appraisal and development of the best of the best. So I think it's our belief that over the medium to long-term, these will be the premier opportunities for growth for any company.

And, Joe, just continuing with that same theme, what oil price do you think it takes to generate, say, a 10% rate of return for global deepwater exploration development, say using first-half 2015 development cost, because that's an important component of future oil prices.

I think – I can't answer the question because I just don't see that you're going to have a cost deck that's the first half of this year and a price deck that's kind of the second half of this year, oil price deck. So I've only been in this business nearly 40 years now and I've seen this so many times before. And the transition zone we're in right now is where the cost of goods and services are playing catch-up to the price of oil. And what I think great companies are built around are management teams that kind of understand that dynamic and don't get too far ahead of it when it's going up or two far behind it when it's going down.

I see. And would you say a $70 oil price would be what would be required, say, using first-half 2015 costs?

Well, what we have said is that early this year, January of this year, we looked at all of our assets using cost and development plans that we saw at that time. And a $75 oil price deck flat, $75 flat oil price, and the cost that we were seeing kind of year-end early this year, and every one of our projects assuming they appraise had rates of return in the mid-teens to high-20%s, and that wouldn't have changed.

No, I see. And that's certainly true for your projects. I was looking more for the global industry wildcat drilling going forward.

Can I go back to one thing that Jim said earlier? And we built the company believing – and you've heard Jim say it I don't know how many times, in the past few years, that big fields tend to get bigger and little ones tend to get smaller. And what we start off trying to do is to find the big fields. And so I think it's dangerous in deepwater to try and develop small fields at scale. That's why we've always focused on big fields that can take advantage of the scale of the development costs that are required in deepwater.

Okay. And I guess lastly, Joe, anything new on the Department of Justice investigation?

No. We continue to cooperate with them and I don't have anything else to say about it.

All right. Well, that's all for me. Thank you.

[Operating Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Mike Scialla with Stifel. Please go ahead with your question.

Yeah, hi. Good morning, everybody. I apologize, I lost contact with the call for a little while, so if you've covered this, I apologize. But Jim, I had heard you say I think you have 1 billion barrels of resource, or maybe it was Joe, on Block 20. Could you say how many prospects make up that resource potential?

I'm trying to remember – there's probably about four or five primary prospects that make up the potential. So in other words, it's around 200 million barrels or so of average prospect size. And they're all in close proximity to either what would potentially be a hub at Orca or a hub at Lontra or further to the south, a hub close to Cameia. So they're advantaged geographically is the way I would put it.

Similar concept to the discoveries made there already?

Yeah, good point. They're all – the things we're looking at are all four-way dip close structures, you know, base salt closures. So lower risk than some of the things we've drilled in Block 9 and Block 21.

Great. And Joe, you had mentioned with the Rowan rig in the Gulf of Mexico, you're at a set cost there for the next three years. Just wondering, any update on the liability of the North Platte #2? Are you still having discussions with Rowan on that or is that all resolved at this point?

We're still in conversation with them about it, and I'm sure it'll be resolved.

But rig contract adjustment not on the negotiating table at this point?

We're in conversations with them. And when we have something to announce, we'll announce it, but I don't want to get too far ahead of the story there.

Yeah. I understand. Last one – just wondering, I think on your last call, you had mentioned you were acquiring some seismic data over the Diablo Block in Gabon. Anything – have you had time to interpret that? And if so, anything come out of that at all?

We're in the process of interpreting it now. The data has come in and kind of the early processing has been completed. So far, we're encouraged by what we've seen.

I think you had a four-way structure there that you are looking at. Is that holding up so far?

Yes. What we had seen before on the 2D data was a very large four-way dip close structure to the west of our discovery. And that seems to be holding up very well. It's a big robust structure.

Great. Thank you.

Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs. Please go ahead with your question.

Thank you. Good morning. Wanted to follow-up on your big fields, get bigger comment, and tie it to Cameia and North Platte. At Cameia, it seems like the #4 well gave you the confidence in your resource estimates. Can Cameia #5 make this big field bigger or what do you see as the opportunity for resource expansion there? And then the same question for North Platte #3?

Yeah. Good morning, Brian. I would say kind of on Cameia, keep in mind that the next well is going to be drilled pretty far north. And what it will do is it would give us some level of understanding about the range of the Cameia resources. So while we said the range is 300 feet to 500 feet nominally, this well is very important. I would say one of the important things about Cameia, I guess, we've drilled four wells now on the Cameia structure, and we've still not seen an oil-water contact or a gas-water contact in the field. So it's difficult, as terrific as our technical people are, we're kind of projecting where we think that contact is. And so the well #5, which is kind of in the northern part of the field, in what we call the saddle, is going to go a long way to help us understand how deep the hydrocarbons are on this structure. Jim, do you have anything you want to add to that?

I would just build on that with regards to North Platte. And I agree with you completely on Cameia. I think on North Platte, what we will be looking for is how many net feet of pay do we have in the appraisal well versus the 550 feet we found in the first well. I think that will be the main indicator for us.

Great. Thanks. And then as you look for partnerships, for those that are showing interest in partnering in Cameia, can you talk to the level of interest for those wanting operatorship versus those comfortable with being a non-operating partner? You may only be heading in one direction, but I figured I would ask?

No, that's good question, Brian. I think we always thought of there being two audiences for that show and there's two types of people that have demonstrated a lot of interest and have put a lot of manpower into it. One is clearly the people who want to be the operator. And therefore, they would want a very large working interest of our working interest. And I'm confident there's a lot of folks interested there.

Secondly, there's a group of people that are, I would say, globally competent operators, but they're not familiar with deepwater and frankly are not regarded as great exploration people. And what they're looking at is an opportunity to learn from Jim and his team about how you become a great exploration company and at the same time how you do things in deepwater, and therefore they're looking at a smaller working interest. Both of those avenues are being pursued right now. And I want to make it absolutely clear all of that interest doesn't mean that any sort of commercial bid will be made or anything that we would accept. And I've not – that's not code for I know that, I'm just saying let's all be realistic about it and see what happens when we get bids. And the only gauge we have today is that people have dedicated a lot of effort, a lot of time and a lot of expense to understand the opportunity.

Thank you.

Thanks, Brian.

And our next question comes from the line of Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley. Please proceed with your question.

Hey, guys. Just a couple of follow-ups. Now, that you're the operator at Goodfellow, any description of the target structure 350 feet? I know you have running room around that prospect and had been excited about it in the past.

Yeah. This is Jim again. It's a very large structure. I think it's safe to say it's the largest Inboard Lower Tertiary structure that we participate in. And we view it as a three-way dip close structure, but there's an alternative model that says it might be a four-way. But our base model is a big three-way. And as I said, it's bigger than our average Inboard Lower Tertiary size prospect without getting into specific numbers. I can't emphasize enough, it's big.

That's good. Was there any color on the cost to pick up that interest?

No, we haven't really talked about that. Let's just say we're really happy with the deal.

Right.

And happy to have 47%.

And we're happy to operate.

And operate, thanks.

Sure. Get you out of that – that locked you doing for a while. One last for me. On the flipside of the asset sales, I mean, is there any scenario in which you increase your interest in the project, like Heidelberg which has fragmented interest and cash flow in 2016?

Yes, Evan. And again, I'm not signaling that we're in the middle of any conversations in that regard. But that is clearly something that we've looked at for several years around here is how do we tilt the balance more towards the near-term cash flow and away from long-term exploration potential. We want to keep both of those hoppers us full as we can get them. But Heidelberg, we'd love to earn own more interest in. And by the way, John, you might want to say something about the RBL we have on that, which allows for that.

That's true. The way the RBL that we have in place that we've signed with the banks actually provides an option that if we increase the working interest that we can potentially upsize the funding associated with the Heidelberg RBL facility.

Great. That's good news. Thanks, guys.

Thanks, Evan.

Thank you.

I think that's the end of the queue, isn't it?

Yes, sir. Please go ahead.

Great. Well, this is Joe signing off. Listen, we appreciate everybody's interest this morning. We know these are not fun times for many of us, but I guess we all just need to keep in mind we've been here before. So we've got the confidence at Cobalt that we'll see this through, and we'll see everybody on the other side. So thanks again, and everybody take care.

Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. This concludes today's conference. You may disconnect your lines at this time and thank you for your participation.