corrected transcript


Cobalt International Energy,


Inc.
 
CIE
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 1, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, everyone, and welcome to Cobalt International Energy’s Fourth Quarter and


Year-End 2010 Conference Call. Just a reminder, today’s call is being recorded.


Before we get started, one housekeeping matter. This conference call includes forward-looking


statements. The risks associated with forward-looking statements have been outlined in the


earnings release and in Cobalt’s SEC filings, and we incorporate these by reference for this call.


At this time, for opening remarks and introduction, I’d like to turn the call over to the Chairman and


CEO of Cobalt, Mr. Joe Bryant. Please go ahead, sir.


Joseph H. Bryant, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Good morning and thank you for joining Cobalt’s fourth quarter and year-end 2010 financial and


operating results call. I’m joined on today’s call by our Chief Financial Officer, John Wilkirson.


At a high level, we focused our activities in the fourth quarter on three main areas. The first was to


direct the majority of our Gulf of Mexico efforts in pursuit of obtaining the required permits to get


back to work. Secondly, we saw delivered our Gulf-related cash expenditures given the uncertainty


about the timing of our resumption of operational activity. John will have some remarks on that


aspect of the quarter in a few minutes. And the last thing we focused on was to continue our


progress towards operational readiness to commit drilling our first Angola Pre-salt wells beginning


in the half of this year. I’m happy to say that our efforts have delivered notable results in all three


areas.


Last Thursday, we announced that we had received BOEMRE approval of our North Platte


exploration plan, or EP. This is among the first grassroots deepwater exploration well EPs that have


been approved post-Macondo. We’re extremely proud of this accomplishment as it is yet another


vote of confidence in Cobalt’s ability to operate safely in the Gulf of Mexico, and I think it also


suggest that the time is nearing when the industry will be able to get back to work.


I though that you might be interested in a few facts on our permitting efforts since the moratorium


was declared last spring. We’ve relentlessly pursued both EPs and Applications for Permits to Drill


or APDs for our North Platte and Ligurian wells. On a combed basis, we’ve made 23 separate


submittals to the BOEMRE for these two wells alone. Individually each one of these submittals can


run into several hundred pages of documentation. We estimate that we’ve devoted over 550 man


days of effort to this process for these two wells. It is certainly gratifying to see this effort bear


results.


Our approved EP for North Platte and yesterday’s announcement by the BOEMRE that they have


approved the deepwater APD for Noble Energy seem to indicate that we are entering a back-to-


work phase in the Gulf. As such, we resubmitted the actual APD for North Platte yesterday


afternoon.


While there is no mandatory timeframe within which the BOEMRE is required to act on an APD,


historically the BOEMRE responded to APDs in approximately 30 days. To obtain the approved


APD, we must certify to the BOEMRE that Cobalt is in compliance with all previously existing and


new regulations that are in effect post-Macondo. I can categorically state we will be in compliance


with all applicable regulations when required to do so.
corrected transcript


Cobalt International Energy,


Inc.
 
CIE
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 1, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


As you know, we have sub-let the ENSCO 8503 rig to Tullow for a well in South America. The rig is


currently on the way to French Guiana and we expect it to return to the Gulf of Mexico mid-year.


So, if all goes according to plan, we believe we will be drilling our North Platte well this summer.


That is a lot of if, but it is the plan that we are currently working towards.


We will continue to monitor the Gulf of Mexico permitting status. And if it is apparent that drilling will


not resume when the rig is returned to us this summer, we will seek other opportunities outside of


the Gulf where the rig can be utilized until we can obtain permits.


I also want to say a few words about the permitting status of Ligurian. When the moratorium was


declared last spring, we hadn’t approved EP and felt that we were just a few days away from


obtaining our approved APD for Ligurian. As I have mentioned, we have vigorously pursued re-


approval of the Ligurian EP as well as approval of the Ligurian APD over the last several months.


We will continue to do so, as we would like to have multiple drilling options available to us at all


times.


Having both the North Platte and the Ligurian approved EPs and APDs in hand accomplishes that


objective. In addition, we view Ligurian as an appraisal well of Cobalt and our partner’s Heidelberg


discovery, and we’re anxious to get the well drilled, so we can continue our field development


planning.


As I have said previously, we have put the post-Macondo time to good use, validating our prospect


inventory through various technical projects related to subsurface imaging. So far, everything is


holding up very well and our enthusiasm for Gulf prospect inventory has never been higher.


Over the past several months, I’ve deal with several questions about Cobalt post-Macondo


operating philosophy in the Gulf of Mexico and our relationship with our partners, particularly


TOTAL. The short answer to this range of questions is that our general business model will not


change due to BP’s Macondo blow out. We will continue to operate over 75% of our leases


throughout their [inaudible] and producing lifestyle. TOTAL has confirmed that they continue to


support Cobalt and they have confidence in our joint portfolio. I trust that my comments on our


persistent efforts to secure the necessary drilling permits and our near-term planned spud of North


Platte can put these questions to rest.


In West Africa, we were very busy in the fourth quarter making considerable progress on numerous


projects, which will position us well in 2011. In Angola, on November 12th, we signed the Ocean


Confidence Rig Contract for two firm wells, plus two option slots for drilling program. We took


delivery of the rig in early February of this year. And as you know, we have sub-let the first slot to


TOTAL Angola and we anticipate that we will be ready to spud our first – the first of our Block 21


wells in April or May when the rig is returned to us.


We initiated our 2,500 square kilometer Block 9 3D seismic survey in the fourth quarter. That


survey is now complete and we are currently processing this large data set. Once processed, we


will begin the interpretation phase and we continue to be on track to spud our first well in Block 9


sometime in 2012.


In Gabon, we and our partner continued our reprocessing and interpretation of our newly acquired


6,000 square kilometer 3D survey. We continue to be optimistic that the numerous pre-salt


prospects we saw on 2D data are holding up very well with our much improved 3D data set. If all


goes according to plan, we hope we’d be drilling our first prospect in Gabon sometime in late 2012.


On January 24th, 2011, we announced that Sonangol had conditionally awarded Cobalt a 40%


operating interest in Angola Block 20. Our negotiations to secure this block are going very well and


in fact we have a meeting in Cape Town next week to iron out the few remaining issues in the