Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Lyn Rhoads Walther — Divisional Vice President-Investor Relations, Coldwater Creek, Inc.
Jill Brown Dean — Co-President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Coldwater Creek, Inc.
James Anthony Bell — EVP, Chief Operating & Financial Officer, Coldwater Creek, Inc.
Jeff Van Sinderen — Analyst, B. Riley & Co. LLC
Kayla R. Berg — Analyst, Piper Jaffray, Inc.
Liz O. Pierce — Analyst, Ascendiant Capital Markets LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Greetings and welcome to the Coldwater Creek Incorporated Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Results Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Lyn Walther, IR for Coldwater Creek Incorporated. Thank you, Ms. Walther, you may begin.

Good afternoon, everyone and welcome to Coldwater Creek's third quarter 2013 conference call. Our press release this afternoon includes details regarding our third quarter results. Participating in today's call are Jill Dean, President and Chief Executive Officer and Jim Bell, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating and Chief Financial Officer.

We will provide certain information on an adjusted basis during today's session. We have provided information on these adjustments in the schedule titled GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation of Selected Measures, included with the third quarter earnings release issued today. As a reminder, we will continue to record quarterly non-cash losses or gains associated with the mark-to-market activity related to the derivative liability, primarily as a result of fluctuations in our stock price. In general, an increase in our stock price will result in additional non-cash losses, whereas a decrease in our stock price will result in gain.

During today's discussion, we will also make forward-looking statements within the meaning of the securities laws. These forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations, estimates, assumptions and projections that are subject to change and actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include those risks and uncertainties described from time to time in our most recent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Any forward-looking statements are made only as of this date, and we do not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements.

Now, I would like to turn the call over to Jill.

Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us. For today's call, I'll start off with an overview of our third quarter results and outline the most recent actions we are taking to improve our financial and competitive position. Jim will follow with a more detailed review of our quarterly financial results. After our prepared remarks, we will turn the call over to the operator to take your questions.

Adjusted net loss for the quarter was $0.79 per share driven by lower than expected sales and margin, which more than offset improvements in SG&A. We are clearly disappointed with our results this quarter and in response to our top-line weakness, we have made meaningful changes going forward to both our product and marketing. And in addition, we have implemented further restructuring and cost reduction initiatives, which Jim will speak to, in his prepared remarks.

Early in the quarter, as the magnitude of our product misses became clear, it was evident to me that we have not executed well against our merchandise strategies. We had a significant miss in the performance of our top 30 styles, particularly in the tops and sweaters, which are two of our largest categories. Those categories were over assorted with too many styles and not enough depth of color.

In addition, the novelty and emotional pieces that are an important part of our brand DNA were not well represented in the fall collection. We did have some successes including woven tops, vests, and jeans. We also did well with refined sweatshirts, which is a new trending fashion category. As the extent of the fall product miss became evident, I worked quickly with the merchant team to ensure that our holiday assortment was in alignment with our strategy. Our focus was on ensuring that our top five categories and our top 30 styles were properly assorted by category, by floor set, by week. We were successful in pulling forward November deliveries into October and in effecting changes of our existing holiday on order. In addition, we were able to chase into trending styles and place reorders to impact late November and December.

Overall, we utilized our open-to-buy to impact approximately 15% of holiday deliveries. In mid-October, when early holiday product went in store, we were pleased with the positive customer response as both full price sales and margins rebounded. However, this improvement in October was more than offset by soft performance of our fall sales. As part of our efforts to right size our business model, we have made a number of changes to our product development process, which I believe, will allow us to be more efficient as well as more consistent in our delivery of brand edited trend right merchandise going forward.

These changes include flattening the product development organization to facilitate a more streamlined process and repositioning resources away from ancillary businesses to heighten the focus on our top five categories. At this time, we are actively searching for a new GMM; however, in the interim, I'm leading the merchandising and design functions and working closely with our team. Even after we fill those roles, I intend to remain actively involved to ensure that we are properly executing against our merchandise strategy.

Turning to marketing, this is another area that is undergoing change in the three months since Deb Cavanagh, our new CMO, has come on board. She is focused on elevating our marketing platforms, building our fashion credibility, increasing our brand awareness and growing our client file. We immediately began to make material changes to our creatives for holiday including re-strategizing our windows, floor sets and catalogs. These changes have translated into a stronger brand voice and connection with our customers through the introduction of more energy and emotion in the marketing imagery.

We have responded to the heavily promotional environment and weak traffic trend by revising our promotional cadence through the introduction of several new programs and by increasing our investment in direct mail with an emphasis on reactivation and acquisition. Our marketing platform will continue to evolve, as we move into fiscal 2014 with the launch of our private label credit card, an initiative to grow our client file and optimize our existing customer base to improve brand engagement. Our customers will begin to see a more complete expression of our creative direction across all of our channels with new imagery and typography designed to create excitement about our product and build trust, credibility and loyalty with our customers.

In closing, while the third quarter was a challenging period for us, we were able to react quickly to the trends in the business by improving our assortments and refining our marketing plans. We have seen an improvement in our sales trends and conversion rates. However, we are seeing an increasingly competitive and highly promotional environment, traffic remains challenging and the majority of the holiday season lies ahead of us.

As we look forward into 2014, we are diligently focused on putting our product and customer relationships first in everything we do, consistent execution of our merchandise strategy and the delivery of the compelling product as the essence of our brand DNA is my personal priority.

Now, I would like to turn the call over to Jim.

Thank you, Jill. As you know, throughout the last two years, we've been analyzing and taking actions to right size the infrastructure of our business. Following our disappointing sales results in August, we immediately accelerated further restructuring and cost reduction initiatives, designed to improve the overall efficiency and profitability of the company. These changes are broad-based, impacting virtually every aspect of the business from streamlining our corporate workforce to creating greater efficiencies in our product development lifecycle to optimizing external resources and contracts.

We are changing the way we run our business and believe we now have a more efficient and nimble organizational structure, better positioning us to leverage our top-line results. In fact, we believe that if we can stabilize our top-line and achieve modest sales and margin plans over the next 12 months, that our cost structure is now positioned to deliver operating profits in our business for the first time in several years. In addition to reducing expenses across the organization, we continue to actively manage our real estate portfolio. When we began our real estate optimization initiative in fiscal 2011, we planned to close between 35 and 45 premium stores and anticipated that our efforts would result in between $8 million and $12 million of annualized improvement in pre-tax operating results.

By the end of the fiscal year, we will have closed just over 50 stores, including both premium and factory stores and day spas. In total, these closures will represent approximately $10 million of improvement in annualized pre-tax operating results. As I mentioned on our last call, we have approximately 70 potential lease actions that are being evaluated for fiscal 2014. While we are still analyzing the portfolio and developing strategies against these lease actions, we now expect to close at least 10 to 15 additional stores next year. With the remainder of the lease actions culminating in either a downsizing to a smaller store or a lease amendment, both of which should result in more favorable economics.

Now turning to the specific financial performance for the third quarter, our adjusted net loss for the three-month period was $0.79 per share, compared to adjusted net loss of $0.45 per share in the prior-year period. Our adjusted net loss for the third quarter of fiscal 2013 excludes the following items. First, due to change in the fair value of the derivative liability related to the Series A Preferred Stock, we recorded a gain of $8 million or $0.26 per share. Second, we incurred a pre-tax charge of $23 million or $0.07 per share for severance and other expenses associated with our restructuring program. Third, we recorded a non-cash store impairment charge of $2.7 million or $0.09 per share associated with 27 underperforming stores. And finally, we recorded a non-cash income tax charge of $2.6 million or $0.09 per share related to valuation allowance against previously recorded net deferred tax assets.

Specifically, our results for the third quarter were as follows. Consolidated net sales declined 17.9% to $154.5 million. In the retail segment, sales declined 18% due primarily to a 16.8% decline in comparable premium store sales. Both traffic and conversion were challenging in August and September, reflecting a poor response to our fall collection. However, we saw an improvement in the trend in October when our early holiday flow was set in stores. As Jill mentioned, the performance of our early holiday assortment has been better than fall and we saw this play out in our comp sales results month-to-month throughout the quarter. Both August and September comps were down significantly, and October was down only low single digits, driven primarily by positive mid-teens full priced sales comp as a result of improvements in both traffic and our AUR.

Sales in our direct segment declined 17.4% as positive AUR and UPT were more than offset by lower web traffic and conversion. However, similar to the retail channel, favorable customer reaction to early holiday product in October, resulted in positive full price business online, driven by improved web traffic and again AUR. Total gross profit margin declined 390 basis points to 31.2%. This decline was due primarily to 260 basis points of deleverage of our buying and occupancy expenses, and to a lesser extent, 140 basis points of merchandise margin decline as a result of increased promotional activity as we cleared through fall merchandise.

Selling, general and administrative expenses were $70.8 million or 45.9% of sales. The $5.3 million year-over-year reduction reflects improvement across all expense categories. For some time now, we have been diligently managing expenses. And as I mentioned earlier, during the quarter, we accelerated certain elements of our ongoing cost reduction initiatives. And we're able to achieve meaningful savings by adjusting marketing spend, managing employee expenses and curtailing all discretionary spending. The result was a year-to-date run rate of $17.5 million in savings and we now expect to generate approximately $25 million in total savings for the full fiscal year versus last year. As these savings have been accumulating throughout the year, it is important to note that the annualized impact will also materially benefit 2014 as well.

Now, turning to our balance sheet at quarter-end. Total cash was $6.8 million, compared to $31.3 million last year. At the end of the third quarter, we had $15 million of outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility and $43 million of remaining availability providing us with a total of $49 million in total cash and liquidity, which we believe will meet our needs for the foreseeable future. Our inventory balance at the end of the quarter was $153 million, down from 5.6% compared to the prior year and down 1.6% on a per square foot basis.

Sales were softer than we anticipated during the quarter. However, we strategically bought our fall assortments conservatively, which allowed us to enter the holiday season cleaner than would otherwise have been the case. As a result, we are comfortable with the overall level and composition of our inventory. And importantly, our inventory management disciplines allowed us to quickly react and adjust our holiday assortment leading to the favorable shift and full price product performance that was realized in October. Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled $2.6 million, and depreciation and amortization was $9.7 million. We now expect full year capital spending to be between $9 million and $10 million.

Over the past 24 months, we've made fundamental changes to the way our business operates in order to improve our operating cost structure and ultimately our overall financial performance. We began to see the benefit of those changes in the third quarter of last year. Since that time, product inconsistencies and variable traffic trends have somewhat masked the progress of our operational initiatives. We expect the cumulative reductions we've made to our cost structure to yield between $30 million and $35 million in SG&A savings next year. We believe these reductions combined with top-line stabilization from the execution of our product and marketing strategies should enable us to generate significant improvement in EBITDA in fiscal 2014.

Now, I'd like to turn the call over to the operator for your questions.

Thank you. We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you. Our first question comes from the line of Jeff Van Sinderen with B. Riley. Please proceed with your question.

Hi. Good afternoon, everyone. I know you mentioned October and an improvement in trend there. Just wondering what you saw in November. I think you said a low single digit. There was a mid-single digit negative comp in October. Maybe you can give us a sense of what you saw in November, what you saw around Black Friday weekend and then what you've seen since Black Friday in early December, any trend there? And then maybe just give us a sense of what kind of comps you think we should be looking for in Q4. Do you think merchandise margin will be up or down versus last year? And then so far, are you being more or less promotional in Q4?

I'll take the first part of that and then I'll let Jim follow up. So, in regard to your question about what we've seen in November, I would say that the all important Black Friday weekend was solid for us. We were competitively positioned over Black Friday and as I said our performance was solid. I will have to say that following that, our Cyber Monday performance was weak. So in the direct channel, we gave some of that back. And also in the retail channel, traffic last week was much more challenging than what we had seen over the Black Friday weekend in October. So, we called out that our performance was improved over the third quarter. But traffic still remains challenging.

Yeah. I think basically if we look at the shifts in what Jill was indicating some shifts in business around the day, surrounding that entire Black Friday weekend are really kind of a five or six day period now, clearly it's extending in a longer timeframe year-after-year. And so while there was some shifting around, the aggregate business was really when we say solid, really sort of a flat comp on top of, as a reminder, record business last year during the same period.

Okay. So, basically, you're saying running flat comp over Black Friday weekend and then you're saying it fell off after that. So, I'm just wondering, I see the comps that you put up for Q3 and it sounds like the trend is generally better. I mean, should we be looking for mid-single-digit negative comp for Q4, high-single, I mean is there a range we can think about for Q4? And then maybe if you can just give us any sense of what you think we should be looking for in terms of merchandise margins? Is the trend still positive do you think for Q4 in terms of merchandise margin, anything there?

Jeff, yeah, it's a great question. Let me just refer everyone back to our announcement from a few weeks back. We have made the determination to really suspend any further future guidance at this point. And again, it's really a function of the variability and inconsistency that we're seeing in the top-line. So, really not going to be providing any further guidance for the fourth quarter. However, if I sort of zoom out and make a little bit more general statement, in particular around the margins, Jeff, we continue to really focus on the merchandise and inventory initiatives where we've seen gains and expansion in our merch margins in prior quarters and believe on a longer term basis that that trend will continue. But to be more specific at this time, it's not something that we're going to discuss.

Okay. And then in Q3, were you more or less promotional overall than last year?

I think consistently throughout the quarter, I mean there was a few non-comp periods in terms of promotional events that we ran, but in general, we ran our discounting a little bit higher than last year as a result of trying to address and I think I've seen somewhat in some cases effectively address the fall merchandise misses and really make sure that we don't have a lot of overhang from that as we head forward.

Okay, that's helpful. And then I think you said you're closing – did you say you're closing 10 stores next year? Is that right?

Yeah, 10 to 15 in fiscal 2014.

10 to 15, okay. And then, can you tell us how many leases you have coming up for renewal in 2014 just roughly and then maybe how many you have coming up in 2015?

Sure. Yeah, we really look at lease actions and lease actions can mean expirations that are coming due. Or they could mean they're at some level of a kick out right within the lease structures. In that, the 70 lease actions that I determined, about a half of those are expirations roughly.

I'm sorry, you said 70?

70.

In 2014?

That's correct.

And half are expirations?

About half are expirations.

And the other half would be what now?

Generally, depending on the lease and the lease structure, there will be some level of a kick out, right, whether it be a co-tenancy violation by the landlord or whatever it might be, there is typically a right within those leases before the initial period expires.

Okay, but not necessarily, I mean if it's co-tenancy thing, in other words, that would have to be triggered. So it's not necessarily an out for you, it's just that it potentially could be, is that what you're saying?

It could be and each lease is different. That's correct.

Got it. Okay, that's helpful. And then, the last question I had and I'll let someone else jump in. Just in terms of inventory, I think you said down 1.6% per foot and I'm just wondering how you feel that aligns and I know you're not giving guidance, but how you feel that aligns with your comp trend? Do you feel like you're still running high-end inventory? Do you feel like it's well aligned with the comp trend, just any color or flavor you can give us there?

Sure. I will tell you, I think we've made strides in our inventory, in particular the composition of our inventory and some of the more aged or markdown items that are a little bit older continue to be better, meaning lower, and we've done a really fantastic job over the longer period of time with that. And we'll continue because there is more to go. And I guess the best way for me to say that Jeff is, we continue to have opportunity where we've seen improvement in our inventory turn, we have further opportunity. And we'll continue to focus on it and I think that's a function of having continuing to have very good upfront, buying disciplines and disciplines of open-to-buy and really monthly management of those levels against the trends in the business.

Got it. That's very helpful. I'll let someone else jump in. Thanks and good luck for the rest of holiday.

Thanks so much.

Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Neely Tamminga with Piper Jaffray. Please proceed with your question.

Hi, this is Kayla on for Neely. Thanks for taking my question. Just wondering if you guys could give us an update on your loyalty program. What do some of your customer metrics look like, maybe the average engagement level or spend or maybe the comp trends on that group relative to the non-Coldwater Creek loyalty members?

Sure. The top of our file continues to perform quite well. Our performance in loyalty is on track to the objectives that we set. We are very focused on rewards capture in the business. And we're very much looking forward to the rollout of our private label credit card program next year and the opportunity that gives us to continue to build across the loyalty platform and the levels of threshold. But we're pleased with the performance of the top file, top tier of our customer file.

And are you able to give us any color of what percentage of your sales come from that. I think in the last call you guys mentioned it was north of 50%, is there any update there that you can give us?

Yeah. It's improving on that but I'm not giving anything specific to that. Again I think it's critical, as Jill mentioned, and let me just build on this that our focus around our loyalty program is the launch, it's beginning in early 2014 with the launch of our private label credit card. And it will continue to expand with other initiatives throughout 2014. That's where the major focus is in this program and we're very, very confident with what we're building with our partner Alliance Data.

Okay. And then one last question, an update on your Oracle system that you're using to better manage your inventory and whatnot. You guys said you do feel better positioned heading into holiday this year. I was just wondering do you guys still see yourselves kind of reading and reacting on a weekly basis. Do you think that the team is up to speed on how to use it or do you think there is room for people to kind of get more practice, more training and even see better utilization by your team members?

So I would really like to say that one of the things that I'm most excited about is the capability of our inventory planning system. And the difference, one is the visibility that we have had to fall, especially as we have had to react to a negative fall trend and really look at holiday. Some of the misses that we called out in the fall, it's pretty fundamental. It came from things like flow, lack of productivity at the style and CC level, being over assorted, all of the things of this IPS system is really giving us the visibility going forward. And it's actually had to really dig in and course correct on holiday. This tool was absolutely essential part of helping us to do that. Jim?

Yeah. I'll just mention it from the team's perspective, getting very, very good at utilizing the capability but there is so much capability that we're just getting better and better at it every day, but there is still more to do. And there is a lot more to do.

Great. Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Liz Pierce with Ascendiant Capital Markets. Please proceed with your questions.

Thanks and good afternoon. Jill, just to go back a bit on your comments on the top 30 styles and the underperformance and being over-assorted and not enough color. I guess I'm just trying to figure out what exactly broke down in the planning process and it seems like you guys had articulated this so well in the spring, so I'm just trying to make sense of how it didn't then actually come to fruition?

Sure, Liz. So, because as I said, when the magnitude of our miss became clear really after the first two weeks of the quarter, we dug in right away and really saw that they were very fundamental misses, many of them made in the buy in terms of, like I said, the number of styles, not enough depth, and not enough color flow, some misses in flow things that should have flowed in August that flowed in September. Those are things that we don't – until we had this IPS system, we have not had the visibility to look at our business on a weekly basis to ensure that all of these styles and all of these programs were properly flowed and properly assorted.

I think the other thing that happened in terms of execution, as we've been talking about reading and reacting and responding faster to our business, as we began to do that, we became more and more over assorted and we have not really had the discipline until now in our planning process to constantly reevaluate these buys on a monthly basis, which is what I'm used to, to ensure that they're on track with your objective and they haven't gone awry somewhere in the process.

Okay. So the Oracle system, again, I guess, just you were just referring to before in the last question could really make a difference here in terms of the edit and kind of the gatekeeper.

Absolutely. As well as really having more disciplined process for constant reevaluation of these buys and constant course correction against what's trending and happening in the assortment.

Okay. Okay. And in terms of the marketing, when you say the – I'm just trying to remember some of the earlier catalogs from this summer versus what I've seen recently. Help me understand when you talk about it lacked energy or emotion. Did you just change who you are dealing with on the outside or have you changed inside the people, I mean how do you effect something like that?

Sure. So, our fall catalog performance was not very good; that's probably no surprise because when your product's not good, your catalog's performance tends not to be very good. Our catalogs were really lacking in emotional content. I would say, again, especially around the emotional pieces, the fashion pieces, they became very, very driven to a lot of our more basic styles and things that really don't perform as well, especially in the direct channel. And so, I think that we really needed to go back to and revisit what was working in the emotional connection to the customer and what she is looking from us, and I think if you looked at our holiday catalogs and what we've been able to react to versus the catalogs that we put out for fall, they're very, very different and significantly ramped up both the product and the emotional content and as well as the imagery, the typography. We have a very new direction going forward in our catalogs and we're very excited about it.

Okay. And so what's on the lead times, you held back open-to-buy, you've been able to course correct. Some of that has to be because of lead times. So is there further room to reduce the lead times?

Definitely, definitely. Yes, we still have the opportunity. We've done some good work already and we have the opportunity to still take a number of weeks out of our cycle.

Let me just add to that. Also you just being able to find and continue to extend great relationships with our vendors that have a lot of flexibility in their capabilities and just simply being able to leverage that to a further extent. It's a big part of what we do and, for example, be able to adjust some things for our holiday product a few months ago.

Okay. And then my last question is, on the GMM position, are there things that you are going to focus on that you feel like what kind of attributes would work best in the company and with the team that's in place now. Like where do you think you'll draw from or look for, for a person?

I think obviously the most important thing is really understanding this customer, embracing who this customer is, and what she is looking for from Coldwater Creek. I think that it is really important that as we go through that process, we really look for someone who is completely aligned with our merchandise strategies and our merchandise strategies are. I would tell you that we've brought somebody onboard from my background and my prior life to help us in the merchandising capacity until we find someone. But in the meantime I'm completely engaged with the team and staying very, very focused.

Okay. All right. Well, good luck you guys for the holiday.

Thank you, Liz.

Thanks, Liz.

Thank you. Our next question is a follow-up question from Jeff Van Sinderen with B. Riley. Please proceed with your question.

Yes. I just had a follow-up on the direct digital business. I think catalog you said was not so great for fall and e-comm I'm imagining, I think, you said that probably wasn't all that great for fall. But I guess, I'm wondering sort of what you're looking for there, why you think that business – I think you said Cyber Monday wasn't that great for you. And I'm just wondering if the merchandise is trending better in the stores, why you think it didn't do better in digital for Cyber Monday. Any other color you can add there.

Sure. So to start out, I believe you asked the question before, Jeff, about promotion. We were a little more promotional than last year over the Black Friday weekend. So that is certainly part of the reason why it cannibalized Black Friday, but I would say that over the Cyber Monday period the portion of our direct business that did not perform was the clearance portion. We performed very solidly in full price.

The other thing I want to be clear about, Jeff, is what we saw when Jill makes that comment about Cyber Monday, it's Monday to last year Monday business, and that's because we saw a shift of a large portion of that Cyber Monday online business shifted into Black Friday online. And I think we've seen a lot of consistency in that trend out in the industry. We saw the very similar trend happen.

Okay. So, overall for Black Friday weekend, your digital business was better. It was more solid...

Up slightly year-over-year.

Up slightly year-over-year, okay. That's good to hear.

And I'll tell you again, just to reiterate, very consistent full price business between the two channels, the online business, the direct business, and the retail business, and again a very similar relationship with markdown as well, which is really when that fall product became marked down where it's a bit of a challenge.

Okay. And so it sounds like your full price business is running better than it was for fall. And I'm just wondering do you think that the full price business, and I know you're not giving guidance, but I'm just trying to get a sense of do you think the full price business will run better in your retail stores or better to your e-comm for Q4 this year versus last year or is that – that's the sense I'm getting, but I'm not sure if that's really what you're trying to telegraph.

Yes. I think the bottom line is I think we're seeing very consistent performance across each channel. However, again, let me just reiterate, we're seeing pockets of very solid business, but traffic remains pretty inconsistent and challenging.

Okay. And has conversion improved on e-comm? Are you seeing that? And also what about mobile? Is that an element?

Yes. Mobile is a very important element for us. We're seeing growth. Again, much like a lot of the industry, seeing growth in particular on the tablet side of mobile, not so much from a handheld conversion standpoint. But the tablet's a very important part of conversion as we go forward and as it is continuing to grow.

Okay. Well, it sounds like you have some initiatives you're working on there, so hopefully those will continue to help. Best of luck with that.

Thanks a lot.

Thank you.

Thank you. There are no further questions at this time. I would like to hand the floor back over to management for closing comments.

Thank you for joining us today. We wish you a happy holiday season and we look forward to updating you on our progress in March.

Thank you. This concludes today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at this time and thank you for your participation.