Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Jill Brown Dean — President and Chief Executive Officer, Coldwater Creek, Inc.
James Anthony Bell — Executive VP, Chief Operating Officer & Chief Financial Officer, Coldwater Creek, Inc.
Lyn Rhoads Walther — Senior Equity Analyst, Wachovia
Neely J. N. Tamminga — Analyst, Piper Jaffray, Inc.
Jeff Van Sinderen — Analyst, B. Riley & Co.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Greetings, and welcome to the Coldwater Creek Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2012 Earnings Results Conference Call. At this time all participants are in a listen-in only mode. A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.

It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Ms. Lyn Walther, Investor Relations for Coldwater Creek. Thank you, Ms. Walther, you may begin.

Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to Coldwater Creek's fourth quarter 2012 conference call. Our press release this afternoon includes details regarding our fourth quarter and full year results.

Participating in today's call are Jill Dean, President and Chief Executive Officer and Jim Bell, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating and Chief Financial Officer.

We will provide certain information on an adjusted basis during today's discussion. We have provided information on these adjustments in the schedule titled GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation of Selected Measures, included with the fourth quarter earnings release issued today.

As a reminder, we will continue to record quarterly non-cash losses or gains associated with the mark-to-market activity related to the derivative liabilities, primarily as a result of fluctuations in our stock price.

In general, an increase in our stock price will result in additional non-cash losses, whereas a decrease in our stock price will result in gain.

During today's discussion we will also make forward-looking statements within the meanings of the securities laws. These forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations, estimates, assumptions and projections and are subject to change and actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include those risks and uncertainties described in our most recent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Any forward-looking statements are made only as of this date and we do not assume any obligation to update these statements.

Now, I would like to turn the call over to Jill.

Thank you for joining us. I am pleased to be with you today in my new role as CEO of Coldwater Creek. I will begin today's call by sharing with you our accomplishments in the fourth quarter and the full year 2012. Then I will provide an overview of our 2013 strategic initiatives. Following this, Jim will review our fourth quarter financial results in more detail and provide our outlook. After our prepared remarks we will turn the call over to the operator to take your questions.

Fiscal 2012 was an important year for Coldwater Creek. We planned and executed strategies in merchandising and marketing to return our business to positive comp store sales and margin and in continued SG&A reduction all in an effort to build sustainable long-term profitability. While we made solid progress particularly in the third and fourth quarters of the year, much work remains ahead of us.

As it related to the fourth quarter on an adjusted basis, which removes non-comparable items reference in our press release our efforts led to a 2.7% increase in comparable store sales and an 8% increase in direct sales reflecting a 25% contribution from this channel. This is the first time we have experienced year-over-year growth in the direct channel in 10 quarters. During the fourth quarter we responded to weak traffic in early November and mid-December and were more promotional than we planned in order to have a clean inventory position exiting the quarter. While this strategy negatively impacted our gross margin, we ended the quarter with total inventory down 5%. Our best-performing categories were Sweaters, Jeans, Outerwear and Jewelry with softness in the Tops and Jackets.

For the full year we delivered a 1% increase in comparable store sales and 280 basis points in gross margin expansion. This coupled with expense discipline drove a $29 million improvement in our fiscal 2012 adjusted net loss as compared to 2011. We accomplished a great deal in 2012. Highlights include stabilizing our product offering by leveraging our top 30 styles as the base of our business, ground in trend right styles and the compelling color, print and pattern that our customer love, adding incremental product flows which provided newness and freshness to the assortment and increased our full price sell through and in aligning our creative position across all channels bringing an integrated shopping experience to our customers.

We also launched a new loyalty program, Coldwater Creek Rewards in early 2012 and ended the year with 1.5 million members. 17% of these customers are new to file and are younger than our database average. The rewards customer spends on average 2.7 times more annually than non-rewards customers. Also as an outcome of the strength of Coldwater Creek Rewards we experienced a 10% increase in the size of our promotable e-mail file and more than doubled our e-mail capture rate in 2012. We are focused on building our omni-channel capabilities to create an integrated network that is customer focused and provides a consistent branded shopping experience in all channels. Our multi-channel customers are our most valuable, spending twice as much on average annually than single channel customers.

We launched mobile commerce for holiday by introducing a mobile site that functions across all smartphones along with an iPad app, acknowledging this growing trend and our customer's increasing comfort level with this technology. Finally and critically important, are the investments that we have made to build our leadership talent to ensure that we are able to execute our strategies at the highest level. In the last 18 months, we have brought in new leadership in merchandising, sourcing, inventory planning, creative services and information systems. We are currently focused on filling key leadership roles in marketing and human resources. In addition as we focus on continuing to build the brand and our fashion leadership we are in the process of transitioning all of the design team to our New York office under the leadership of Jerome Jessup.

As we begin the new fiscal year, we are focused on strengthening our brand and by continuing to reposition Coldwater Creek as a leader in the marketplace providing trend right, age appropriate fashion and a consistent multi-channel experience to our customers as their trusted advocate. To this end, we have recently completed a comprehensive qualitative study of our target customer. This work has helped us to find who she is, how she lives her life, what she values and her unique emotional connection with fashion. It will guide our decision making and enable our organization to execute consistently with one voice, one target, one vision.

In merchandising and design, we will continue to build on the base that we established in 2012. Our assortment architecture will continue to evolve by emphasizing a higher penetration of on trend fashion interpreted for our target customer and focused on building a thoughtful assortment of complete outfits. We are focused on regaining our leadership in color, print and pattern that are the DNA of our brand. And to that end, we have redefined our color and print architecture to focus on what we are best at, rich, vibrant color and feminine prints.

Broadening our core product offering is an important part of our strategy. For spring we launched our Weekend by Coldwater Creek collection in our e-commerce channel. This collection of relaxed knit shapes and light layers has performed very well and we will be launching it in our retail stores this fall. For summer, we're launching our swimwear collection as well as a small footwear assortment.

We have also recently introduced into the e-commerce channel, Destinations by Coldwater Creek, a collection comprised of easy wear, no wrinkle coordinated separates, a cashmere collection, and an expanded assortment of our jeans. Supported by presentation in our catalogues, we will continue to use e-commerce to showcase new businesses with the potential to be rolled out to retail stores in the back half of 2013.

Our marketing initiatives in 2013 will continue to be focused on driving traffic to all channels. Our loyalty program represents the biggest opportunity to drive traffic as just over half of our customers are currently enrolled in these programs. We are focusing on driving more of our current customers into the rewards program and on driving current rewards members into our upper tier programs, onecreek and onecreek Elite. Our store associates will continue to be focused on adding new customers into the program and on maximizing e-mail capture rates.

We are also focused on refining our promotional and e-mail cadence, attracting new customers to the brand through our store windows, online advertising, and public relations initiatives. All focused consistently, expressing our brand position and to drive traffic. Equally important are the initiatives to optimize our supply chain capabilities, which are designed to increase our speed-to-market and lower our cost of goods. Our continued store optimization program with an incremental focus on maximizing cross-channel sales recapture, and optimizing sales and profits of store repositioning and remodels, and our commitment to rigorously manage our inventory. Jim, will speak to these initiatives in more detail.

In summary, while the task to return our business to profitability is the relentless focus of our entire organization, we are pleased with the progress made in fiscal 2012, where we delivered positive comp store sales and an $11 million EBIT improvement in the second half of the year. Our customers are responding enthusiastically to the changes that we have made and we are energized by the initiatives that we have in place in 2013 to build the brand and continue our momentum.

Now, I would like to turn the call over to Jim.

Thank you, Jill. During the fourth quarter, we continued to make good progress on our initiatives to improve our financial performance. In our press release issued this afternoon, we detailed our results of operations for the fourth quarter and full year of 2012, which included a number of non-comparable items. I will go through the details of those items with you momentarily. But first, I would like to provide a few highlights. So, that you have a clear comparison of our operating performance to last year.

On an adjusted basis, in the fourth quarter, we reduced our net loss per share to $0.65 from $0.73 last year. And as a result of a 2.7% increase in comparable premium store sales, a 7.7% increase in our direct segment sales, 20 basis points improvement in our gross profit margin, and a $1.4 million reduction in our SG&A expense. As I mentioned, these improvements are on an as adjusted basis reflecting the following non-comparable items that impacted the fourth quarter and fiscal year.

First, during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, the company incurred a onetime expense associated with its CEO transition of $0.06 per share. Second, due to change in the fair value of the derivative liability related to the Series A Preferred Stock, the Company recorded a gain of $0.05 per share in the fourth quarter and a loss of $0.10 per share for the full year. Third, we recorded => a favorable cumulative onetime adjustment for gift card breakage income that represented $0.39 per share in the fourth quarter of last year and $0.47 per share for the fiscal year 2011. In addition, we recorded non-cash store impairment charges of $0.08 per share in the fourth quarter of last year and $0.21 per share on a full year basis.

Additionally, I would also like to note that fiscal 2012 was a 53-week year with the additional week occurring in the fourth quarter, while fiscal 2011 was a traditional 52-week year. Comparable store sales for the fourth quarter and full year are presented on a 13-week and 52-week basis excluding the additional week. The additional week in 2012 represented $8 million in net sales and a net loss of $0.13 per share.

Now, moving on to our detailed results for the fourth quarter, consolidated net sales in the fourth quarter of 2012 were $220.8 million as compared to $224.4 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011. In the retail segment, net sales declined 4.3% to $166 million from $173.5 million in the fourth quarter of 2011. The decline in sales was related to both store closures as a result of our store optimization program and a $10.7 million gift card breakage income recorded in the fourth quarter of last year.

Comparable premium retail sales increased 2.7%, driven by a 13% increase in our conversion comp, partially offset by a 4% decline in comparable store traffic and a 5% decline in average transaction, as a result of higher markdown sales in response to variability in the business, both in early November and mid-December timeframes. We saw our best performance in the central region, while both the south and the northeast were the most challenging primarily as a result of severe and variable weather in those regions.

The retail segment net sales represented 75% of consolidated net sales compared to 77% in the fourth quarter of last year, representing both the impact of the store closures, as well as positive growth in our direct segment. During the quarter, we closed 5 premium retail stores and 1 day spa, ending the period with a total of 349 premium retail stores, 38 factory stores, and 8 day spa locations. For the year, we closed 15 premium retail stores and 1 day spa, as part of our close – store optimization program

Now, turning to our direct segment, direct segment net sales increased 7.7% to $54.7 million from $50.8 million in the fourth quarter of 2011, which is significant as this represents the first increase in sales in 10 fiscal quarters for this segment. The improvement was driven by a 7% increase in order volume and a continued expansion in merchandise margins driven by lower markdown selling as part of our inventory management strategies, which have significantly reduced clearance selling on the web.

Consolidated gross profit for the quarter was $64.1 million, or 29.1% of net sales compared to $73.1 million or 32.6% of net sales for the prior-year period. Last year's gross margin included a 370 basis point benefit related to gift card breakage income. Adjusting for this benefit, gross margin increased 20 basis points, driven by leverage of occupancy and buying expenses.

Merchandise margins declined 120 basis points in the quarter as a result of our strategic decision to increase our promotional stance in the retail channel in response to the variability in the business throughout the quarter. These decisions ensured, we exited the quarter very clean in overall inventory.

Selling, general and administrative expenses for the fourth quarter were $82.5 million, or 37.4% of net sales compared to $81.8 million or 36.5% of net sales in the fourth quarter of 2011. The increase in SG&A expense was due to a $2.1 million pre-tax charge related to our CEO transition, offset primarily by lower marketing expenses.

During the fourth quarter, our catalogue circulation was down 3% versus the prior year, as we continue to rebalance our spending, increasing our utilization of both e-mail and loyalty marketing programs. Interest expense related to our term loan was $3.7 million in the quarter and compares to $800,000 in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011. The income tax benefit for the quarter totaled $607,000 and compares to an income tax benefit of $1.1 million for the fourth quarter of last year.

Now, turning to our balance sheet, we ended the year with total cash of $21.7 million with no outstanding borrowings under our revolving line of credit. This compares to $51.4 million last year, which included $15 million of outstanding borrowings under our revolving line of credit. It is important to note that due to the timing of payments for certain rents and other accounts payable, the 53rd week reduced our comparative cash balance by approximately $13 million.

Total inventory declined 5.1% to $125.2 million from $132 million at the end of fiscal 2011.

Premium retail inventory per square foot, which includes retail inventory in the distribution center increased approximately 8%, as compared to fiscal 2011 due in part to earlier receipt timing of our spring merchandise as well as the 53rd week. As a reminder, the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 our inventory per square foot was down 24.3% from the previous year.

Capital expenditures in the fourth quarter totaled $2.3 million and for the year totaled $16.5 million. Depreciation and amortization was $12.4 million for the quarter and $51.4 million for the full year.

As we turn to fiscal 2013, we are focused on continuing to deliver incremental improvements in our financial performance by improving our inventory management, optimizing our real estate portfolio, leveraging our supply chain capabilities and further reducing our overall expense levels. We plan to improve our inventory productivity through tighter inventory commitments by adjusting the depth, while maintaining the breadth in our assortments. Additionally in the first quarter we will launch a new Oracle-based inventory planning system, which we believe when combined with our other initiatives will lead to further improvements in our inventory turns and continue to reduce our clearance inventory levels.

In fiscal 2013, we will also continue our store optimization program, which we began in fiscal 2011. To date we have closed a total of 30 underperforming stores and on track to close an additional 15 underperforming stores in fiscal 2013. One area of focus will be to continue our efforts to maximize transfer sales from these closed stores, which we believe can be up to 50% or more in some key multi-store markets.

As part of our strategy to reduce the average store size over time, we will continue to opportunistically downsize and/or relocate stores in certain markets. We have been pleased with the performance of the 11 stores we relocated or downsized in fiscal 2012 and plan to address an additional 8 stores to 10 stores in fiscal 2013. We have found that by reducing the square footage by just over 30%, we are seeing close to a 60% improvement in the four-wall operating income and a meaningful increase in sales per square foot productivity.

In addition, we are working to leverage our supply chain capabilities, which we expect will reduce our cycle time and lower our cost of goods. We plan to reduce our cycle time by streamlining our product development process, improving our forecasting and planning of capacity and raw materials, and enhancing our overall logistics model. To date we have reduced the product life cycle by five weeks and believe we have an opportunity to take out an additional five weeks over time.

And finally, we have continued to be diligent about expense management, generating savings of $18 million in a year, ahead of our guidance of $13 million to $15 million. For fiscal 2013, we expect to reduce total SG&A expense by another $4 million to $6 million.

Now turning to our outlook, while we are confident that we are well positioned for fiscal 2013, we're somewhat cautious given the uncertain macroeconomic environment and the impact this will have on consumer spending. For the first quarter of fiscal 2013, we currently expect comp store sales to be down, low-single digits. We expect our gross margins, however, to continue to improve between 100 basis points and 200 basis points, and adjusted net loss per share we expect to be in the range of $0.60 to $0.80. This guidance excludes any quarterly impact of the change in the fair value of the derivative liability associated with our preferred stock. And finally, we expect our total inventory to be down in the low-single digits as compare to the first quarter of fiscal 2012.

For the full year of fiscal 2013, we expect gross margin expansion of between 100 basis points and 200 basis points, our interest expense will be approximately $15 million and we are on track to close 15 premium retail stores and open two factory stores during the year.

Finally, our capital expenditures for the year are expected to be between $17 million and $20 million and depreciation amortization will be between $40 million and $45 million.

In summary, we're pleased with the progress made in fiscal 2012, and we believe these financial results show the impact of our strategic initiatives as well as our efforts to re-engineer the way we operate the business. We are focused on continuing to execute our strategic initiatives, which we believe will yield commensurate improvements in our financial performance in 2013.

This concludes our prepared remarks. I will now turn the call over to the operator to take your questions.

Thank you. We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Neely Tamminga of Piper Jaffray. Please go ahead.

Great. Good afternoon. I just have a two-part question here. First, I was wondering, Jim, if you're able to give us a little bit in terms of quarter-to-date trends. Obviously that's contemplated in your guidance, but just kind of sizing up the easing in traffic compares that we think you guys have in spring, and then, obviously, your regional performance, Have you seen in the Midwest actually out-perform the chain average similar to what we saw in Q4, I believe, if I recall correctly. And just have you seen any sort of stabilization in the pattern.

The second question is really for Jill. Could you more specifically describe some of the ways that you're actually improving consistency across channels? Is it people changes? Is it process changes? I think it's just really interesting and compelling, especially considering you guys are going to be doing a lot of your new category launches by e-commerce. Thanks.

Great. Neely, thank you. In terms of the trend, we – so far in the quarter, February wasn't necessarily up to our expectations. But we did see as we dropped a key spring flow early in March that we did start to see a little bit of improvement to those trends. So but, I will say this, we think most of February was primarily weather related, as we saw a very distinct material difference in the performance in the northeast than the rest of the regions. And our warmer weather regions, somewhat to what you're alluding to, were absolutely better performers during the month.

And in answer to your second quarter, I think that we have been engaged in trying to collapse the silos between our channels for quite some time. It's been a year since we realigned our merchant teams to be – to not be channel focused. We have really collapsed the silos in our creative team and everyone is really working together to do a much more holistic job of the product, the creative expression, the brand voice, across all of our channels, so, it's a little bit of everything. It's a little bit of people. It's a little bit of process and it's a very high level shared commitment to focus on the customer experience cross-channel and to make it as seamless as we possibly can. And yes, we're very enthusiastic about the idea of using the e-commerce channel to test how to bring new products to market.

In that light, I'll add also that we continue to see pretty solid momentum also quarter-to-date, this Q1 to date on the direct business as well. So gives us some good indication not only as to the results of those continuing activities, but also some of the weather-related comments I made earlier.

Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] The next question is from Jeff Van Sinderen of B. Riley. Please, go ahead.

Good afternoon. I wonder if you can just give us the comp drivers for Q4. I think, you gave some of them. I believe you said transaction count was down 4%, if I caught that right. Maybe you can give us UPT, AUR, et cetera?

Sure. Jeff, the biggest driver to the quarter in terms of comp was the conversion. It was a 2013 comp. Then the other notes that I mentioned was the – our average trans comp was down 5% and the traffic comp was down 4%.

Okay. And then, inventory per foot, I think you said up 8% at the end of the quarter but you're saying down low-single digits at the end of Q1. When you say down low-single digits are you talking in terms of total inventory? Or is that inventory per foot? And maybe you can just give us the components of that.

Sure. Yeah. The inventory per square foot was up about 8% at the end of the quarter. And again mostly because of the timing of some of the shift, timing shifts associated with some of our spring flows. But also the extra week and when it fell, and when we were receiving goods to put into the stores. But again I think total inventory, down 5%. What we're seeing is a continuation in what I refer to as, the quality of makeup of the inventory. Much less clearance and much more full line inventory to support full line sales in both channels. And then as we get into the end of Q1, my comment was down in the single digits on total inventory. I didn't give some perspective. But on a per square foot basis, I actually expect it to be slightly positive year-over-year. And again the reason for that is continuing to see a much more healthy mix of full line inventory versus clearance inventory.

Got it. And then maybe you can just touch on how in Q1 so far, since we're sort of half way through the quarter now, how do your promotional levels compare to Q1 last year? And I guess how should we expect your overall promotional level based on your current plan to compare for the whole quarter at – looked at versus Q1 of last year?

So, our promotional activity the quarter-to-date has been relatively consistent with last year. We are looking at refining our promotional activity going forward though. You know there are new components to our promotional strategy such as returning to a private loyalty shopping event, that are scheduled for the quarter. There are – the redemption of our loyalty coupons as traffic drivers coming up here in the second two months of the quarter. And we are looking at really refining our promotional strategy, so that we are really sharp and aggressive when the traffic – when the organic traffic is in the mall and really focused on maximizing the margin dollar opportunities when the traffic is there.

Okay, great. And then finally maybe you can just touch on some of the omni-channel initiatives you're working on in 2013.

Sure. It's very early to talk about them, actually. We launched our mobile site for smartphones right before holiday and our iPad app. And I think certainly we're seeing a very quick movement of the customer's willingness to use the tablets, to access our website and browse. I think we're still – the actual transaction data is – still way too early to really talk about that but we're definitely seeing that movement for her, especially to using tablets.

Okay. Good. Thanks very much. I'll let someone else jump in.

Thanks, Jeff.

Thank you. We have no further questions in queue at this time. I would like to turn the floor back over to management for any additional remarks.

Thank you for joining us today. We look forward to updating you on our progress on our next call.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at this time. Thank you for your participation.