corrected transcript


Coldwater Creek Inc
 
CWTR
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 24, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Welcome to Coldwater Creek Second Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.


Today's call is being recorded. With us today, we have Mr. Dennis Pence, Chairman and Chief


Executive Officer; President and Chief Merchandising Officer, Ms. Georgia Shonk-Simmons; Mr.


Mel Dick, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Mr. David Gunter, Divisional


Vice President of Corporate Communications and Investor Relations. Mr. Gunter, please go


ahead.


David Gunter, Divisional Vice President of Corporate Communications and Investor Relations


Thank you, operator. Good afternoon, and welcome to Coldwater Creek’s fiscal 2005-second


quarter earnings release conference call. If you have not received a copy of the release distributed


this afternoon, please contact our office at 208-265-3977, and we will send one out to you


immediately.


We will begin with a few formal comments from management and then open up the lines for your


questions. During the course of this conference call, we may make forward-looking statements


regarding future events or performance of the company, including forward-looking statements and


projections about our operating results, business initiatives, growth opportunities and prospects. I


want to emphasize that any projection involves judgment and that individual judgments may vary.


Any projections that we make today are based on information available to us now, which is subject


to change as the quarter progresses. Actual results may differ substantially from what we say


today, and no one should assume later in the quarter that the comments we provide today are still


valid.


Moreover, we are not undertaking any obligation to provide updates in the future. The documents


that the company files from time-to-time with the Securities and Exchange Commission including


our most recent Form 10-K and Form 10-Q contain and identify important factors, including the


risks and uncertainties described under Risk Factors that could cause actual results to differ


materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements.


A replay of this conference call will be available immediately after the call today until midnight on


August [sic] 31st. The number to call for the replay is 719-457-0820 and the pass code is 7209747.


The webcast of this call will also be available on the Investor Relations page of our website until


August [sic] 31st, after which the transcript of this conference call will be posted. To access that


information, visit www.coldwatercreek.com and select Investor Relations.


And now, I would like to introduce Dennis Pence.


Dennis C. Pence, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, David. And welcome back ladies and gentlemen. I am pleased to report that strong


sales at full-price, the continued success of our national retail store expansion, and growth in the


Internet channel have resulted in the most profitable second quarter in the company’s history.


Additionally, the combination of increased merchandising purchasing power related to retail store


growth and continued leveraging of store occupancy expense resulted in higher net income,


improved gross profit, and increased operating margin compared with last year. We opened 17


new retail stores during the second quarter on our way to adding approximately 60 new Coldwater


Creek locations this fiscal year.
corrected transcript


Coldwater Creek Inc
 
CWTR
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 24, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


We are pleased with the progress of our direct sourcing initiative and remain on track to achieve


our goal of directly importing approximately 15% of our merchandise in fiscal ’05. Georgia will have


an update on this initiative in a few moments.


We successfully introduced our co-branded credit card program in late May resulting in more than


29,000 customers taking part in the new program at the end of second quarter. We currently have


more than 45,000 cardholders and believe that we are gaining considerable momentum as


customers learn about this pre-approved Coldwater Creek card and the points-based rewards


program it offers.


The Internet showed especially strong growth of 49% in the second quarter, offsetting the decline in


catalog sales and resulting in an overall increase in direct segment net sales of 19% for the period.


Including the new names added during the quarter, we now have approximately 2.5 million active e-


mail addresses. Of this e-mail list, more than 62% of the customers now live within 30 miles of a


Coldwater Creek retail location. We continue to leverage this increased access by using our e-mail


list to drive store traffic and highlight special events. Continuing a very favorable trend, our Internet


site traffic exceeded 8.4 million visits during the second quarter, up 46% compared with a year ago.


Turning now to a brief overview of our second quarter financial performance, data is as follows:


The net income increased 109% to 7 million resulting in earnings of 11 cents per share compared


with 6 cents last year. Operating margin for the quarter was 6.9% compared with 4.8% in the prior


year period. Strong sales at full-price and increased purchasing power related to our retail store


expansion resulted in 170 basis-point improvement in the gross profit rate. Meanwhile, net sales


increased 39% due to excellent response to our summer merchandise. Inventory increased by


29% or 16.7 million in the recent quarter, as we added another 47 retail stores compared with the


prior period. We ended the quarter with a cash position of $93 million, working capital of 125.8, and


no debt.


In regards to the retail segment, net sales from the retail segment increased 55% to 95.2 million in


the second quarter. Once again, the strength of our full-price selling, coupled with improved


merchandise, purchasing power and leveraging store occupancy expense helped increase our


gross profit rate. Retail stores represented nearly 62% of our total net sales for the second quarter


compared with approximately 55% a year ago.


In regards to the direct segment, our overall direct segment net sales increased 19% due to


especially strong results from the Internet. Internet sales increased 49% in the second quarter


compared with the prior year. Internet sales represent more than 65% of our direct segment net


sales for the period. Catalog sales decreased 14% in the second quarter as we continue to use


catalogs as our primary print advertising medium to shift more customers to the Internet and to our


retail stores.


In summary, the synergies of our effective triple-channel retailing strategy continue to deliver net


sales growth, improved EPS performance, and higher operating margin. As we have discussed,


the careful execution of our retail store expansion strategy remains our top priority. We have


successfully opened 26 of the approximately 60 stores planned for this year and currently have a


total of more than a 140 stores supporting the brand in key national markets. As we enter new


markets and expand our presence in existing ones, we believe Coldwater Creek continues to gain


market share and is starting to take its place as one of the premier specialty apparel brands in the


United States


Now, I would like to turn the call over to Mel for a more detailed review of second quarter financial


results.