corrected transcript


Coldwater Creek, Inc.
 
CWTR
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 22, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Welcome to Coldwater Creek’s Third Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.


Today's call is being recorded. With us today, we have Mr. Dennis Pence, Chairman and Chief


Executive Officer; President and Chief Merchandising Officer, Ms. Georgia Shunk-Simmons; Mr.


Mel Dick, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Mr. David Gunter, Divisional


Vice President – Corporate Communications and Investor Relations. Mr. Gunter, please go ahead


sir.


David Gunter, Divisional Vice President of Corporate Communications and Investor Relations


Thank you, operator. Good afternoon, and welcome to Coldwater Creek’s fiscal 2005 third quarter


earnings release conference call. If you have not received a copy of the release distributed this


afternoon, please contact our office at (208) 265-3977 and we will send one out to you immediately.


We will begin with a few formal comments from management and then open up the lines for your


questions.


During the course of this conference call, we may make forward-looking statements regarding


future events or performance of the company, including forward-looking statements and projections


about our operating results, business initiatives, growth opportunities and prospects. I want to


emphasize that any projection involves judgment and that individual judgments may vary. Any


projections we make today are based on information available to us now which is subject to change


as the quarter progresses. Actual results may differ substantially from what we say today and no


one should assume later in the quarter that the comments we provide today are still valid.


Moreover, we are not undertaking any obligation to provide updates in the future. The documents


the company files from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our


most recent Form 10-K and Form 10-Q contain and identify important factors including the risks


and uncertainties described under 'Risk Factors' that could cause actual results to differ materially


from those contained in any forward-looking statements.


A replay of this conference call will be available immediately after the call today until midnight on


November 29th. The number to call for the replay is (719) 457-0820 and the pass code is


9614479. A Webcast of this call will also be available on the 'Investor Relations' page of our


website until November 29
 
th


, after which the transcript of this conference call will be posted. To


access that information, visit www.coldwatercreek.com and select 'Investor Relations.'


Now, I would like to introduce Dennis Pence.


Dennis C. Pence, Founder, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, David, and welcome back ladies and gentlemen. I am pleased to report that better than


anticipated sales and profits in the third quarter resulted in an increasing market share for both our


retail and direct segments. In addition, we have seen momentum building over the last four weeks


as we move toward the all important holiday season.


The continued successful execution of our retail store rollout increased our store count by 27 stores


in the third quarter, the largest number of stores we have ever opened in a single quarter. We will


open the last store we have planned for 2005 tomorrow which will take us to our goal of having 174


locations in place for the holiday selling season. Based on the effectiveness of our retail expansion


this year, we have announced that we now plan to increase our rollout for 2006. As previously


reported, we currently plan to open 65 stores next year, up from our original plan of 60.
corrected transcript


Coldwater Creek, Inc.
 
CWTR
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 22, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Additionally, we have increased our average store size for the coming year by approximately 500


square feet, a 10% increase. We believe this additional space will allow us to more fully represent


the brand in the retail setting and increase overall revenue on a per store basis.


The Coldwater Creek catalog has proven to be an effective store traffic driver, and we plan to


further leverage this successful marketing tool by expanding this initiative next year. We will have


more information on this during Georgia’s comments.


Our national magazine ads continue to generate positive results as a brand building initiative in the


third quarter. Based on favorable customer response, we expanded our advertising program to


include an eight page advertising insert in major women’s magazines for the holiday season.


Also, adding to our brand awareness is the recognition we received last week from the National


Retail Federation which named Coldwater Creek the #1 Specialty Apparel Retailer for Customer


Service in the United States and #2 in Customer Service for All Retail Companies overall. This


award was based on survey results from more than 8,500 consumers across the country.


Providing excellent service has always been a hallmark of the brand in our catalog and Internet


channels, and we are especially pleased to have earned this recognition for the service we provide


in our retail stores.


Once again, this past quarter, Internet growth was stellar with our Internet site traffic exceeding


12.9 million visits during the third quarter, an increase of 72% compared with a year ago. Including


the new names added during the recent quarter, we now have nearly 2.6 million active e-mail


addresses. More than 66% of the customers on our e-mail list now live within 30 miles of a


Coldwater Creek retail store. We continue to leverage both our growing e-mail list and catalog


mailings to drive retail store traffic and promote special events.


Turning now to a brief overview of our third quarter financial performance, the data is as follows.


Net income increased 37% to $12.4 million, resulting in earnings of 20 cents per share compared


with 15 last year. Operating margin for the quarter was 10.3 percent. Improved merchandise


margins and leveraging of our full-line retail store occupancy costs resulted in a 220 basis point


improvement in the gross profit range. Net sales increased 26% due to solid response to our fall


merchandise collection. We ended the quarter with a cash position of $104 million, working capital


of $125 million and zero debt.


In regards to the retail segment, net sales from the retail segment increased 44% to 115 million in


the third quarter. Retail stores represented nearly 61% of our total net sales for the third quarter,


compared with approximately 53% a year ago. In regards to the direct segment, our overall direct


segment net sales increased 7% due to continued growth in the Internet channel. Internet sales


increased 21% in the third quarter compared with the prior year. Internet sales represented nearly


63% of our direct segment net sales for the period. Catalog sales decreased to 11% in the third


quarter as we continued to use catalogs as our primary print advertising medium to shift more


customers to the Internet and drive traffic to our retail stores.


In summary, strong sales performance at the beginning and end of the third quarter more than


offset the negative impact of Katrina and its aftermath which was contained to the first three weeks


of September. Ongoing execution of our retail store expansion strategy remains a top priority for


the company, and we now plan to open 65 stores in ’06. We plan to open the last store in our 2005


retail expansion tomorrow, which will give us a total of 174 stores supporting the brand as we


entering the holiday selling season. We believe the positive impact of an expanding national store


base, on-going growth in our Internet channel, and effective brand building initiatives continue to


increase our market share, while taking us another step closer to the goal of the establishing


Coldwater Creek as one of the premier specialty retailers in the United States