Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Lyn Rhoads Walther — Divisional Vice President, Investor Relations, Coldwater Creek, Inc.
Jill Brown Dean — President and Chief Executive Officer, Coldwater Creek, Inc.
James Anthony Bell — Executive VP, Chief Operating Officer & Chief Financial Officer, Coldwater Creek, Inc.
Neely J. N. Tamminga — Analyst, Piper Jaffray, Inc.
Jeff Van Sinderen — Analyst, B. Riley & Co. LLC
Liz O. Pierce — Analyst, Ascendiant Capital Markets LLC
Robert Schwartz — Founder & Chief Executive Officer, Cooper Creek Partners Management LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Greetings and welcome to the Coldwater Creek, Inc. Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Results Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Ms. Lyn Walther, Investor Relations for Coldwater Creek, Inc. Thank you, Ms. Walther, you may begin.

Good afternoon, everyone and welcome to Coldwater Creek's second quarter 2013 conference call. Our press release this afternoon includes details regarding our second quarter result. Participating in today's call are Jill Dean, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Jim Bell, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating and Chief Financial Officer.

We will provide certain information on an adjusted basis during today's call. We have provided information on these adjustments in the schedule titled GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation of Selected Measures, included with the second quarter earnings release issued today. As a reminder, we will continue to record quarterly non-cash losses or gains associated with the mark-to-market activity related to the derivative liability, primarily as a result of fluctuations in our stock price. In general, an increase in our stock price will result in additional non-cash losses, whereas a decrease in our stock price will result in gain.

During today's discussion, we will make forward-looking statements within the meaning of the securities laws. These forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations, estimates, assumptions and projections that are subject to change and actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements.

Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include those risks and uncertainties described from time to time in our most recent filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Any forward-looking statements are made only as of this date, and we do not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements.

Now, I would like to turn the call over to Jill.

Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us. For today's call, I'll start off with an overview of our second quarter results and provide an update on our 2013 initiative. Jim will follow with a more detailed review of the quarterly financial results and our outlook for the third quarter. After our prepared remarks, we will turn the call over to the operator to take your questions.

While our second quarter bottom line results were in line with our guidance, we were not satisfied with our overall sales performance largely due to disappointing sales in July. We have made progress on a number of strategic initiatives this quarter and we continue to see positive customer response in the areas of our assortment that are aligned with our brand positioning strategy which give us confidence that we're on the right track for the changes we are making.

However, we continue to struggle with inconsistent traffic patterns and this trend continued in the second quarter. Sales for the second quarter were softer than expected, declining 7.3% on a same store basis. Our sales results were highlighted by the positive performance of our June summer sale event.

As we discussed on our last conference call, we reintroduced this event this year as we saw an opportunity to drive incremental sales. It did in fact deliver positive results and going into July, we were in line with our expectations quarter-to-date. However, similar to other retailers, we experienced a material deceleration in the month of July.

In hindsight, we believe that part of this deceleration was due to reduced marketing expense for the month and a change in the timing of our high summer floor set. In addition, our high summer floor set did not align with our newly defined brand filters as we lack the appropriate balance of color and print.

We delivered too much color and not enough neutral and our print assortment was skewed too heavily towards trend-driven prints and not enough florals and no-print print, which are the foundation of our DNA. Sales in the direct channel were down 8%. However, margins increased year-over-year due to higher full price selling.

Going forward, we had made several website enhancements to improve the shopping experience online including easier navigation tools, new search functionality and additional fashion content. We relaunched our Rewards program in July with strong messaging in-store and online. With the introduction of our new tiering program, we are seeing customers progress to elite status at a healthy rate.

Over the past year, we have seen significant improvement in the quality and composition of the annual spend of our loyalty members as well as in their shopping frequency. This month, we will reintroduce private sale events to our most loyal customers with enhanced benefits as well as exclusive merchandise preview opportunities and access to personal stylist. We have aggressive plans for our loyalty program as we expect to end the year with approximately 2 million members.

For fall, we are excited about our jeans shop which features our redefined five-pocket business and showcases jeans in a variety of washes and fabrications and in three different fits with our signature shaping technology. We believe that we have a better breadth of classic and fashion inspired jeans that appeal to a broader customer base. Our fall marketing and creative strategy reinforced our authoritative position on jeans with strong and consistent correct general messaging.

We have created compelling and integrated visual merchandising and promotions that were designed to drive traffic and enhance the store experience by making it easier to navigate and shop. And we are continuing to deliver newness in the jeans assortment throughout the fall and holiday seasons.

In addition, we have tested and rolled out several new promotions this quarter which are focused on driving traffic and increasing our average transaction value. We are testing several digital and social media programs to optimize our marketing spend and increase new to file customer capture. We remain focused on reacting to trending categories and improving our ability to chase goods which is an important component of our speed to market strategy.

In response to the uncertain macro environment we experienced earlier this year, we chose to keep more open to buy dollars than we have historically done in order to position us to chase into trending categories in the back half of the year. In fact, we have identified several new trending subcategories and are actively reinvesting in them for the fourth quarter.

We recognized that an improving customer engagement and driving traffic are critical to the long-term success of our business as we made two important announcements recently that underscore our commitment to these imperatives.

First, we further expanded our talent pool, announcing that Deb Cavanagh recently has joined us as Chief Marketing Officer. Deb brings a tremendous amount of experience in building and repositioning consumer brands and we are confident that she will introduce new and innovative marketing strategies while continuing to work with us to optimize our existing platforms.

We also announced a strategic partnership with Alliance Data, a leading provider of loyalty and marketing solutions. We believe that we will be able to leverage their capabilities to strengthen and broaden our customer engagement, improve customer loyalty and ultimately drive incremental sales. Jim will talk more about this in his prepared remarks.

Regarding the third quarter, we believe it is prudent to remain cautious at our outlook given that we have not seen a material change in traffic trend from July and as we continue to face a challenging and promotional environment.

In closing, our return to more consistent sales results has been slower than expected and we are clearly not satisfied with our performance. What we are focused on is continuing to execute our strategic initiative and to driving top line growth, strengthening the position of our brand in the marketplace and creating a disciplined approach to providing our customers with trend-right, age-appropriate fashion and a consistent multichannel experience.

Now, I will turn the call over to Jim to discuss the financial details.

Thank you, Jill. While returning to more consistent top line performance remains our top priority, we continue to realize some positive financial benefits related to our efforts to prudently manage expenses and inventory as well as in the optimization of our real estate portfolio.

In regard to our top line, as Jill mentioned, improving customer engagement and specifically increasing traffic to our stores is our key area of focus. To that end, we were pleased to announce our new long-term agreement with Alliance Data Systems.

We chose to work with ADS because of their significant retail experience in sophisticated consumer data analytics. We intend to utilize their capabilities to enhance and grow our credit card and loyalty programs which we believe will create a stronger deeper connection with our existing customers as well as attract new ones to the brand by significantly broadening the reach of the platform. We believe this partnership enables us to unlock a meaningful revenue opportunity from our credit card portfolio. Improving the share of annual spend of our current cardholders at Coldwater Creek stores and online.

The contract includes $25 million in upfront incentive payments that we will receive if certain milestones are achieved. The last of which is a $2 million incentive payment that is anticipated to occur in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 with the launch of our private label credit card. Separately, we also signed an agreement for ADS to lease one of our buildings in Coeur d'Alene, Idaho which they plan to use as a call center to support their credit card operations.

Now, turning to our inventory management initiative. As an organization, we have worked diligently to develop many inventory management disciplines in recent years. But we're lacking adequate tools to fully maximize our inventory investment. This past March we completed the implementation of a new Oracle-based inventory planning system. The capabilities of this new system are significantly more robust than anything we've used in the past, providing a level of transparency that represents a meaningful opportunity for us to drive more consistent sales and margin improvement over time as we become more proficient with this new capability.

During the second quarter, we continued our efforts to improve our inventory position, ending the quarter with total inventory down 7.3% in line with our expectations. Inventory per square foot was down 7.5% for the quarter.

Now moving to an update on our real estate optimization work, we are on track to complete the initial store closure phase of this program by the end of this fiscal year. As a reminder, that means that we will have closed all 45 of the stores we originally targeted in mid-2011 when we began this work. Our efforts in this area continue to show positive results and in the second quarter yielded 50 basis points of occupancy leverage despite an 8.5% decline in our total sales.

Looking ahead to fiscal 2014, we plan to continue this initiative and have over 65 potential lease actions that are being evaluated for either closing, downsizing or renegotiation of lease terms. While we expect there to be some additional store closures over the next year, we anticipate that the bulk of our upcoming lease actions will be weighted more towards downsizings and lease term renegotiations. As you know, we have been very pleased with the performance of our downsize stores and continue to believe that the optimum average store size is approximately 4,000 square feet.

Turning to a review of the second quarter, while sales were softer than anticipated, we maintained our disciplined expense management and delivered results that were in line with our guidance. Our adjusted net loss for the three month period was $0.72 per share compared to an adjusted net loss of $0.62 per share in the prior year period.

As compared to the previous guidance, our results were negatively impacted by a change in revenue recognition timing related to our deferred credit card revenue. Specifically in order to facilitate the transition from Chase to ADS, we extended the Chase agreement term. As a result, there were $1.7 million or $0.06 per share of revenue shipping out of the quarter. This revenue will instead be recognized over the next four quarters.

Specifically, our results for the second quarter were as follows. Consolidated net sales were down 8.5% to $149.7 million. In the retail segment, sales declined 8.7% due primarily to a 7.3% decline in comparable premium store sales.

On a comparable basis, our conversion remains strong, increasing 5% for the quarter. However, this was offset by a 5% decline in traffic. Due to both the planned and unplanned increases in promotional and markdown activity, our average unit retail was down 5% for the quarter.

Second quarter sales in our direct segment declined 8%. We were pleased to see higher full price sales which drove strong increases in average transaction value in this channel. The improvement in average trends was offset, however, by lower web session traffic in conversion rates. Now it's important to note that we continue to expect somewhat lower traffic in conversion rates on the web as we continue to shed less profitable clearance sales.

Total gross profit margin declined 20 basis points to 29.4% as occupancy expense leverage was slightly more than offset by lower merchandise margins. We anticipated a certain degree of margin pressure due to the addition of the June sale event but softer sales trends in July prompted heightened promotional activity primarily in the retail channel. Margins were higher year-over-year in the direct channel driven by significantly higher full price selling and lower clearance sales.

Selling, general and administrative expenses declined $3.1 million to $62.6 million or 41.8% of sales due to lower marketing and employee related expenses.

Interest expense related to our term loan was $3.6 million for the quarter compared to $1.7 million a year ago. Last year's relatively lower number reflects a partial quarter of expense as we closed our term loan agreement in early July of 2012

Now, turning to our balance sheet for the quarter end. Total cash was $17.3 million compared to $45.5 million last year. At the end of the second quarter, we had $15 million of outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility and $43 million of remaining availability.

It is important to note that due to the 53rd week, the timing of payments for certain rents and other accounts payable shifted, which reduced our comparable cash balance this year versus last year by approximately $10 million.

Capital expenditures for the quarter totaled $2.9 million and depreciation and amortization was $11 million. During the quarter, we closed three premium retail stores and one factory store, ending the period with a total of 344 premium retail stores, 36 factory stores, and 8 day spas.

And finally, we continue to diligently manage expenses, generating savings of $12 million in the first half of fiscal 2013. We now expect to reduce total SG&A expense for the year by between $18 million and $23 million as compared to our previous guidance of between $12 million and $14 million reduction. In addition, we now expect full year capital expenditures to be between $10 million and $12 million, down from our previous guidance of between $15 million and $18 million.

Now, turning to our third quarter outlook. We expect comp store sales to be down in the high single-digits and gross margins to be flat to slightly down. We expected our adjusted net loss per share to be in the range of $0.55 to $0.75. This guidance excludes any quarterly impact with the change in the fair value of the derivative liability associated with our preferred stock. And finally, we expect total inventory to be down in the mid single-digits to high single-digits as compared to the third quarter of fiscal 2012.

In summary, we continue to make progress on our operational initiatives involving inventory, expense management and store optimization and we expect to continue to realize further meaningful benefits from these strategies. That being said, our outlook for the third quarter is cautious driven by the variability and the return of more consistent top line performance.

As I mentioned at the start, delivering this consistent top line performance is our top priority and we're actively taking steps to address all of the elements that are within our control to achieve that end.

With that, I would now like to turn the call back over to the operator and open it up to your questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from the line of Neely Tamminga with Piper Jaffray. Your line is now open. You may proceed with your question.

Great. Good afternoon. I have a couple of questions for you guys. Jill, if you could just discuss a little bit for us on some of the August deliveries that we have seen. It appears that store levels have showed some improvement [indiscernible] (17:27) that there has not been an improvement? Just wondering if you could actually scorecard kind of what you see currently in the August assortment and whether or not that there are changes or adjustments that can be made in kind of September – by August [indiscernible] (17:42) late August, early September delivery. Could you give us a sense of how you would score these assortments?

Sure. It's certainly too early for us to get a full read on fall. I think overall from the time we set our first fall floor set in August and now we are into our second floor set we've been pleased with how our jeans assortment is tracking. I would say across the board, our performance in jeans whether they be classic or fashion it's the most balanced and well-rounded assortments that we've ever had between the two. And our investment there seems to be paying off, we're pleased with that.

I think our opportunity in August, as we reflect on it would have been that we transitioned to fall too quickly. So an opportunity for more wear now in both print and in color. We were too heavily invested in sweaters as opposed to knit and woven tops. We've had success, really strong success in sweaters over a number of quarters and pursued it a little too aggressively at this time period versus the more wear now knits and wovens. And then I would say we have some really key emerging trending categories that we're chasing very, very aggressively for holiday.

So, Jill, on the other side of Labor Day, we're just not seeing improvement. Is that the takeaway here?

Traffic remains our challenge.

Okay.

But I think it's important also to note though that we are seeing improvements in our average transactions as we progress in the quarter as well. So there's a lot of moving parts.

We continue to have healthy conversion, improvement in average trend and yes, those have been the biggest changes in the last few weeks.

Okay. That's helpful and then, Jim, I guess related to the traffic, I know that there's a lot [indiscernible] (19:29) here with the changeover to ADS and what have you. And you guys, I think have launched – re-launch loyalty program and there's a lot going on with that. Could you give us a sense on kind of maybe just more granular contextualization in your customer metrics? Where are you guys on your loyalty program today versus maybe a year ago and kind of what is the average engagement level or spend or maybe the comp trends in that group relative to kind of the non-Coldwater Creek loyalty members, the not-yet Coldwater Creek loyalty members?

Sure. Let me just kind of give you some general context there. We continue to add members into loyalty program at a great clip. This represents a little bit north of sort of 50% of the sales. This is a number that we continue to focus on growing in terms of their contribution to our total sales effort which is why this is important for us to continue to engage that part of the customer base, both the existing part of the customers as well as bringing for lack of better phrase, new to file customers into the loyalty program, which is why this partnership with ADS is really one of the more important lynchpins as we go forward. It enables us to do a lot of customer data analytic that we didn't have.

We have quite a lot of capability but this adds even greater capability for us to understand these consumers and really engage in a – not only an engagement with respect to the credit card program but the brand in totality and it gives us another platform to continue to communicate all of the work we've been doing with our brand strategy development.

Thanks for that, Jim. I guess, let me switch gears a little bit and just ask one more question and then I'll pass it off to our next questioner. If we think about some of the Oracle system that you indicated that you are bringing here online. It sounds like inventory is the primary subject matter that you could see some relative rate of improvement. Could you give us a sense as to financially, will we see that ultimately through just part of deployment of inventory, so therefore just reduce markdowns or is it intel around kind of what the initial pricing should be? Could you give us a little bit of more what maybe the intended benefit, an identified benefit from this Oracle system might be and contextualize for us to know what the opportunity is, maybe even the timeline? Thanks.

Yes, absolutely. I'll share some comments and then Jill will probably have maybe some color as well. The primary element here is really – we look at it in two parts, Neely, and that is pre-season planning and the ability to look at historical performance in a way that we haven't before in terms of transparency to that and then more importantly in creating those plans on a weekly levels and really dissecting the progress that we make throughout any particular season.

And then the second bucket is in-season and the ability to utilize the capabilites and visibility that we have to read and react in a much better way as we're inside of a season. So, it's both the pre and in-season capabilities.

I think those are the critical factors. At the end game, what it means is, buying more efficiently upfront but also being much more efficient in terms of the management of any particular item throughout its entire lifecycle. When to go to a first mark, how deep to go to that mark? How is it performing at full price? How long do you keep it there, et cetera on a weekly basis? These are all capabilities that we have been employing but not with the level of transparency that this system gives us. Having said that, the first really – the first season that we did pre-season planning utilizing this system was our holiday assortment upcoming.

What I would add to that is the – Neely, if you remember, we have spoken now for quite some time about our top 30 assortment architecture and honestly, our business goes with the flow and the track record and the trend of these top 30 styles and that's the key to us for consistency. And what this system really gives us is the precision to plan floor set by floor set, week by week to ensure that each of our big businesses and each of our key categories is appropriately positioned in the preplanning phase and then appropriately reacted to whether it is promotion slowing down inventory in the supply chain, moving up inventory the whole read and react thing.

So, it's giving us a precision around these big top 30 styles which, as you said, really when we're successful they are half our business and it's just giving us a tremendous level of insight and visibility that we have not had.

Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question is coming from the line of Mr. Jeff Van Sinderen with B. Riley. Your line is now open. You may proceed with your question.

Hi, everyone. Maybe you can just comment, is there officially a process underway to sell the company or have you not said anything about that officially?

Look, Jeff, as a matter of policy, we don't comment on that kind of rumor or speculation.

Got it. Okay. And let me ask you if maybe you could just talk about how business – what sort of the progression was when you started Q3? I know you mentioned you talked about July so things haven't gotten better so much in August. I mean has there been anything with the weekly progression that you could speak to? Maybe you could talk a little bit about how we should think about merchandise margins for Q3, similar magnitude of the client that we saw in Q2 and then also are you going to be more or less promotional do you think in Q3 this year versus last year?

Do you want to start?

Sure. I think first of all, in terms of the progressions I mean we're not and haven't been and don't feel compelled to really kind of breakdown the weekly flow inside this quarter. We still have a lot of quarter to go. September represents a big part of the quarter, so I think everything that we feel today is accurately reflected in our guidance in the quarter.

And by the way, I think that with the – I think some of the information that we've given historically in terms of where the occupancy leverage comes relative to the top line I think you can get a sense of while we haven't given some particular guidance to merge margin, you can get a sense of where that would sit relative to our overall total reported gross margin guidance of flat to slightly down.

I think in terms of the marketing program as I've said in my earlier remarks, we continue to test from new promotional marketing ideas and traffic drivers. We're doing digital marketing testing. We're doing some social media testing. So we continue to actively test a variety of marketing mediums to help us drive traffic. I think that the external environment is certainly very challenging in the level of promotional activity that's out there and it's certainly our intention to be promotional but I don't know that I expect it to be significant change year-over-year as we move through the quarter.

Okay. So we should assume basically roughly a flat promotional cadence for last year?

I think that's fair.

Okay. And then, Jim, I know you touched a little bit on real estate. I'm just wondering on the 4,000 square foot stores that you have opened now. Maybe if you could just remind us how many stores that is. Are those stores positive contribution at this point? Just maybe layout the context of that for us, I know you said that that's where you're gravitating toward and maybe how many of the 60 – I think you said 64, 65 stores that – I mean, you think the bulk of that could be shifted down to 4,000 square feet or...

Yes. I think over time, of course. We can address given the ages of fleet and the growth rate if you go back over the course of the last decade when we – the timeframes in which we actually built the stores. You see there's a number of lease actions that are occurring 65 in the next year as an example is what I talked about.

So, it's really a fine balance of managing what capital it takes and the payback of each and every individual store. But the reality is this, I think this is what's probably most important to think about here is that or highlight is that the performance, the four wall operating performance of those stores that are in the 4,000 square feet plus or minus range is significantly better than those that are at the larger end of the spectrum.

And so ultimately that means that while we haven't spoken about specifics or numbers that are within that or profitability et cetera, it gives you perspective that it's anywhere between 5 percentage points and 8 percentage points of operating margin in our store four wall basis that you can see improvement, if not, a little bit more. So it really just depends on the location.

So it's ultimately I think also tied to in an ancillary way our inventory strategies. Those stores were built with a very different assortment strategy 10 years ago in this business and it was built where there was a number of different aspects not just clothing but really in terms of other accessories items, home accessories, et cetera. That's not who we are and that's not what this brand's about as we go forward. It's important to continue to align the store footprint with that assortment strategy to be an apparel retailer as we go forward.

Okay. And then, Jim, can you just remind us, I'm sorry, how many of the 4,000 square foot stores do you have now?

I haven't talked about that and I don't have the number right off of my head, Jeff.

Okay. Got it. And then just maybe – I know you touched on inventory being down, I think you said 7.5% per foot for the quarter. Is that sort of where the level we should expect you to be when you end the quarter going into Q4 or how should we think about comp inventory?

I think – sorry, go ahead.

No, I was just going to say, also just thinking along the lines of your ability to drive a comp or to mitigate the comp declines if the inventory is down that much if it's the quality of inventory, that sort of thing.

Yes, I think you hit the nail on the head. It's all about quality of inventory and ultimately, where there's total inventory, the older product, the older markdown product is really where we have a lot of headway. We don't have any problem in our ability to drive any sort of outside in the sales if those trends, show themselves that we can continue to read and react. So that's not an issue at all.

We expect to continue to see gains in the overall levels of inventories in terms of bringing them down because again it's continuing to improve the quality of the construction of the inventory more than it is having a full line product. And so our guidance for the end of the quarter is in the mid single-digits to high single-digits, down year-over-year on inventory.

The other thing is it's important for us to – what we do know and what we continue to build inside of our assortments and our inventory buys is maintaining a freshness in the flow of product as we go across through every season and in particular into holiday, and that's what we're focused on. The best part about that is, again, with these disciplines, we're having good open to buy disciplines, we're able to read and react and really use the supply chain and work in some of these trending categories that Jill talked about.

Okay. Thanks very much and good luck for the rest of the quarter.

Thanks, John.

Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question is coming from the line of Ms. Liz Pierce with Ascendiant Capital Markets. Your line is now open. You may proceed with your question.

Thanks. Good afternoon, everyone. So, more or less piggy backing on Neely's question, Jill. If you'd have the Oracle system in and everyone was a lot more experienced and understood kind of how to use it, would that have been the gatekeeper in terms of as you look at the summer and the assortment in terms of your comments on color and I don't remember what else you said? Sorry.

Well, I think, Liz, as we look at pockets of the second quarter, the second quarter is a tale of kind of different periods. You have the month of May, which is a significant month for us and then June, July which is so much about sale. So, there are periods in the second quarter where having had this planning system visibility would have been extremely beneficial to us. And I would also say that it's true of the entire back half of the year to have this kind of visibility and this kind of focus is very, very helpful and as we built and bought the holiday season, we were able to really use that tool to give us the precision that I was really speaking to.

In terms of the color and the pattern, Liz, that is again more about understanding that not only is it important to know what our customer values in terms of color, print and pattern, and what our brand filters are, but how we consistently deliver against them. An example of that would be how long we really went without a neutral floor set in the second quarter was much, much too long. So we have now a precision around how often we have to deliver certain color palettes and what the majority of our print patterns need to be focused on in order to really perform consistently which is really what we're striving for.

So just to make sure that I understand. So you're saying it's kind of a yes, and no answer. Like it seems to me it's more on inventory keeping open to buy, looking at your sell through and so forth but you couldn't react on quantities unless maybe on attributes is that fair?

It is also the pre-planning part. It's both, Liz. It starts all the way up streaming the design phase that you're really designing into the precision by floor set, tying with demand, driven to key categories, optimizing your winners and your successes from last year. Honestly, it's pretty fundamental stuff but it's a place where we just haven't had the visibility.

Okay. And I don't remember if this was like what Neely was asking like a scorecard in terms of how well is everything? How proficient is the team at using it at this point?

Let's say it's really in the early innings.

Okay.

They're getting very good at it every day. Part of that is you plan your first season and pre-season planning effort and that was for holiday and we're utilizing it somewhat in the context of in-season work that we're doing here in fall today.

And there's a repetition now to how often you re-forecast which is frequently. How often you re-forecast, react to what's going on in the business, then check it over, and over and over and over which is something we weren't able to do in the past.

Yes, so pretty good. The teams are in pretty good shape for having a system that are – it is a couple of months old in their hands and the repetition is important, it's like anything else.

Right. And does that mean without you saying it it seems that there would be some upside here longer-term, a huge upside, I would have to believe, on margin.

We certainly believe so.

And, Jim, a couple of questions for you. You mentioned on CapEx and SG&A significant reductions, could you just kind of tell us where those reductions are coming from like specify what bucket?

Sure. On the SG&A front, it's really everywhere except for I would give the caveat that it's not in line with really in any sort of big material reductions in our marketing and that's important. This is really all about the refinement and effectiveness of our marketing spend and that the reductions really are from other parts of the business, really everywhere. And that goes for our CapEx, I mean it's just a function of really evaluating each and every dollar and managing it appropriately.

And on those 65 stores, if I didn't catch it, did you give a timeframe on or is that a multi-year kind of open ended?

No, that's just for next year, next fiscal year.

That is next year specifically, okay. Okay. All right, that's – I think that's it for me. Thanks.

Okay.

Thank you. Our next question is coming from the line of Mr. Rob Schwartz with Cooper Creek Partners. Your line is now open. You may proceed with your question.

Hey, guys. Just had a quick clarification question on the whole ADS relationship. The two $11.5 million payments, have any of those been received yet and if not, can you sort of walk us through the timing?

Yes. What I can say on that, the first one has. And we expect the second one as imminent. Outside of that, Rob, it's probably not appropriate for me to talk further about that just given the way that these stage gates work and but that's really where we are.

Okay, that's great. And the first one was received after the quarter end so it wasn't on the balance sheet you gave us?

It was received when we executed the agreement with ADS.

Was that before the...

That was before the quarter end.

Okay. So, the first $11.5 million is in there and the second is not?

Correct.

Okay. Thanks a lot, guys.

Thank you.

Thank you, Rob.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, at this time, we have reached the end of our question-and-answer session. I would like to turn the floor back over to management for any closing comments.

Thank you for joining us today. We look forward to updating you on our progress on our next earnings call.

Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at this time. Thank you very much for your participation.