corrected transcript


Coldwater Creek Inc
 
CWTR
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 25, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Cal lS tr e et. co m • 21 2 .9 3 1. 65 1 5 •
 
C op yri gh t © 2 0 04 C a l l Str ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day and welcome everyone to the Coldwater Creek First Quarter Earnings Release


Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. With us today we have Mr. Dennis Pence,


Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; President and Chief Merchandising Officer, Ms. Georgia


Shonk-Simmons; Mr. Mel Dick, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Mr. David


Gunter, Director of Corporate Communications and Investor Relations. Mr. Gunter, please go


ahead.


David Gunter, Director of Corporate Communications and Investor Relations


Thank you operator. Good afternoon and welcome to Coldwater Creek’s Fiscal 2005 First Quarter


Earnings Release Conference Call. If you have not received the copy of the release distributed this


afternoon, please contact our office at 208-265-3977 and we will send one out to you immediately.


With us on the line this afternoon to review the results are Dennis Pence, Chairman and Chief


Executive Officer; Georgia Shonk-Simmons, President and Chief Merchandising Officer, and Mel


Dick, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. We will begin with a few formal


comments from management and then open up the lines for your questions.


However, before we turn the call over to management, I would like to remind our listeners that any


forward-looking statements in today's press release, as well as in the conference call, are of course


subject to risks and uncertainties and actual results may differ materially as described in the


company's filings with the SEC in each of our financial releases and in today's earnings press


release. We direct our listeners to those filings.


A replay of this conference call will be available immediately after the call today until midnight on


June 1st. The number to call for the replay is 719-457-0820 and the pass code is 8191224. The


webcast of this call will also be available on the Investor Relations page of our website until June


1st, after which the transcript of this conference call will be posted. To access that information, visit


www.coldwatercreek.com and select Investor Relations.


And now, I would like to introduce Dennis Pence.


Dennis C. Pence, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you David, and welcome back ladies and gentlemen. I am pleased to report that the


combination of strong full-price sales in all channels increased merchandise purchasing power


related to our retail store expansion, and continued leveraging of store occupancy expense,


delivered higher net sales, increased net income and improved gross profit and operating margins


compared with last year and resulted in our most profitable first quarter in the company's history. As


planned, we successfully opened five new retail stores during the first quarter on our way to adding


approximately 60 new stores this fiscal year.


We continue to move forward with our direct sourcing initiative and believe we are well on track to


achieve our goal of directly importing approximately 15% of our merchandise in fiscal ’05. That


compares with less than 5% direct sourcing last year. Georgia will discuss this in greater detail in a


few minutes. We have a firm grasp on our triple-channel business model with retail stores now


representing more than half of our business and Internet growing to become the largest part of our


direct segment. At the same time, we continue to leverage the power of our catalogs as an


affordable and effective print advertising medium to promote the brand across all of our sales


channels. Internet sales showed a strong increase for the first quarter more than offsetting the
corrected transcript


Coldwater Creek Inc
 
CWTR
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 25, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Cal lS tr e et. co m • 21 2 .9 3 1. 65 1 5 •
 
C op yri gh t © 2 0 04 C a l l Str ee t
 
2


planned decline in catalog sales and resulting in an overall increase in direct segment net sales of


approximately 6% for the first quarter.


Including the new names added during the recent quarter, we now have approximately 2.4 million


active email addresses. Meanwhile, more than 50% of the customers on our email list now live


within 30 miles of a Coldwater Creek retail store. To leverage this increased level of access to our


customers, we are using our email list to send store related messages that highlights special events


as store specific information. We have also successfully tested more frequent email contact with


our customers, which they have welcomed. These focused email campaigns feature customized


messaging based on the customers’ shopping trends and prior purchase history and we look


forward to further exploring this opportunity going forward. Continuing a favorable trend, our


Internet site traffic exceeded 8.3 million visits during the first quarter, up 45% compared with the


year ago.


Turning now to a brief overview of our first quarter financial performance, the data is as follows. Net


income increased 3.2 million or 60% resulting in earnings of $0.14 per share compared with $0.09


last year. Operating margin for the quarter was 8.6% compared with 7.1% in the prior year period.


Strong sales at full-price and increased purchasing power related to our store expansion resulted in


a 330 basis point improvement in the gross profit rate. Meanwhile, net sales increased 25% due to


positive response to our spring merchandise.


As planned, inventory increased by approximately 42% or 23.7 million in this recent quarter as we


added another 48 retail stores compared with the prior year. We ended the quarter with a cash


position of $116.5 million, working capital of 119.6 and zero debt.


In regards to the retail segment, net sales from the retail segment increased 48% to 83.8 million in


the first quarter. Once again, in this recent quarter, the strength of full-price selling decreased the


need for clearance activity, which, coupled with improved merchandise purchasing power, helped


to increase our gross profit rate. Finally, retail stores represented nearly 50% of our total net sales


for the first quarter compared with approximately 45% a year ago.


In regards to the direct segment, Internet sales increased 18% in the first quarter compared with


the prior year. Internet sales represent more than 57% of our direct segment net sales for the first


quarter. Catalog sales decreased 7% in the first quarter as we further leveraged the effectiveness


of catalogs as our principal print advertising media to shift more customers to our Internet and retail


channels.


And in summary, we are now using our experience in triple-channel retailing to maximize sales


potential across all channels – retail stores, Internet and catalogs. Our stores are carrying the brand


to key markets across the country. Internet growth remains strong as we continue to build our email


list and catalogs have evolved to become both a sales vehicle and a cost effective way to drive


traffic to all channels. We remain firmly focused on the careful execution of our retail store


expansion strategy and have already opened 12 of the approximately 60 stores planned for this


year.


We believe our well tested and measured approach to retail expansion will allow us to gain market


share as we continue to work to establish Coldwater Creek as one of the premier specialty apparel


brands in the United States.


Now, I would like to turn the call over to Mel for a more detailed review of first quarter financial


results.