corrected transcript


Coldwater Creek Inc.
 
CWTR
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 9, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day and welcome to Coldwater Creek Fourth Quarter Earnings Release


Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. With us today, we have Mr. Dennis Pence,


Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; President and Chief Merchandising Officer, Ms. Georgia


Shonk-Simmons; Mr. Mel Dick, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Mr. David


Gunter, Divisional Vice President of Corporate Communications.


Mr. Gunter, please go ahead, sir.


David Gunter, Divisional Vice President of Corporate Communications and Investor Relations


Thank you operator. Good afternoon and welcome to Coldwater Creek's fiscal 2004 Fourth Quarter


Earnings Release Conference Call. If you have not received a copy of the release distributed this


afternoon, please contact our office at 208-265-3977 and we will send one out to you immediately.


With us on the line this afternoon to review the results are Dennis Pence, Chairman and Chief


Executive Officer; Georgia Shonk-Simmons, President and Chief Merchandising Officer, who is


calling in from overseas on our product development and design trip, and Mel Dick, Executive Vice


President and Chief Financial Officer. We will begin with a few formal comments from


management followed by our quarterly guidance for fiscal 2005 and then we will open up the lines


for your questions.


However, before we turn the call over to management, I would like to remind our listeners that any


forward-looking statements in today's press release, as well as in the conference call, are of course


subject to risks and uncertainties and actual results may differ materially as described in the


company's filings with the SEC and each of our financial releases and in today's earnings press


release. We direct all listeners to those filings.


A replay of this conference call will be available immediately after the call today, until midnight on


March 16th. The number to call for the replay is 719-457-0820 and the pass code is 2534940. The


webcast of this call will also be available on the Investor Relations page of our website until March


25th, after which the transcript of this conference call will be posted. To access that information,


visit www.coldwatercreek.com and select Investor Relations.


And now I would like to introduce Dennis Pence.


Dennis C. Pence, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, and Secretary


Thank you David, and welcome ladies and gentlemen. I am pleased to report that strong full price


sales continued leveraging of retail store expenses and ongoing cost control initiatives resulted in


increased net income and gross profit, as well as improved operating margin compared with the


prior year’s fourth quarter. Fiscal 2004 was a period in which we demonstrated our ability to open


approximately 50 or more stores a year. This milestone was the basis for our previously


announced decision to increase store expansion plans by 20% for fiscal ’05 for a total of


approximately 60 new stores this fiscal year. Additionally, this past year also marked our first steps


into direct sourcing, a long-term initiative that we believe will positively impact gross margin and our


overall profit picture.


Also in June we opened our New York Design Studio, which has already begun providing


compelling new design concepts, as well as improved speed to market. We have begun building
corrected transcript


Coldwater Creek Inc.
 
CWTR
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 9, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


an effective direct sourcing infrastructure with topnotch global sourcing expertise in place at our


Sandpoint headquarters and field operatives in Hong Kong and New Delhi. As previously reported,


we plan to directly import approximately 15% of our merchandise in fiscal ’05, up from less than 5%


at the end of ’04. It’s also important to note that while customers continue to respond very


favorably to our strategic shift to a store-based business model, our direct segment also turned in a


solid performance this past year.


In particular, Internet sales continued to increase as customers embraced the convenience of


online apparel shopping and we grew our e-mail database to more than 2.3 million names. We are


also using our e-mail list to send retail specific e-mails featuring a store message, information about


in-store events and store locator information. Approximately 50% of the customers on our e-mail list


live within 30 miles of a Coldwater Creek retail location. So, these targeted e-mails have a potential


to be very productive. I am also pleased to report that our Internet site traffic exceeded 8.6 million


visits during the fourth quarter.


As an additional note, I am pleased to announce that the company is the newest national sponsor


of the Susan G. Komen Breast Cancer Foundation Race for the Cure. As a company whose


customers are primarily women aged 35 to 60, we are committed to joining this important cause


and working toward the goal of eradicating breast cancer as a life threatening disease. Our initial


read shows that our customers are extremely pleased with our support for the Komen Foundation


and again shows our ability to speak to this consumer with believability and integrity.


Turning now to a brief overview of our fourth quarter financial performance, which reflects our


recently announced 50% stock dividend and revisions to our accounting for rent during the


construction period for our stores, the data is as follows. Net income increased 5 million or 77.8%


resulting in earnings of 18 cents per share compared with 12 cents last year. Operating margin for


the quarter was 9.1% compared with 6.4% in the prior year period. Strong sales at full price and


continued improved leverage of store occupancy costs resulted in a 310 basis point improvement in


the gross profit rate. Meanwhile, net sales increased nearly 21% due to positive response to our


holiday and early spring merchandise. We opened seven new stores in the fourth quarter for a total


of 114 stores in operation at the end of the period. Including the two stores that have opened so far


in the first quarter of this fiscal year, we currently have 116 premium stores in operation.


As planned, inventory increased by approximately 21% or $11 million in the recent quarter as we


added another 48 retail stores compared with the prior year. We ended the quarter with a cash


position of $111 million, working capital of 116 million and zero debt. In regards to the retail


segment, net sales from the retail segment increased 48% to 98 million in the fourth quarter.


During the holiday season, unlike many of our competitors we did not go on sale prior to Christmas


Eve, which resulted in a higher level of full-price selling when customers began to shop in greater


numbers closer to Christmas. At the same time, our post holiday clearance activity met our


expectations and resulted in a clean inventory position at year-end.


Finally, as we predicted at the beginning of the year, retail stores represented more than 50% of


our total net sales for the fiscal year compared with 37.5% a year ago. In regards to the direct


segment, Internet sales increased 25.5% in the fourth quarter compared with the prior year and we


have increased the size of our e-mail list to more than 2.3 million active addresses. To this point,


the Internet represented 59% of our direct segment net sales for the recent quarter and more than


30% of our total sales for the period. Meanwhile, catalog sales decreased 17% in the fourth quarter


as more customers shifted to our Internet and retail channels to do their shopping.


In summary, fiscal 2004 was notable for strong, triple-channel sales at full price, successful


execution of our retail store rollout plans and the establishment of an infrastructure to begin


implementing our direct sourcing initiative. In 2005 and years to come, we look forward to the


continued step-by-step expansion of our retail store presence across the country as we take our


place as one of the premier specialty retailers in the United States.