raw transcript


Constar International
 
CNST
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 10, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to this Constar International 2005 Q1


Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] For opening remarks and introductions, I will turn the call


over to Mr. Ed Bisno. Please go ahead, sir.


Ed Bisno, Investor Relations


Thank you, operator. Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today for Constar


International's 2005 Q1 Conference Call. This includes a live broadcast over the internet. If you


did not receive a copy of today's news release, please call Bisno Communications at 917-881-5441


and one will be faxed or emailed to you. It is also available on the company's website. Before


management begins their formal remarks, we would like to remind you that there will be forward-


looking statements made during the call. The forward-looking statements may differ materially from


actual results and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that are detailed on the first quarter


release and in our filings with the SEC.


The company does not intend to update any forward-looking statements made during the call. In


the view of regulations adopted by the SEC, Constar does not intend to provide non-GAAP financial


measures beyond those already contained in the release. With us on the call this morning, are


Michael Hoffman, President and CEO; and William Rymer, Executive Vice President and CFO.


Once management has concluded their formal remarks, we will then open the call up for questions.


And now, I'd like to turn the call over to Mike Hoffman. Mike?


Michael Hoffman, President and CEO


Thanks Ed. Good morning and welcome. This morning I will provide an overview of the quarter


with some recent business updates and then, as usual, turn the call over to Bill, who will provide


some additional details on our financial results and guidance for the balance of the year, and as Ed


said, we'll then open it up for questions. I'll characterize the first quarter of 2005 as difficult, with


raw material costs at near historic levels which increase pricing pressure from our customer base.


While U.S. volumes grew, we experienced higher transportation costs, increased energy rates, and


declining volumes in our European business. As a result of the increased freight costs, we are


passing through an 8% freight rate increase this month to customers as allowed by contract terms.


Utility costs increased that we have absorbed are unfortunately not generally permitted to pass


through in most of our contracts. Regarding our European business, the reduced volumes have


resulted in lower profits in business that already has low margins. On the year-end conference call


a few weeks ago, I spoke of uncertainty in our outlook caused by the impacts of near record high


resin prices. Several of these issues that we were facing have since been settled out, but a couple


have not yet been resolved. However, at this point we are reasonably comfortable with the


assumptions we've had to make in order to provide you with 2005 guidance. Operating


performance in the U.S. was particularly strong with increased units sold in both conventional and


customed products, and most manufacturing targets were exceeded.


Higher volumes combined with continued effective execution of our best-cost producer strategy,


resulted in increased productivity and greater operating efficiencies. U.S. demand remains strong


in our conventional product lines driven particularly again by single serve water. Looking ahead,


we expect to run at high utilization levels, but the balance of the year, are remaining focused on


providing excellent quality and service to meet our conventional customer requirements. As with


last year, during peak times, we may be shipping to some customer per plant outside of our optimal


shipping radius. While the increased transportation costs will impact margins somewhat, we expect
raw transcript


Constar International
 
CNST
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 10, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


to increase the volumes and result in higher utilization rates, will more than offset the additional


costs.


We have no capacity expansion plan for our conventional business in 2005 or beyond, unless we


can achieve prices, margins, and contractual protections that justify our investment in this business.


On a custom side of our business, we have already supplied some monoleri [ph] OXBAR bottles


this quarter in our track to increase commercial supply in the U.S. during the summer months; an


important milestone for Constar. We continue to make significant development progress with this


technology reflected in the increased R&D spending in the first quarter. The company remains


focused on growing custom sales using our proprietary technologies to meet customer technical


requirements for several of the remaining glass and other material conversions to DT in food and


hot/cold beverage applications.


We've spoken before about 2 new hot/cold products we'll be supplying. One began ramping up in


December and was fully commercial in March, and the second is a hot/cold product using our mon-


OXBAR technology that will start mid-year. The one food project we've previously indicated was on


hold, has now resumed in activity and we hope to begin supplying later this quarter using our multi-


layer OXBAR technology and we will expect it to convert to mon-OXBAR after a period of supply.


Our efforts to leverage our proprietary technology to achieve profitable growth remains primarily


aimed at conversions to PET from other forms of packaging and avoiding projects that simply


duplicate existing capacity in the industry.


Using the lessons learned from our conventional business, we will require contracts with fair terms


and conditions that permit us to earn stable returns over time for our investment in capital and


resources. Constar is proud to announce that we have had a further technology breakthrough in


the area of oxygen scavenger technology for PET bottles. We have developed an all-new oxygen


scavenging barrier technology with comparable barrier effectiveness to OXBAR, but which is


perfectly clear in monoleri [ph] form. This is obviously something the market has been looking for


and it is very exciting for us now to be at a stage of development where we can begin to discuss it.


Patents have been filed on this new technology and while we have a couple of hurdles yet to


overcome, we have great hopes for the value our customers will see in it.


We have named this technology diamond clear. In the area of non-proprietary custom, we continue


to experience increased competition with new entrance attempting to gain market share in this


market segment. As previously stated, we will vigorously defend our business in this area to


maintain our market share. In our European business, we continue to be impacted by the soft


demand our customers are experiencing in Western Europe, which in turn reduced profit


performance in the first quarter below our expectations. Having said that, I'd like to note that we


have seen some recent recovery in volumes, and our customers have stated publicly that they are


focused on stimulating demand for their products through a strong calendar of marketing initiatives.


Even if we get a mild volume recovery though, margins are compressed on several products


especially in the U.K. bottle blowing business. We were clearly not earning acceptable returns, and


where the cost and complexity is not being fully recovered by the current pricing levels. We will be


addressing the profitability of our bottle business in the U.K. this quarter using the 4-prong


approach. First, our European team is implementing significant cost-reduction measures and


working capital controls. Second, we will implement price increases on all bottle volume


unrestricted by contracts, and upon contract renewals. Third, we will eliminate value-added


services, for which we are not being adequately compensated. And fourth, we will continue to


pursue growth opportunities with our proprietary technologies where acceptable returns can be


achieved. I'm working closely with the European management team in executing this 4-prong


initiative, and we expect to see some results from the initiative in the second half of the year, but


more fully in 2006. And with that, I'll turn it over to Bill Rymer. Bill?