raw transcript


Constar International, Inc.
 
CNST
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 9, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day everyone and welcome to the Constar International, Inc Third Quarter 2005


Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]. I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr Ed


Bisno. Mr Bisno, you may now begin.


Ed Bisno, Bisno Communications


Thank you operator. Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today for Constar


International Inc’s 2005 third quarter conference call. This includes the live broadcast over the


Internet. A copy of today’s release is available on the company’s website as well. Before


management begins their formal remarks, we would like to remind you that there will be forward-


looking statements made during the call. The forward-looking statements may differ materially from


actual results and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that are detailed in the third quarter


release and then our filings with the SEC.


The company does not intend to update any forward-looking statements made during the call. In


the due of regulations adopted by the SEC, Constar does not intend to provide non-GAAP financial


measures beyond those contained in the release.


With us on the call this morning are Michael Hoffman, President and CEO and Bill Rymer,


Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Once management has concluded their


formal remarks, we will then open the call up to question. And now, I would like to turn the call over


to Mike Hoffman. Mike?


Michael J. Hoffman, President and Chief Executive


Thanks Ed. Welcome everyone and thank you for joining us today. This morning, I will provide our


third quarter overview of our business and then as usual turn it over to Bill, who will give additional


details on our financial results. Following that, as usual, we will open it to questions. Overall, the


third quarter came in on target. Gross profit in the third quarter was up 6% over last year’s third


quarter.


Gains were made in important areas of volume growth, improved operating efficiencies, and mix


improvement in the United States. Unit volume growth in the quarter was up 8.6%. In the US,


conventionally volumes were up 9.3% over prior year partly due to greater than expected demand


for single served [ph] water, which extended into the fourth quarter.


The Custom side of our business continues to gain momentum. The volume in the quarter was up


28.5% over last year’s third quarter reflecting the ramp up of new household [ph] projects that


commercialized earlier in the year. We have successfully achieved customer qualification for the 2


projects that we previously announced were delayed and are beginning commercial production of


these products. The food project employes mono Oxbar and we expect the first model [ph] size


and family owned sizes to be on super market shelves by year end. The other product was a juice


product that we commercialized using an alternate barrier technology until final testing is complete


on MonOxbar at which time the customer will convert to this preferred technology. Year-to-date our


custom value was tracking well to your guidance of 20% growth and is resulting in a mix


improvement for the year.


The month of October was a record month for custom shipment at Constar. We are pleased with


the progress made in sales growth and operations. However, there were three significant issues
raw transcript


Constar International, Inc.
 
CNST
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 9, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


that were offset to those gains. First our European performance has been very disappointing.


While progress is being made on the UK production issues that we spoke about in the second


quarter of iron sensitive business continues to suffer the effects of reduced consumer demand for


carbonated soft drinks in the UK and Northwest Europe, and we have incurred increased utility


costs. We are addressing these situations in several ways. Our European team is executing


programs to further reduce spending, minimize working capital needs, selectively seek price


improvements, and pursue mix improvement using our proprietary oxygen barrier technologies. In


last quarter’s call, I noted that we successfully achieved forward price increases in the UK and we


are evaluating opportunities to inexpensively convert conventional preform assets to use on


MonOxbar projects. Second are the effects of our business caused directly and indirectly by the


hurricanes. Most directly our Jackson, Mississippi manufacturing facility lost power and water for


approximately 3 days as a result of Hurricane Katrina. Of greatest important is that our Jackson


based employees and their families survived the storm without injury. Local fuel and food


shortages and power outages hindered our ability to resume full production for a period of time after


the storm. So we are fully operational within a week.


I am very proud of the response by sister plants to assist Jackson employees and families which


immediate shipments of food, water and other urgent needed supplies. The economic impact on


our Jackson’s plant was minimal and our inventory position prevented an impact on container


sales. Next is the effect the storms had on PET prices. Due to damage caused in the cautionary


curtailments in the petrochemical industry, an unprecedented surcharge was implemented by PET


resin producers. We expedited the passthrough of the resin surcharge minimizing the short-term


impact on our financials. We are now starting to see the hurricanes-related surcharge start to


abate and we expect it to be completely eliminated in December.
 
Longer term, there is a


significant amount of PET capacity under construction that will come on stream at the end of 2006


and early 2007 and it is generally expected that this will result in decreased resin prices. Having


said, that prices are still heavily affected by what happens in the gas and petrochemical industries.


For a short time following the storm there were isolated reports of PET resin shortages in our


industry. We have had no disruption in our supply PET resin. Out of caution we did release some


Asian resin to ship immediately after the storm to guarantee ourselves an ample supply to support


customer needs. Where the storm did affect us is in the higher energy costs that we now pay for


transportation fuel, gas, and electricity. We have managed the passthrough of the majority of the


transportation fuel increases to our customers with minimal delay. Electricity and gas costs, I’ll not


address clearly the passthrough mechanism in many of our supply contract. However, we have


firmly presented our customers with an energy surcharge that we believe is receiving industry


support and want to recover a significant portion of the ongoing energy costs difference from pre-


Katrina energy rates. The third offset was the contractual price reductions which we have


previously disclosed on which Bill will further discuss.


With our belief that the level of pricing in the market for conventional volumes is too low, we


obviously spend considerable time and effort analyzing how we can improve conventional margins.


Our conclusion is twofold, first is the continued need for disciplined capacity growth to avoid a


detrimental impacts of excess capacity. Utilization on our high speed assets were approximately


93% in quarter three and are currently around 90%. Since we know that customers have been


unable to secure wanted volumes in recent months, we believe that industry utilization rates are


similarly high. Competitive activity and conventional PET has been minimal for over a year now


and we believe this reflects a broad recognition that current pricing doesn’t support even


incremental capacity investment.


Second in anticipation of the expiring conventional contracts Constar have recently included a


consulting engagement focused on designing an economically extensible price structure. In the


past pricing for all Constar customers has been based on idea line industry cost structure. This one


size to all approach did not account for the complexities associated with various customers


businesses. As we entered into new contracts we intent to implement a new pricing structure that