raw transcript


Constar International
 
CNST
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 30, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator:


Good day, everyone, and welcome to the Constar International Inc. 2004 Fourth-Quarter and Full-


Year Conference Call. [operator instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.


Ed Bisno. Mr. Bisno, you may now begin.


Ed Bisno, Bisno Communications


Thank you, operator. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today for Constar


International's 2004 Fourth-Quarter and Full-Year Conference Call. This includes a live broadcast


over the Internet. If you did not receive a copy of today's news release, please call Bisno


Communications at 917-881-5441, and one will be faxed or emailed to you. It is also available on


the company's website.


Before management begins their formal remarks, we would like to remind you that there will be


forward-looking statements made during the call. The forward-looking statements may differ


materially from actual results, and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that are detailed on


the fourth quarter release and on our filings with the SEC. The company does not intend to update


any forward-looking statements made during the call. In the view of regulations adopted by the


SEC, Constar does not intend to provide non-GAAP financial measures beyond those already


contained in the release.


With us on the call this morning are Michael Hoffman, President and CEO, and Bill Rymer,


Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Once management has concluded their


formal remarks, we will then open the call up for questions. And now, I would like to turn the call


over to Mike Hoffman. Mike?


Michael Hoffman, President and CEO


Thanks Ed, and good morning everyone. Welcome to Constar's fourth-quarter and year-end call.


This morning, our view of the highlights for the quarter and year end, and provide some recent


business updates. I will then turn it over to Bill Rymer, who will provide additional details on our


financial results, and then we will open it up for questions.


Constar had a strong fourth quarter. The sales were up 18%, driven by 8.5% increase in PET unit


volume, and the pass through of resin price. We also had strong operating performance in the


U.S., where most manufacturing targets were exceeded, and the execution of our Best Boss [ph]


producer strategy continued to show results. During the fourth quarter, we settled the Oxbar patent


infringement suit. We were pleased with the settlement, which provided $25.1 million in income in


the quarter. Constar also earned ongoing royalties from 2 non-exclusive multi-layer Oxbar licenses


granted in connection with the settlement.


Gross profit for the quarter was ahead of last year's fourth quarter by 184%, and an adjusted


EBITDA exclusive of the OR [ph] settlement was up 45%. During the fourth quarter, we started up


our hot-fill expansion project in Atlanta, while the start-up was delayed by approximately 2 months


due to strong product demand, which limited filling line time to complete the qualification process on


a timely basis. We are now running the first line 100%. With minimum start-up difficulties, our


team in Atlanta performed well in managing this project to plan. However, because of the late start-
raw transcript


Constar International
 
CNST
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 30, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


up, our custom sales for the year were slightly below 2003 and below our expectations for the


quarter.


In our European business unit, our fourth quarter volumes continued to be soft, resulting in lower


than expected profit performance. Our customers continue to announce declining volumes as a


result. We are implementing cost reduction efforts to partially offset the impact of the resultant


lower utilization models. We also are evaluating our margins and pricing in Europe, especially in


the U.K. business. We are not earning acceptable returns.


Moving to full-year performance, I am pleased to report that our gross profit for the year was up


61% over 2003. Excluding the Oxbar settlement, our full-year EBITDA of $65.7 million was up 13%


over last year and within our guidance. This achievement is even more impressive when you


consider it took place at a time of soaring raw material costs, increasing energy rates, increasing


transportation costs, soft volume in Europe, and extraordinary S&A spending to meet Sarbanes-


Oxley documentation and compliance deadlines. I am proud of the very capable team in place


here at Constar, and they delivered a solid year in 2004.


Looking ahead, we continue to make both commercial and development progress with our


monolayer Oxbar technology, and our track to commercially supply bottles with this technology in


the second quarter. We see significant opportunities to use our technology, the Oxbar technology,


to capture new volume for profitable growth, as well as ongoing interest from competitors to license


the technology. We are actively evaluating capitalizing our options to maximize the value we can


achieve from this important asset.


In our conventional product line, demand remains strong, led by continued water growth, and we


expect to run at high utilization levels all year. While we are focused on providing excellent quality


and service to meet our conventional customer requirements, we have no plans to install additional


capacity in 2005 or beyond, unless we can achieve margins and prices that justify our investment in


this business.


On the custom side of our business, we continue to focus on using our proprietary technology to


capture growth, with specific focus on conversion to PET from other forms of packaging, and


avoiding duplicating capacity in the industry. Using the elections learned from our conventional


business we see contracts with bare terms and conditions that permit us to earn stable returns over


time for investments of capital and resources.


As previously stated, we have several new custom products that we'll be introducing in 2005. Two


significant Hotell [ph] products, one that did begin in December of 2004, and the other that ramps


up mid this year.


We also have two new food products we'll be supplying, one that is currently in start-up as we


speak, and the other has temporarily been put on hold because the customer was introducing too


many variables at one time.


The competitive environment for custom bottle business produced the technology that can be


commercially purchased has become considerably more aggressive as new entrance from the


conventional side to seek growth outside CSD and water. As a result, some of our business has


become under pressure. As we have said before, and as we've done in the conventional DT


business, we will vigorously defend our business to retain market share.


In addition to the facts as noted above on competitive activity, we are concerned by the effects of


today's high resin prices and having our customers business and consequently on the industry.


This environment of intense scrutiny is bringing extraordinary customer focus on packaging cost,


packaging alternatives and whether to withdraw from certain markets. We are having ongoing


discussions with several of our customers on this subject, and have even experienced customer