corrected transcript


Corinthian Colleges, Inc.
 
COCO
 
Q1 2006 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 28, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Q1 2006 Corinthian Colleges earnings


conference call. My name is Candice, and I will be your coordinator for today. At this time, all


participants are in listen-only mode. We will be facilitating a question-and-answer section towards


the end of today's conference. [operator Instructions]. I would now like to turn the presentation over


to your host for today's conference, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations, Ms. Anna Marie


Dunlap. Please proceed, ma'am.


Anna Marie Dunlap, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications


Thank you, Candice and good morning everyone, and thank you for joining us. I am here today with


Jack Massimino, President and Chief Executive Officer, Ken Ord, Chief Financial Officer, and Dave


Moore, Chairman. This conference call is being webcast and an audio version of the call will be


available on Corinthian's website for 30 days. There is also a telephonic replay of the call available


until November 4. The details of the replay are included in our earnings release. If you for some


reason, did not receive the release or otherwise need assistance, please contact Darla DiMattio


here at Corinthian, her number is 714-427-3000, extension 216.


Please note that during this conference call, we may make projections or other forward-looking


statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current


expectations that involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those


stated in any forward-looking statements based on a number of factors and other risks, which are


more specifically identified in Corinthian's periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange


Commission. Following our prepared remarks, we will open the call for a question-and-answer


session. And with that, I will turn this time over to you, Jack.


Jack D. Massimino, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you Anne Marie and good morning to everyone on the call. In the first quarter, we continued


to focus on several initiatives that we believe will help improve enrollment growth and operating


margins over time. Consistent with our previous guidance, total student starts declined in the first


quarter of fiscal 2006 compared with the same quarter last year. Student starts declined 4.8% in the


first quarter compared with the same quarter last year, including the impact of recent hurricanes.


Excluding Hurricane Katrina, student starts would have declined 4.2%.


Total revenue increased 5.2% in the first quarter of fiscal 2006, compared with the same quarter


last year as tuition increases and a shift in program mix offset the decline in enrollment. Total


student population at September 30, 2005 was 68,262 students, down 3.2% from September 30 of


last year. Sequentially, total population was up 3.2% or 2,148 students compared with total


population of 66,114 at June 30, 2005. As indicated by our first quarter start data, Hurricane Katrina


had a negative impact on our business.


Our Bryman campus in New Orleans had over 500 students and 70 employees and it has been


closed since the hurricane hit on August 29. Our school facilities were not significantly damaged by


the hurricanes because we were on the 6th floor. However, the ground floor and roof of the building


we occupied were damaged and the timing of repairs is still uncertain. We are exploring other sites


for the New Orleans campus, but at this time, we have no specific site and no scheduled date for


reopening. In addition, we are still housing about 35 Bryman New Orleans employees and their


families in temporary facilities in Atlanta and Houston. As we mentioned on our last call, our


financial aid compliance office in Gulfport, Mississippi was also closed as a result of Hurricane


Katrina. We found new office space for our ten Gulfport employees within a few days of the
corrected transcript


Corinthian Colleges, Inc.
 
COCO
 
Q1 2006 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 28, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


hurricane and experienced limited disruption in our financial aid compliance activities. In addition,


the Department of Education has extended the timeframe for program reviews and financial aid


audits. Ken will provide more information about the financial impact of Hurricane Katrina when he


discusses 2006 guidance in a few minutes.


Hurricane Rita caused us to close our four schools in Houston for several days, but we did not


sustain any damage to our facilities. We estimate that we lost approximately 50 new starts as a


result of the closure of the Houston schools. As a result of Hurricane Wilma, 12 of our Florida


schools were closed this past Monday. As of today, four schools remain closed with no water or


power. Our Pompano and Miami campuses sustained the most damage as several windows were


blown out during the hurricane and torrential rains soaked exposed carpet and computer


equipment. We expect one of the four hardest-hit schools to reopen for classes on Monday and two


others to open to staff on Monday. The good news is that none of our employees are homeless as


a result of the storm, although several of their homes were damaged. It's too early to assess the


financial and community impact of Wilma, but we will keep you informed as we learn more.


Lead flow remains strong in the first quarter, totaling over 419,000 leads from all sources. We had a


total of 26,753 starts in the first quarter and of that total, we derived 27% from referrals, 26% from


television and newspaper advertising, 27% from the Internet, and 20% from all other sources,


including direct mail, yellow pages, high school recruiting, and other. The cost per start increased


18% in the first quarter of this year compared with the same quarter a year ago. In the first quarter,


we continued to work on improving start growth through better systems and process management.


As we reported in September, by the end of August, we had essentially completed the rollout of live


call transfer and automated dialing designed to expedite television and Internet lead processing.


Live call transfer has now been in place at eight pilot schools for eight months and automated


dialing has been in place at 15 pilot schools for six months. In the pilot schools for both initiatives,


we continue to see an improvement in lead conversion rates of approximately 10 to 15%. We


believe this improvement has resulted from a combination of factors, including live call transfer,


automated dialing, and our continuing efforts to improve admissions personnel turn over and


productivity. It will take several quarters to have reliable performance data for the entire company.


In the admissions area, our employee turnover began to improve in the first quarter.


Anecdotally, our new compensation plan for admissions representatives, which is more flexible and


competitive, has generally been well received. We believe the hiring instrument we recently put in


place is helping to ensure that we hire admissions representatives with the right skills and


experience for the job. We also anticipate that improved lead processing systems will help increase


productivity and reduce turnover. We are continuing to make progress with our underperforming


schools. One-third of these schools have now been removed from the underperforming category,


including one that we are in the process of closing in Victoria, British Columbia. The Victoria school


had 146 students, and we expect it to be closed by September of 2006.


Going forward, we will continue to evaluate the performance of each school and deploy the


permanent operations team to work with problem schools as required. Our previously reported


campus consolidations are also on schedule. During October, we completed the merger of our Las


Vegas campus into the Henderson, Nevada campus. As of September 30, the combined campus


had over 700 students. The other two campuses slated for consolidation are on schedule and


should be completed by the fourth quarter of the current fiscal year. This consolidation has not yet


been announced internally so we are unable to provide more specifics on these schools at this


time. We expect the Victoria school closure and the consolidation to have minimal impact on


earnings. Taken together, we believe that the initiatives we have in place in marketing, admissions,


and in our underperforming schools will improve our performance over time.


Now moving on to facilities. As we reported in September, we expect to open three new facilities in


fiscal 2006. Last week, we opened the first of these facilities, Olympia College in Merrionette Park,