corrected transcript


Corinthian Colleges, Inc.
 
COCO
 
Q4 2005 Earnings Call
 
Sep. 1, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the fourth quarter 2005 Corinthian


Colleges earnings conference call. My name is Colby and I will be your coordinator for today. At


this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. We will be conducting a question-and-answer


session towards the end of this conference. [Operator Instructions]. As a reminder, this conference


is being recorded for replay purposes.


I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today's call, Ms. Anna Marie Dunlap,


Senior Vice President, Investor Relations. Please proceed, ma'am.


Anna Marie Dunlap, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications


Thank you, Colby. And good morning everyone and thank you for joining us. I am here today with


David Moore, Corinthian's Chairman; Jack Massimino, President and Chief Executive Officer; and


Ken Ord, Chief Financial Officer.


Before moving on to our prepared remarks, I have a few housekeeping items. This conference call


is being webcast and an audio version of the call will be available on Corinthian's website for 30


days. There's also a telephonic replay of this call available until September 8th. The details of the


replay are included in our earnings release, and if you did not receive the release or otherwise need


help, please contact Darla DiMattio here at Corinthian. Her number is 714-427-3000, extension


216.


Please note that during this conference call we may make projections or other forward-looking


statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current


expectations that involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those


stated in any forward-looking statements based on a number of factors and other risks, which are


more specifically identified in Corinthian's periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange


Commission.


Following our prepared remarks, we will open the call for a question-and-answer session. And with


that I will turn the time over to you, Jack.


Jack D. Massimino, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you Anna Marie, and good morning to everyone on the call. Before discussing our financial


results I will make a few comments about how Hurricane Katrina has impacted our students and


employees. We have a Bryman campus in New Orleans, which had 517 students and 70


employees as of the end of July. Given the evacuation of New Orleans, the school has been closed


and we do not know when or if we will be opening it soon. As a contingency we're reviewing


alternatives for relocating the campus. In addition to the school in New Orleans, we have a financial


aid compliance office in Gulfport, Mississippi with 10 employees. That office has also been closed


and we are evaluating relocation alternatives.


Our top priority at this point is to assist our employees and students who have been victims of this


devastating storm and its aftermath. We have many employees and their families who are


homeless and we're arranging housing for them in Atlanta and Houston. In addition, we have


established a relief fund for employees and students. To reach our students, we are setting up a


website and working through relief agencies and the media to let them know that help is available.
corrected transcript


Corinthian Colleges, Inc.
 
COCO
 
Q4 2005 Earnings Call
 
Sep. 1, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


It is too early to determine the financial impact of Hurricane Katrina, but we will keep you updated


as necessary.


In fiscal 2005, we began making the transition from an entrepreneurial organization to a larger


company with the infrastructure required for sustainable growth. Although revenue and earnings fell


below our original targets for the year, we made progress on several fronts. For example, we made


the transition to a new CEO and CFO and continue to bring in talent from larger companies outside


the education industry in the areas of marketing, advertising, operation, finance and corporate


communications.


During our 2006 budgeting process we evaluated each school and categorized it by performance


such as fast growing, slower growing, high margin, or underperforming school. This process


allowed us to develop appropriate objectives for each school. As previously reported, we identified


23 schools in the underperforming category and a few others requiring closure or consolidation.


I will give you an update on these schools in a few minutes. We successfully completed the teach-


out and closure of 10 schools in our Canadian operations. We carefully evaluated our capital


expenditures and as we will discuss later, we will be significantly reducing our capital expenditures


in fiscal 2006.


We opened five new branch campuses, down from 10 in the prior year, and completed 42


remodels, relocations and expansions. We developed and began to implement marketing and sales


initiatives, which we believe, will improve conversion rates and lower the cost of acquiring new


students. We transplanted 103 programs at campuses across all divisions. We expanded our


compliance program, providing more resources at the division level. We also elevated the internal


reporting structure for regulatory compliance. We aligned the criteria for incentive compensation


from the campus president level to the CEOs office. We've resolved the SEC informal inquiry and


DOE program review at Bryman, San Jose.


Last, but not least, after approximately 5 million in expenses paid to external firms, and countless


hours of work on the part of over 90 employees, we completed the identification and testing of SOX


key controls and we did it by the required deadline. We're pleased with what we have achieved in


several areas, but at the same time we realize that a great deal remains to be done.


Next, I will discuss our progress in the areas of marketing, sales, our turn around schools and


facilities. As we reported at the end of June, total student starts declined 5.1% in the fourth quarter


compared with the same quarter last year, resulting in slower revenue growth and lower operating


margins. Our starts declined for the reasons discussed at the time – high turnover by admissions


representatives and inefficient Internet lead processing. In addition, our 23 underperforming


schools had a negative effect on top-line growth and margins. Excluding those schools and the 10


Canadian school closures, start growth would have been 2.8% in the fourth quarter and 18.6% for


fiscal 2005.


Lead flow remained strong in the fourth quarter totaling over 350,000 leads from all sources. For


ground schools, which excludes FMU Online, 35% of our paid media leads in the fourth quarter


were derived from television and newspaper, 46% from the Internet and 19% from all other sources


such as direct mail and Yellow Page advertisement. For ground schools, the average cost per


media lead increased 5.5% compared with the fourth quarter of last year.


Fourth quarter start data is as follows – our total starts, ground schools and online were 20,168,


down 5.1% from the fourth quarter of the prior year. Of the total, we derived 28% from referrals,


28% from television and newspaper, 25% from the Internet, and 19% from all other sources,


including direct mail, Yellow Pages, high school recruiting, and others. The cost per start including


all marketing and admissions expenses increased 15% in the fourth quarter of this year compared