Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
Robert Y. Newell — Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer, Dextera Surgical, Inc.
Julian N. Nikolchev — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Dextera Surgical, Inc.
Liam Burns — Vice President-Sales & Marketing, Dextera Surgical, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Third Quarter 2017 Dextera Financial Results Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time. [Operator Instructions]

As a reminder, this conference may be recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to our host for today's call, Mr. Bob Newell. You may begin.

Thank you. Good afternoon, and thank you for participating in our third quarter financial results conference call. This conference call will include forward-looking statements, including all statements regarding continued clinical and other developments, and commercial progress, and use of our MicroCutter 5/80, including the timing thereof. The words expect, believe, plan, continue, anticipate, opportunity, intend, will, explore and similar words are intended to identify these forward-looking statements. Any statements contained in this conference call that relate to future events, results or predictions are forward-looking statements.

There are a number of important factors that could cause our results to differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements, including those set forth in our press release of today, as well as other risks detailed from time to time in our reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 2016 under the caption, Risk Factors. We expressly disclaim any obligation or undertaking to release publicly, any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements. You're encouraged to read our reports filed with the SEC available at www.sec.gov.

At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to Julian Nikolchev, Dextera Surgical's President and CEO, for a corporate update.

Thank you, Bob. Good afternoon, and thank you for participating on our call. During the third quarter, we made strides in both our commercial presence and operational performance in a continued effort to achieve our primary objective to expand clinical adoption of the MicroCutter 5/80, the world's smallest profile articulating surgical stapling device, by surgeons around the globe to enable less invasive and minimally invasive procedures. Through this increased clinical adoption, we expect to build returns for our shareholders.

Looking again at our four components of commercialization, reliable clinical performance, early surgeon adoption, increasing market awareness and consistent product supply, we'll go through each one on the call today, and then I'll turn it back to Bob for discussion of our financial results.

I'm pleased to report that clinical performance continues to be consistent and reliable. Turning to early surgeon adoption, we continue to see increasing demand among surgeons in the E, as well as United States as MicroCutter sales grew from $282,000 in second fiscal quarter to $516,000 in our third fiscal quarter.

One example of our success in clinical adoption comes from Germany. I would like to ask Liam Burns, our Vice President of Worldwide Sales and Marketing to describe our success in Germany. He will also be available during the Q&A portion of the call. Liam?

Thank you, Julian. We targeted 38 video-assisted thoracic surgery or VATS centers in the country, which are some of the busiest hospitals in Germany. Our goal was to be able to demonstrate that in this particular segment of the market, we could drive at least 50% penetration and adoption, and we have been successful with our efforts to date.

In 20 of these centers, we have at least 1 thoracic surgeon who has adopted the MicroCutter 5/80 into their routine clinical practice. In additional seven centers, we have completed our initial clinical evaluation with surgeons performing their first cases, utilizing the MicroCutter, and now are completing the administrative requirements and process to get the MicroCutter on the shelves. In addition, the remaining 11 centers are in the midst of evaluating MicroCutter. We believe this case study showcases our ability to drive adoption through a specific procedure focus, such as video-assisted thoracic surgery.

I'll now turn the call back to Julian.

Thanks, Liam. Moving to market awareness, in Spain, we have a partnership with B. Braun to launch the MicroCutter. In February, B. Braun and Dextera held a video-assisted thoracic surgery or VATS symposium for 48 leading surgeons from 24 Spanish institutions performing VATS procedures. This symposium was held at the headquarters of B. Braun Aesculap in Tuttlingen, Germany, and provided an opportunity for these leading Spanish surgeons to learn video-assisted thoracic surgery techniques using MicroCutter 5/80 in addition to B. Braun's complementary surgical instrumentation.

Dr. Shanda Blackmon, associate professor of thoracic surgery at the Mayo Clinic, gave a lecture on segmentectomy and other complicated techniques, highlighting the use of the MicroCutter to enable these procedures. Dr. William Walker of the Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh presented the posterior approach for video-assisted lobectomy using the MicroCutter. And Dr. Raul Embun of the Universitario Miguel Servet in Zaragoza highlighted the first case using the MicroCutter for video-assisted thoracic surgery lobectomy in Spain. All attending surgeons participated in an extensive lab, featuring a hand-on simulated lobectomy using the MicroCutter 5/80 and other key B. Braun technologies. This symposium set the stage for a successful launch of the MicroCutter in Spain, and a substantial portion of our MicroCutter revenue for the quarter resulted from this partnership.

In addition to B. Braun's work in Spain, several physicians presented data on the use of the MicroCutter at major surgical meetings, including Dr. Marco Nardini of James Cook University Hospital in Middlesbrough, UK, who presented data on the results of 82 patients undergoing microlobectomy at the Scandinavian Society for Research in Cardiothoracic Surgery; Dr. Juan-Carlos Verdeja, who presented a poster highlighting the use of the MicroCutter in laparoscopic nephrectomy for kidney removal in an animal model at the Society of American Gastrointestinal and Endoscopic Surgeons' meeting; and Dr. Oliver Muensterer of Johannes Gutenberg-University of Mainz, who presented positive case studies using the MicroCutter 5/80 to successfully complete serial transverse enteroplasty or STEP procedures in two infants with short bowel syndrome at the 135th German Society Surgery Meeting.

Complementing our relatively established commercial presence in Europe, we currently have two sales representatives in United States and we are building relationships with key opinion leaders around the country. We continue to see increasing interest throughout the United States, and to date, we have 13 surgeons who have adopted the MicroCutter. We intend to add one to two new sales representatives per quarter to cover additional territories within the country.

Our objective was to have the capacity to produce 120 surgical staplers per week by the end of last quarter. During the quarter, we did increase our capacity to 100 devices per week, but fell short of the 120. We do expect to get our 120 objectives in the current quarter. We have made a number of improvements in our stapler manufacturing operations including the following, improved quality and availability of key components, such as devices, channel and anvil; reduced rework and in-house machining; reduced incoming inspection by adding new suppliers who can ship dock to stock. As a result of these improvements, we increased our stapler finished goods yield to 90%. And with these changes, we are now approaching our immediate goal of production capacity of 120 MicroCutters per week.

While we have focused on design and manufacturing improvements for the stapler, as we have ramped up production, we have experienced some supply inconsistencies in our staple strip supply, particularly for the blue reload cartridge. This has put us in a back order situation for the blue reload cartridge. Bob will provide more detail later in the call, but we expect to clear the back orders by the end of the current quarter.

Moving to our post-market Micro-Assisted Thoracic Surgery Hemostasis (sic) [MicroCutter-Assisted Thoracic Surgery Hemostasis] (09:16) or MATCH registry, we now have five centers enrolling patients. Dr. Joel Dunning in UK, Dr. Robert Cerfolio of The University of Alabama at Birmingham and Dr. Thomas Kyriss of Klinik Schillerhöhe are close to completing their target enrollment with a total of 50 patients enrolled in their registry as of April 30th. The MATCH registry is designed to evaluate hemostasis and ease of use of the MicroCutter device in a clinical setting in up to 120 patients. We anticipate that enrollment will be complete late in the current quarter or early next quarter, and we are targeting presentation of this data at the Society of Thoracic Surgeons in January 2018. Also, we expect to publish full results in a respected peer review journal.

In addition to the MicroCutter, we are seeing an increase interest in our cardiac products. We have several new cardiothoracic surgeons evaluating the PAS-Port and the C-Port anastomosis products for bypass procedures.

As a reminder, our cardiac products, PAS-Port and C-Port are the only FDA approved fully automatic proximal and distal anastomosis devices for minimally invasive coronary artery bypass surgery. We believe this interest is partly driven by continued presentations by Dr. Sam Balkhy, who has performed over 500 TECAB cardiac bypass procedures enabled by the C-Port Flex-A system. Dr. Balkhy performs TECAB procedures on a beating heart in a closed chest. These are completely robotic double and triple bypass procedures.

In addition, recently published articles reported excellent long-term clinical results for our PAS-Port and C-Port Flex-A devices. CABG remains the gold standard for treating complex coronary artery lesions.

For business development, we continue to advance our co-development effort with Intuitive Surgical to develop new robotic staple products for the da Vinci Surgical System. In addition, we're in active discussions with B. Braun Aesculap regarding a strategic partnership agreement. Our initial discussions have focused on a global distribution agreement for the cardiac products and expansion of the current distribution agreement for the MicroCutter. We're also working to have the strategic relationship incorporate a private investment and a subsequent product development contract. It is important to reiterate that these discussions are ongoing and we hope to complete a strategic partnership agreement within the next two to four months.

At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to Bob to discuss our financial results for the quarter, and then I'll come back to review our milestones. Bob?

Thanks, Julian. MicroCutter product sales totaled $516,000 for the third quarter of fiscal 2017 compared to product sales of $282,000 for the second quarter fiscal 2017. Total product sales for the fiscal 2017 third quarter were $977,000 compared with $458,000 for the same period in fiscal 2016. Total license and development revenue was approximately $112,000 for the third quarter compared with approximately $1.4 million for the comparable period of 2016.

During the third quarter fiscal 2016, we extended our agreement with Intuitive Surgical for the development of the MicroCutter stapler and cartridge for lobotic procedures, which resulted in licensing fee paid to Dextera.

As Julian mentioned, we are currently in a backward situation with our blue reload cartridges. As we ramp up production, it's important for us to qualify multiple lots and raw material necessary to produce our staple reload cartridges. This type of testing is done to ensure consistent stable performance and to find an acceptable variance in our raw material. Long term, this testing is intended to provide for uninterrupted flow of staple components.

Recently, in the process of conducting these tests, we identified a raw material staple strip lot that did not meet our performance criteria when processed into the staple reload, resulting in a temporary shortage of blue staple strips. We expect to begin shipping the blue cartridge reload by the end of this month. Because of this delay, we are revising our guidance from $700,000 to $800,000 for the quarter for the MicroCutter sales for this fiscal quarter to $600,000 to $700,000.

During the fiscal 2017 third quarter, we shipped 734 PAS-Port systems, bringing cumulative worldwide shipments of our PAS-Port systems to over 46,500 units. We shipped 112 C-Port systems during the quarter, largely due to a new surgeon stocking his operating room in preparation for TECAB procedures, with cumulative worldwide shipments now at 15,200 units.

Cost of product sales was approximately $1.3 million for the fiscal 2017 third quarter, including approximately $162,000 for scrap and obsolete inventory cost and $274,000 for inventory reserves, compared with approximately $900,000 for the same period of 2016.

R&D expenses were approximately $2 million for the fiscal 2017 third quarter compared with $1.6 million for the fiscal 2016 third quarter. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the fiscal 2017 third quarter were approximately $2.1 million. This compares with approximately $2.3 million for the same period of fiscal 2016.

Total operating cost and expenses for the fiscal 2017 third quarter were approximately $5.5 million compared with approximately $4.8 million for the same period fiscal 2016. Net loss for the third quarter of fiscal 2017 was approximately $4.5 million or $0.50 per share compared to a net loss of $3 million or $0.34 per share for the same period of fiscal 2016.

Cash equivalents and investments at March 31, 2017 were approximately $2.5 million compared with $5.8 million at December 31, 2016 with cash utilization of about $3.2 million during the quarter.

I'll now turn the call back to Julian.

Thank you, Bob. Our key objectives over the next three quarters are to secure the capital resources necessary to maximize the opportunity we have in our markets; execute a strategic partnership with B. Braun by the end of the third quarter of calendar year 2017; continue optimizing supply chain and establish production capacity of 120 MicroCutters per week by the end of the current quarter; complete enrollment of patients in the MATCH registry trial before the end of the third quarter of calendar 2017; expand MicroCutter indications to include liver in the U.S. by the end of the calendar year 2017; demonstrate success in Spain with the B. Braun collaboration throughout calendar 2017; and continue advancement of our co-development project with Intuitive Surgical to develop new robotic stapler based on the MicroCutter technology. We look forward to keeping you appraised of our progress.

And now, we're ready to open the call for questions. Operator? [Operator Instructions]

And our first question comes from [ph] Peter Wade (17:46) of Institutional Investments. Your line is open, Peter.

Yes, hi. Bob, Julian can you hear me?

Yes.

Yeah, we can hear you.

Okay. Bob, Julian, the question I have is, the MATCH registry, now, I guess my feelings would be why wouldn't you continue that? I know you mentioned that would stop it at 120 patients. I think it would be great if you could continue to get more data to present as you go forward. Is that something that you might want to do or reconsider? Because from my perspective, I think that's a home run, if you can show less hospital stay, I think that's great. Yeah, go ahead.

Peter, one thing just to make sure that we're clear on the MATCH registry, our focus is really just evaluating the performance of the MicroCutter. We're not looking beyond the surgical procedure, we're not beyond that. So, it's kind of an acute study.

Okay.

Having said that, I think we do have the option of continuing that. We need to re-file and get extension for the approval that we have in the different institutions.

Okay, okay. Well, thank you. My next question is as far as expanding the product pipeline, could you elaborate on exactly what that entails?

Certainly...

Going forward?

Sure. Yes. As you know, we are working with Intuitive Surgical to develop a stapler cartridge for them. Our plans are also to use that technology, the same cartridge that we developed for them for a handheld unit. So, that will allow us to expand our product line to have a five-millimeter stapler, as well as an eight-millimeter stapler.

Okay, okay. And my last question is...

In the green cartridge. Yeah.

Right. My last question is, with Intuitive, the collaboration with them, I'm just trying to get a flavor or a feel for the communication between Dextera and Intuitive. Is that progressing faster, or just how is the relationship progressing?

We have a very good relationship with them. We have regular meetings that are done at a senior staff level, as well on engineering, more often on the engineering level. In terms of the Intuitive timeline, we can't really comment on that. They're developing the actual stapler device.

Okay. Thank you for taking my call.

Thank you, Peter.

Thanks, Peter.

Thanks, Bob. Thanks, Julian.

And I'm showing no additional questions from the phone lines. I'd now like to turn the call back over to Julian Nikolchev for closing remarks.

Thank you. And thank you for joining us on the call today. We look forward to communicating our progress in the months ahead, and this is the end of the call.

Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference. Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.