corrected transcript


Cardica, Inc.
 
CRDC
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 13, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Cardica Incorporated Fourth


Quarter 2009 Financial Results Conference Call. My name is Michelle and I will be your coordinator


for today. At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. We will be facilitating a question-and-


answer session towards the end of today’s conference. [Operator Instructions]. As a reminder, this


conference is being recorded for replay purposes.


And I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today’s conference Mr. Bob


Newell, Chief Financial Officer. Please proceed.


Robert Y. Newell, Chief Financial Officer and Vice President, Finance


Good afternoon and thank you for participating in our Fiscal 2009 Fourth Quarter and Year-End


Financial Results Conference Call. Earlier today, we issued a press release setting forth our


financial results, so please refer to the release for a complete detail.


Before we begin, I would like to remind you that we will be making forward-looking statements


about Cardica’s future expectations and plans, including statements with respect to our fiscal 2010


financial guidance and anticipated milestones, potential entry into a strategic or financing


transaction, our ability to enter into arrangements with, and the success of, independent distributors


and manufacturers’ representatives for our automated anastomosis product line, the future


development and therapeutic and commercial potential of the Cardica Microcutter, and the planned


launch of the C-Port X-CHANGEII and the timing thereof.


Any statements that are not historical facts may be deemed to be forward-looking statements. The


words potential, expect, will, anticipate and believe and similar expressions are intended to identify


forward-looking statements. There are a number of important factors that could cause our results to


differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements, including that Cardica


needs substantial additional funding and may be unable to enter into a strategic or financing


transaction when needed, which would force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our research and


development programs or commercialization efforts. That our current and any future products may


never gain any significant degree of market acceptance, that we may not be successful in our


efforts to develop the Cardica Microcutter and expand our product portfolio; that any future products


face development, regulatory, reimbursement and manufacturing risks; that our intellectual property


rights may not provide adequate protection; that our sales, marketing and distribution strategy and


capabilities may not be sufficient or successful; and that recent workforce reductions and general


business and economic conditions may impair our ability to market and develop products, as well


as other risks detailed from time to time in our reports filed with the SEC, including our Quarterly


Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2009. We do not undertake any


obligation to update forward-looking statements. You’re encouraged to read our reports filed with


the SEC, available at www.sec.gov.


I’ll now turn the call over to Bernard Hausen, Cardica’s President, CEO and Co-Founder, to give


you a business update.


Bernard A. Hausen, M.D., Ph.D., President, Chief Executive Officer and Co-Founder


Thank you, Bob. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us on our call today. The


fourth quarter was a period of transition for Cardica both in our commercial and our development


operations. We expanded our market focus beyond cardiac surgery with the Cardica endolinear


stapling technology, specifically, applied to the development of the Cardica Microcutter. And we


changed our cost structure for our cardiac business. We continue to work with Allen & Company to
corrected transcript


Cardica, Inc.
 
CRDC
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 13, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


evaluate the strategic alternatives available to us in order to advance our products and proprietary


technologies in the future. Options currently under evaluation include partnering or other


arrangements with larger medical device companies to further develop and potentially


commercialize our microcutter. We also continue to evaluate potential financing transactions.


Turning to our financial results, we reported products sales of 1.2 million in the fiscal 2009 fourth


quarter and 6.8 million for the fiscal year. We continue to believe that our automated anastomosis


systems improve patient outcomes and can play a substantial role in the advancement of


cardiothoracic surgery. However, while we continue to make progress in educating surgeons about


the advantages of our automated anastomosis systems, we are disappointed in the rate of clinical


adoption.


Moving forward, to reduce sales expenses associated with our cardiac business, we have retained


a small Cardica sales team that will be supported by regionally focused independent distributors


and manufacturer’s representatives. We expect to sign agreements with additional independent


distributors and manufacturing reps who currently sell other cardiac surgery products and bring


experience and establish relationships with cardiothoracic surgeons across the country. We believe


this sales strategy will allow us to more cost effectively increase clinical adoption for our automated


anastomosis product, while minimizing our sales expenses.


Despite our shift in sales strategy in this period of transition, we continue to serve our existing


customer base. Our number of trained surgeons stands at 413 for C-Port in the United States and


290 for PAS-Port. As we move to an independent rep based sales model we will not be tracking


trained surgeons as in the past. Augmenting our sales force with independent distributors and


manufactures, representatives, we expect to increase the number of surgeons trained by extending


our reach to new cardiothoracic surgeons across the country.


Turning to product development, we continue to make solid progress in the development of the


Cardica Microcutter, our new multi-fire endoscopic linear cutter. Our device is significantly smaller


than commercially available cutters and could be the first and only linear staple to deploy multiple


staple lines without the need for cartridge reloads in an individual procedure.


Staplers and cutters, including potentially our microcutter, have applications in numerous surgical


specialties including general, colorectal, gynecologic, bariatric, urologic and thoracic surgery. As


you may know for most of these procedures stapling is the gold standard for the resection or


connection of tissue. With its reduced shaft diameter our microcutter would potentially facilitate Port


only and Single-Incision Laparoscopic Surgery or SILS, which is rapidly emerging in addition to a


variety of pediatric procedures.


The worldwide market for laparoscopic surgery products is currently estimated at 3.6 billion


annually with staplers and cutters representing nearly 1 billion of this market. Cutters and staplers


have not experienced significant innovation for over two decades and due to inherent limitations in


their design cannot be easily reduced in size or modified to allow a successive deployments without


the need to reload the staple cartridges.


Building on our innovative technology initially developed for cardiothoracic surgery, we believe that


our microcutter offers an exciting advance in this very large and growing field. As stated earlier, we


have started development of the first product of our microcutter product line, and expect to


complete animal studies in general thoracic surgery by the end of this fiscal year, with product


development expected to be complete in the next 12 to 18 months. We anticipate initiation of


human feasibility testing within 18 months and believe that we can have this device on the market


within two years subject to FDA clearance.


At this time, I’d like to turn the call back to Bob Newell to discuss our financial results for the quarter


and the year. Bob?