Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Robert Y. Newell — Chief Financial Officer and Vice President, Finance, Cardica, Inc.
Bernard A. Hausen — President, Chief Executive Officer and Co-Founder, Cardica, Inc.
Tao L. Levy — Analyst, Wedbush Securities, Inc.
Dan D. Trang — Analyst, Stonegate Securities, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the Q3 2014 Cardica Financial Results Conference Call. My name is Jasmine, and I will be your operator for today. At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.

I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today, Mr. Bob Newell, CFO. Please proceed, sir.

Thank you. Good afternoon and thank you for participating in our fiscal 2014 third quarter financial results conference call. Earlier today, we issued a press release including our financial results. So please refer to the release for complete details.

This conference call will include forward-looking statements including all statements regarding the continued clinical and other developments, future product features, future regulatory approval and commercial launch, and use of products in our planned MicroCutter product line, including our MicroCutter XCHANGE 30 and XCHANGE 45, including the timing thereof, and our expectations regarding future support for and sales of our automated anastomosis products. The words expect, believe, plan, continue, intend and similar words are intended to identify these forward-looking statements.

Any statements contained in this conference call that relate to future events, results, or predictions are forward-looking statements. There are a number of important factors that could cause our result to differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements including those set forth in our press release of today, as well as other risks detailed from time-to-time in our reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ending December 31, 2013 under the caption Risk Factors. We expressly disclaim any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements. We encourage you to read our reports filed with the SEC available at www.sec.gov. This call is a property of Cardica, and any rebroadcasting of this call without the expressed written permission of Cardica is prohibited.

At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to Bernard Hausen, Cardica's President and CEO for corporate updates.

Thank you, Bob. Good afternoon and thank you for participating in our call today. It's an exceptionally busy and exciting time for Cardica as we launched our MicroCutter XCHANGE 30 in the United States and build-in our capabilities in Europe. As you know, for the last several years we've been working to develop and commercialize the MicroCutter XCHANGE 30, the world's only broadly applicable surgical stapler with the diameter shaft of less than 12 millimeters. The XCHANGE 30 provides articulation of 80 degrees in each direction and has a cross-sectional area nearly six times smaller than market-leading staplers. With more flexibility, lower deployment forces and improved accessing vision, we continuously hear from surgeons that this device is facilitating existing procedures, enabling new procedures in a manner not feasible with conventional surgical staplers.

We're pleased to report progress this quarter, both in the commercialization of the MicroCutter in Europe and the U.S., and in solidifying our balance sheet with the recent financing. We have a product that is performing well in the field and we are laying the groundwork for growth both in Europe and the United States.

Beginning with Europe; surgeons are using the XCHANGE 30 for a wide variety of procedures. European sales for the quarter resulted primarily through our distributors in Holland, Belgium, Switzerland, and Italy with the MicroCutter being used primarily in thoracic surgery for the transection of lung vessels and for various gastrointestinal procedures.

I'd like to give you three examples. During lung resections, the vascular structures need to be carefully transected avoiding tears and unnecessary bleeding. The pulmonary veins and arteries are small and delicate. The small size of the MicroCutter allows the surgeons to limit the amount of dissections around the vessels, thereby avoiding unnecessary trauma to adjacent tissue structures. Importantly, the 80 degrees of articulation provided by the MicroCutter further improves access in the limited space inside the chest cavity.

Similarly, hepatobiliary surgeons have found the MicroCutter to be very beneficial in partial liver resection. This is a procedure where surgeons have typically not used staplers due to the larger size of conventional staplers. With the small diameters of MicroCutter, these surgeons can transact liver, veins and arteries, as well as part of the biliary tree with ease.

Finally, neurologists see major advantages during robotic prostatectomies. In these procedures, vascular structures needed to be divided, but the limited space in the pelvis prevented the use of conventional staplers and forced these surgeons to revert to the use of clips. The MicroCutter has now been successfully used to replace these clips, thereby offering surgeons a safe and reproducible method to transact the necessary structures. We've established reference accounts in several countries, which now serve as a valuable resource for future customers. As we shared last quarter, we plan to market a product directly in Germany due to pricing pressures and expect to hire a sales manager in the current quarter.

Turning to the United States. During the quarter, we received 510(k) clearance from the U.S. FDA for the XCHANGE 30 device, both the blue and white staple cartridges and a change in material for the cartridge. In the United States, the MicroCutter is indicated for use in multiple open and minimally-invasive surgical procedures for the transection, resection and/or creation of anastomoses in small and large intestine, as well as the transection of the appendix.

At the end of March, we began shipping devices for clinical evaluation to several key opinion leaders with our sales representatives working with them to illustrate the features and benefits of the device. While we are in early days of our commercial presence with the MicroCutter in United States, we're encouraged by the feedback interest we received to date. As a result of this early positive feedback, our sales representatives are beginning to work with key surgeons in a variety of gastrointestinal and appendectomy cases where the MicroCutter is truly enabling the physician to perform a less invasive procedure.

Recently a surgeon at the leading children hospital performed a single-incision appendectomy. Typically, appendectomies require three surgical incisions for trocar placement. One is required for the camera, the second for a grasper, and the larger one is for the currently existing 12-millimeter conventional staplers.

In single-incision procedures such as this, a single larger trocar is placed with multiple access channels for the camera, grasper and stapler. In order to minimize the size of the incision, each instrument must be as small as possible. In this setting, the five-millimeter shaft diameter of the MicroCutter is ideal. Because the single port is placed in in the umbilicus, the large degree of articulation provided by the MicroCutter offers the surgeon a much better angle to transect the base of the appendix, avoiding any unnecessary resection of adjacent intestinal structures such as the cecum. At the end of the procedure, the inflamed appendix has been retrieved and the specimen back to the single incision. As these surgeons experience, first-hand, the value of the MicroCutter during surgical procedures, we believe that they will then become advocates with their colleagues and within the hospital system.

As you know, when a new device is to be introduced to a U.S. hospital, the Value Analysis Committee needs to approve product evaluation. In most hospitals, this process takes approximately 30 days to 90 days. Following FDA clearance of the white cartridge along with the change in material for the cartridge, Cardica immediately started working with surgeon advocates in the hospital system to initiate this process. As of March 31, five VACs have approved the XCHANGE 30 for product evaluation and following successful clinical applications, some of these have already resulted in purchases of the MicroCutter. Importantly, we have initiated the process in numerous additional hospitals during the last month and expect to initiate more in the future.

Taking a step back, we believe there is a very large market opportunity for the MicroCutter. There're approximately 2.5 million surgical procedures in the United States annually. Focusing on our current indications for use [indiscernible] (09:17) accounts for 320,000 procedures each year, a variety of other gastrointestinal procedures where the use of the MicroCutter could be considered beneficial, account for at least another 150,000 procedures to 300,000 procedures. In addition, there's a large number of additional pediatric surgeries annually. Cardica intends to work with pediatric surgeons as they see the size advantage of the MicroCutter for their small patients.

Turning to operations, currently, we have two MicroCutter sales representatives in addition to our Vice President of Sales and Marketing calling on U.S. physicians daily. In addition, during the current quarter, we plan to train our three cardiac surgical representatives on the MicroCutter to extend our reach into their current sales regions. As we build solid customer base and begin to see revenue growth, we plan to add three to four sales representatives per quarter. For manufacturing, with the product performing well today, we will work to increase our weekly production capacity to 250 devices in 1,000 cartridges per week by the end of 2014, and drive our cartridge gross margins to more than 75%.

Moving to Japan, our partner, Century Medical, continues to work with the Ministry of Health to enable potential market clearance of the XCHANGE 30 in this significant market. Century anticipates market clearance within this calendar year. For product development, we are working to expand the MicroCutter product line so that this device can be used in additional surgical procedures moving forward. We are developing the XCHANGE 30 with the short shaft handle, which we believe will be ideal for procedures in more confined spaces. We expect to introduce the short shaft handle in the third quarter of calendar year 2014. We're also working on the development of XCHANGE 45 which is designed with an eight-millimeter shaft diameter. Similar to the XCHANGE 30, this new product will articulate up to approximately 80 degrees in either direction.

We see both, the reduced size and increased articulation, to be clearly differentiating features when compared to existing products. In addition, the XCHANGE 45 will reflect the larger green cartridge necessary to staple thicker tissue like that of the rectum or stomach. Pending FDA clearance, the XCHANGE 45 would expand the total available market for the MicroCutter line. Today, we have work in prototypes of the XCHANGE 45 and plan to begin animal studies by the end of the summer. Once we complete animal studies, we believe we can begin using the product in humans by the end of the calendar year 2014.

Our eventual goal is to offer surgeons a full product line of surgical staplers that will totally avoid the need for 12-millimeter trocars, thereby reducing the invasiveness and the risk for abdominal hernias associated with the use of 12-millimeter trocars. Our significant proprietary position is ideal to offer surgeons less-invasive solutions across a wide range of surgeries performed today, and to enable the use of our staplers in surgeries that do not currently utilize existing staplers because they are too large or do not articulate enough.

Turning to our cardiac business; the [indiscernible] (12:42) continues to generate consistent sales particularly in Japan and Germany, and we experienced an increase in C-Port System purchases during the quarter. We plan to continue to support existing cardiac surgery customers. Our focus will remain primarily on building our MicroCutter business, however.

At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to Bob for a discussion of our financial results. Bob, please?

Thanks, Bernard. For the fiscal 2014 third quarter, total revenue was approximately $934,000 compared to approximately $868,000 in the same period of fiscal 2013. Total product sales for the fiscal 2014 third quarter were approximately $916,000 compared to approximately $760,000 for the same period fiscal 2013. Total worldwide sales for the MicroCutter XCHANGE 30 were approximately $100,000 in the quarter with nearly all coming from Europe.

Moving forward, beginning next quarter, we intend to report specific values on a quarterly basis to provide metrics by which to measure the commercial launch. We'll provide total worldwide sales for the MicroCutter device and cartridges, the number of value-added committees in the U.S. that have approved the MicroCutter, and a number of U.S. hospitals that have ordered MicroCutter.

During the fiscal 2014 third quarter, we shipped 1,151 PAS-Port Systems bringing cumulative worldwide shipments of the PAS-Port System to over 36,000 units. We experienced an increase in C-Port Systems shipped during the quarter with 200 units shipped and cumulative worldwide shipments of C-Port now over 14,275 units. Note that we have now reached a milestone of over 50,000 PAS-Port and C-Port Systems shipped.

Cost of product sales was approximately $1.4 million for the fiscal 2014 third quarter compared to approximately $1.1 million for the same period of 2013. R&D expenses for the fiscal 2014 third quarter were $1.7 million compared to approximately $2 million in the fiscal 2013 third quarter. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the fiscal 2014 third quarter were approximately $2.1 million compared to $1.6 million in the same period of fiscal 2013. The increase in SG&A expense was primarily due to the hiring of our VP Sales and Marketing, hiring our MicroCutter sales representatives, an increase in MicroCutter demo and sample expenses as part of our training efforts, increased marketing efforts for the MicroCutter and stock compensation expense related to the amortization of the fair value options.

Total operating costs and expenses for the fiscal 2014 third quarter were approximately $5.2 million compared to $4.7 million for the same period 2013. For the fiscal 2014 third quarter, our net loss was approximately $4.4 million, or $0.09 per share compared to approximately $3.9 million or $0.10 per share for the comparable period last year.

Cash and short-term investments at March 31, 2014 were approximately $2.9 million compared to $6.5 million at December 31, 2013. As Bernard mentioned, at the beginning of the call we raised approximately $44.5 million in net proceeds through an underwritten public offering of 37,375,000 shares of Cardica's common stock, offered at $0.85 per share, and 191,474,000 (sic) [191,474] (16:39) shares of Series A convertible preferred stock, at a price of $85 per share.

At this time, I'd like to turn the call back to Bernard.

Thank you, Bob. Looking ahead, we expect to continue to book revenue from commercial sales of XCHANGE 30 in Europe and book initial sales in the United States. We expect to further refine and improve and expand the MicroCutter product line in the months to come with the short shaft MicroCutter XCHANGE 30 which we expect to introduce in the third quarter of calendar year 2014. We plan to submit regulatory documentation for the XCHANGE 45, for both 510(k) and CE Mark clearances and begin use in humans by the end of 2014. And we expect market clearance of the MicroCutter XCHANGE 30 in Japan in the second half of calendar 2014. We look forward to keeping you apprised of our progress in the months ahead. It's an exciting time for Cardica.

At this time, we'd like to open the call for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Tao Levy with Wedbush. Please proceed.

Hi, guys.

Hi, Tao.

Hey, Tao.

Hi. So couple questions here. Just a clarification. So the XCHANGE 45 you said that you're going to file for 510(k) as well as begin human uses. Does that assume that you won't have to submit clinical data for the 510(k)?

The initial clinical usage will be in Europe based on the CE Mark where we know we won't have to file and what we will need for the U.S. approval remains to be seen. My current assessment is that it should not require clinical data. That clinical data was about the staple. We provided that information. That was the basis for the clearance of the XCHANGE 30, and the staple is identical in the XCHANGE 45 to that of the XCHANGE 30.

Okay. Perfect. And then did you want to give maybe some sort of, I don't know, if a target or some metric in terms of how many of the Value Analysis Committees you plan to reach this quarter?

What we're doing is we're balancing the introduction of this product and trying to create meaningful revenue with the early phase of the product in a market that has not been exposed to this product. And what we're doing is trying to get two key opinion leaders within our indications that will serve as reference accounts to then take it further in the following quarters.

Got you. And let's see, the XPRESS product, I didn't hear you talk about that in quite some time. I was just wondering where does that stand in your cadence of next-generation pipeline products?

We're going to continue to focus on the XCHANGE because it's the base product that we believe we can sell the quickest without a lot of technical risk. And when we're done with the development of the XCHANGE 45 and maybe even add on a larger XCHANGE 60, we then will focus on the XPRESS. So it's a little bit further down the line then.

Okay. And then just from my understanding, when you're – in the cases where you've used the XCHANGE 30 in combination with the da Vinci Prostatectomy procedure, the reason why they would prefer the staple versus using a clip from a surgeon standpoint, I guess, and patient too?

Yeah. So I could go in quite some detail. I'm going to try to keep this as layman as possible. There's vascular structures that connect the prostate to the vessels around and the small pelvis. They need to be divided. The way they do that right now is by placing numerous clips. They basically dig out these structures and then create a little opening on the back and place, what we call, wet clips, fairly large clips, to then be able to transect now.

There's so little space there that on the side facing the prostate, they sometimes are not quite often, have to just cut off the vessel instead of clipping the opposite side which is how you would typically do just because there is no space to do. If you use a five-millimeter MicroCutter, you can achieve both. You can divide it without having to dissect it out, and you secure the vessels on both sides of your transection so there's no back bleeding. That is clearly advantageous. As far as we understand from neurologists who've been performing this, there's a significant time savings. They use quite a number of clips up to – a number I heard yesterday was up to 20, maybe 10 to 20 clips, which are not cheap. And the time savings, especially with the robotic procedure, will probably be very strongly driving the use of our product in this procedure.

Great. Thank you very much.

Thanks, Tao. [Operator Instructions]

And your next question comes from the line of [ph] Gerald Walker (23:23). Please proceed.

Yes. Thank you for taking my question. Did I understand correctly that the product sales of the MicroCutter 30 for this quarter was about $100,000 and most of that revenue came from sales to Europe?

Yes. That's correct.

Okay. And you only started shipping sometime in the middle of March?

No. We've shipped in Europe beginning in January.

Okay. Okay. But you only started shipping to the United States market in middle of March. Is that correct?

We're shipping in the U.S. market for evaluation purposes.

Okay. So you're not invoicing those shipments?

That's correct.

Okay. Okay, thank you.

Thank you.

And your next question comes from the line of Dan Trang with Stonegate Securities. Please proceed.

Hi. Thanks for taking my question. I was wondering if you could give some color behind the feedback – regarding feedback, I mean, with the work from the key surgeons that are working with MicroCutter?

Yeah. It really depends on what type of specialty. Obviously in Europe, our CE marking allows us to go after every procedure that uses stapling or procedures that haven't been using. I gave you some color on urology with the prostatectomy, on the answer I gave to Levy. In appendectomies, we gave an example in the script that we – in the presentation we gave beforehand where you now can perform a total appendectomy with a single-incision or by just placing five-millimeter trocars avoiding 12-millimeter trocars.

Thoracic surgery, just the fact that you are far less traumatic, you can be much more focused and much more detailed in what you dissect and what you don't have to dissect because the stapler is so small. That's the type of feedback we're getting. And I think with this product in the market, we're going to see a lot of new types of use because they just never had a tool like this before. And hopefully, in the earnings calls to come we can just give you some more color in what other new type of procedures they're now using staplers where they haven't done so in the past.

Okay. And you said the specific values to measure the commercial launch. Those metrics will be released when?

Each quarter we'll give you those metrics.

Okay. All right. Thank you.

Thank you.

Very welcome.

And I would like to turn the call back over to Mr. Hausen for any closing remarks.

Thank you for joining our call today. We look forward to seeing some of you at the Craig-Hallum Investor Conference later this month. Thank you very much. Bye.

Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect. See you all. Have a great evening.