corrected transcript


Cardica, Inc.
 
CRDC
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 11, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the First Quarter 2011 Cardica


Financial Results Conference Call. My name is Derek, and I will be your operator for today. At this


time all participants are in a listen-only mode. We will be facilitating a question-and-answer session


at the end of the conference. [Operator Instructions]. As a reminder this conference is being


recorded for replay purposes.


I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Bob Newell, Chief Financial Officer of Cardica.


Please proceed.


Robert Y. Newell, Chief Financial Officer and Vice President, Finance


Thank you. Good afternoon, and thank you for participating in our fiscal 2011 first quarter financial


results conference call. Earlier today we issued a press release setting forth our financial results, so


please refer to the release for complete details.


This conference call will include forward-looking statements, including all statements regarding the


future development, regulatory approval, commercial launch and potential of products in our


planned Microcutter product line, including the timing there of and our expectations regarding future


use and sales of our automated and anastomosis products. Any statements contained in this


conference call that are not historical facts may be deemed to be forward-looking statements. The


words plan, desire, expect, intend, will, subject to, belief and similar expressions are intended to


identify forward-looking statements.


There are a number of important factors that could cause our results to differ materially from those


indicated by these forward-looking statements, including that we may not be successful in our


efforts to develop the Microcutter ES8, the Microcutter MES5 and other potential products in our


plans of Microcutter product line, that the Microcutter ES8 may not subject to a 510k but to a longer


premarket approval application process or otherwise may not obtain regulatory approval on our


anticipated timeline, if at all; that any future products face development, regulatory, reimbursement


and manufacturing risks; that our Cardica’s product sales may not increase or be sustained at


current levels; that any future products may never gain any significant degree of market


acceptance, that our intellectual property rights may not provide adequate protection; and that


general business and economic conditions may impair our ability to market and develop products,


as well as other risks detailed from time to time in our reports filed with the U.S. Securities and


Exchange Commission, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June


30, 2010. We disclaim any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to


any forward-looking statements. You are encouraged to read our reports filed with the SEC,


available at www.sec.gov.


At this time I would like to turn the call over to Bernard Hausen, Cardica’s President, CEO and Co-


Founder for a corporate update.


Bernard A. Hausen, M.D., Ph.D., President, Chief Executive Officer and Co-Founder


Thank you, Bob. Good afternoon, everyone and thank you for joining us on our call today. The first


quarter of fiscal 2011 has been productive for Cardica and the development of our Microcutter


product line and the advancement of our cardiac surgery business. Beginning with our Micro


product -- Microcutter product line we achieved very good results in animal studies with the


Microcutter ES8. Specifically, we completed acute and chronic animal studies comparing the


Microcutter staple line with staple lines from currently available linear endostaplers with good


results.
corrected transcript


Cardica, Inc.
 
CRDC
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 11, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


We’re working with the Microcutter ES8 using tool parts to evaluate the components working


together with the goal of creating a consistently reliable device. In addition, during the American


College of Surgery annual meeting in Washington, DC last month, we continued our meetings with


key surgeons to explore their interest and feedback on the Microcutter ES8 and the second planed


product in Microcutter product line, the Microcutter MES5, as well as other products we plan to


develop.


Based on the positive feedback we have received during these meetings, there is a desire for


surgeon to specialize in bariatric, general, thoracic surgery, to have the capabilities that our


planned Micro product -- Microcutter products provide.


Moving forward, we are in what we believe, will be the final stages of refining the Microcutter ES8


design and expect to receive the CE mark in Europe early in calendar year 2011. Concurrently we


intend to initiate our human studies in the first quarter of calendar year 2011. Importantly, we


believe we remain on track with our plans to launch this product selectively, subject to FDA


clearance under a 510(k) clearance process late in the first half of 2011.


Turning to our cardiac surgery business, we reported a modest increase in sales over both the


same period last year and over the fiscal 2010 fourth quarter. Our consistent revenue in the cardiac


surgery business continues to be driven largely by leading edge surgeons focused on innovating


minimally invasive cardiac surgery. By way of example, in September we announced that Dr.


Mahesh Ramchandani of Methodist DeBakey Heart center in Texas is now using our PAS-Port and


C-Port systems regularly to perform a specialized MIDCAP procedure called MICS CABG, which


stands for minimally invasive cardiac surgery/coronary artery bypass graft procedure.


Dr. Ramchandani further innovated this procedure, which was originally developed by a surgeon in


New York and he has become a significant proponent in Cardica’s cardiac surgery devices. He


uses our devices to facilitate his surgeries due to our products’ capabilities to enable more


minimally-invasive cardiac surgery combined with reliability and ease of use.


Two weeks ago, we announced that positive long-term follow-up data on our PAS-Port device was


published in the November issue of The Annals of Thoracic Surgery. This study was led by Dr.


Demertzis, senior cardiac surgeon at Cardiocentro Ticino in Lugano, Switzerland, and associate


professor at the University of Bern. In this study, Dr. Demertzis showed that the PAS-Port system


produced a patent vessel connection in 88% of the 117 vein grafts to attach to the aorta using the


PAS-Port system six months after surgery as determined by angiography. In comparison, the


average patency of hand-sewn sutures from the literature is approximately 84% for this follow-up


period. Most importantly five-years following bypass procedures using the PAS-Port system, 80%


of the 117 patients were free of adverse events including, death, stroke, myocardial infarction and


target vessel revascularization. This is considered an excellent outcome in the cardiac surgery


marketplace.


Finally our C-Port Flex A system took center stage at the Advances in Robotic and Hybrid Coronary


Revascularization meeting in Atlanta, Georgia, the last week of October. Drs. Bahlky (Husam


Bahlky), Brunstein, and Patel (Vipul Patel) leading minimally-invasive cardiothoracic surgeon


demonstrated techniques and applications of our innovative devices during the robotic bypass


procedures. This meeting was chaired by Dr. Sudhir Srivastava and hosted by the International


College of Robotic Surgery in Saint Joseph Hospital, Atlanta, Georgia, with nearly 100 surgeons


from around the world of endo.


At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Bob for a review of our financial results for the


quarter. Bob?