Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Robert Y. Newell — Chief Financial Officer and Vice President, Finance, Cardica, Inc.
Bernard A. Hausen — CEO & President, Cardica, Inc.
Tao L. Levy — Analyst, Wedbush Securities, Inc.
Charles E Haff — Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Cardica Second Quarter of Fiscal Year 2015 Financial Results Conference Call. My name is Tony, and I will be your operator for today. At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]

As a reminder, this conference is being recorded for replay purposes. I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Bob Newell, Chief Financial Officer of Cardica. Please proceed.

Good afternoon. And thank you for participating in our fiscal 2015 second quarter financial results conference call. Earlier today, we issued a press release including our financial results. So please refer to the release for complete details.

This conference call will include forward-looking statements, including all statements regarding continued clinical and other developments, future product features, future regulatory approvals, commercial launch, and use of our products in our planned MicroCutter product line, including our MicroCutter XCHANGE 30 and XCHANGE 45, including the timing thereof, and our expectations regarding future support for and sales of our MicroCutter products, and automated anastomosis products. The words expect, believe, plan, continue, intend, will and similar words are intended to identify these forward-looking statements. Any statements contained in this conference call that relate to future events, results or predictions are forward-looking statements.

There are a number of important factors that could cause our results to differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements, including those set forth in our press release of today, as well as other risks detailed from time-to-time in our reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ending September 30, 2014 under the caption Risk Factors. We expressly disclaim any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates revisions to any forward-looking statements. You're encouraged to read our reports filed with the SEC available at www.sec.gov. This call is the property of Cardica, and any rebroadcasting of this call without the express written permission of Cardica is prohibited.

At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to Bernard A. Hausen, Cardica's President and CEO for a corporate update.

Thank you, Bob. Good afternoon and thank you for participating in our call today. There are three key points I'd like to – like for you to take away from today's comments. First, for XCHANGE 30 stapler, the only 5 millimeter stapler that articulates to 80 degrees, we entered a mature device market with high – very high performance standards for surgical staplers, and a wide range of tissue quality and thicknesses. We have chosen to engage in this market by bringing radically different technology requiring a novel staple design.

Much of what we need to learn to improve this technology can only be learned in the field, which necessitates an iterative approach to product improvements. Second, an iterative change made to the XCHAGE 30 last fall resulted in a diverse patient outcome when used outside the product specifications and we voluntarily withdrew the product from the market. Third, after further evaluations and respective enhancements to the device, we're now in the process of clinical feasibility testing of the white cartridge both in Europe and the U.S. To walk you specifically through the events, at the end of September 2014, we introduced an updated MicroCutter XCHANGE 30 primarily designed to expand the performance of the device in the upper capable tissue range.

We'll be talking about specified tissue range, which is the range listed in our instructions for use and also the capable tissue range or the tissue range where we have shown the MicroCutter XCHANGE 30 to be successfully deployed, the standard within the industry to differentiate between the specified tissue range and the capable tissue range. To date, per specification XCHANGE 30 designed to fire in tissue easily compressible to 1 millimeter for the white cartridge and easily compressible to 1.5 millimeters for the blue cartridge. As you might imagine, the definition of easily compressible is subjective and varies from surgeon to surgeon. Again, this language is standard in the industry.

Given the significantly smaller form factor, while our specified tissue range is identical to the 12-millimeter staplers, our capable tissue range is narrower. Our experience and feedback from many surgeons continues to indicate that the benefits of the smaller size outweigh the limitations of a narrow capable range. The tension in product development for the MicroCutter product line is that in order to be applicable in a wide range of procedures we attempt to maximize the capable tissue range, while not compromising on delivering safe and effective staple lines. From a surgeon's perspective, the safe and effective staple line is the foremost requirement.

At the same time, we know that surgeons will push the boundaries of tissue thickness, both due to the benefits of the XCHANGE 35, and articulation also due to the potential cost of having to use two or more different staplers during the procedure. While our primary focus is to ensure that the XCHANGE 30 performs well into the specified tissue range, because of the subjectivity in interpreting the specified tissue range within our IFU, we understand and expect that surgeons may fire device outside the specified range.

The capable tissue range of our device impacts a number of surgical procedures where the MicroCutter can be used. The larger we're able to make the capable range, the broader the market potential. Because of this, we desire to expand our capable tissue range both within the upper ranges, which impacts intestinal and other thicker tissues, and also at the lower end of the range for thin tissues like vessels.

It's important to note that simply due to physics, our capable tissue range will never be equal to that of the 12-millimeter devices. The XCHANGE 30 is substantially smaller with a 5 millimeter diameter and also have the ability to articulate. Both the size and degree of articulation are key to surgeon adoption of the MicroCutter, and importantly, we continue to receive feedback that surgeons desire the 5 millimeter staple to be used with smaller trocars minimizing the invasiveness of surgical procedures.

The enhancements released in September were specifically designed to improve performance at the upper end of the capable tissue range. Following a mandatory series of internal test, the device was determined to be ready for market release. Our initial experience in the market was very satisfactory. However, in mid-October, we received a report that one patient had an intestinal leakage from a thick tissue deployment that required a reoperation. We believe this to be an isolated incident.

In mid-November, a loose staple line again in thicker tissue was noted during an operation in a second patient that required additional deployments during the primary surgery resulting in a successful uneventful patient outcome. As a standard procedure, the devices used in both surgeries were analyzed. This analysis show that, under certain circumstances, the device could result in loose staple forms, which could cause tissue dehiscence with the potential for adverse outcomes in patients. Staple line dehiscence results when the tissue separates along the staple line. As with every medical device manufacturer, we also have a reasonability to ensure that our customers have consistent product performance to meet their needs but, most importantly, our ultimate responsibilities to the patient.

Shortly after the second patient report, we completed our voluntary product withdrawal removing all recent iterations of the XCHANGE 30 both in the U.S. and Europe. Devices in the market prior to the September introduction were not affected by this voluntary withdrawal. In order to focus all development activities on improving the performance of the XCHANGE 30, development work on the XCHANGE 45 was de-prioritized. With the renewed focus on XCHANGE 30 product development, we also made a decision to address a higher than acceptable bleeding rate when the device is deployed below the capable tissue range in thin tissue. Our efforts in resources were direct to improving the consistency of performance of the XCHANGE 30, specifically avoiding staple line dehiscence on the thick end of the capable tissue range and to ensuring hemostasis on the thin end of the capable tissue range.

We're currently addressing loose staple forms primarily by increasing clamping force, which requires modifications to the end effector of the current device, and these changes are ongoing. Further, we will adjust the clamp limit feature already within the device to more conservatively prevent deployment in thick tissue outside of our capable tissue range. In thin tissue deployments, we completed extensive internal testing including new wet lab test methodology that we believe more readily and rigorously stimulates the clinical environment. Additional tested included live animals to ensure clinical safety and efficacy of the improved device.

However, as we learn from past experience, the ultimate test of product performance is in the hands of our customers through clinical use in patients. We therefore initiated clinical feasibility testing in the newly revised XCHANGE 30 device for now solely with the white cartridge in the U.S. and Europe in mid-January. The tests are currently ongoing. We hope to have a good understanding of device performance early in the second quarter of calendar year 2015. The results will dictate, if further design modifications and subsequent testing are required, if we can resume our commercial release or if an alternate course of action is necessary.

Importantly, we believe that, as a company, Cardica is well positioned to handle the complexity involved in developing this technology into a commercial product, which requires ex-vivo as well as in-vivo testing. We believe that the development of the MicroCutter product line is essential to the advancement of less invasive surgery across multiple fields including thoracic, pediatric, parenchymal and colorectal procedures. Therefore, we also believe that our investment effort and benefits associated with the device development far outweigh the risks. We're encouraged by the continued feedback from surgeons validating the need for this device. We believe we have a pathway forward with the supportive and experienced board to guide to the implementation of our strategy.

At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to Bob for a discussion of our financial results. Bob?

Thanks, Bernard. As Bernard mentioned, during the second quarter, we voluntarily withdrew the XCHANGE 30 from the market. So, our quarterly numbers were directly impacted by this decision. For the fiscal 2015 second quarter, total revenue was $657,000 compared to $851,000 for the same period of fiscal 2014. Total product sales for the fiscal 2015 second quarter was $639,000 compared to $835,000 for the same period in fiscal 2014.

During the fiscal 2015 second quarter we shipped 866 passport systems bringing cumulative worldwide shipments of our passport systems to over 39,000 units. We shipped a 105 seaport systems during the quarter with cumulative worldwide shipments now at over 14,500 units. Cost of product sales was $944,000 for the fiscal 2015 second quarter compared to $1.1 million for the same period of 2014. Cost of product sales includes approximately $253,000 of scrap and obsolete inventory costs for the MicroCutter, of which approximately $83,000 is related to the MicroCutter market withdrawal.

R&D expenses for the fiscal 2015 second quarter was $1.8 million compared to $1.7 million for the same period of 2014. Selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal 2015 second quarter were approximately $3.2 million compared to approximately $2.2 million in the same period of 2014. The increase in SG&A expense was primarily due to hiring additional sales and marketing staff and MicroCutter sales representatives, an increase in MicroCutter general and sample expenses as part of our marketing and training efforts and approximately $500,000 in expenses associated with the recent proxy contest.

We're pleased to report that three experienced business executives have joined our Board of Directors. We welcome Greg Casciaro, Mike Kleine and Sam Navarro in December. We and the Board are working diligently together in a very productive manner to complete the necessary changes of the XCHANGE 30 and to work towards the commercial launch of this important surgical tool. As part of our expense reduction, we have reduced our head count by 12, and currently have 62 full-time employees. We expect our operating burn rate to be approximately $4 million per quarter, and it can be reduced further if we deem it to be appropriate.

Total operating expenses, cost and expenses for the fiscal 2015 second quarter were approximately $6 million compared to approximately $4.9 million for the same period of fiscal 2014. Net loss for the second quarter of fiscal 2015 was approximately $5.4 million or $0.06 per share compared to net loss for the second quarter of 2014 of approximately $4.2 million or $0.08 per share. Cash, cash equivalents and investments at December 31, 2014 were $33.6 million compared to $38 million at September 30, 2014.

I'll now turn the call back to Bernard.

Thank you, Bob. This is a period of focus investment in our business. We are making progress on improving the MicroCutter XCHANGE 30 and are working toward a commercial reintroduction of this device to facilitate less invasive surgical procedures.

Again, we do not have a predicted timeline, but we are doing everything within our control to achieve this milestone as soon as possible. While we cannot predict the timing of the commercial reintroduction, our goals are to provide product performance to meet surgeon's expectations with a significantly smaller form factor that allows for additional agility through – during procedures. Demonstrate broad market applicability by achieving significant clinical adoption within key hospital accounts across the U.S. in multiple surgical specialties. Apply for an FDA clearance for the XCHANGE 30 in vascular indications once we complete clinical performance non-inferiority testing successfully.

And turning to development, once we have completed the XCHANGE 30 improvements, we expect to reinitiate development of the XCHANGE 45 implementing much of the knowledge currently gained during our improvement efforts of the XCHANGE 30. Looking at the international market, Century Medical received approval from the Ministry of Health in Japan to market the XCHANGE 30 in late 2014. Once we have completed and validated the improvement for the XCHANGE 30, Century Medical will decide if the changes require additional approvals by the Ministry of Health in Japan.

Before moving on to take your questions, let me address an issue that is likely on the minds of many of our investors. What has changed at Cardica? I'm going to answer that question from two perspectives, from a product perspective and from a governance and leadership perspective. With respect to our product, we know that continuous improvements are essential to meeting the needs of our customers. This process is not new to this industry. Our competitors have gone through this in their early days and continue to do so with new product introductions. We are no different. Most important, the changes we have been making have resulted in improved product performance.

With respect to corporate governance, today, we have more directors with medical device experience on the board than we have ever had. Five of our directors are new to the board this year. We are challenging every aspect of our business with an openness and objectivity that will provide the data and information we need to support critical decision making. The board has rolled up its sleeve and is working hard along with senior management team to drive increased shareholder value. As for leadership of the company, I have taken and will continue to take full responsibility for that, that has not changed.

Now, Bob and I would be pleased to answer any questions you have.

Operator? [Operator Instructions]

Your first question comes from the line of Tao Levy of Wedbush. Please proceed.

Hi. Good afternoon.

Hi.

Okay. So, a bunch of questions. So good to hear that the device is back in patients, so maybe we could start there. How many patients has the new XCHANGE 30 been used in?

We're not going to disclose how many patients we've done to-date. We are going to test it to a sufficient amount that will give us confidence in the performance and then make the respective decisions based on that.

And just sort of parameters, when do you think there – there have been enough testing? Is it in a number of patients or 15, 20, I don't know if you can give any parameters around that? And also is there a length of time where you'd like to see these patients and then sort of a follow up?

If we're going to need a large sample size that's primarily determined by deployments in addition to number of patients, and as this is the white cartridge only it's about vascular performance, the incidents of bleeding requiring therapeutic intervention. And once we have all that data, we'll be able to make the right decisions how we move forward.

But it sounds like from your earlier comments, Bernard, that sort of that kind of early second quarter, and I assume calendar second quarter is what you're aiming to at least get some sort of visibility?

That is correct.

Got you. And then so – and how, between now and then, anything that investors, shareholders, should be on a lookout for in terms of any updates or progress?

As significant updates are available, i.e., we have a earlier understanding of product performance or we're ready to do clinical feasibility testing with the blue cartridge, we will update the investors. Yes.

Got you. And just sort of – in terms of clarification of the issues that happened, the two patient events, those were both in the intestine and thick tissue. Is that correct?

Yes, they were.

And so that would mean that sort of the – I mean, that was the blue cartridge?

That was all blue cartridge, yes.

That's all blue cartridge. And so, the white cartridge, there – this is to address stuff that you had seen kind of before or was this – when did the white cartridge issues surface?

So, we had no adverse events related to white cartridge performance, but we knew that there was room for improvement in our hemostasis rate of our white cartridge, which we had been addressing in parallel with the release of the Gen 3, and just had taken, refocus it in a much more stringent approach to trying to solve and improve this. And the results of that is what we're now testing in patients.

Got you. And so, would it be then the same stapler that you'd be using when you start testing the blue or will that – we need to kind of reconfigure the stapler at that point?

It will. The modifications that we need to make blue more robust will require a change in the handle and front effector that would then have to be implemented in white, but would not affect how white is performing now.

Got you. On the commercial front, any thoughts of just going forward with the white later on or are you going to wait for the blue as well? Or once you have the white, you can kind of go back into the marketplace with that.

That's a good question. We have to decide that when we get to that point. We look at the data and see is it satisfactory, is it intermediate or is it not good enough. I think it's definitely a possibility that we could consider before blue is ready we just re-launch with white.

Okay. And then just lastly, in terms of the sales force, I understand you need to kind of – you had to let some employees go. How does the sales force stand now? How many people do you have? What are the thoughts around keeping them engaged while the development is going on in the background?

We have – in the U.S. we have – we continue to five direct reps, all with 10 years or more of stapling experience. We have one country manager in Germany and plus, Liam, of course. And the reps in the U.S. are working with surgeons now in this clinical feasibility stage and continuing to work through introducing the product.

Okay. Great. Thanks.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Mr. Charles Haff, Craig Hallum. Please proceed.

Hi. Thanks for taking my questions. You mentioned earlier that you would be applying for FDA clearance after these changes are made and you're comfortable with where the white product is at. Have you had discussions with the FDA in terms of what they're looking for or what kind of regulatory steps major regulatory steps need to be taken once you have the new white staple performance validated?

I think we have a very good understanding what the FDA is looking for and that is part of the testing that is ongoing right now and may or may not involve some of the outcomes of our clinical field testing as well.

Just to be clear, Charles.

Okay.

That's for an indication expansion, it's not for – it doesn't relate to the product itself, it's just an indication expansion.

I see. And you mentioned earlier Bernard that it would take a large sample size with the validation of white. Is that for your own internal purposes, you're requiring a large sample size, or is that a requirement that the FDA is communicating?

No, that's internally.

Okay.

FDA had no input in this feasibility testing.

Okay. I guess I'd be remiss without asking about the termination of Bryan Knodel earlier in January. Could you provide some color around that? Was there just a difference of opinion on how to proceed or any background or any light you can shed on this?

Charles I understand that question, but I can't – we cannot say more than what we said in the 8-K, that his employment was terminated on January 7.

Okay. And then Bob on the burn rate of $4 million, you said that you have some flexibility to reduce that if needed. What could kind of be the low watermark of where you could get down to if you had to given what your all the priorities that you're working today. What's kind of a realistic number we should be thinking about?

Well, we would take whatever action that we thought was required in the circumstances to preserve the capital of the company depending on – if we needed to take that action. I think realistically there are certain public company expenses and overhead expenses. So, probably $3 million or less would probably be a reasonable position per quarter.

Okay. Thanks for taking my questions. Thank you.

Charles.

Maybe I can add one – Charles?

Yes.

I would like to bring up one point, we're getting a lot of inquiries from investors on a 7-millimeter stapler from Ethicon and I just thought it may be useful for me to give a few comments on that. So, first of all, we embraced the technology. We think it's great that other companies are innovating and trying to bring in new products. Also they are embracing smaller staplers, which is exactly where Cardica has been and continues to grow. And thirdly, it's a four row stapler, our stapler is four row, conventional 12-millimeter staplers are all six row, and it validates that four-row is sufficient.

I mostly applaud the marketing that they've done as a company. The product is kind of marketed and the impression has been left with investors that they have a 7-millimeter stapler. I just thought it's important to point out this stapler is a 10-millimeter stapler. The only thing 7-millimeter on that stapler is the anvil is one component in the front. It will fit through a 10-millimeter trocar, nothing smaller. And therefore, it should not be classified as a 7-millimeter stapler. It's a 10-millimeter stapler and in our opinion and a totally different league of size compared to our true 5-millimeter stapler that fits to a 5-millimeter trocar. Hope that's helpful for other investors listening to this call.

Yeah. That's great. Thanks, Bernard.

Your next question comes from the line of [ph] Mr. Todd Mitchell (29:26) of UBS. Please proceed.

Bernard and Bob, thank you for your time.

Hi, [ph] Todd (29:33).

If you could help me out here a little bit, I'm trying to – a little slow with some of this stuff. But just regarding the pathway forward at this point, because I still go back to last year, prior to the last quarterly conference call on November 4 and being an exciting time for Cardica. We had a product that we were using in people and where thousands of deployments out there and we're having great success with that. I'm having difficulty understanding the reset here, if you can kind of give me a little more color on that. And then the pathway forward here, it sounds like the only thing we're working with at this point is the white cartridge and we would then after we get the white cartridge or some kind of conclusion on that, we're going to move forward to blue, is that correct?

No. We're working on both. We're just a little bit further ahead on the white cartridge in clinical feasibility testing. In terms of blue, we're still in vitro or in ex-vivo testing and making modifications to the device. Our expectation is that, at some point, we'll be ready to take these changes to the device to implement – to improve blue performance into patients similar like we're doing with white now, but we are doing both, we're just further ahead with the white.

And to your first point, the incident occurrence of this adverse event was a singular event that had an adverse outcome. The second event did not, it was recognized inter-operatively, had the potential to reoccur, and that's something we took very seriously and therefore had to withdraw the products from the market. The product that was on the market before, we call generation 1 and generation 2 product, had other issues that needed to be addressed, they were addressed with gen 3. And while we had thousands of deployment in our patients that were successful, there was a high – there was a reliability component that was not satisfactory which is what triggered the gen 3 release, and just with the side effect that we had, this is few singular incidences that now needed to be addressed.

And regarding the staple for the blue or and the white. Are you going to is it one stapler that's going to operate both staples or are you potentially looking at?

That's our intention. That's our intention. Yes. Right it's an unhandle white blue cartridege shift like it was.

Okay, okay. And the sense and timing on this again, do you mind just covering that again for me, I know, it is to repeat yourself there, but what you guys are looking for as far as timing at some point I think maybe, Liam said, the second quarter, not Liam but Tao said the second quarter?

Yeah. In the call, we said that...

Early second quarter.

Early second quarter we should have results back from feasibility testing of the white cartridge and we will be able to then at least make a decision on white. My hope is that by then we'll have very solid understanding of what's required for blue and either the size we can do that without feasibility testing goes straight to patients with one handle or then initiate clinical feasibility testing at that point.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you very much.

There are no further questions in the queue. I'd like to return it to the speaker for closing remarks.

Yes. Thank you for all joining the call today. We look forward to seeing you or some of you at SAGES in April. Thank you.

Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes today's conference call. Thank you. You may now disconnect, and everyone have a great day.