corrected transcript


Cardica, Inc.
 
CRDC
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 28, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Cardica Fiscal 2010 Second


Quarter Financial Results and Company Update Conference Call. My name is Michelle and I will be


your coordinator for today. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. We will be offering


a question-and-answer session towards the end of the conference. [Operator Instruction] As a


reminder, this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.


I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today’s conference call, Mr. Bob


Newell, Chief Financial Officer. Please proceed.


Robert Y. Newell, Chief Financial Officer and Vice President, Finance


Good afternoon, and thank you for participating in our fiscal 2010 second quarter financial results


conference call. Earlier today we issued a press release setting forth our financial results, so please


refer to the release for complete details.


Before we begin, I would like to remind you that we will be making forward-looking statements


about Cardica’s future expectations and plans, including statements with respect to our fiscal 2010


financial guidance, further clinical adoption and future sales of Cardica’s automated anastomosis


products, and the future development and commercial launch, including the timing thereof clinical


benefits and commercial potential of the Cardica Microcutter ES8.


Any statements that are not historical facts may be deemed to be forward-looking statements. The


words potential, can, belief, plan, will, intention, anticipate, expect, and similar expressions are


intended to identify forward-looking statements. There are number of important factors that could


cause our results to differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements,


including that our current and any future products may never gain any significant degree of market


acceptance; that we may not be successful in our efforts to develop the Cardica Microcutter family


of products and expand our product portfolio; that any future products face development,


regulatory, reimbursement and manufacturing risks; that our intellectual property rights may not


provide adequate protection; that our sales, marketing and distribution strategy and capabilities


may not be sufficient or successful; that general business and economic conditions may impair our


ability to market and develop products; and then that we will need additional financing to complete


development of the Cardica Microcutter ES8, as well as other financial risks detailed from time-to-


time in our reports filed with the SEC, including our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal


quarter ended September 30, 2009.


We expressly disclaim any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to


any forward-looking statements. You are encouraged to read our reports filed with the SEC


available at www.sec.gov.


At this time, I’d like to turn the call over to Bernard Hausen, Cardica’s President, CEO and Co-


Founder for a corporate update.


Bernard A. Hausen, M.D., Ph.D., President, Chief Executive Officer and Co-Founder


Thank you, Bob. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us on our call today. During


the fiscal 2010 second quarter, we continued to execute on our commercial, operational and


development objectives. For our cardiac surgery business, while our sales model is still in the


period of transition, we posted sequential growth in sales of our automated anastomosis systems.
corrected transcript


Cardica, Inc.
 
CRDC
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 28, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Last weekend, we had our presence at the 46th Annual Meeting at the Society of Thoracic


Surgeons in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. There we noted a renewed interest in Totally Endoscopic


Coronary Artery Bypass Graft Procedures and specifically in a procedure that has been termed


Connector TECAB. Connector TECAB is performed through a finger-size incision without a heart-


lung machine using intuitive surgical da Vinci together with our C-Port Flex A anastomosis system


to complete all of the vessel connections. As you may recall, the Flex A anastomotic device is the


only device cleared and suitable for such a procedure.


Our biggest advocate nationally renowned cardiothoracic surgeon, Sam Balkhy of Milwaukee,


Wisconsin pioneered the Connector TECAB and is now regularly performing multi-vessel


Connector TECABs on a beating heart. Dr. Balkhy has been instrumental in increasing awareness


of the benefits of this procedure.


On average, patients who receive open heart CABG procedure stay in the hospital five to nine days


and may require up to three months to return to normal activities. In contrast, Dr. Balkhy’s patients


undergoing multi-vessel Connector TECAB procedures may be discharged 24 to 48 hours following


surgery and often return to normal activity levels within one to two weeks. Shortened intensive care


unit and overall hospital stays generally result in cost savings for both the patient and the hospital.


Earlier this month, we announced the collaboration between the University of Tokyo and Cardica


for the potential integration of our Flex A system with their Intelligent Surgical Instrument, ISI


cardiac surgery robot integrated our – integrating our Flex A system to connect blood vessels


during all cardiac surgical procedures.


We are pleased that the Japanese team of physicians and engineers lead by Dr. Ichiro Sakuma


recognizes the potential value of integrating our proprietary automated anastomosis technology


with a robot that can perform bypass and other cardiac surgery procedures. Both in the United


States and International we have seen recent renewed interest in our Flex A in particular which can


facilitate minimally invasive cardiothoracic surgery procedures.


However, while we believe there is growing interest in this paradigm shift for bypass procedures,


the market is not yet established. And as we’ve learned from our experience, cardiothoracic


surgeons can be relatively slow to adopt new technology and procedures. We continue to believe


that our best course of action moving forward is to remain committed to our cardiac surgery


business, but to continue to control costs associated with developing this market.


At this time, we believe the most efficient way to generate value for our business and our


shareholders is to continue to focus the vast majority of our developmental efforts under Cardica


Microcutter ES8 and planned family of related products. Our Microcutter targets an established and


defined market with sales in excess of two billion. We are advancing development of our first


endolinear cutter and stapling device termed the Microcutter ES8. We’ve named it ES8 as the shaft


diameter is eight millimeters, which is four millimeters or 33% smaller than the smallest endo


stapler on the market today.


As we talk to key opinion leaders, we understand that existing staplers have four major


shortcomings, all of which we believe would be addressed using Cardica’s Microcutter technology.


The first and probably the biggest shortcoming is the reload shuffle, which is the process of


removing the cartridge and reloading the stapler. With current staplers, this process involves


between nine and 13 steps depending on the manufacturer for each successive deployment.


Second, current staplers have limited articulation or movement of the end effect relative to the rigid


shaft. Lack of flexibility and limited articulation prevents the use of existing staplers during Single-


Incision Laparoscopic Surgery or SILS procedures.


Third, the use of stapling technology is considered one of the most significant cost for most general


thoracic surgical procedures. And finally, stapling products are generally the largest devices used