Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Robert Y. Newell — Chief Financial Officer and Vice President-Finance, Cardica, Inc.
Julian N. Nikolchev — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Cardica, Inc.
Charles Edward Haff — Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Cardica Fiscal 2016 Third Quarter Financial Results Conference Call. At this time, all participants' are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference call maybe recorded for replay purposes.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Bob Newell, Chief Financial Officer. You may begin.

Good afternoon. And thank you for participating in our fiscal 2016 third quarter financial results conference call. This conference call will include forward-looking statements, including all statements regarding continued clinical and other developments, future product features, future regulatory approvals, commercial launch, and use of products in our planned MicroCutter product line, including our MicroCutter XCHANGE 30, including the timing thereof, and our expectations regarding future support for and sales of our MicroCutter products, and automated anastomosis products. The words expect, believe, plan, continue, intend, will and similar words are intended to identify these forward-looking statements. Any statements contained in this conference call that relate to future events, results or predictions are forward-looking statements.

There are a number of important factors that could cause our results to differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements, including those set forth in our press release of today, as well as other risks detailed from time-to-time in our reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including our current report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 2015 under the caption Risk Factors.

We expressly disclaim any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements. You're encouraged to read our reports filed with the SEC available at www.sec.gov.

At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to Julian Nikolchev, Cardica's President and CEO, for corporate update.

Thank you, Bob. Good afternoon, and thank you for participating on our call. The fiscal 2016 third quarter was one of continued progress and diligent work focused on our main objective, which is to bring the MicroCutter XCHANGE 30, the world's smallest profile articulating surgical stapling device to surgeons around the globe to enable less-invasive and minimally-invasive procedures, which we anticipate will lead to better patient outcomes.

We are focused on introducing the MicroCutter XCHANGE 30 to selected key opinion leading surgeons through a limited commercial launch as we confirm the device is working reliably and consistently, building clinical experience and optimizing our supply chains to enable wider commercialization efforts in the near future.

We continue to believe that successful commercialization of our disruptive technology will depend on three key components. One, clinical performance both for the current device sold commercially today, and more specifically for the Generation 4 MicroCutter XCHANGE 30 device, which we expect to introduce in the second half of this calendar year.

Second, successful early adoption by key opinion leaders in high-volume centers who can participate in broader training and education initiatives as we expand our market presence. And, third, development and execution of an effective market awareness and surgeon training program.

Beginning with Europe where the MicroCutter XCHANGE 30 is approved for use in a wide variety of surgical procedures, we continue to work with a selected group of leading surgeons to raise awareness of the benefits and uses for the MicroCutter XCHANGE 30, both in Germany and the UK. Device performance remains reliable and consistent. And our network of key opinion leaders focused on Video-Assisted Thoracic Surgery procedures, also known as VATS, is expanding.

Recall that in November 2015, we conducted a voluntary withdrawal of 225 blue cartridges for the MicroCutter XCHANGE 30. There were no reported clinical events or patient injury related to this withdrawal, and the MicroCutter XCHANGE 30 with the white cartridge remained in the market for use primarily in the European market throughout the voluntary withdrawal. I am pleased to report that we have officially completed the withdrawal and the FDA-prescribed follow-up procedures.

Turning to the U.S., in January we received 510(k) clearance from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for expanded use of the white cartridge with the MicroCutter XCHANGE 30. With this expanded indication in hand, our team has been working with select key opinion leaders in the United States to build awareness for the MicroCutter XCHANGE 30 with the white cartridge.

These are surgeons working at top tier hospitals with large volume practices in key regions around the country. These efforts support our sales strategy, which is to focus on KOLs with expertise in specific areas, initially VATS and to go deep within a hospital account.

Concurrently, we are pursuing approval from selected hospital value-analysis committees to sell the MicroCutter XCHANGE 30. We have received 3 approvals to-date with many more presentations scheduled in the immediate future. Our goal for this calendar year is to receive approval from 5 to 10 committees within key centers in the United States.

In April, we announced that Dr. Robert Cerfolio of the University of Alabama and Birmingham's Comprehensive Cancer Center, performed the first U.S. cases using the MicroCutter XCHANGE 30 with white cartridge in patients with lung cancer. He was able to remove cancerous regions of the lung with positive patients' outcomes.

One of our key goals in this calendar year is to bring our next-generation MicroCutter to market. This is a device that we have called Gen 4, which will incorporate the ability to use both the white and blue cartridges within one handle. We believe that the Gen 4 device, which is designed to staple in a wider tissue range, will meet the needs of our current customers in addition to a larger group of surgeons for whom the dual functionality of the white and blue cartridge will be required for clinical adoption.

As we navigate our ongoing business demands, we have prioritized the development and introduction of the Gen 4 device over sales of the current commercial white-only device as we believe the long-term value for Cardica will be built around the Gen 4 device. As such, clinical evaluation and device performance will remain our primary focus for the remainder of the calendar 2016.

As we move forward bringing the Gen 4 MicroCutter XCHANGE 30 to market, we're aggressively working to obtain a stable and scalable supply chain for the device and believe we will have a stable supply chain in place to support the introduction of the Gen 4 device using appropriate technologies by the end of this calendar year.

One of our key suppliers providing critical components for both the existing white-cartridge-only MicroCutter and for the next-generation Gen 4 MicroCutter, in order to accomplish our objective to bring the Gen 4 market to this – to bring the Gen 4 to market this calendar year, we had to prioritize the work with this key supplier to begin making parts for the Gen 4 device.

Consequently, [ph] this (08:08) impacted availability of parts for the current generation white-only MicroCutter. We are allocating the remaining supply of the white-only MicroCutter devices while we work to build up our supply of components to the Gen 4 device.

Consequently, we expect sales to be negatively impacted during this transition from selling the white-only MicroCutter to the time we introduce the Gen 4 device. Our focus during this transition period is on reliable and consistent clinical performance of the MicroCutter, as well as building relationships with the KOLs.

As I mentioned early, the MicroCutter XCHANGE 30 is performing reliably and consistently both in the U.S. and abroad. We remain focused on educating surgeons in key therapeutic areas, including Video-Assisted Thoracic Surgery or VATS.

In fact, several of the key opinion-leading surgeons advocated for the MicroCutter XCHANGE 30 to be introduced to their hospital. And we're building a select group of KOLs who are trained with the current device which will transition to the Gen 4 device when available.

We expect to complete the internal testing in the current quarter and anticipate completing our clinical evaluation in the third quarter of calendar 2016. During the clinical evaluation period, we tend to conduct a formal market preference study where select thoracic surgeons who will use the device and record their results to be published at a later date.

Following successful clinical evaluation, we've selected KOLs. We will begin a broader market launch at the end of this calendar year.

During the quarter, we received a medical device license from Health Canada to sell the MicroCutter XCHANGE 30. We're pleased to make progress in expanding the market opportunity for the MicroCutter, though we intend to file an amendment with the Health Canada for the Generation 4 device and we'll begin selling once the amendment is approved and the new device is available for purchase, similar to Century Medical's planned activities in Japan.

Moving to business development. In January, we amended our license agreement with Intuitive Surgical, initially signed in 2010. Under the terms of the agreement, we received $2 million upfront, and Intuitive is now conducting a feasibility evaluation for a period of up to six months to evaluate the MicroCutter technology.

Once Intuitive completes the evaluation, they will have the option to initiate a joint development program for an 8-millimeter surgical stapling cartridge for use with robotic applications. If Intuitive elects to move forward with the development, we will receive further funding, as well as a unit-based royalty on commercial sales. Our work with Intuitive is going well, and we look forward to keeping you apprised on our progress.

At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to Bob for review of our financial results.

Thanks, Julian. During the third quarter of fiscal 2016, we sold the MicroCutter XCHANGE 30 primarily in Europe. Gross revenue for the MicroCutter totaled $59,000 for the third quarter of fiscal 2016, but net revenue was $19,000 based on the amount of blue cartridge returns in the quarter. This compares to $108,000 of product sales reported last quarter for the MicroCutter XCHANGE 30.

As Julian mentioned, prioritizing component supply to the Gen 4 device negatively impacted sales both in the U.S. and Europe. We are working with a key supplier for adequate component supply to ensure we meet our milestones for the Gen 4 MicroCutter.

Total product sales for the fiscal 2016 third quarter were $458,000 compared with $548,000 for the same period in fiscal 2015. For the fiscal 2016 third quarter, total revenue was $1.9 million compared with $564,000 for the same period of fiscal 2015. Total revenue for the third quarter fiscal 2016 includes approximately $1.4 million in license revenue from our license agreement extension with Intuitive Surgical, with the remaining portion of the $2 million to be recognized in subsequent quarters.

During the fiscal 2016 third quarter, we shipped 685 PAS-Port Systems, bringing cumulative worldwide shipments of our PAS-Port Systems to over 43,300 units. We shipped approximately 225 PAS-Port Systems to Century Medical, our distributor in Japan, about half of their typical order.

As we announced last quarter, we expect that this lower order quantity is a onetime event, allowing Century to reduce their current inventory. Century and their cardiac surgeon customers continue to value the PAS-Port System for use in the less invasive procedures. However, the size of the market has contracted slightly. We shipped 80 C-Port Systems during the quarter with cumulative worldwide shipments now at 14,875 units.

Cost of product sales was $911,000 for fiscal 2016 third quarter, compared with $807,000 for the same period of 2015. Cost of product sales includes approximately $185,000 for scrap and obsolete inventory cost for the MicroCutter. In addition, the lower volume of available product contributed to our higher cost of product sales during the quarter.

R&D expenses were $1.6 million for the fiscal 2016 third quarter, compared with $1.9 million for the fiscal 2015 third quarter. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the fiscal 2016 third quarter were approximately $2.3 million. This compares with approximately $2.5 million in the same period of fiscal 2015.

Total operating cost and expenses for the fiscal 2016 third quarter were approximately $4.8 million, compared with approximately $5.3 million for the same period of fiscal 2015.

Net loss for the third quarter of fiscal 2016 was approximately $3 million, or $0.34 per share, compared to a net loss of $4.8 million, or $0.54 per share, for the same period of fiscal 2015. The net loss for both fiscal 2016 and 2015 are on a split-adjusted basis as our board of directors approved a 1-for-10 reverse split effective in February 2016.

Cash, cash equivalents and investments at March 31, 2016 were approximately $16.5 million, compared to $18.5 million at December 31, 2015 with cash utilization of $4 million during the quarter.

Finally, a bit of financial management housekeeping. Yesterday, we filed a form S-3 shelf registration statement with the SEC. We have no immediate plans to raise capital under this shelf, but we want to provide our company with a variety of alternatives for additional capital in the future.

I will now turn the call back to Julian.

Thank you, Bob. Each of us at Cardica remain exceptionally motivated to continue to deliver on our milestones. Our key objectives during calendar 2016 continued to be as follows: increase clinical adoption of the MicroCutter XCHANGE 30 in Germany and the UK; for both the EU and the U.S., demonstrate clinical adoption for VATS by a select group of centers by the third quarter of calendar 2016; complete the Intuitive Surgical evaluation phase by the end of June 2016; complete the first evaluation cases with the Generation 4 device in the third quarter of calendar 2016, complete the market preference study in the second half of calendar 2016, initiate a selective launch in the fourth quarter of calendar 2016; by the end of calendar year, establish an improved supply chain using the most appropriate technologies; and finally, by the end of the calendar year, announce Cardica's product pipeline.

In summary, we continue to train and educate surgeons in the U.S. and in the EU concurrent with the development of our Generation 4 device. While we have additional hurdles to overcome, we have made significant progress in our business commercially, operationally and clinically. We're ready for the challenges, excited about the future and committed to our mission to improve the lives of patients through less invasive procedures facilitated with the MicroCutter XCHANGE 30.

At this time, we're ready to open the call for questions. Operator?

Thank you. [Operator Instruction] Our first question comes from the line of Charles Haff of Craig-Hallum. Your line is now open.

Hi. Thanks for taking my questions. I'm not sure if you want to give us anymore detail on Gen 4 than you provided, but I thought I would ask anyway. Since you're less than a month away from finishing up your evaluation of Gen 4, I'm wondering if you would be able to provide some additional color on the progress and how the reliability testing and so forth is coming along.

Sure. Yeah. Thanks for the question. Yeah, Gen 4 is an important product for us, obviously, and we are spending a lot of time in getting that product ready for clinical evaluation. Just to make it clear, we're currently in our internal validation phase of the device and we probably will not be in clinical evaluation till June, July timeframe. So, right now the progress is very positive. The device, as you may have heard me talk about it before, is similar to our current [ph] Y-only (19:13) device with some modification to accommodate the blue cartridge. So, we feel pretty confident that we're on a good path with that device. We are working very close with our suppliers to make sure that they deliver the parts that we need in a reliable basis. So, we feel that we are in a good shape, but of course the clinical trial will tell us the story.

Okay. And then what kind of updates should we expect between now and your next conference call? Are you just going to share with us the results on the next call or are you expecting that maybe we'll have interim updates on how things are going? Obviously, this is very crucial period for the company.

Yeah. Well, I guess probably I would say it would be at the next call simply because at this point, internally, we are very focused on making sure we hit all the milestones correctly. And I'd rather not distract our team and get ready for updates. Of course, if anything critical happens, we will definitely report that.

Okay. Understood. And then on the white-only cartridge, I think last quarter you, kind of, provided the leak rates that you were seeing. I think it was less than 2% in 158 deployments of the white cartridge. Have you seen a similar experience so far in this quarter or were there any deviations from that?

We continue to see the same performance of the device in this quarter. So, it's been performing very reliably.

Great. That's good to hear. And then lastly on Intuitive Surgical, you're coming to the end of their evaluation period. Any updates that you can provide there or can you just remind us what the milestones are that we should be looking for from the Intuitive Surgical relationship?

Sure. Intuitive Surgical, the relationship is based on a six-month evaluation which started in January. So, we expect that to be completed by June. It's driven mostly by their decision process internally, which I really – I'm not in a position to comment.

But so far, our interactions with them have been very, very good. We have been providing a lot of information both on the devices that we have currently the way the pipeline is looking, and a lot of documentation that they also wanted to see. So, it's all going in the right direction. And at the end of the six months, Intuitive Surgical has 60 days to make a decision how to proceed forward.

Okay. So, you would have your next conference call before that 60-day period is over then, correct?

Right. Yeah. And we hope we'll have something to report. I'm not sure if we will.

Okay. Fair enough. Thanks for taking my questions.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And I'm showing no further questions at this time. I'd like to hand the call back to Julian Nikolchev for any closing remarks.

Great. Thank you. Thank you for joining us on our call today. We look forward to communicating our progress in the months ahead. We hope to see some of you at the American Association for Thoracic Surgery meeting in Baltimore. It's in Baltimore from May 15th through the 17th, and thank you very much.

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. That does conclude today's program. You may all disconnect. Have a great day, everyone.