corrected transcript


Cardica, Inc.
 
CRDC
 
Q3 2008 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 29, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the fiscal 2008 third quarter financial


results conference call. My name is Annie and I’ll be your coordinator for today. At this time, all


participants are in listen-only mode. We will be conducting a question-and-answer session towards


the end of this conference. [Operator instructions]. As a reminder, this conference is being recorded


for replay purposes. I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today’s call, Mr.


Bob Newell, Chief Financial Officer. Please proceed, sir.


Robert Y. Newell, Chief Financial Officer and Vice President, Finance and Operations


Good afternoon and thank you for participating in our fiscal 2008 third quarter financial results


conference call. Earlier today, we issued a press release setting forth our financial results. So,


please refer to the release for complete details.


Before we begin, I would like to remind you that we will be making forward-looking statements


about Cardica’s future expectations and plans, including corporate product, clinical and financial


projections. The words anticipate, expect, may, believe, will, and similar expressions are intended


to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based upon Cardica’s


current expectations. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties.


Cardica’s actual results and the timing of events could materially differ from those anticipated in


such forward-looking statements as a result of these risks and uncertainties which include, without


limitation, Cardica’s dependence upon the success of our current products, market acceptance of


C-Port systems, manufacturing of the C-Port and PAS-Port systems and our suppliers, Cardica’s


sales, marketing and distribution strategy and capabilities, the development and introduction of the


C-Port xA X-CHANGE and xV Systems, the timing and success of pre-clinical studies and


regulatory activities related to the Cook Vascular Access Closure Device and specialized PFO


Closure Device, whether Cardica obtains FDA clearance of Cardica’s PAS-Port System and


Cardica’s need for additional funding.


These and other risk factors are discussed under risk factors in Cardica’s quarter report on form 10-


Q for the quarter-ended December 31st, 2007. Cardica expressly disclaims any obligation or


undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements


contained herein. You’re encouraged read the Company’s reports filed with the U. S. Securities and


Exchange Commission available at www.sec.gov. I will now turn the call over to Bernard Hausen,


Cardica’s President, CEO, and co-founder to give a business update.


Bernard A. Hausen, M. D., Ph. D., President, Chief Executive Officer and Co-Founder


Thank you, Bob. Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you for joining us on our call today. We


continue to expand our commercial reach and quickly advance our development-stage products.


Importantly, today, we announced positive topline data and submitted a 510(k) application to the


FDA for our PAS-Port Proximal Anastomosis System. We continue to see a steady adoption of our


C-Port Systems as evidenced by more surgeons being trained and using the technology and key


data coming from our customers validating the financial and practical benefit of our automated


anastomosis product.


We generated a substantial number of leads through our strategic activities at the Society of


Thoracic Surgeons or STS annual meeting. At the STS meeting, we also launched the C-Port xA X-


CHANGE, a reloadable cartridge-based C-Port device, and already we have seen a positive


response to this product. Finally, received two milestone payments from Cook Medical under our
corrected transcript


Cardica, Inc.
 
CRDC
 
Q3 2008 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 29, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


development agreement and I will go into more detail about these activities and achievements later.


But first, I’d like to turn the call over to Bob for a financial review of the quarter.


Robert Y. Newell, Chief Financial Officer and Vice President, Finance and Operations


Thanks, Bernard. For the fiscal 2008 third quarter, total revenue was approximately 1.7 million


compared to 1.1 million for the comparable period in fiscal 2007. Total product revenue for the


fiscal 2008 third quarter was approximately $1 million compared to 550,000 for the same period last


year.


During the fiscal 2008 third quarter, we shipped more than 850 C-Port systems, bringing cumulative


worldwide shipments to more than 4,500 units. I’d like to clarify that following the launch of the C-


Port xA X-CHANGE, the number of C-Port Systems we’ve reported shipped, is comprised of the


number of heads that have been shipped, not just units. For example, we are currently selling the


C-Port X-CHANGE in a procedure pack with one handle and two heads.


We sell the procedure pack in volume for $1,320 each and count each procedure pack as two units.


So, that comparisons of deployments with past periods are consistent. For other C-Port Systems,


each unit sold with only one head and is counted as one unit.


At the end of the quarter, we implemented a brief shipment delay of C-Port Systems to allow for


minor manufacturing modifications to improve performance of the C-Port Systems which resulted in


a modest backorder of C-Ports. The modifications were implemented and shipping resumed in


April.


Additionally in the third quarter, we shipped more than 725 PAS-Port systems with the vast majority


of units deployed in Japan bringing cumulative worldwide shipments to more than 8,000 units. For


the fiscal 2008 third quarter, PAS-Port sell-through rates in Japan increased to about 200 units per


month compared to 190 units per month in the second quarter of fiscal 2008.


Cost of product revenue was approximately 1.2 million for the fiscal 2008 third quarter compared to


591,000 for the same period last year. Total operating costs and expenses for the fiscal 2008 third


quarter were approximately 7.5 million compared to 4.8 million for the same period in fiscal 2007.


The increase in operating expenses is due to increased marketing activity associated with our C-


Port systems and costs associated with the completion of PAS-Port system pivotal trial.


I would like to point out that there are over $700,000 of unusual one-time expenses in the quarter.


Two of the largest of these expenses were $260,000 for completion of the PAS-Port trial included in


R&D expense and $440,000 accrued for a settlement reached today of a patent interference with


Vital Access, which is formerly known as IVIT. We now have 13 fit sales representatives in United


States.


For the fiscal 2008 third quarter, the net loss was approximately 5.5 million, or $0.35 per share,


compared to a net loss of 3.5 million, or $0.31 per share for the comparable period last year. Cash


and investments at March 31st, 2008 were 28.3 million compared to 30.9 million at December 31st,


2007, and 18.9 million at September 30th, 2007. We do not have any auction rate securities in our


cash and cash equivalent investments. As of March 31st, 2008, there are approximately 15.6


million shares of common stock outstanding.


Let me now turn to our financial guidance for fiscal 2008 which remains constant from July 2007


when we first gave it to you. For the full year of fiscal 2008, we continue to expect total revenue of 6


to $8 million, with product revenue comprising 4 to 5 million of this amount. In addition, we continue


to expect development revenue of 2 to 3 million. It’s important to note the difference between cash


received for accomplishing milestones and revenue recognition accounting. In this fiscal year alone,