Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Robert Y. Newell — Chief Financial Officer and Vice President, Finance, Cardica, Inc.
Bernard A. Hausen — President, Chief Executive Officer and Co-Founder, Cardica, Inc.
Tao L. Levy — Analyst, Wedbush Securities, Inc.
Dan D. Trang — Analyst, Stonegate Securities, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the Cardica Fiscal 2014 Second Quarter Financial Results Conference Call. My name is Sharon, and I'll be your operator for today. At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]

I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today, Mr. Bob Newell, Chief Financial Officer of Cardica. Please proceed.

Good afternoon and thank you for participating in our financial results conference call. Earlier today, we issued a press release including our financial results, so please refer to the release for complete details.

This conference call will include forward-looking statements, including all statements regarding the continued clinical and other developments, future product features, future regulatory approval and commercial launch and use of products in our planned MicroCutter product line, including our MicroCutter XCHANGE 30 and XCHANGE 45, including the timing thereof and our expectations regarding future support for and sales of our automated anastomosis products. The words expect, believe, plan, continue, intend and similar words are intended to identify these forward-looking statements.

Any statements contained in this conference call that relate to future events, results, or predictions are forward-looking statements. There are number of important factors that could cause our results to differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements including those set forth in our press release of today, as well as other risks detailed from time to time in our reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Quarterly Report or Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2013 under the caption Risk Factors.

We expressly disclaim any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements. You are encouraged to read our reports filed with the SEC available at www.sec.gov. This call is a property of Cardica and any rebroadcasting of this call without the expressed written permission of Cardica is prohibited.

At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to Bernard Hausen, Cardica's President and CEO, for a corporate update.

Thank you, Bob. Good afternoon and thank you for participating on our call today. Over the course of the last three months, we have made tremendous strides in accomplishing our corporate, commercial and product objectives. And I'm pleased to be able to share our achievements with you today.

On the call, we will talk about our ongoing commercial operations in Europe, the recent market clearance of the MicroCutter XCHANGE 30 in the United States and other near-term corporate plans. The MicroCutter XCHANGE 30 is the world's smallest cutting and stapling device with the shaft diameter of only 5 millimeters compared to most conventional staplers with the 12-millimeter diameter. The XCHANGE 30 provides a range of articulation of 80 degrees in each direction. This significantly reduced end effective diameter and the almost double degree of articulation over existing stapling product is of significant advantage to current and future users of this product.

As you know, we have made continued improvements based on surgeon feedback in Europe, intentionally producing small batches of product as each change requires testing and validation. While this process disrupts the supply line for a short period, we have improved product performance and reliability substantially, and we have received positive feedback from customers that are emphasis on quality over quantity is the correct approach to the introduction of a novel surgical device used for stapling during a variety of procedures including laparoscopic, thoracoscopic and open.

Today, we believe, we have a commercial product that fires consistently in a variety of surgical procedures. Of note, each step along the way we have clearly communicated our business approach to our customers and distributors in Europe. As a result of the small batch production and product improvement strategy, we ended the fiscal second quarter of 2014 in backorder for both the device and the white cartridge, but have since cleared the backorder.

In January, we see more revenue from MicroCutter sales than we booked in the fiscal second quarter and more consistent re-order pattern since the introduction of the white cartridge in these markets. Importantly, while further improvements are forthcoming, we do expect to be in a position to build inventory and supply both the EU and U.S. markets consistently soon.

In addition to the device and cartridge improvements, we plan to make some operational changes in Europe. We continue to work with our key distributors and this strategy is working very well in most areas. The distributors have relationships with surgeons and a level of technical ability that suited to our product.

In Germany, however, we plan to change our operational approach and plan to begin selling directly to surgeons beginning in April. Of note, Germany is the largest potential market for the MicroCutter in the European Union. We are taking this action because the German market is so important and it seems to be more price sensitive than other European markets. The size of this market in our opinion warrants the investment in a small direct sales force.

We have been selling our cardiac products, primarily the PAS-Port, direct into hospitals in Germany for several years and believe this experience will benefit our efforts with the MicroCutter. The MicroCutter continues to facilitate both open, laparoscopic and thoracoscopic cases in Europe and we believe that during the current quarter, we expect the sales to begin to grow on a more consistent basis in the European Union.

Turning to the U.S., we received market clearance from the FDA in January 2014 for our MicroCutter XCHANGE 30 device and blue staple cartridge. The indication for use in the U.S. market is aligned with the clinical trial experience, specifically covering the use of the MicroCutter in multiple open or minimally invasive surgical procedures for the transection, resection or creation of anastomoses in small and large intestine, as well as transection of the appendix.

We worked closely with the FDA to answer these questions to clear this product for marketing in the U.S., with a review time from the August 2013 submission to the clearance in January 2014 consistent with the FDA guidelines.

This is a significant milestone for any medical device company, and I'm exceptionally proud of our – each of our employees for the hard work, persistence, perseverance they have put in to see this objective become a reality. For the last several months, we have been working towards this clearance, putting together our plans and the infrastructure for a successful market release and subsequent commercial launch in the United States.

As an integral part of our strategy, we hired Liam Burns, who has worked as an Executive Marketing Consultant for the MicroCutter over the last several years and knows our business, in particular in the stapling market in general very well. Over this time, Liam has been integral in developing our launch strategy and establishing relationships with many surgeons in the United States.

To provide you with Liam's background, most recently he served as President of a strategic marketing and sales consulting practice he founded to help healthcare and life science companies accelerate product sales and market growth. Early in his career, he served as Vice President of Marketing at Power Medical Interventions, leading a global team responsible for all aspects of marketing, sales, clinical affairs, and physician education. Previously, he served in escalating sales and marketing roles at Ethicon, most recently as group marketing director for biosurgicals. Liam heads up our sales and marketing worldwide, and I'm extremely pleased to welcome him aboard at this exciting time in Cardica's history.

While we are in early days of our commercial presence with the MicroCutter in the United States, we are encouraged by the feedback and interest we received to-date. We have fielded inquiries from surgeons across the country who acknowledge that the MicroCutter 30 fills an important need with its small size and large degree of articulation. We're now focused on a selected target group of approximately 30 surgeons, each of whom is a key opinion leader in their specialty. These surgeons have a network of influence across the United States, and based on our longer-term interactions, are excited about new technology in general and our product in particular.

For the selected market release, we identified a group of surgeons with a desire to use the MicroCutter with the blue cartridge only. Based on the indication for use of this product in the U.S., this includes all procedures that require a resection or anastomosis of intestinal tissue, as well as all appendectomies. In the U.S. alone, this could theoretically be applied to over 1 million surgical procedures.

Our initial potential customers are eager to use the MicroCutter XCHANGE 30, as it should allow them to advance their less invasive surgical practice, something U.S. hospitals are placing an increased focus on to gain a competitive advantage. Importantly, we have filed the documentation with the FDA to obtain market clearance for the white cartridge for the same indications as our blue cartridge. The submission is based on extensive chronic animal trials and very elaborate bench testing data.

Turning to operations, we are in the process of hiring two additional sales representatives with long-term stapling experience to work directly with Liam on the focus list of leading surgeons and cities, with the concentration of KOLs awaiting the MicroCutter product.

Our initial territories include New York, the Mid-Atlantic and the Southeast, in addition to the Bay Area. We plan to extend our reach with our current cardiac sales representatives, who will also offer the MicroCutter in hospitals within their current sales regions. We believe this will allow us to steadily build a base of business to drive initial revenue growth and establish strong clinical reference centers.

Our initial 510(k) submission for the XCHANGE 30 were based on the product materials implemented at the time of filing in August of 2013. Towards the end of last year, we replaced the particular plastic which required an additional filing with the FDA. We believe this will fall under the 30-day review period. Pending FDA clearance of the new material, we expect to begin shipping initial product to U.S. customers this quarter.

We believe we have a solid foundation from our experience in Europe, but we also feel that we will learn a lot in the next few months specific to the U.S. market and appropriately adjust our approach to meet customer expectation and market needs. Surgeons have been very receptive to the product and eager to work with it in their hospitals.

We're working through the process of approval with the appropriation committees at several hospitals always supported by local surgeon champions to help guide us through this process. As we gain success in the U.S. and see revenue growth we intent to add three to four sales representatives per quarter focused on cities with large concentration of both patients and key surgeons.

In Japan, our partner, Century Medical, continues to work with the Ministry of Health to enable potential market clearance of the XCHANGE 30 in this significant market, and Century anticipates market clearance within this calendar year.

Turning to our Cardiac business, the PAS-Port system continues to generate consistent sales particularly in Japan and Germany. During the quarter, we saw an increase in C-Port system purchases. In December, Dr. Carlo Bassano of Vergata University in Italy published a long-term clinical outcome study validating the use of the PAS-Port system during cardiac bypass procedure.

The study results were published online in the Journal of Cardiac Surgery. The publication detailed the observational single-center study, which was designed to evaluate long-term clinical performance and patency of the PAS-Port system following clampless coronary artery bypass, also known as C-CAB.

The study included 152 patients, several of which were followed up to five years. It suggests that the utilization of the PAS-Port system results in a true clinical benefit, both in terms of improved graft patency and reduced neurological complications. This is a very important study for the PAS-Port system and has further validated the link between elimination of the aortic manipulation and positive patient neurological outcome. We are pleased to have it available today.

At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to Bob for a discussion of our financial results. Bob?

Thanks, Bernard. For the fiscal 2014 second quarter, total revenue was approximately $851,000, compared to approximately $874,000 in the same period of fiscal 2013. Total product sales for fiscal 2014 second quarter were approximately $836,000 compared with approximately $773,000 for the same period of fiscal 2013.

We shipped 46 commercial MicroCutter devices and 252 cartridges in the quarter, bringing cumulative commercial device shipments to over 300, and cumulative commercial cartridge shipments to more than 1,250. During the fiscal 2014 second quarter, we shipped 1,163 PAS-Port systems, bringing cumulative worldwide shipments of our PAS-Port system to almost 35,000 units.

We experienced increase in C-Port shipments during the quarter with 150 units shipped and cumulative worldwide shipments of C-Port systems now over 14,000 units. Cost of product sales was approximately $1.1 million for the fiscal 2014 second quarter compared to approximately $1 million for the same period of 2013.

R&D expenses for fiscal 2014 second quarter were $1.7 million compared to approximately $2.3 million in the fiscal 2013 second quarter. The decrease in R&D expenses is due primarily to the completion of the XCHANGE 30 European clinical study and the reduction in purchase of prototype materials used in R&D activities.

Selling, general and administrative expenses for the fiscal 2014 second quarter were approximately $2.2 million compared to $1.7 million in the same period of fiscal 2013. The increase in SG&A expense was primarily due to an increase in MicroCutter demo and sample expenses as part of our training efforts, increased marketing efforts for the MicroCutter, and stock compensation expense related to the amortization of the fair value of options.

Total operating costs and expenses for the fiscal 2014 second quarter were approximately $4.9 million compared to approximately $5 million for the same period of fiscal 2013. For the fiscal 2014 second quarter, our net loss was approximately $4.2 million or $0.08 per share, compared to approximately $4.2 million or $0.11 per share for the same period last year. Cash and short-term investments at December 31, 2013 were approximately $6.5 million compared to $9.4 million at September 30, 2013.

At this time, I'd like to turn the call back to Bernard.

Thank you, Bob. Looking ahead, we expect to continue to book revenue from commercial sales of the XCHANGE 30 in Europe and begin booking revenue in the United States this quarter. We expect to further refine, improve, expand the MicroCutter product line in the months to come. We expect market clearance of the MicroCutter XCHANGE 30 in Japan in the second half of calendar 2014. We look forward to keeping you apprised of our progress in the months ahead. It is an exciting time for Cardica.

This time, we'd like to open the call for questions.

Operator?

Yes, ma'am. [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Tao Levy, Wedbush. Please proceed.

Hi, good afternoon.

Hi, Tao.

Hi. So maybe we can start with – maybe I missed it, the timing of when you expect the white staple to be approved?

The white staple, we filed...

White cartridge.

The white cartridge, yes, we filed a 510(k) to get that approved to the FDA and, at this time, can't really tell you what time it will be approved, as you know. It's in the review process as we speak.

Sorry, I guess maybe I'm trying to – better get a sense, is it going to – does it have to go through the same process as the blue cartridge, or in your discussions, you can kind of piggyback on what they've learned on the blue cartridge, so it's potentially a shortened amount of time, obviously you never know, but any thoughts around that?

We believe the clinical data itself should be a very strong basis for the approval of the white cartridge, because the staple shape and design has really not changed. The only difference between the white staple and the blue is a 0.43 millimeter longer tine. We have animal data that we submitted and we have bench data that show that, in the same indications, for slightly thinner tissue, the white can obtain this – you can obtain the same good results with white as you can with blue. So in that regards, the submission for the white has less data, but we think it's in a very good position to get approved based on what we have submitted.

Okay, great.

It's a benefit of using our own device as a predicate.

Okay. And then – so in terms of the U.S. introduction, have you already sort of identified and discussed, with those 30 U.S. KOLs, the use of the MicroCutter?

Yes, we have. We've identified them with – many of them were already in the process of getting through their committees to be able to sell into those accounts.

And when will they start performing procedures, you think?

So, number one, we need to get the special 510(k) cleared on the plastic change which, compared to the other submissions, is almost a formality, although I don't want to belittle that because it is a submission. Once we get that cleared, then we need to be cleared through the appropriations committees of each hospital, and the processes may vary. And with all that cleared, then we can start shipping product to those customers.

So towards the end of the quarter...

This quarter.

...this quarter?

Correct. Yeah.

Okay. And when did you file that supplement for the little plastic piece?

Right on the heels of the clearance.

Okay. [indiscernible] (21:01) All right. And so now on the manufacturing front, it sounds like you're still building somewhat in small batches. Is that correct? And so, as we think longer-term, what do you need to see to start moving to sort of more of a larger batch, large scale manufacturing process, maybe even outsourcing some of it?

Well, first of all, the reason we made smaller lots not because we couldn't build more, it's because we purposely chose to do so, so that we could quickly implement changes and improvements that we thought would be beneficial for both patient and surgeon use. We are almost out of that phase. We still think there is some left, some work to do, but definitely much further along than we were half a year or especially a year ago. Once we get to that point, once we have identified what the ideal processes are to get into hospitals so that we know there's a real volume need, we will ramp up the sales accordingly to meet demand.

Got you. And then just the last question. So, just based on that and based on your earlier comments during the prepared remarks around January having been a very good month compared to the fiscal second quarter in terms of shipments of product.

Yeah.

Is that the limiting factor here over the next several months, in terms of how much product you're going to be able to ship, you're still making them in these small batches, so...

Probably for this quarter, that will be limiting, yes. I think in the next quarter, we will be in a much better position. It always takes a while. Every change requires validation, additional testing. It changes some of the supply chain demand. So – then that has to become stabilized, and then we can build a lot more product, yes.

Okay, great. And just actually last question. Upcoming medical meetings, SAGES, is obviously in the U.S., the bigger conference...

Yeah.

...coming up in early April. Marketing plans, podium presentations, is that where we're going to potentially see the study? Thanks.

Yeah. The study is being submitted to the ACS, so that's in October. We have other submissions, some of our researchers have submitted to the SAGES meeting, and I don't know what has been accepted or hasn't been accepted. We will definitely be there. We're not going to have booth presence. We're not challenged by leads at the moment. We are trying to stay focus on those 30 key opinion leaders, so there is no point in the expenditure of a booth at this point.

Okay, great. Thank you.

Thanks a lot.

Thanks. [Operator Instructions]

Your next question comes from the line of [ph] George Steiner (24:34), a private investor. Please proceed.

Yes. I listened to the conference call and it was pretty encouraging, but I missed the earnings results. I know you worked at a loss, but I want to know what the loss was compared to the last quarter. I own 25,000 shares of your stock, by the way. It may not seem like a lot, but to me, it is.

It was comparable. The cash burn was about $3 million for the quarter and the loss was comparable with the last quarter.

What do you mean by comparable? Put a figure on it.

It was about $4 million.

A loss?

Yes.

Well, the projection was pretty good. Well, I listened to the entire conference call, and I got $0.8 million as a loss, or I wasn't – I got a little static in the phone.

$0.08 per share.

Versus what for last quarter?

Versus a similar number. I think it was $0.08 last quarter as well.

So you're at the same thing, basically?

Right.

And the whole thing is you're getting this approved and I think you're going to have a lot more success in the European market than you are in the United States for this simple reason, I think you're a little bit more liberal than the FDA, it was right over here. What is your thoughts on that?

Well, we now have the clearance, right, from the FDA, so the market is definitely much bigger in the U.S. than it is in Europe. I think if anything – we're just a little bit behind, right, we already have distribution in Europe and less so in the U.S., that's what we're just building and starting. I think in a few quarters from now, the U.S. will be our primary source of revenue. Did that answer your question?

Your next question comes from the line of [ph] Todd Mitchell (26:55) with UBS. Please proceed.

Bernard and Bob, congratulations on the clearance of the MicroCutter and I know it's been a long track in a process, but if you could – and also hiring Liam Burns. He's a great hire.

Thanks, [ph] Todd (27:16).

So I enjoyed speaking with him over the years. So if you could provide a little bit better understanding. I think Bernard, you used a couple of words on the last conference call regarding Europe about the white staple being a gating factor and that you would see this quarter a meaningful pickup in sales.

Yes.

And it sounds like [indiscernible] (27:42) words and phrases that you use there.

That's correct.

Are we seeing a meaningful pickup in sales in Europe? And it sounds like you're changing the model in Europe a little bit going from the indirect to the direct. And what type of sales force do you have in Europe to support that?

Well, [ph] Todd (28:02), we ended the quarter in December in some backorder.

Okay.

And we already sold more in January by dealing with that backorder than we sold in all of the previous quarter.

Okay.

And our model in Europe is still primarily distributor model. And we are actually pleased with the number of the reps that we're working with over there. They have become very enamored with the MicroCutter and very adept at training and using and are being in the [indiscernible] (28:37) with surgeons over there with some of our distributors. So we're going to keep growing for the distributor model. However, as Bernard mentioned, we think it makes a lot of sense to try to go direct in Germany, so that's what – we're planning to do that beginning in April quarter.

Okay, okay. And my next question deals with the capital needs of the company. You presently have a, what's called an [ph] aftermarket (29:06) offering out there through MLV. Is the company presently using that? If so, what's still outstanding on that?

Most of it is still outstanding. I believe in the – [ph] except the (29:18) prospectus we filed I think in September, we showed about $5 million available under that facility. Since that filing, we've only used – used it, in the second quarter, we've only used a little over a couple of hundred thousand shares, so most of it is still available.

Okay. And just curious why wouldn't the company use more of that? The liquidity has been in the stock and the opportunity versus an offering out there that can be a very expensive on all fronts for shareholders on the dilution side plus the discount side.

Well, that was really a balancing act in terms of the pricing and there are various other rules regarding the use of that facility. So, we've tried to be judicious in how we use it and we're glad it's still there.

Okay, okay. Two other questions here. You talked about the update, could you just – the XPRESS 30, where does that stand? And as far as – I don't hear about that anymore, but is that still out there, the XPRESS 30 and the XCHANGE 45, the timing?

Yes. A good question. Those are two products that we still plan to develop. Most of our resources are still on the XCHANGE 30, to hone that product into the market needs. But there's a lot of ongoing work for, primarily, the XCHANGE 45 and less so on the XPRESS 30, it's just a matter of resources and capacity and funding for all these very, very good and interesting projects.

Okay. Okay. And one last thing here, back on this, I'm just trying to understand this a little better, it sounds like you guys made some changes to the XCHANGE 30 that required a supplemental filing to the FDA regarding a plastic piece?

Yeah.

Is that correct?

That's correct. We just changed the source for the material itself.

Okay.

And based on FDA guidelines, that requires a submission.

A special.

Yeah. Special submission, and they need to approve that.

Okay. And timing on something like that would – I grant it you don't know exactly how the FDA will work, but...

Yeah.

I mean, is that – would that restrict when you can sell the product?

It does, yes, unless we wanted to sell with the older plastic, which we do not want to do. We changed it for a good reason. So, it's a 30-day submission.

Okay.

We submitted on the heels of the clearance. So it's been out there. We are hopeful we're going to get clearance fairly soon, so that we can keep within the announcements we just made during the call, that we could generate some revenue this quarter.

In the U.S.

In the U.S.

Okay. Okay. Thank you and congrats on the progress, guys.

Thank you.

Thanks, [ph] Todd (32:18).

Thanks, [ph] Todd (32:19). I appreciate it very much.

Your next question comes from the line of Dan Trang with Stonegate Securities. Please proceed.

Hi. Thanks for taking my call. Wondering what has been the feedback regarding the blue staple cartridge from different physician, different users?

That's kind of the first cartridge we launched. It was basically the only cartridge we evaluated in the clinical trial. It's the medium tissue range. It covers probably 80% of tissue thicknesses that stapling products are used on. The feedback has been good. It's getting better and better. The challenge with all staplers, not just ours, is out-of-spec tissue use.

So using the product in tissue thicknesses that it's really not designed for. And what all manufacturers try to do is, get as big as a buffer around what their products are capable of. We're somewhat limited by the size of our stapler, that's kind of the downside of having something so small, is that you can only make it so robust, but we've made great strides and I think it's a very reliable product.

I just got back from Europe, where we did a nine-year old kid that had ulcerative colitis, an inflammatory bowel disease, and required the entire colon to be removed. And this procedure was done completely laparoscopic with the use of our stapler, in a child where really there was no alternative. That would have required an open laparotomy approach which would have been a lot more traumatic for the poor kid. And this way we were able to do it laparoscopically with a beautiful result. Just as an example.

Okay. Yeah, and regarding the regulatory documents to the FDA, have you gotten any feedback from the FDA or...

They've acknowledged our submission. They have acknowledge...

Okay.

...the submission. And that's kind of – as a policy, we try to not comment on any of the interactions because it just...

Okay.

...it's just not helpful to the process.

All right, thank you.

Thank you.

Nice talking to you. Thank you.

Ladies and gentlemen, this will conclude the question-and-answer session portion of today's conference. I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Bernard Hausen for closing remarks. Please proceed.

Thank you for joining us on our call today. We hope to see some of you in Salt Lake City at the SAGES meeting in April.

Ladies and gentlemen, this will conclude today's conference. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect. Have a great day.