corrected transcript


Cardica, Inc.
 
CRDC
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
May 4, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Cardica Fiscal Year 2010 Third


Quarter Financial Results Conference Call. My name is Shamita and I’ll be your operator for today.


At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. We will conduct a question-and-answer session


towards the end of today’s conference. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is


being recorded for replay purposes.


I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today’s call, Mr. Bob Newell, Chief


Financial Officer. Please proceed.


Robert Y. Newell, Chief Financial Officer and Vice President, Finance


Good afternoon and thank you for participating in our financial results conference call. Earlier today,


we issued a press release setting forth our financial results. So, please refer to the release for


complete details.


This press release contains forward-looking statements including all statements regarding the


future development, regulatory approval, and commercial launch and potential of the Cardica


Microcutter ES8, MES8 and FES8. Cardica’s expectations regarding future sales in its automated


anastomosis products and the matters described under the heading financial guidance for fiscal


2010.


Any statements contained in this press release that are not historical facts, may be deemed to be


forward-looking statements. The words believe, expect, and similar expressions are intended to


identify forward-looking statements.


There are a number of important factors that could cause Cardica’s results to differ materially from


those indicated by these forward-looking statements, including Cardica’s current and any future


products may never gain any significant degree of market acceptance; that Cardica may not be


successful in its efforts to develop the Cardica Microcutter ES8, and expand its product portfolio;


that the Cardica Microcutter ES8 may not obtain regulatory approval on Cardica’s anticipated


timeline, if at all; that any future Cardica products face development, regulatory, reimbursement and


manufacturing risks; that Cardica’s intellectual property rights may not provide adequate protection;


that Cardica’s sales, marketing, and distribution strategy and capabilities may not be sufficient or


successful; and that general business and economic conditions may impair Cardica’s ability to


market and develop products, as well as other risks detailed from time to time in Cardica’s reports


filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K


for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, and its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period


ended December 31, 2009.


Cardica expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or


revisions to any forward-looking statements contained herein. You are encouraged to read


Cardica’s reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, available at


www.sec.gov.


At this time, I’d like to turn the call over to Bernard Hausen, Cardica’s President, CEO, and Co-


Founder for a corporate update.


Bernard A. Hausen, M.D., Ph.D., President, Chief Executive Officer and Co-Founder


Thank you, Bob. Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us on our call today. During


the fiscal 2010 third quarter we made progress both in development of our Cardica Microcutter
corrected transcript


Cardica, Inc.
 
CRDC
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
May 4, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


product line and our cardiac surgery business. We initiated animal testing using a prototype of our


Microcutter ES8 with results expected later this summer for these ongoing chronic studies.


In addition, we begin advanced design of the Microcutter MES5 and FES5, cutting-stapling devices


that are even smaller than the ES8 with a shaft diameter of only 5 millimeters. Both products are


based on a 5-millimeter shaft architecture that utilizes re-loadable cartridges with a staple line


length of 25 millimeters. The MES5 consists of a rigid shaft with an articulating head on which


different staple size cartridges can be loaded. The FES5 highlights a flexible shaft that can either


be steered from the handle similar to how typical endoscopes are guided or through secondary


means incorporating novel port technology.


It is important to note that we have both flexible and rigid shaft Microcutter devices in our product


line, and that the head of the Microcutter is fully articulating, allowing a wider range of motion


compared to endostaplers available today.


We believe that the Microcutter technology lends itself to a full suite of products to enhance a wide


variety of laparoscopic procedures, including bariatric, general, colorectal, gynecological surgeries


as well as Natural Orifice Transluminal Endoscopic Surgery or NOTES, and single port surgery.


Our Microcutter devices are significantly smaller than commercially available cutting-stapling


devices and our products will be the first and only linear staplers to deploy multiple staple lines


without the need for cartridge reloads in an individual procedure.


The ES8 device, which is substantially smaller than existing cutting-stapling devices available


today, is geared towards bariatric, thoracic and general surgical procedures. We view the MES5


and FES5 as an ideal tool for emerging surgical applications like NOTES, single port surgery and


intracolonic procedures, and of course pediatric surgery where the patients are much smaller.


As you may know, for almost all of the surgical procedures we’ve mentioned, stapling is the gold


standard for the resection or connection of tissue, so the market is already established.


We believe that we provide a technological improvement upon existing cutting-stapling devices by


providing surgical tools that are smaller, more flexible and easy to use than competing products.


Extremely excited about the development of this product line. Continue to receive positive feedback


from leading bariatric and general surgeons across the country, including Dr. Lee Swanstrom, a


highly regarded laparoscopic and general surgeon at The Oregon Clinic. Dr. Swanstrom believes


this product line will improve the flow of procedure and allow surgeons additional capabilities when


performing minimally invasive surgery.


With our line of microcutters, we plan to pursue the endolinear stapler market that represents a


$750 million U.S. market opportunity. We anticipate a commercial launch for the Microcutter ES8 in


the United States in early calendar year 2011 pending FDA clearance under a 510(k) process, and


we believe we are on track to meet this date. In addition, we expect to complete tooling of our


MES5 and FES5 by the winter of 2010.


For our cardiac surgery business, we maintained a revenue rate of approximately 1 million per


quarter and continued to provide a contribution to overhead as our total cash burn rate this quarter


was only 1.8 million.


Recently, we announced the publication of an article in the peer-reviewed journal INNOVATIONS,


the official publication of the International Society for Minimally Invasive Cardiothoracic Surgery.


This article demonstrates short- and medium-term patency or openness of the vessel in 96% of


patients who have received Arteriograph connected with the C-Port system during off-pump bypass


procedures. We are beginning to see sales from new accounts that are focusing on totally


endoscopic coronary artery bypass or TECAB procedures. We expect this to continue as more