corrected transcript


Cardica, Inc.
 
CRDC
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
May 4, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to Cardica’s Q3 Fiscal 2009 Financial


Results Conference Call. My name is Ophelia and I will be your operator for today. At this time all


participants are in a listen-only mode. We will conduct a question and answer session towards the


end of this call. [Operator Instructions]. As a reminder, this conference is being recorded for replay


purposes.


I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Bob Newell, Cardica’s Chief Financial Officer. Please


proceed


Robert Y. Newell, Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you and good afternoon. Thank you for participating in our fiscal 2009 third quarter financial


results conference call. Earlier today we issued a press release setting forth our financial results, so


please refer to the release for complete details.


Before we begin, I would like to remind you that we will be making forward-looking statements


about Cardica’s future expectations and plans, including statements with respect to our fiscal 2009


financial guidance, Cardica’s development activities, including the potential of Cardica’s


development stage microcutter product and Cardica’s ability to enter into a strategic or financing


transaction. The words anticipates, will, expect, believe, consider, potential and similar expressions


are intended to identify forward-looking statements.


These forward-looking statements are based upon Cardica’s current expectations. Forward-looking


statements involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results and the timing of events could differ


materially from those anticipated in such forward-looking statements as a result of these risks and


uncertainties which include, without limitation, risk associated with Cardiac’s need for additional


funding and ability to obtain additional financing or enter into one or more strategic transactions,


Cardica’s dependence upon the success of our current products and the development of our


endoscopic microcutter and other new products, market acceptance of our C-Port and PAS-Port


systems, manufacturing of the C-Port and PAS-Port systems, and related suppliers, Cardica’s


sales, marketing and distribution strategy and capabilities, the impact of recent workforce


reductions on our business, and general business and economic conditions.


These and other risk factors are discussed under risk factors in Cardica’s quarterly report on Form


10-Q for the fiscal quarter ending December 31, 2008 and when filed our quarterly report on 10-Q


for the fiscal quarter ending March 31, 2009. Cardica expressly disclaims any obligation or


undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements


contained herein. You are encouraged to read Cardica’s reports filed with the U.S. Securities and


Exchange Commission available at www.sec.gov.


I will now turn the call over to Bernard Hausen, Cardica’s President, CEO and Co-Founder, to give


you a business update.


Bernard A. Hausen, M.D., Ph.D., Co-Founder, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Bob. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us on our call today. In


addition to an update on the progress of the business, I’d like to highlight a few strategic initiatives


that were announced. As we have mentioned, the current market conditions have made the


adoption of new technologies by hospitals and physicians difficult and the financing environment


remains challenging.
corrected transcript


Cardica, Inc.
 
CRDC
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
May 4, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


To address these issues, we have been reviewing all of our options, carefully considering our


strengths and limitations given our resources in research and development and sales and


marketing. These options include partnering or other arrangements with larger medical device


companies to more fully commercialize our currently marketed products or those under


development, as well as others measures to further preserved cash. Our evaluation of strategic


alternatives is intended to maximize stockholder value. I will have more to say on this with my


concluding remarks.


Concerning our business progress during the quarter, since we’ve received 510(k) clearance from


the FDA in September 2008 for our PAS-Port system, we have seen continued clinical adoption of


this innovative product by cardiothoracic surgeons for use in coronary artery bypass graft, or


CABG, procedures.


Specifically regarding our PAS-Port system, in the fiscal third quarter we trained 57 additional U.S.


surgeons on the PAS-Port system, of which 80% were new customers for Cardica. This brings the


total number of trained since FDA clearance to 283 U.S. surgeons. Our sales force continued to


secure PAS-Port accounts, bringing the total member of accounts to 118. More than half of these


accounts have reordered PAS-Port systems after initial order.


Regarding our C-Port product line, we have trained a total of 407 surgeons to use the PAS-Port


since that product was introduced, with an additional 23 trained in the third fiscal quarter.


Additionally, we continue to educate cardiothoracic surgeons about the benefits of our PAS-Port


and C-Port systems, co-hosting with Intuitive Surgical and other companies in educational


symposium in conjunction with the annual meeting of the Society of Thoracic Surgeons in January


of 2009. This event highlighted ways that cardiothoracic surgeons can enhance their conventional


minimally invasive practices by using our products. More than 120 cardiac surgeons attended and


we believe the presentation was well received.


I will now provide more detail on the new strategic direction that was announced last week. We


announced that we were expanding our business beyond the field of cardiac surgery and into other


major surgical markets with large potential. Based on Cardica proprietary technology, we have


developed linear stapling technology with several potentially game-changing revolutionary


attributes. Not only is it a true multi-fire stapler, which makes removal of the device from the


surgical side between staple line placements unnecessary, but our system is meaningfully smaller


than currently available endo-staplers. We believe that this new form factor together with true multi-


fire capability may revolutionize the surgical stapler-cutter market.


We have submitted several patent applications and believe that we have brought together novel


and disruptive technologies to create a unique instrument for surgeons. Clearly development of this


advanced technology has become possible because of our expertise obtained from the


development of our vascular anastomosis systems.


Staplers and cutters, including potentially our microcutter, have applications in numerous surgical


specialties including general, colorectal, gynecologic, bariatric, urologic and thoracic surgery. The


worldwide market for laparoscopic surgery products is currently estimated at 3.6 billion annually,


with staplers and cutters representing nearly 1 billion.


Our microcutter would also facilitate port only and Natural Orifice Transluminal Endoscopic


Surgery, or NOTES, which is rapidly emerging. In this context, we are in discussions with multiple


potential commercialization partners to advance further development of the Cardica Microcutter


family of products.


Let me now turn to call back over to Bob for a review of our third quarter financials.