Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Robert Y. Newell — CFO, Secretary, VP & Head-Investor Relations, Cardica, Inc.
Bernard A. Hausen — President, CEO, Director & Chief Medical Officer, Cardica, Inc.
Tao L. Levy — Analyst, Wedbush Securities, Inc.
Dan D. Trang — Analyst, Stonegate Securities, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Cardica Fiscal 2014 First Quarter Financial Results Conference Call. My name is Jason, and I'll be your operator for today. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode, and we will conduct a question-and-answer session later on. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Bob Newell, Chief Financial Officer. Please proceed, sir.

Thank you. Good afternoon, and thank you for participating in our fiscal 2014 first quarter financial results conference call. Earlier today, we issued a press release including our financial results, so please refer to the release for complete details.

This conference call will include forward-looking statements, including all statements regarding the continued clinical and other developments, product features, regulatory approval, and commercial launch and use of products in our planned MicroCutter product line, including our MicroCutter XCHANGE 30 and XCHANGE 45, including the timing thereof and our expectations regarding future support for and sales of our automated anastomosis products. Review by FDA could alter the results as presented. The words expect, believe, plan, continue, and intend and similar words are intended to identify these forward-looking statements. Any statements contained in this conference call that relate to future events, results, or predictions are forward-looking statements.

There are number of important factors that could cause our results to differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements, including those set forth in our press release of today, as well as other risks detailed from time to time in our reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2013 under the caption Risk Factors. We expressly disclaim any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements. You're encouraged to read our reports filed with the SEC available at www.sec.gov.

This call is a property of Cardica, and any re-broadcasting of this call without the expressed written permission of Cardica is prohibited.

At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to Bernard Hausen, Cardica's President and CEO, for a corporate update.

Thank you, Bob. Good afternoon, and thank you for participating in our call today. I've just returned from Europe where our team continues to work with leading surgeons to highlight the benefits and features of the MicroCutter XCHANGE 30, our cutting and stapling device with greater articulation and with a cross-sectional area significantly smaller than conventional staplers. It is a very exciting time for the company as we explore the potential market opportunities while further improving the reliability and ease of use for the MicroCutter.

There are clearly significant opportunities in procedures where current stapling technology is being deployed and where the smaller size and increased access of our stapler is perceived to be advantageous. In previous calls, we have talked about such procedures in depth, such as appendectomy, thoracic surgery in general and [ph] bronchial (03:29) surgery. In addition to these procedures, there are a host of surgical procedures where linear staplers are typically not employed, but where the XCHANGE 30 product features may open the door for our product. This includes procedures such as hemorrhoidectomy, the treatment of rectal prolapse, and polypectomy.

In parallel to exploring the opportunities for the XCHANGE 30, we are preparing for the potential launch of the MicroCutter in the United States, pending market clearance from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.

Both in Europe and the United States, we are finding tremendous interest from the pediatric community where the MicroCutter XCHANGE 30, with its small size and articulation, offers a significant advantage over conventional staplers. Currently, pediatrics is a market with natural preference for smaller stapler due to the size of their patients. Pediatric surgeons comment that they have repeatedly asked for a 5-millimeter stapler. This market exemplifies the unmet need for the MicroCutter XCHANGE 30 as evidenced by select surgeons in Europe performing truly remarkable procedures enabled by the device, as well as encouraging interest in the United States.

Importantly, the pediatric surgeons feel that larger companies' conventional stapling have ignored this market segment due to the relative size of the market and the limitations of their conventional stapler size. While the pediatric stapling market may not meet revenue thresholds for large companies, it represents a great opportunity for Cardica. With the recent success in pediatric cases conducted in Europe, we have expanded our target market to include pediatric surgeons and have already identified a target list of key pediatric surgeons in the United States we believe will be interested in the XCHANGE 30 once it is available, pending market clearance by the FDA.

As mentioned earlier, other specialties with a genuine interest in the XCHANGE 30 include proctology and gastroenterology. In proctology, hemorrhoid removal, rectal prolapse, and obstructive defecation syndrome are often treated with circular staplers. Access with a 5-millimeter stapler that can selectively transect the hemorrhoids in the very tight environment of the anal canal may develop into a good market opportunity for Cardica.

In gastroenterology, there is a need for transmural resection of suspicious polyps, a procedure that in many instances cannot currently be performed radically with electric slings. Some of these advanced polyps require surgical removal of larger sections of the colon. The MicroCutter XCHANGE 30, with its small shaft diameter and 80 degrees of articulation, may be able to reach polyps in the rectum and perhaps the lower sections of the sigmoid colon to provide gastroenterologists with a new tool to treat this particular subgroup of patients. This radical polypectomies may avoid surgical colectomies with its known associated potential complications in a subset of patients.

In our effort to continuously improve the MicroCutter XCHANGE 30, during the quarter, we've implemented a new handle for commercial accounts in Europe. The new handle is designed for ease of use, and the receptivity from surgeons has been overwhelmingly positive. This new handle not only impresses with the substantial improvement in ease of use, but significantly shortens the learning curve for new users to become familiar with our novel product.

The new handle is a straightforward example of our rapid implementation of direct user feedback into future iterations of the device. We listen to surgeons and intend to continue to evolve the XCHANGE 30 to meet the needs of our customers. This is something I'm particularly proud of. I have been on the other side as a surgeon and customer, and surgeons often have the impression that product suggestions and feedback do not result in direct product improvements.

The XCHANGE 30 continues to be used in remarkable cases, spanning the gamut of disease indications from liver cancer and polycystic kidney disease to pediatrics. We continue to receive feedback that the MicroCutter XCHANGE 30 provides flexibility and functionality without the size limitations of conventional staplers.

Surgeons are pushing the limits of the XCHANGE 30 much more than we anticipated. Because of this, we have improved and broadened our testing, implementing more rigorous protocols that we believe are much more representative of field use to-date. Often, our internal test protocols present tissue thickness to the device that are clearly outside of its specifications in order to reduce the likelihood of the diverse outcomes when the product is used outside of its specifications, which is definitely a clinical reality.

The white cartridge is designed for transection of vascular structures with an optimal tissue thickness for stapling around 1 millimeter. Cardica has implemented testing for the white cartridge to confirm that it functions reliably from 2 millimeters as a maximum and in air as a minimum. Release of this improved product into the market is imminent. We had hoped to commercialize the white cartridge in Europe before now, particularly because we have received substantial feedback that the lack of availability of the white cartridge is a gating factor for hospital orders in Europe.

We understand this limitation to our current sales and are working diligently to get the improved white cartridge into the market as quickly as possible. However, very clearly, our internal standards require that we pass the most stringent testing criteria before a product can be commercially released into the market. Importantly, we feel very good about the demand and pull-through for the product once the white cartridge is available.

Turning to the U.S. We'd attended the American College of Surgeons in Washington, D.C. where we met with key opinion leaders amongst the U.S. surgical community. We had productive meetings with surgeons from a wide range of leading institutions and specialties, including Mount Sinai, Sloan-Kettering, Emery, Cleveland Clinic, and NYU. These surgeons, many of whom are department chairs and others with significant influence within their institution and broadened community, we – are very much interested in the MicroCutter XCHANGE 30 and expressed a concrete desire for tool with small size and the MicroCutter functionality. We look forward to working with these surgeons following the potential market clearance from the FDA.

We submitted our 510(k) application in August. Currently, we are interacting with the FDA to address questions raised, as is typical for the review process. We expect to submit our answers to the FDA questions this week.

In preparation for potential FDA market clearance, we have already identified a list of 25 to 30 leading surgeons we plan to target immediately following potential market clearance. These are surgeons that are leaders in the field, familiar with new technologies and procedures. We plan to focus our efforts on these centers specifically to ensure positive user experience and secure clinical adoption.

Our experiences in Europe will help us streamline these efforts. Initially, our commercialization plan calls for us to hire two to three direct sales representatives in the United States, along with a head of sales and marketing and members of our current U.S. sales team. As we demonstrate success in key practices, we intend to add salespeople each quarter.

In Japan, our partner, Century Medical, continues to work with the Ministry of Health to enable potential market clearance in this important and significant market. With the success of the PAS-Port System and the focus on minimally-invasive surgery, we believe Japan will be an ideal market for the MicroCutter XCHANGE 30 and Century the ideal partner to implement the sales effort. Our past experiences in Japan have shown how aggressively Japanese surgeon are willing to adopt novel technology if it allows them to reduce the invasiveness of their surgical procedures. Regulatory documents for Japan were filed in August, and Century anticipates market clearance within approximately one year.

Turning to our Cardiac business, the PAS-Port System continues to garner consistent sales, particularly in Japan and Germany, even during this normally slower summer month. We continue to support our existing customers for our Cardiac Surgery business, but will transition the focus of our commercialization efforts in the U.S. to the MicroCutter, pending FDA clearance.

At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to Bob for a discussion of our financial results. Bob?

Thanks, Bernard. For the fiscal 2014 first quarter, total revenue was approximately $805,000 compared to $885,000 for the same period fiscal 2013. Total product sales for fiscal 2014 first quarter approximately $746,000 compared to approximately $782,000 for the same period of fiscal 2013.

We shipped 48 commercial MicroCutter devices and 144 cartridges, bringing cumulative commercial device shipments to over 250 and cumulative commercial cartridge shipments to more than 1,000.

During the fiscal 2014 first quarter, we shipped nearly 1,200 PAS-Port Systems, bringing cumulative worldwide shipments of our PAS-Port Systems to over 33,800 units. We shipped 87 C-Port Systems during the quarter, with cumulative worldwide shipments of C-Port Systems now over 13,900 units. The C-Port shipments were lower than have been expected in the last quarters, and I just want to note that to-date in this quarter, we already have orders or have shipped 90 C-Port units.

Cost of product sales was approximately $1 million for the fiscal 2014 first quarter compared to approximately $632,000 for the same period of 2013. The increase in product sales is due to costs in infrastructure related to the MicroCutter sales – the increase in cost of product sales is due to costs in infrastructure related to MicroCutter sales.

R&D expenses for fiscal 2014 first quarter were approximately $1.7 million compared to approximately $2.6 million in the fiscal 2013 first quarter. The decrease in R&D expenses is due to lower costs for prototype parts and the completion of the XCHANGE 30 European clinical trial.

Selling, general, and administrative expenses for fiscal 2014 first quarter were $1.8 million compared to $1.7 million in the same period of fiscal 2013. Total operating cost and expenses for fiscal 2014 first quarter were approximately $4.5 million compared to approximately $4.9 million for the same period of fiscal 2013.

For the fiscal 2014 first quarter, our net loss was $3.8 million or $0.07 per share compared to $4.1 million or $0.11 per share for the comparable period last year. Cash and short-term investments at September 30, 2013 were $9.4 million compared to $12.4 million at June 30, 2013.

This time, I'd like to turn the call back to Bernard.

Thank you, Bob. Looking ahead, we expect to continue to book revenue from commercial sales of the XCHANGE 30 and introduce the white cartridge in Europe in the current quarter. We continue to prepare for the U.S. introduction of the MicroCutter XCHANGE 30, pending market clearance by the FDA, which we expect as early as the first quarter of calendar 2014. We expect market clearance of the MicroCutter XCHANGE 30 in Japan within approximately one year.

We look forward to keeping you apprised of our progress in the months ahead. It's an exciting time for Cardica.

At this time, we'd like to open the call for questions. [Operator Instructions]

The first question comes from the line of Tao Levy with Wedbush. Please proceed.

Hi, good afternoon.

Hey.

Hey, Tao.

Hey. So maybe if I can start with – on the white cartridge. So where exactly is that right now in the development process? Because you indicated – it sounds like you've started doing some cases with it, but you still need to tweak it a little bit more and get the reliability up.

Yes. We basically had been using it quite a bit in primarily vascular transections, thoracic surgery, and abdominal surgery, and found that when we got outside of the specifications of the device, which invariably happens in these types of procedures, there was room for improvement in the cartridge. We've implemented these improvements; just finished a whole set of tests, as we mentioned in the call, extreme limit testing, which we passed. And I just got back from Europe, as I mentioned in the call as well, and finished an animal lab where we verified these and validated these changes in a in vivo setting. And with that, we are now ready to go back and continue our efforts in humans, and feel very confident that the – I think we're there where we need to be with this particular product.

So not to put exact timing, but sort of by the beginning of the calendar year, you should be good with the white?

In this quarter.

Oh, okay. So by this quarter, you'd be good to go. So if we're just thinking about Europe right now, and obviously the U.S., we have less visibility there. When would you feel comfortable going into a full European launch?

I think the white cartridge is absolutely actually essential for a full launch. The 5-millimeter shaft diameter is very suggestive to use in vascular applications. And for that, you need a white cartridge. So we believe that revenue stream will increase meaningful once we have the white cartridge in full commercial launch.

Which would be this quarter?

That's correct.

I guess, before the end.

Yes. So you probably won't see much of a revenue increase until the next quarter, first quarter of calendar year 2014.

Perfect. And then turning into the U.S. side of things, you mentioned you got some questions from the FDA that you're going to answer – that you have to answer, you're going to send them in this week.

Yup.

Are these just the very early type of questions, or are these questions already starting to get into sort of the quality of the data, et cetera?

So these are...

And anything to read?

Yeah, these are the normal questions we generally get in this phase of a submission. I can't go into the details of what they pertain to, but there's nothing out of the ordinary. We feel very strong still about the data that we've presented as part of the clinical trial and are very optimistic that this will lead in a approval – or clearance is the correct term.

Okay. In terms sort of timing, I mean, the best you can give is sort of that first quarter calendar for now?

It's impossible to predict.

Got you. And in terms of just – when you're in Europe and you're commercially live early next year or end of this year, your ability to manufacture the product, any enhancements that you need to do, any new equipment you need to purchase?

Well, we have been producing quite a bit of product over the last quarters, primarily for internal use and to complete the test, to complete the improvements. As we mentioned, we've just launch a new handle, which required retooling of quite a number of parts, et cetera. So I think we're in a good position to deal with an increased demand that we expect in the beginning of next year.

Okay, great. Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you.

And your next question comes from the line of Dan Trang with Stonegate Securities.

Hi, guys. Thanks for taking my call – my question. Noticed that R&D was lower this past quarter than it's been in the past quarters before. Kind of wondering if you could provide some color behind that.

Yeah. A year ago, we were at the height of development of the XCHANGE 30 in terms of making a lot of improvements and design enhancements. And consequently, we used a lot of prototype parts, which are expensive parts and that you just have to expense them. So now, we're not in that phase, and this is a more typical level for our R&D effort. The other expense, of course, was the clinical trial, which are included in the R&D line.

Okay. Know that you mentioned on the call, you said you were going to hire two to three additional salespeople. I was wondering when you expect to hire these salespeople, when that expense should show up in the financials.

The initial key hire's for VP Sales and Marketing, and we will work with him or her in hiring these reps. We have been talking to some reps that we are very interested in, but it's kind – a little bit of a balancing act relative to FDA clearance. It's kind of being done in parallel. But I would expect, assuming we were on our timeline, that we'll do it in the first quarter.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you.

At this time, there are no further questions in the queue. I would like turn it back over to management for any closing remarks.

Thank you for joining our call today. We hope to see some of you at the 50th Annual Meeting of the Society of Thoracic Surgeons in Orlando, Florida in January.

Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes today's conference. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect, and have a great day.