Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Robert Y. Newell — Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer, Dextera Surgical, Inc.
Julian N. Nikolchev — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Dextera Surgical, Inc.
Mark Rosenkranz — Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the First Quarter Fiscal Year 2016 Cardica Financial Results Conference Call. My name is Whitney and I'll be your operator for today. At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.

I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Mr. Bob Newell, CFO. Please proceed.

Thank you. Good afternoon. Thank you for participating in our fiscal year 2016 first quarter financial results conference call. This conference call will include forward-looking statements, including all statements regarding continuous clinical and other developments, future products features, future regulatory approvals, commercial launch and use of our products in our planned MicroCutter product line, including our MicroCutter XCHANGE 30, including the timing thereof and our expectations regarding future support for and sales of our MicroCutter products and automated anastomosis products.

The words expect, believe, plan, continue, intend, will, and similar words are intended to identify these forward-looking statements. Any statements contained in this conference call that relate to future events results or predictions are forward-looking statements.

There are a number of important factors that could cause our results to differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements, including those set forth in our press release of today, as well as other risks detailed from time to time in our reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2015 under the caption Risk Factors. We expressly disclaim any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements. You are encouraged to read our reports filed with the SEC available at www.sec.gov. This call is a property of Cardica and any re-broadcasting of this call without the expressed written permission of Cardica is prohibited.

At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to Julian Nikolchev, Cardica's President and CEO, for a corporate update.

Thank you, Bob. Good afternoon and thank you for participating on our call. As you know, I joined Cardica on October 15. I'm very excited to be here and look forward to meeting and talking with each of you. Prior to accepting the position, I spent a substantial amount of time conducting my own due diligence to evaluate this opportunity. Through this process, there were four things that resonated and ultimately became the deciding factors for my joining Cardica.

First, the MicroCutter technology is truly remarkable and differentiated from other available surgical stapling options. This is a very elegant and sophisticated product that brings different functionality to surgeons, particularly as the field moves more and more towards minimally-invasive options.

Second, I spoke with a number of surgeons who expressed significant interest in using this device when it could be deployed consistently and reliably, specifically the ability to maneuver the MicroCutter within tight surgical spaces. And a large degree of articulation available at the tip of the MicroCutter we highlighted in every conversation.

Third, the market opportunity for MicroCutter in procedures like video-assisted thoracic surgery or VATS is quite intriguing. Specifically, there has been notable growth in the number of video-assisted thoracic surgery procedures performed in the last year partially due to the increase in early pathology recognition.

As an example, many people are being screened for lung cancer, and there may be undefined nodules within a person's lungs that looks suspicious, but cannot be positively identified without removal. While the desire to remove the suspicious nodule is high, past removal techniques were highly invasive. Today, the MicroCutter used during a VATS procedure facilitates the removal – their removal in minimally invasive manner.

Building on the success in the VATS procedure, I'm excited about the additional clinical needs that would be an ideal fit for the features and benefits of the MicroCutter XCHANGE 30, both for the current product and future line extension of the MicroCutter technology.

Fourth, Cardica's culture of technical and engineering-focused product development fits well with my background and experience.

Moving into the business, today, we are selling the MicroCutter XCHANGE 30 with the white cartridge primarily in Europe. We have identified and are working with a selected group of surgical centers, primarily in the UK and Germany, and are beginning to see clinical adoption amongst several of these [ph] sites (05:09), particularly as it relates to VATS procedures. We have seen increased sales and reorders in several of the centers.

With a consistently improved performance of the white cartridge coupled with success in using the MicroCutter during VATS procedures, at this time we remain focused on two key sales objectives: Expanding the clinical adoption with key VATS surgeons in Europe and securing clearance for the expanded indication to include vascular procedures in the United States.

We remain on track to submit the results of the chronic animal study by mid-December and believe that our follow-up submission will be responsive to the FDA's request for additional information. In parallel, we are optimizing the supply chain to enable a strong capability to fulfill the increasing demand for the MicroCutter XCHANGE 30 with the white cartridge.

We believe the changes we are making to this supply chain will benefit not only sales in Europe but the anticipated demand in Untied States pending FDA clearance of the MicroCutter XCHANGE 30 for vascular uses. We're preparing to launch the product to selected group of centers performing VATS in United States, building on the clinical experience we have gained in Europe.

We announced today that Tom Palermo has joined Cardica as our Chief Operating Officer. Tom has been working as a consultant to Cardica, as our acting Vice President of R&D for the last nine months. Under his leadership, we now have a device that's performing reliably in a variety of procedures. We're thrilled to have him joined us full-time.

To give you some background on Tom, he brings more than 28 years of medical device experience to Cardica. He has held numerous executive positions in R&D and operations at companies including UlceRx, ReVascular Therapeutics and Ensure Medical.

We continue to work on the development of a combination device applicable to broader range of tissue thicknesses that deploys both blue and white cartridges, [ph] no one internally has (07:12) generation for device. However, our primary focus is on the white-only device within very near term.

Concurrently, we're working with Century Medical to determine their launch plan for the MicroCutter XCHANGE 30 in Japan, specifically whether they launch the thin version of the device we're currently selling in Europe or whether they wait until the combination device is available.

At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to Bob to review our financial results.

Thanks, Julian. During the first quarter of fiscal 2016, we sold the MicroCutter primarily in Europe, recording sales of $185,000 versus $155,000 last quarter. For the fiscal 2016 first quarter, total revenue was $755,000 compared to $1.068 million for the same period of fiscal 2015. Total product sales for the fiscal 2016 first quarter were $737,000 compared with $1.051 in the same period of fiscal 2015.

During the fiscal 2016 first quarter, we shipped 846 PAS-Port Systems, bringing cumulative worldwide shipments of our PAS-Port Systems to over 41,500 units. We shipped 103 C-Port Systems during the quarter with cumulative worldwide shipments now over 14,800 units. Cost of product sales was $1.023 million for fiscal 2016 compared with $1.6 million for the same period of 2015.

Cost of product sales in this quarter included approximately $122,000 for scrap and obsolete inventory cost for the MicroCutter. R&D expenses were $1.6 million for the fiscal 2016 first quarter compared with $1.7 million for fiscal 2015 first quarter.

Selling, general and administrative expenses for the fiscal 2016 first quarter was approximately $2.7 million, which includes a one-time accrual of liabilities for potential severance-related costs of approximately $500,000. This compares with approximately $2.7 million in the same period of fiscal 2015.

Total operating costs and expenses for the fiscal 2016 first quarter were approximately $5.3 million compared with approximately $6 million for the same period fiscal 2015.

Net loss for the first quarter of fiscal 2016 was approximately $4.6 million or $0.05 per share compared to a net loss of $5.1 million or $0.06 per share for the same period of fiscal 2015. Cash and cash equivalents at September 30, 2015 were approximately $21.9 million compared with approximately $25.2 million at June 30, 2015.

I'll now turn the call back to Julian.

Thank you, Bob. Our key objectives for the rest of 2015 are to continue to use Europe as an important area of commercial validation and learning, continue to optimize the supply chain for the MicroCutter XCHANGE 30 with the white cartridge, respond to FDA with a follow-up submission, including the results of the animal study by mid-December of this year, continue to advance the development of the MicroCutter XCHANGE 30 Generation 4 device suitable for deployment of blue and white cartridges across a wider tissue range. We look forward to keeping you apprised of our progress.

At this time, we're ready to open the call for questions. Operator?

[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of [indiscernible] (11:35), an individual investor. Please proceed.

This is [indiscernible] (11:40).

Hi, [ph] Peter (11:42).

How are you? Julian, my big question is cash on hand and how will you generate more cash without diluting further?

The key thing we're doing is accomplishing the milestones we set before us to continue to expand our effort in Europe with VAT centers, to complete our FDA submission, and once we have clearance to get into the U.S. market. We think by doing that, we'll certainly create more value in our company.

In terms of cash, we have a little less than $22 million in cash and we've reduced our burn rate. So we think that we have adequate cash to pursue our near-term goals. We will look for all different alternatives for future financing, including partnering and distribution relationships, and we'll develop an approach that we think is in the best interest of all shareholders.

Bob, Julian, I have one more question, and that question is, being a shareholder, I've been in Cardica for over six years and I'm looking forward to a broader launch in Europe. And can you give me a timetable when that will happen?

We are not prepared to give you a timetable at this time because we are looking at the performance of our devices. We are focused on performance and adoption at this time for the white-only device. And that will – as well as improving and optimizing our supply chains, that will give us the ability then to forecast more accurately what is the broader launch of this device.

At the same time, we are also waiting for approval for the FDA to increase our indications with the white device to vascular use.

Julian, one last question, the FDA approval, will that happen this calendar year for the vascular indication?

The FDA, our plans are to submit on time in mid-December. And then, as you know, it's very difficult to predict when the FDA will respond to us. But we would be – we're working with them to – and we are on schedule to submit the response.

Okay. Well, I'm truly committed to the product and I think that you have a great product, but just be aware that there are other competitors that are just lurking underneath your footsteps so to speak. So time is always of the essence. And I thank you for talking to me.

Thank you.

Thank you, Peter.

Thank you. I really appreciate it.

Your next question comes from the line of Pablo Jimenez with [indiscernible] (14:49). Please proceed.

Hi. So, I'm Pablo Jimenez. So I'm from family office. And my question is – so first of all, why did the board give such a generous compensation package to Mr. Palermo? And I guess a follow-up question to that would be, were the board members nominated by [indiscernible] (15:13) in line with this position, or was it decided by the long-term board members?

I'm sorry. Your question was about Mr. Palermo?

Yeah. About the compensation package.

I don't know of any compensation package for Mr. Palermo that's been public.

Your next question comes from the line of [ph] Todd Mitchell (15:58) with UBS. Please proceed.

Thank you. Can you hear me all right?

Yes.

First of all, regarding the Japan approval, is there a timing on that when we will hear back from Century Medical regarding the marketing, or the potential market for that product?

We're in contact with them and we will be meeting with them and that's an ongoing discussion. It's something that needs to be done jointly. And we are providing data to them and they are considering what they want to do.

Okay. And along those lines, if they decide to go ahead with the marketing of the XCHANGE 30 with the white cartridge, do you have the manufacturing capability to handle the demand they could have?

This is a very important part of our task right now or milestones on the near term is to stabilize and to optimize our supply chain for the white-only device. We have good results in the market from the current version of the device and we are working very closely to optimize the supply chain so we can be ready as the device – as we get the FDA approval and as the device gets broadly issued in Europe and OUS.

Okay. When you see the product, the XCHANGE 30 which you're using over in Europe right now, give us a little bit if you could some details how well the product is working and what you are hearing from surgeons?

Well, at this time, I can tell you that we are hearing very positive responses from the surgeons and we are receiving very consistent and positive results. We are collecting that information. And so, we're not prepared yet to give you any more detail, but we will be doing that as soon as we can.

Okay. And regarding the generation four product, where are you with that? And I mean, it sounds like that's – you're working on that. But is there a timeline that we could work with there, or something you could share with investors?

Yeah. Similarly, we are definitely working on it and we think that what we are doing currently with the XCHANGE 30, the current generation, as well as the supply chain would be very helpful in that generation four device. So we're not prepared for a timeframe, but we will share that with you as soon as we can.

Okay. And I've known Bob for many years. I'm a long-term shareholder and my big concern is that – well, first of all, does the company have plans to go out and tell the story to the investment community?

Very much so, [ph] Todd (18:50). We have the JPMorgan conference coming up in January. As you probably know, many people are there. It'll be a good time for Julian to meet with a number of investors, both existing investors and potential new investors. We're going to take advantage of that. We have the STS meeting coming up, the Society of Thoracic Surgery coming up at the end of January, Phoenix. We'll meet with analysts and some investors there. And then we'll be attending a med tech conference by another investment bank in February, which will provide for a number of one-on-one meetings.

So I'm very anxious for Julian to meet our investors and to meet new prospective investors. We have been on the phone with a number of our investors as well. So we certainly want to get out over the next few months pretty aggressively.

And my big issue here is, is that it deals with building shareholder value and conviction, which takes time because of the reset that we have here, but we've had a series of resets over the years. But we have a 20 – we have less – we are trading – the IP is valued less than the cash on the books.

And I think as an investor, and a long-term investor with this company, I think somebody needs to evaluate, really does the IP really have value here? And if so, how is that going to be shared with investors? I really think that's – I mean, is that something management is aware of or thinking about?

Well, of course, we're all disappointed at the stock price and very disappointed. However, we've just had two very seasoned senior medical device executives joining the company, one as CEO, one as COO, both of whom, I can assure you, had numerous opportunities to look at other things and chose to come here because of the opportunity at Cardica, because of the technology we have, the proprietary position, we have substantial cash, and we have the opportunity we think to create a lot of value. Obviously, it's not being recognized yet in the market. But I think as we accomplish these milestones we've set out for the next several months, will change the momentum of the company.

Okay. I will get back in the queue. Thank you, Bob. Thank you, guys.

Thank you, [ph] Todd (21:20).

Thank you. Thanks.

Your next question comes from the line of [ph] Peter (21:24) [indiscernible] (21:24), individual investor. Please proceed.

Yes. Hi. Can you clarify the FDA clearance? So is that for the current version 3 with the white cartridge? And if you do receive your clearance in December, will you market that in U.S. or are you waiting for your version 4 and will version 4 require an FDA clearance?

Our FDA clearance is for the version 3, and it is with the white cartridge.

Okay. Thank you.

And [indiscernible] (21:55) submission, it's not a clearance yet.

Right. And you said you completed that and it will be ready for submission in December?

We are in the process of completing it and we'll be submitting in mid-December. Yes.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you.

The next question comes from the line of [indiscernible] (22:18), private investor. Please proceed.

Hi, Bob. How are you?

Dr. [indiscernible] (22:23), how are you?

Fine. Thank you very much. During the conference call, and I want to say, hi, and welcome to Julian.

Thank you.

I have a couple of questions. One is related to a question, though I heard on the conference call, which is that why the board and the investor got it wrong, I think I got it right – why the board gave the CEO [ph] such a generous (22:54) package above and beyond what is required? And this is what I feel with the filing.

And the second question is, why such a delay in the shareholders meeting? What was the reason behind – existing reason behind? I think that we have the money, supposedly we have the technology, and I was complaining that the execution, everything what you guys says has been so slow, burning rate is not – money burning rate is not what really, really I thought it will be, which is will be a $3 million a quarter.

Then another question is, the stock probably is going to be [ph] delisted (23:43) from Nasdaq because it's already below a $1 even though we're going to have [ph] yield (23:47). Are you considering a reverse split? I mean, it's – the market capital, this company went from $80 million, $90 million to $70 million, $80 million [ph] is of service (24:02). I mean, I don't have to look forward, but we have the best markets in the history of United States, Dow Jones Biotechnology implementation. So, look at where we are. I mean, what do shareholders have to hope for? I mean, new management, new technology, then you have the issue which I mentioned above with working capital. There is continued misunderstanding, their directors, [ph] new (24:34) directors. And the only thing that this does is put people on hold. I mean, imagine $0.195, $0.20 a share, I mean, is unheard of.

And it's not about the price of the stock. It's about looking forward. I mean, if nobody wants to buy the $0.20, maybe a $0.10 [ph] or $0.12 (24:59). I mean – and I'm sure if I ask you too many questions, I apologize, but...

Let me just – let me answer. I think the most important question you asked, which was the first one. The board was unanimous in their choice of Julian to come and be CEO of this company. And the compensation package that was proposed to him was a market-based compensation package that the board felt was totally appropriate to attract someone of Julian's capability and track record to help Cardica get on track and to produce value for shareholders. I think that our shareholders will be very thankful over the months and quarters ahead that Julian was decided to come to Cardica and will help us achieve what were – the potential that we have.

So, I don't blame you, Dr. [indiscernible] (26:00) for being frustrated and disappointed. All I can do is assure you that our team here is working very hard to accomplish our near-term goals and that, as we accomplish those goals, we'll create more value for all of us.

I want to say something else also, I mean I welcome Julian. I mean, maybe the attitude of the current shareholders and the future shareholders will change with the new direction of the company and the new acquisitions to manage the company. I mean, I cannot agree more than that. But, let's see how we go to the next quarter and after the next quarter and the information that we're going to get from you guys.

And I just wish you luck. I mean, I wish you luck and I'm still on. I'm [indiscernible] (26:52) share and I'm looking forward to prove myself [ph] the contrary (27:01) that the decision that I made to invest in this company because of the technology, the videos that you sent me, the consultation that I made with some decisions were fine. I mean, the management plays a big role in the success of a company and I still believe in it. But anyway, I want to thank you, really mean it and everything, I talk with you quite often. I want to thank you really for being [indiscernible] (27:27) with me and it's fine. I mean, let's change direction with the new management [indiscernible] (27:34) accomplish what we did do in the last two years, that's all.

Thank you [ph] Dr. Pataki (27:39). Appreciate your comments on that. And I can also say what – repeat what Bob is saying that the team here – and that was part of my decision, the team here is very solid. There's a lot of very good technical know-how and loyal. I mean, the team has been around for a while. That was a big part of the decision that for me and for Tom to come onboard. So we are now focused on our near-term objectives and that's where everybody is working towards that. So we hope we can share the results of that with you in the near future.

Thank you very much for. Very kind. And thank you again for taking my call.

Thank you.

Thanks.

Your next question comes from the line of Mark Rosenkranz, Craig-Hallum Capital. Please proceed.

Hi, guys. This is Mark, in for Charles. First off, welcome, Julian. Good to have you aboard.

Thank you.

I was wondering if maybe you could talk a little more. Last quarter, you saw some initial good traction in European customers with the MicroCutter XCHANGE 30. Could you reiterate that number you had this quarter and then kind of discuss where you see that ramp going forward in the next 6 months to 12 months.

Yeah. The MicroCutter, as you know, primarily sold in Europe, some in the U.S., but primarily in Europe because of the focus on the VATS procedures and we're using a white device, a white cartridge. We had approximately $155,000 of sales in the fourth quarter of last year which ended in June and $185,000 this quarter, again, primarily in Europe.

More important than the absolute dollar value of the sales is to focus on the VATS centers and we're really seeking to get clinical adoption in the VATS centers. And in terms of sales growth, that will come more from once we get U.S. clearance and once we get launched in Japan. Then, I think, we'll see more significant sales growth. In the meantime though, we think there's real value in showing that we can target VATS centers and gain clinical adoption in the centers that we target and then transfer that into new markets.

Okay. Great. So, could you give me a bit little color on how you're going about targeting these VATS?

Well, there are key centers primarily in the UK and Germany that do these procedures, the video-assisted thoracic surgery procedures. They are well identified and the surgeons there we're in contact with and getting them to try the device, getting some that have tried it, started re-ordering and have clinically adopted and then we'll expand that to other markets.

We think of them as strategically in terms of the volume that they are performing as well as the quality and the benefit of working with those specific surgeons when we identify them.

Okay. Thanks. Just one more, if you wouldn't mind? You're on pace with the mid-December submission to the FDA with the animal trial. Is there anything on your end that could perhaps delay this into next year? I know as soon as you get [indiscernible] (31:15) varying timeframe, but is there any risk at all in terms of when that's submitted or do you feel pretty comfortable with that December timeframe?

We feel comfortable with the submission timeframe. Of course, in terms of how the FDA will respond, we can't really predict that or comment on that.

Sure. Well, certainly understandable. Appreciate the time, guys.

Thank you.

Thank you.

That concludes our Q&A. I'll now turn the call over to Julian Nikolchev for closing remarks.

Thank you and thank you all for joining our call today. We hope to see you in the Annual Meeting of the Society of Thoracic Surgeon in Phoenix in January. Thanks very much and we will terminate the call.

Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes today's conference. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect. Have a great day.