Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Robert Y. Newell — Vice President-Finance and Chief Financial Officer, Dextera Surgical, Inc.
Julian N. Nikolchev — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Dextera Surgical, Inc.
Tao L. Levy — Analyst, Wedbush Securities, Inc.
Charles Edward Haff — Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC
David Lu — Owner, Summit Investment Group

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Dextera Fiscal Second Quarter 2017 Financial Results Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time. [Operator Instructions]

As a reminder, this call will be recorded. I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference, Mr. Bob Newell, CFO. You may begin.

Good afternoon, and thank you for participating in our second quarter fiscal results conference call. This conference call will include forward-looking statements, including all statements regarding continued clinical and other developments, and commercial launch and use of our MicroCutter 5/80, including the timing thereof. The words expect, believe, plan, continue, anticipate, opportunity, intend, will, explore and similar words are intended to identify these forward-looking statements. Any statements contained in this conference call that relate to future events, results, or predictions are forward-looking statements.

There are a number of important factors that could cause our results to differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements, including those set forth in our press release of today, as well as other risks detailed from time-to-time in our reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2016 under the caption Risk Factors. We expressly disclaim any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements. You're encouraged to read our reports filed with the SEC available at www.sec.gov.

At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to Julian Nikolchev, Dextera Surgical's President and CEO, for a corporate update.

Thank you, Bob. Good afternoon and thank you for participating on our call. Throughout the fiscal second quarter, we continued to pursue our efforts to achieve our primary objective: to bring the MicroCutter 5/80, the world's smallest profile articulating surgical stapling device, to surgeons around the globe to enable less invasive and minimally invasive procedures, which we anticipate will lead to better patient outcomes.

We continue to work towards three key components of our commercialization plan, reliable clinical performance, early surgeon adoption, and increasing market awareness. We're adding a fourth key component to our commercialization plan for continued transparency into our business, consistent product supply. Beginning with clinical performance, the MicroCutter 5/80 continues to perform reliably and consistently. We're working with surgeons who are using the MicroCutter to help facilitate less invasive procedures to benefit patients.

Last month we attended the Society of Thoracic Surgeons annual meeting in Houston, Texas. The Society of Thoracic Surgeons represents approximately 7,200 surgeons, researchers, and allied health care professionals worldwide who are dedicated to ensuring the best possible outcomes for surgery of the heart, lung, esophagus, and other procedures within the chest.

In addition to our booth presence and meeting with key surgeons, one of the leading advocates of the MicroCutter, Dr. Joel Dunning, gave a podium and video presentation demonstrating the use of the MicroCutter surgical stapler as an important tool to help enable the removal of lung lobe through a single small incision.

Dr. Dunning has previously demonstrated that using a less invasive procedure to perform a lobectomy results in faster patient recovery and less pain than a traditional open procedure. And in some cases, patients go home the first day after surgery. By way of background, the uniportal or single portal lobectomy demonstrated by Dr. Dunning is one form of video-assisted thoracic surgery, or VATS, that uses a single 2-inch to 3-inch incision. By comparison, open surgery requires up to 8-inch incision, and a traditional video-assisted thoracic surgery can utilize up to five incisions between individual ribs. Cutting between the ribs and spreading them to accommodate the instruments in the surgery or using a 12-millimeter trocar is known to be particularly painful. Due to the intercostal nerves that run along each rib.

While less invasive and beneficial for the patient, uniportal surgeries are technically challenging given the confined operating space within which a surgeon needs to maneuver the instruments. Surgeons use the term sword fighting to describe the difficulty using multiple instruments through a single incision including larger conventional staplers which are 12 millimeters or 15 millimeters in diameter.

In addition, the single incision used in uniportal VATS surgery makes achieving the right angle of approach on pulmonary vessels more challenging as the surgeons cannot use alternative ports to achieve the desired angle. This is where the future of the MicroCutter, its small size, and ability to articulate up to 80 degrees come to play. In this case, small is big. Because of the small size and articulation, the MicroCutter allows the surgeon much more flexibility and success in this technically challenging procedure. These same advantages are also seen in other VATS procedures.

Dr. Dunning has been a vocal advocate to the MicroCutter using our surgical stapler for uniportal procedures, as well as for the procedure he developed called microlobectomy. He trains other surgeons throughout Europe on the microlobectomy technique, while lecturing routinely on his technique and clinical results, this continues to increase visibility among key opinion leaders for our innovative device. Dr. Dunning is one of a number of thoracic surgeons in Europe, who have adopted the MicroCutter into routine practice.

We're seeing strong adoption among other surgeons in Europe, where we have distributors in eight countries as well as direct sales effort in Germany. We have about 28 surgeons who have adopted the MicroCutter into their practice. We consider a surgeon to have adopted the MicroCutter when they consistently use the device in their procedures that requires staples. Our sales efforts are focused on gaining new surgeons while driving higher usage with our current adopting base of surgeons. In United States, where we are building a sales organization that ramps as our sales grow, we have forged very strong relationships with several key opinion leaders.

We continue to see increasing interest throughout the United States, and to-date we have 10 surgeons who have adopted the MicroCutter. In the United States, we're working to increase those numbers in two ways. First, we have recently hired our second sales representative, and we intended to continue to add two to three new sales representatives per quarter to cover additional territories within the country. Second, we're working with the value analysis committees at hospitals to secure approval from our purchasing departments – from their purchasing departments. While we have made good progress in this effort, this process can take up to 120 days.

Overall, we see increasing demand for the MicroCutter 5/80, both in Europe and the United States. In addition, we are inspired by the fact that key opinion leading surgeons are adopting the MicroCutter into their practice, sharing their experience with others in their practices and with other colleagues within the field. We are encouraged as product sales of the MicroCutter continue to increase.

So turning to market awareness, thoracic surgeons remain our primary target in both the United States and Europe. The MicroCutter's small diameter and expanded articulation, recognized amongst thoracic surgeons as providing clinical benefit, thus making thoracic surgery an ideal initial target market.

One of the primary procedures performed by thoracic surgeons are lobectomies, where one lobe or a partial lobe of the lung is removed. There are approximately 140,000 lobectomy procedures performed each year in United States. About 40% of these procedures or 56,000 are performed using video-assisted techniques including uniportal, the technique demonstrated by Dr. Dunning at STS in January, and also robotic microlobectomy or various multiple port approaches.

Leading thoracic surgeons predict that the adoption of video-assisted lobectomy will continue to accelerate. As video-assisted thoracic surgery training is integrated into residency and fellowship programs, video-assistants continued to improve and surgical instrumentation gets smaller and more flexible, and patients become more aware of the benefits of less invasive approaches.

For all video-assisted techniques, the MicroCutter provides surgeons with a small, maneuverable surgical stapler. Surgeons continuously comment that the MicroCutter helps enable this less invasive procedure as it is able to reach into places not accessible to traditional larger staplers.

In addition to video-assisted thoracic surgery procedures, we are planning for expansion of our efforts into solid organ surgery, including the liver, spleen, and pancreas, where we believe the MicroCutter's unique clinical benefits also apply. We plan to file a 510(k) application this quarter with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to use the MicroCutter in liver surgeries. We're seeing increasing interest in using the MicroCutter for these procedures in Europe, where the device is clear for this indication, primarily surgeries to remove cancerous lesions of the liver.

In October of last year, we announced an agreement with B. Braun Surgical S.A. for distribution of the MicroCutter in Spain. We're working closely with B. Braun S.A. team in Spain to launch the MicroCutter this quarter, which will include a vast symposium where leading centers will learn about the MicroCutter and other B. Braun technologies, training for their sales and marketing teams, and the first thoracic cases using the MicroCutter in Spain. This is a significant event for both companies as we believe this will jump start our MicroCutter sales in Spain, a country very interested in pursuing less invasive surgical procedures.

Moving to manufacturing. As we have shared previously, a key milestone in the immediate term has been the optimization of our supply chain. Our goal is to have the capacity to produce 120 devices per week by the end of March 2017. We're making progress though we have more to do.

At this time, we have the capacity to make 80 devices per week. By securing a second source for key components of the MicroCutter 5/80, we believe that we will be on track to increase our production capacity and meet our goal. We have identified second source suppliers and are validating the compatibility of the components that produce with our device.

Turning to development. We have enrolled 17 patients in the post market registry called the MicroCutter-assisted thoracic surgery hemostasis registry or MATCH Registry to evaluate the hemostasis and ease of use of the MicroCutter device in clinical setting. The MATCH Registry is intended to have data on up to 120 patients, and we anticipate the enrollment will be completed in the first half of calendar 2017. We intend to present the registry data at a major thoracic meeting and publish the data in a respected peer-reviewed journal. For business development, we continued to make progress with our co-development effort with Intuitive Surgical to develop new robotic stapler products for the da Vinci Surgical System.

Before I turn the call over to Bob to discuss our financial results, I'd like to note that our cash position, as it relates to our cash utilization, has been a keen focus of both mine and board of directors for several months. We have JMP Securities and other advisers working with us to explore a wide variety of alternatives to provide the company with the resources needed to pursue the significant opportunity that the MicroCutter technology platforms represents. These alternatives have been expanded to include the possible sale of the company. Our goal is to secure the best source of funding that will provide us with the ability to execute our plans while building maximum shareholder value. We will keep you apprised of any material developments in this front.

Now I'd like to turn the call over to Bob to discuss our financial results for the quarter, and then I'll come back to review our milestones. Bob?

Thanks, Julian. For the fiscal 2017 second quarter, total revenue was $799,000 compared to $700,000 for the same period of fiscal 2016. MicroCutter product sales totaled $284,000 for the second quarter, compared to product sales of $56,000 for the first quarter of fiscal year 2017. As we announced in January, we expect MicroCutter product sales of $400,000 to $500,000 in the current quarter and $700,000 to $800,000 in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017. For the entire fiscal 2017 fiscal year, we expect MicroCutter sales of between $1.4 million and $1.6 million.

We do not expect to update these numbers quarter by quarter. As we work to determine consistent reorder patterns, we anticipate ongoing sequential quarterly revenue growth. Total product sales for the fiscal 2017 second quarter were $695,000 compared with $683,000 for the same period in fiscal 2016.

During the fiscal 2017 second quarter, we shipped 727 PAS-Port systems, bringing cumulative worldwide shipments of our PAS-Port systems to over 45,800 units. We shipped 39 C-Port systems during the quarter, with cumulative worldwide shipments now over 15,100 units.

Cost of product sales was $940,000 for the fiscal 2017 second quarter compared with 889,000 for the same period in 2016. R&D expenses were $1.4 million for the fiscal 2017 second quarter compared with $1.6 million for the fiscal 2016 second quarter.

Selling, general and administrative expenses for the fiscal 2017 second quarter were approximately $2 million. This compares with approximately $2.2 million in the same period of fiscal 2016.

Total operating costs and expenses for the fiscal 2017 second quarter were approximately $4.3 million compared with approximately $4.7 million for the same period of fiscal 2016. Net loss for the second quarter of fiscal 2017 was approximately $3.6 million or $0.41 per share compared to a net loss of $4.1 million or $0.46 per share for the same period of fiscal 2016.

Cash, cash equivalents, and investments at December 31, 2016 were approximately $5.8 million compared with $9 million at September 30, 2016 with cash utilization of $3.2 million during the quarter.

I'll now turn the call back to Julian.

Thank you, Bob. Our key objectives over the next three quarters are to demonstrate clinical adoption for video-assisted thoracic surgery by 15 key opinion leaders in both Europe and the U.S. We have already achieved these objectives in Europe and are making good progress in the United States: expand the number of reordering surgeons from 38 today to 75 in the second quarter of calendar 2017; complete enrollment in the MATCH Registry trial in the second quarter of calendar 2017; demonstrate success in Spain with the B. Braun collaboration throughout calendar 2017; optimize the supply chain and establish production capacity of 120 MicroCutters per week by the end of March 2017; continue advancement in our co-development project with Intuitive Surgical to develop a new robotic stapler based on the MicroCutter technology; and explore a full range of strategic alternatives to fund the company, including a possible sale of the company; and establish Dextera Surgical's product pipeline, including final design of the next-generation MicroCutter to expand its use and achieve cost goals.

In summary, we continue to make significant progress in bringing the MicroCutter 5/80 to surgeons and patients around the world. We look forward to keeping you apprised of our progress.

Now we're ready to open the call for questions. Operator?

Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Tao Levy with Wedbush. Your line is open.

Great. Good afternoon.

Hi, Tao.

Hi, Tao.

Hi. So, maybe we could start with talk about B. Braun in Spain. When do you – I know you mentioned on the call, I must have missed it, when do you expect to see them perform the first surgeries?

This month, we are starting to do some, what we call training surgeries, where we work closely with their sales representatives, and then we have a bigger VATS symposium that we've organized with KOLs in early part of March.

Okay. And so the first ones – the first cases that will happen here, it's been this month – is the purpose of that to expand in Spain or are we trying to figure out the purpose of the symposium and whether that involves other geographies attending that presentation?

Sure. No, the focus is on Spain right now, our relationship right now is only in Spain. So, the first cases will be in Spain, and these are cases that are carefully selected by both the Spanish distributors and Liam Burns, our VP of Sales, and would be ways to provide some early introduction of the product to potential customers in Spain. And then the symposium will also be focused on Spain where B. Braun has invited a significant number of VATS representatives, VATS clinics, representatives from Spain to hear about lobectomies, microlobectomies, VATS, and surgical tools available for that including MicroCutter and the B. Braun tool.

Got you. And then turning to the U.S. market, you added some sales reps [indiscernible] (20:51), what's the expectations in terms of what they'll be focusing on? Are they out there looking to bring on the new KOLs or is it to expand deeper into a hospital or just bring in other centers?

Yeah. Well, it's little bit of both. They definitely have expectations to bringing some new KOLs in their regions. At the same time, there are already some existing hospitals that have requested a device, and we are working with them to get it through the [ph] VIC (21:28) committees. So I would say it's a little bit of both. But as we have said before, our commercialization strategy in the U.S. has been to focus on significant centers where VATS is a predominant lobectomy procedure for them to perform and to be adopted by those centers and then to deeper usage within those centers after that.

Got you. And lastly, I know in the press release, you talked about continuing your working relationship with Intuitive Surgical and the development of the 8-millimeter. Any update as to where that stands in terms of your timing for next milestones or anything around that?

Yeah. Well, I have to say that we've worked very closely with them. We've had a lot of very productive discussions, both, challenging some of their thinking about how to design the stapler given our experience that it has been a very productive discussion. Our work is really driving towards coming up this quarter with the technical specifications for the project. Now we've already mentioned that the design will be for the latest generation da Vinci. It is also going to have a white, blue, and green cartridge, but the technical specs are just now in the process I've discussed. So we don't have any time frames yet specific as a result of that, but we definitely should have something in the next quarter or so.

Got you. Just lastly, are there any milestone payments or anything like that that...

Yeah, part of – Tao, so much milestone but I think as we've mentioned in the past, they are supporting our development efforts. So, part of the line in the press release with royalty and development contract payments included some reimbursement from Intuitive on R&D we did in the quarter and that's where that will show up in future quarters. And we expect that to be a little bit more in the future quarters.

Okay. But nothing related to if it goes into animal testing, you get an extra $2 million or something like that?

Don't I wish, no, there's none of that. It's a business deal.

Yeah. And we'll mention it to them, see if they...

Yeah.

Thanks a lot, guys.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Charles Haff with Craig-Hallum. Your line is open.

Hi. Thanks for taking my questions. Can you hear me okay?

Sure.

Yes. Hi, Charles.

Hi. I understood that there was few dozen cases performed in Germany recently, and I'm wondering if you could kind of characterize the performance of the 5/80 when those cases were done, in any means that you like in terms of close ratio or clinical success rates. Any numbers you can provide to us there?

Well, I think maybe what you're referring to is we did a clinical evaluation of our product, of the MicroCutter 5/80 prior to deciding on broad commercialization effort. And during that time we did about 60 cases, during which time – it wasn't a clinical study. It was simply an evaluation period that we spent and we were in each case with representative from Dextera basically asking the surgeon to let us know his experience with the device. And during that time, the conclusion of the KOLs we used for that particular evaluation was that the device performs in a consistent manner. It seems to perform – it seems to be a little smoother than the previous generation products, and hemostasis and the performance were equivalent to competing devices.

So that's what we can tell you at this point. I think our decision to go forward with the MATCH study was really around to be able to answer in a more quantitative way, if you will, performance of our device because we're using a five-point scale that's much more objective in terms of evaluating closure rates, hemostasis and so on.

Okay. Thank you. That's very helpful.

Okay.

It's good to hear that you had similar hemostasis rates to the competition. My next question is around manufacturing. You mentioned your goal, reiterated your goal of 120 5/80s per week and you're at 80 per week now, and you said there's work to be done there. I'm wondering if you can kind of give us a little bit more detail there in terms of what the major projects are to get it from the 80 per week now to the 120 in the future.

Well, I think the primary projects that are in process right now is switching from one supplier to another supplier for some of the key components that we have. And then, as you can imagine for a product as sophisticated as the MicroCutter, it takes some time. We have identified very good suppliers that are bringing in additional capability in terms of being able to produce products reliably at a good cost and eventually eliminate some of our internal steps that we need to do now for each one of these components. So that makes our procedure and our whole supply chain more efficient, but it does take time to get this into our process. We need to obviously get the components, we need to test them, then we need to evaluate them and validate them that they work as reliably as our previous products. This is the process we're going through right now. And when we go through that process and incorporate these new suppliers, that will allow us to grow our capacity. But this product has a lot of sophisticated components, and so we're going to continue to look for improvements that we can make and fine-tune the supply chain over the next year.

Okay. So you're reiterating your goal of 120 units per week by the end of March, right?

Correct. Exactly.

Right.

Okay. Great.

And just to reiterate what that means, we sell four or five cartridges with each device on average. So 120 units per week is equivalent to $120,000 of sales capacity. So we're anxious to get our production capacity ahead of our sales efforts so that we're ahead of that score, not behind the score there.

Oh, that's helpful. Do you say $120,000 per week, Bob?

Correct. An average it's $1,000 per device. It includes the device and four or five cartridges.

Okay. And then I kind of lost you when you were talking about the total number of users at 38 and you wanted to ramp that to 75. What was the timeframe that you were outlining there?

It's the end of the second quarter, the...

Calendar quarter.

Calendar quarter. So by the middle of this year, by June. Yeah.

Okay. Great. And then at a recent Investor conference last month Intuitive Surgical was making some pretty bold statements about ramping up their R&D spending, and you mentioned, Bob, that you expect royalty and development revenues to go up from here, and that's coming or most of it's coming from Intuitive Surgical. So, have you seen a increased level of interest or resources that Intuitive wants to put behind your 8-millimeter staple project with them?

We have the same relationship we've had, a year ago in the January-June period, a year ago in 2016, we did an evaluation of our technology, including animal labs and checking with their KOLs. And then we started this co-development effort after a successful conclusion of that evaluation. And that – the terms of that contract are laid out, in terms of their support for R&D, their willingness and obligation to pay for a significant amount of tooling and that kind of thing. So, that – we have a good relationship and anticipate a very successful project.

Okay, great. Well, thanks for taking my questions. I appreciate it.

Thanks, Charles.

Thank you. Thanks, Charles.

Thank you. And our next question comes from David Lu with Summit Investment. Your line is open.

Hi.

Hi. Hello.

You said – yeah, you're going to file the application with FDA in this quarter. When do you expect approval or some feedback from FDA?

Well, the typical review cycle is 90 days, so within 90 days we expect to hear from the FDA if they need any additional information or if they have approved the product.

Okay. So if they have enough data, everything, so they could approve – make an approval in two months basically?

In three months, correct.

Yeah. Okay. And also, you engaged the JMP Securities for strategic partnership, where are you in the stage very early or do you expect this quarter or next quarter you may have something potentially land up?

We are exploring all different opportunities with JMP. So we are in different stages.

Okay. So you have been working with them for a while?

I think we are starting to work, and we are working – we have been exploring opportunities even before engaging with JMP.

I see. Okay. So, maybe sometime this year or this calendar year, we would – when we have any new information, we'll definitely report it to our investors and we'll communicate some information, near information that we have.

Okay. Great. Thank you very much.

Thank you.

Thank you. And I'm showing no further questions at this time. I would like to turn the call back to Julian Nikolchev for any closing remarks.

Thank you. And thank you for joining us on the call today. We look forward to communicating our progress in the months ahead. Thank you very much.

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. This concludes today's program. You may all disconnect. Everyone, have a great day.