Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Robert Y. Newell — CFO, Secretary, VP & Head-Investor Relations, Cardica, Inc.
Bernard A. Hausen — President, CEO, Director & Chief Medical Officer, Cardica, Inc.
Tao L. Levy — Analyst, Wedbush Securities, Inc.
Dan D. Trang — Analyst, Stonegate Securities, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Cardica Fiscal Fourth Quarter Financial Result Conference Call. My name is Brittany and I'll be your operator for today. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]

At this time, I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today, Bob Newell. Please proceed, sir.

Thank you. Good afternoon. Thank you for participating in our Fiscal 2013 Fourth Quarter and Year-End Financial Results Conference Call. Earlier today we issued a press release including our financial results so please refer to the release for complete details.

This conference call will include forward-looking statements, including all statements regarding the continued clinical and other developments, product features, regulatory approval and commercial launch and use of products in our planned MicroCutter product line, including our MicroCutter XCHANGE 30 and XCHANGE 45, including the timing thereof and our expectations regarding future support for and sales of our automated anastomosis products.

Review by FDA could have altered the results as presented herein. Any statements contained in this conference call that are not historical facts may be deemed to be forward-looking statements. There are a number of important factors that could cause our results to differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements, including those set forth in our press release up today as well as other risks detailed from time to time in our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2013 under the caption Risk Factors.

We expressly disclaim any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements. You are encouraged to read our reports filed with the SEC available at www.sec.gov. This call is the property of Cardica and any re-broadcasting of this call without the express written permission of Cardica is prohibited. At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to Bernard Hausen, Cardica's President and CEO, for a corporate update.

Thank you, Bob. Good afternoon and thank you for participating in our call today. Fiscal 2013 was a pivotal year, building in refinement for Cardica focused on completing our clinical trial and beginning commercialization of the Cardica MicroCutter XCHANGE 30, our proprietary cutting and stapling device with a cross-sectional area six times smaller than conventional 12 millimeter staplers.

Over the course of fiscal 2013 we completed our European clinical trial designed to support our planned U.S. 510(k) submission. The MicroCutter XCHANGE 30 has been deployed more than 1,200 times in more than 420 procedures in Europe. With this experience we continued to enhance XCHANGE 30 to further improve reliability and ease of use and booked initial revenue in Europe.

I'd like to begin with the top line results from our clinical trial. As you know in May we completed enrolment in our European clinical trial to confirm the safety of the XCHANGE 30 in a variety of gastrointestinal surgical procedures. The objective of this study was to establish non-inferiority in terms of safety of the MicroCutter versus conventional 12 millimeter staplers. The study compares MicroCutter-related severe adverse event rates to conventional stapler-related event rates reported in medical literature.

The prospective open-label study enrolled 160 patients at seven sites in Germany. 25 surgeons performed a variety of gastrointestinal procedures including transections, resections and anastomosis completing a total of 423 deployments. Patients were followed at least 30 days post-operatively. I'm very pleased to report that the primary endpoint has been met following an adjudication of the primary endpoint events by an independent clinical events committee.

Of the 160 patients enrolled, 150 were evaluated 30 days post-operatively, which corresponds to a 94% completion of follow-up. The clinical events committee determined that there were 36 severe adverse events in the study, including both stapler and non-stapler-related events. The rate of the severe adverse events seen in the trial is very typical of those experienced in general surgical procedures. The clinical events committee determined that only one bleeding event out of the 36 severe adverse events was deemed possibly related to the MicroCutter. This equates to a less than 1% or 0.65%, MicroCutter-related primary endpoint event rate with an upper exact confidence bound of 3.59%. Based on the review of the medical literature, conventional staplers can produce severe adverse events, such as leakage, bleeding, infection or strictures in up to 17.3% of cases. Another variable assessed in the trial was access to the target site of stapler deployment. The MicroCutter allowed surgeons to adequately access the target site in all deployments assessed.

The secondary endpoint of the trial was acute procedural success, which measures a combination of elements, including device performance and reliability, acute bleeding and leakage events, as well as the intraoperative need for staple-line intervention. During the initial stages of the trial, acute procedural success was around 80%. Throughout the course of the trial and after we implemented several design changes, all of which are now part of our commercial product today, acute procedural success improved to approximately 95%.

It is important to note that a meaningful percentage of these incidences were related to user error. That has been addressed through training, instructions for use, and design enhancement to improve ease of use. In all cases, issues were resolved intraoperatively with conventional surgical techniques, and importantly, none of these events resulted in a severe adverse event or the need for the surgeon to change his surgical approach. Based on these positive data, we are finalizing the documentation and intend to submit our 510(k) application for the MicroCutter XCHANGE next week and we expect our investigators to submit the full results of the trial to a peer-reviewed publication.

Moving to commercial operations, we now have four distributors with the recent addition of Tecnohealth serving Italy. We continue to work with leading surgeons in European countries to highlight the benefits and features of the MicroCutter device and learn where the product offers the clearest advantages. This experience allows us to continue to improve the MicroCutter and understand additional features that may be needed to provide the U.S. market, pending marketing clearance from the FDA, an optimal stapling product.

Majority of feature enhancements and design modifications made in the past year focus on increasing reliability, expanding the compatible tissue thickness range, and making the system more user-friendly. Our initial focus in Europe is on liver, kidney and other solid organ surgeries, as well as thoracic and pediatric surgery. The MicroCutter's small size and greater articulation provides significant clinical benefits in these procedures.

I'd like to give you three examples of diverse applications that demonstrate the benefits of the small size and articulation of the MicroCutter XCHANGE 30. First, the chief of surgery for a leading Italian hospital performed a radical procedure on a woman that exemplifies the versatility of the MicroCutter. The patient had metastatic cancer throughout her abdominal cavity requiring removal of essentially all organs within the pelvis. The surgeon also created a new bladder from the small intestine. During this extensive procedure, which lasted approximately four hours, he successfully deployed a MicroCutter 12 times. The XCHANGE was deployed to transect colon, transect pancreas, small intestine and an assortment of veins and arteries, demonstrating its versatility.

In a second case, surgeons used a MicroCutter during a minimally-invasive thoracoscopic procedure to remove a cystic bubble from the lung of a child. Cystic bubbles such as those, these often spontaneously resolve. But in this case, it did not necessitating surgical removal. Because of the patient's small size at four years old, the standard 12 millimeter trocar required for a conventional stapler could not be used. The MicroCutter was ideally suited to remove this cyst and in the confined space of the small chest cavity.

Finally, a team of surgeons at a children's hospital in Rome used the MicroCutter to reconstruct the digestive tract in a procedure on a three-month old infant born with an anorectal malformation. Babies born with this condition do not have a properly-formed rectum or digestive tract. The severity of the malformation varies from case to case, but these types of malformations are present in about one out of every 5,000 births worldwide.

Each of these cases illustrates the power and positive patient outcomes from the use of the MicroCutter in place of a larger conventional stapler. This device is making a difference in the lives of patients.

Moving to sales, we ended the fiscal 2013 fourth quarter with a back order of our white cartridge, the smaller cartridge tailored for vessels and very thin tissue. We expected to have it available late during the fiscal 2013 fourth quarter, but are not willing to release a product that does not yet perform to our highest quality standards. We are testing and retesting the white cartridge to ensure that it performed outside of the product specifications as we have learned that surgeons may, at times, use a cartridge outside of its specified performance range on either thin or thick tissue.

Currently we offer the blue cartridge designed for tissue of medium thickness, which covers a wide range of procedures as evidenced in my earlier comments. While the blue cartridge has a level of versatility, surgeon's desire the smaller, white cartridge particularly for very small vessels, and mostly because they're accustomed to associating certain tissue types and thicknesses to certain cartridge colors. Cardica is attempting to conform to these expectations.

With reliability and consistency as our driving guide, the development of the XCHANGE 30 white cartridge continues and we expect to ship the white cartridge this quarter. Keep in mind that the designed specifications of the white cartridge today state that it is for use in tissue easily compressible to a minimum of 1 millimeter. We are engineering this cartridge to work with XCHANGE 30 to fine tissue as thin as 0.25 millimeters, as some of the very small tissue structures are compressed to these minimal thickness between the jaws of staplers. Working with the miniaturized device' revolutionary staple design we are confident that we will be able to meet this demand.

It is important to note that each of these efforts: clinical trial, market preference testing, procedure evaluations and tissue thickness limit testing help us prepare for the potential launch in the United States pending marketing clearance. In addition, our distributors in Japan, Century Medical, is preparing their application to submit the MicroCutter XCHANGE 30 to the Ministry of Health in Japan.

Turning to our cardiac business, the PAS-Port system continues to garner consistent sales, particularly in Japan and Germany. Moving forward, we intend to focus our commercialization efforts on the MicroCutter while we support existing customers for our cardiac surgery products.

At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to Bob for a discussion of our financial results. Bob?

Thanks, Bernard. For the fiscal 2013 fourth quarter, total revenue was approximately $872,000 compared to approximately $946,000 for the same period of fiscal 2012. Total product sales for the fiscal 2013 fourth quarter were approximately $771,000 compared with approximately $844,000 for the same period in fiscal 2012. Product sales included $78,000 in MicroCutter device and cartridge sales for the fiscal 2013 fourth quarter.

In addition to the units for the European clinical trial this quarter, we shipped 73 commercial MicroCutter devices and 420 cartridges, bringing cumulative commercial device shipments to over 200 and cumulative commercial cartridge shipments to more than 875.

During the fiscal 2013 fourth quarter, we shipped 1,049 PAS-Port systems bringing cumulative worldwide shipments of our PAS-Port system to 32,600 units. We shipped 130 C-Port systems during the quarter, with cumulative worldwide shipments of C-Port systems now over 13,800 units. Cost of product sales is approximately $915,000 for the fiscal 2013 fourth quarter, compared to approximately $763,000 for the same period 2012.

R&D expenses for the fiscal 2013 fourth quarter were $2.3 million, compared to approximately $2.2 million in the comparable quarter last fiscal year. We expect R&D expenses to be lower in future quarters as we complete much of the design and testing for reliability for the XCHANGE 30. Selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal 2013 fourth quarter was $1.4 million, compared to $1.5 million in the same period of fiscal 2012. Total operating costs and expenses for the fiscal 2013 fourth quarter, approximately $4.6 million, compared to approximately $4.5 million for the same period fiscal 2012.

For the fiscal 2013 fourth quarter, our net loss was $3.9 million or $0.08 per share, compared to $3.6 million or $0.10 per share for the comparable period last year. Cash and short-term investments at June 30, 2013, were approximately $12.4 million, compared to $16.9 million at March 31, 2013.

At this time, I will turn the call back to Bernard.

Thank you, Bob. Looking ahead into fiscal 2014, we expect to continue to book revenue from commercial sales of the XCHANGE 30 and further enhance the function and reliability of the product in the months ahead. We anticipate filing of our 510(k) application with the FDA next week. There is a statutory review period of 90 days for a traditional 510(k) submission and given the extent of our submission, with a large amount of data from our clinical trial, we believe it is prudent to expect a number of questions and interactions with the clearing agency. We look forward to keeping you apprised of our progress in the months ahead. It's an exciting time for Cardica.

At this time, we'd like to open the call for questions. [Operator Instructions]

And your first question comes from the line of Tao Levy representing Wedbush. Please proceed, sir.

Hi. Good afternoon.

Hi.

Hi, Tao.

Hi. So a few questions on my end. So first up, congratulations on obtaining the primary endpoint.

Thank you.

Thank you.

I guess, turning to the second part, the acute procedural success where it seems like you've encountered, there's a little bit of a learning curve. You said towards the end you were kind of at a 95%, I guess, reliability. How many patients made up that part of your analysis so far?

So that was the second half of the trial, almost exactly half of the patients that were enrolled of the, say, 160 total.

Got you. And...

Quite substantial. It's basically every patient that was enrolled 2013.

And was it sort of similar surgeons, too? That kind of had additional procedures and you could kind of look at it that way, by surgeon?

Well, we added two sites in 2013 with brand new surgeons. So the reduction in the acute procedure or the improvement in the acute procedural success is not totally attributable to surgeons just being better trained and more familiar with the device. There are actual improvements in the device that we've always talked about in these earnings calls that took effect.

Right. And looking sort of at the number of the XCHANGE 30 devices that were shipped in the quarter, obviously a little bit lower than what we were looking for. Any reason why there weren't sort of more of those shipped out?

Well, it's summer right now in Europe. That has a big effect. That's the first thing. The second is that it's not really our primary focus to elicit sales as much as getting more experience with the device in various procedures and that we are getting in sufficient amounts. And, therefore, the goal we've set for the quarter has been met. I know there may be a focus from some investors on the commercial aspect of this product and that is not where we are focusing right now. We are really focusing on getting this reliability as high, close to 100% as we can and that is almost independent of any commercial sale.

Okay. And in the past, when you talked about reliability, you've talked about it in sort of, it's going to take several months. Where do you feel we're at now with reliability? With just focusing on the blue right now?

Yeah. Good question. So reliability is a curve. It's, unfortunately, not a linear function. The closer you want to get to 100%, the harder it is to get. The more cases you have to do, larger denominator will then allow you to determine the types of failures that only happen one in a thousand or two in a thousand.

So I think we made great strides over the first six months of the trial, from 80% to 95%. We're basically stable at 95%. And the more cases we do, the more exotic types of failures we're seeing or not even failures. Most of what we see is surgeons using the device outside of the specified range. They do that with the competitive staplers too, but the staplers are so much bigger and so much more robust in what they can handle outside of the range than our delicate MicroCutter, which purposefully is designed to be small and, therefore, can't have that type of strength built in.

Now there are other ways we can compensate for that. Our goal is to make as big as a buffer around our specified range as possible and that's where most of our efforts are going into. It's not just dealing with failures. It's much more how can we – if our range for the blue is from 1.5 millimeters to 2 millimeters, how can we cover from 0.5 millimeter to 3 millimeter in tissue thickness even though the device is so delicate and small?

Got you. And I mean maybe part of the reason you run into that is because you're using the stapler in such complex patients already? But...

To some degree, yes.

Yeah. And you talked about a couple of the pediatric cases, were these the first cases where you've used the stapler in pediatrics? And kind of what's the opportunity you feel like in that market versus the adult population?

I think it's really good and not – I mean good for Cardica may not mean good for a company that has $1 billion in sales, but good for us is any meaningful sales number that takes us in the millions and there's a lot of pediatric procedures and really there is no competition for us. The staplers on the market are too big.

We had the impression with some pediatric surgeons that they really had almost no experience with stapling devices and our product was the first one they've kind of been able to use ever. We've been approached by U.S. centers, too, regarding just these types of applications. So I think these types of niche markets are very attractive to Cardica because we can gain experience outside of the fierce competition that we expect once we enter the U.S. market from the likes of Covidien and Johnson & Johnson.

Great. Thank you very much.

You're welcome.

Thanks, Tao.

And your next question comes from the line of William Walker, individual investor. Please proceed.

Yes. Thank you for taking my question. First off, I would like to applaud your efforts in the clinical aspect of getting your stapler as close to 100% perfection as you can. But my question has to do with commercial aspects of it. My first question would be, how in pricing your product, how much does it compare with the pricing of other comparable, or as close to being comparable staplers on the market as they are? And is this a relevant factor with surgeons?

It is, to answer the latter part, more with the hospitals than the surgeons. There is a certain premium we believe surgeons are willing to pay for something as special as our product. But in general, our pricing policy or desire is to be equivalent in pricing. So that that is not an issue as our stapler is brought into the mix for hospitals.

Okay. Okay. Wonderful. My second question has to do with a more macro outlook. How do you expect the Affordable Care Act, specifically the tariff or fee on medical device manufacturers to affect your bottom line or business in the future as you go into the U.S. market?

We look at it as an added expense. It's a 2.8% tax, surtax on U.S. product revenue. So it's an unfortunate added expense, and for a small company, it's unfortunate that we have to have that. But that's just the way it is. We do not think it's going to inhibit us in any way. We just treat it as an added expense that we have to deal with.

Okay. One more question. I know that some of your competitors have a somewhat of a power-assisted, through battery packs or something, stapling device. Is there any long-term plans to approach that? Or do you see a need for it?

There are no plans to implement that into our product line for two reasons. Number one, the force-to-fire in our product is fairly low. It's actually significantly lower than the competitive staplers. So the need to assist by adding a motor with a battery is not there.

And more importantly, I think ecologically, throwing a battery away after each use, as it is with one of our competitors, I think is questionable. That's my personal opinion. And that's something I'd want to avoid at all costs. I think it's not necessary. It's an interesting feature but not necessary for our product as we see it at the moment.

Okay. Great. I applaud your opinion. Thank you very much for taking my questions.

Absolutely. Pleasure.

Thank you.

And your next question comes from the line of Dan Trang, representing Stonegate Securities. Please proceed.

Yeah. Thanks for taking my call. You mentioned earlier in the call that you expected R&D to be lower in future quarters. I wanted to know what was the main driver behind that?

We're doing a very large amount of testing and iterating on the XCHANGE 30 product to produce the improvement in the device from 80% to 95% reliability. We feel a lot of that effort is behind us, but it's very expensive because the parts are expensive. And testing, once you, of course, test products internally then you can't use them externally.

Okay. And a percent of, maybe the best way to say this is user error in regards to the PAS-Port – not PAS-Port, the MicroCutter. Can you give us any rough sketch of that? And kind of what was the main reason behind the kind of user error? Was it kind of education?

That's a good question. 40% of the acute procedural success failures we've seen were attributed to user error, which included loading errors, which included false sequence in the handle. And the way, I mean, the way we are addressing that is, number one, by improving or changing our instructions for use. But more importantly, we've redesigned the loading features on our cartridges to make that much simpler and less prone to an error.

And as you may have recalled from earlier earnings calls, we have a new handle that will be coming out shortly that has a totally different sequence or actually a very similar sequence to what our customers are used to. And we believe with that, the errors will go way down.

Okay. And the redesign of this loading feature, is that going to require an additional resubmission to the regulatory bodies or...

No. It's already been implemented second half of the trial. So part of the data is already in there.

Okay. All right. Thank you.

You're welcome.

Thank you.

And there are no further questions at this time.

Okay. Well, thank you very much for being on the call. We hope to see some of you at the Wedbush Healthcare Conference in New York, August 13, where we intend to give a presentation on the outcome of the clinical trial. Thank you very much. Have a good day. Bye-bye.

Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes the presentation for today's conference. You may now all disconnect and have a wonderful day.