Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Robert Y. Newell — Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer, Dextera Surgical, Inc.
Julian N. Nikolchev — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Dextera Surgical, Inc.
Joel Dunning — Cardiothoracic Surgeon, Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, James Cook University Hospital
Tao L. Levy — Analyst, Wedbush Securities, Inc.
Charles Edward Haff — Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Dextera Surgical Fiscal Fourth Quarter 2016 Financial Results Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

I would like to introduce your host for today's conference, Mr. Bob Newell, CFO. Sir, please begin.

Thank you. Good afternoon. Thank you for participating in our fiscal 2016 fourth quarter financial results conference call. This conference call will include forward-looking statements, including all statements regarding continued clinical and other developments, future product features, future regulatory approvals, commercial launch, and use of products in our planned MicroCutter product line, including our MicroCutter 5/80, including the timing thereof, and our expectations regarding future support for and sales of our MicroCutter products, and automated anastomosis products. The words expect, believe, plan, continue, anticipate, opportunity, intend, will and similar words are intended to identify these forward-looking statements. Any statements contained in this conference call that relate to future events, results or predictions are forward-looking statements.

There are a number of important factors that could cause our results to differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements, including those set forth in our press release of today, as well as other risks detailed from time-to-time in our reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including our current report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2016 under the caption Risk Factors. We expressly disclaim any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements. You're encouraged to read our reports filed with the SEC available at www.sec.gov.

At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to Julian Nikolchev, Dextera Surgical's President and CEO for a corporate update.

Thank you, Bob. Good afternoon and thank you for participating on our call. During fiscal 2016, Dextera made significant progress towards our primary objective to bring the MicroCutter 5/80, the world's smallest profile articulating surgical stapling device to surgeons around the globe to enable less invasive and minimally invasive procedures, which we anticipate will lead to better patient outcomes. To be clear, the MicroCutter 5/80 is a device we've previously called the Generation 4. We accomplished several key milestones with steady progress towards improving clinical performance of our stapling device, securing clinical adoption from key opinion leaders, and preparing the market for commercialization of the MicroCutter.

We continue to believe that successful commercialization of our disruptive technology targeting the 2 billion surgical stapler market will depend on three key components; one, clinical performance of the MicroCutter 5/80 which works with both white and blue staple cartridges; two, successful early adoption of key opinion leaders in high-volume centers who have participated in broader training and education initiatives as we expand our market presence; and three, the development and execution of an effective market awareness and surgeon training program. Our results to-date show that the MicroCutter XCHANGE 30, the white-only device, is performing with high reliability with approximately 2.5% of firings requiring intervention from bleeding, consistent with the market at staplers today.

We have identified and addressed factors that drive consistent performance of the MicroCutter 5/80. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016 as we did with the MicroCutter XCHANGE 30 with the white-cartridge only, our engineering team validated and verified the performance and reliability of the MicroCutter 5/80. We're currently starting what we call the market preference testing for the MicroCutter 5/80 with selected group of key surgeons. Market preference testing is intended to validate the clinical benefits of the MicroCutter 5/80 in select clinical applications including thoracic, pediatric and solid organ surgeries, and to provide us with the following information; identifying and validate that we deliver the benefits required and expected by surgeons; define the key patient population where these benefits are most clear; identify device-performance parameters that maybe specific for each clinical use, thus identifying possible product extension opportunities for procedures specific to MicroCutter; and develop product training, market positioning and marketing and sales programs to drive adoption and grow revenue.

One of the surgeons who has been using the MicroCutter and is involved with our market preference testing is Dr. Joel Dunning. We've invited him to join the call today to describe a bit more about his use of the MicroCutter, as well as his rationale for using the device. At this time, it is my pleasure to introduce Dr. Dunning, an internationally renowned cardiothoracic surgeon practicing in the UK. He currently spends the majority of his time performing minimally invasive thoracic surgery. Dr. Dunning?

Thank you, Julian. It's a pleasure to participate on the call today. I'm a surgeon from England. I perform about a 100 lung resections a year. The vast majority of our patients need to have surgery to remove a section or full lobe of their lung primarily due to cancerous lesions. This is known as a lobectomy and is performed in one of two ways today. So a lobectomy can be performed as a thoracotomy. This is where an incision is made on the side of the chest between the ribs, and the ribs are then spread apart so the surgeon can see into the chest cavity to remove the cancerous tumor. This is the most painful incision in surgery as unlike other incisions, it cannot be kept still as the patient recovers. So the recovery emboss significant pain medication in about five to seven days in the hospital with an extended recovery at home.

So alternatively, a lobectomy can be formed in a less-evasive manner using video-assisted thoracic surgery known as VATS. During a VATS procedure, small incisions are made between the ribs and the chest cavity and the surgery is performed through these holes with the assistance of a camera known as thoracoscope and the surgical tools that fit through these incisions. But, minimizes the spreading of the ribs, the size of the [ph] ports (07:10) for the tools, and typically patients spend three to four days in the hospital with a more rapid recovery at home. Today, this is [indiscernible] (07:18) thoracic surgeons to make for about 45% of all lobectomies are performed using VATS, and this procedure is now standard for new surgeons training thoracic surgery. In the UK, the percentage is similar, and across Europe, the percentage can be as high as 70% in countries like Denmark for VATS surgery.

Having been in this profession for more than 13 years, I'm very interested in the move towards less-invasive procedures to reduce tissue dissection and patient recovery time, and in continuing to innovate to make the operation as minimally invasive as possible. So key factor in the move towards a less invasive techniques is the advancement of visualization and detection techniques. Today, we're able to identify cancerous tumors at earlier stages, but may be possible to remove a portion of a lobe rather than a full lobe due to the smaller size. And in my practice, I've developed a variation under that procedure called microlobectomy. This is similar to the VATS procedure performed widely today, but it uses only 5-millimeter trocars between the ribs. Previously, surgeons have been using 10 to 12-millimeter trocars, but as intercostal space is a [ph] small (08:31), the rate of damage to intercostals nerves with these port is still quite high.

But the availability of a MicroCutter has allowed me to pioneer this procedure as it is the first surgical stapler with a 5-millimeter diameter and also an 80-degree articulation. Currently, available other staplers are 12 to 15 millimeters in size, and if pushed through the intercostals spaces, they still can cause significant pain to the intercostals nerves. I've been amazed by the lack of pain experienced by patients undergoing microlobectomy. The difference from my VATS patients is I believe significant. The most important difference is that these patients have not had an uncomfortable night whether [indiscernible] (09:13) pressing on their patient-controlled [indiscernible] (09:15). They are more well rested. They are alert and more ready to have a full day of activity on day one. This has been a major difference to their recovery allowing for faster ambulation, quicker drain removal and short hospital stay. In fact, more than 20% of my patients are ready to go home on the day after the procedure, and my average hospital stay is only three days now.

Personally, I performed more than 70 microlobectomies, and I have been invited at the Mayo Clinic, Copenhagen, Cardiff, Bristol, Edinburgh to teach other surgeons about this modification to the VATS procedure. In addition, I've been invited to speak at two major international conferences to talk about MicroCutters and the microlobectomy. I've also established a website with video instructions to spread awareness of this alternative technique to significantly improve patient outcome. I'm currently preparing a paper publication on our international experience with this technique, and it's expected to be published in the European Journal of Cardio-Thoracic Surgery later this year. So coming back to the MicroCutter, I believe that this device is a game changer that's allowed me to develop this procedure. It allows less dissection of tissue, provides the easy placement and maneuverability within the tight space of the chest, and increases visibility by not obscuring other vessels.

Of note, the MicroCutter facilitates the microlobectomy due to its size, but I also find it useful in other procedure approaches. Currently, uniportal VATS lobectomy is very popular internationally. The MicroCutter greatly helps in this form of lobectomy as its excellent reticulation allows the vessels to be more easily stapled with better vision down a single incision. Also in robotic surgery, the bedside assistant finds the use of the MicroCutter much easier than standard stapler around the small delicate vessels. And I've used the device on both arteries and veins in every lobe of the lungs with good outcome.

So, I'm happy to answer clinical questions at the end of the call. But at this time, I'd like to turn the call back to Julian.

Thank you so much, Dr. Dunning, for spending some time with us and really appreciate sharing your experience with the MicroCutter. We have – and what you have accomplished with your patients is just amazing. I have seen some of those patients myself when I visited your facilities.

As you've heard from Dr. Dunning, the MicroCutter has the ability to facilitate new procedures and is enabling others. We believe our clinical performance improvements have made a substantial difference in the user experience.

In July, we received 510(k) market clearance for the blue cartridge for use with the MicroCutter 5/80. The blue cartridge is intended for transection and resection in multiple open or minimally invasive urologic, thoracic and pediatric surgical procedures, as well as application for transection, resection, and/or creation of anastomoses in the small and large intestine, and the transection of the appendix. With this clearance, we're initiating market preference testing with a select group of key opinion leaders in the UK, Germany, and the United States. We tend to focus on narrow and deep-market penetration, gaining feedback on the performance and the most advantageous uses of the device from surgeons who understand the device well.

During the quarter, we announced the leading pediatric surgeon, Dr. Oliver Muensterer, in Germany completed a first-of-its-kind procedure using the MicroCutter 5/80 successfully in a laparoscopic duodenal atresia repair in a newborn baby. This is an excellent example of how our technology can enable novel, less invasive procedures that offer significant benefits to patients.

Recall that we are focused on specific procedural areas going deep within accounts. In United States, there are approximately 2.5 million procedures annually that require surgical staplers. We are targeting a specific subset of those procedures, specifically VATS, pediatric and solid organ surgery, such as liver and kidney procedures. This represents a little more than 280,000 procedures and a $380 million market opportunity in the U.S. alone. And as our MicroCutter receives wider adoption, we plan to explore other clinical applications where it offers clear clinical and patient benefits. At this time, we remain committed to tightly control market preference testing focused on key accounts to demonstrate clinical performance before expanding to broader distribution.

We have initiated a post-market registry called the MicroCutter-Assisted Thoracic Surgery Hemostasis registry, or MATCH registry, to evaluate the hemostasis and end-of-use – and ease-of-use of the MicroCutter device in real world setting. We believe that hemostasis is the most important aspect of stapler performance. And there are very few publications on this aspect in particular.

The MATCH registry is a prospective, open-label multi-center registry that will enroll up to 120 patients requiring surgical stapling during lobectomy or segmentectomy. Both open and video-assisted procedures will be included with 30-day follow-up for all patients. The registry will include leading clinics in Germany, Spain, Scotland and UK as well as Mayo Clinic, MD Anderson and University of Alabama in the United States.

We're initiating sites for the registry now, have enrolled our first patient, and anticipate that data will be available in two to three quarters. Our intention is to present the registry in a major medical meeting and publish the data in a peer review publication.

To support our effort in the field, we appointed Dr. Mark Soberman to the position of Medical Director. Dr. Soberman is a practicing thoracic surgeon who also serves as the Medical Director of the Oncology Service Line and the Chief Physician Executive, Monocacy Health Partners at Frederick Regional Health System in Frederick, Maryland.

Among his many professional activities, he's a reviewer of the Annals of Thoracic Surgery and a member of variety of surgical, oncology, and physician executive societies. We believe Dr. Soberman will be instrumental in helping us expand the presence of the MicroCutter 5/80 in minimally invasive and robotic-assisted surgeries by working with key opinion leaders around the world.

Turning to business development. Last week, we announced that we have initiated a joint development program with Intuitive Surgical to develop new robotic stapler products for the da Vinci Surgical System. The development program resulted from Intuitive completing a six-month feasibility evaluation of the MicroCutter as part of an ongoing license agreement. Of note, Intuitive believes that there has been significant progress in the development of the MicroCutter device since the time of our initial 2010 agreement.

Under the terms of the December 2015 agreement, Intuitive will be responsible for the development of the stapler, and Dextera will be responsible for the development of the stapler cartridge reload. Dextera will receive financial support for the development of the cartridge reload, tooling, and initial manufacturing as well as unit-based royalty on commercial sales once the product is on the market. We're extremely pleased to be moving forward with Intuitive and believe the progress is a validation of the hard work and product refinement we have completed over the last year, and it is aligned with our own plans to expand the MicroCutter product line.

Also, during the quarter, we completed a rebranding initiative, changing the company name to Dextera Surgical, Inc. to reflect our evolution and evolution of the company and the MicroCutter surgical stapler technology portfolio, broadening the company's focus beyond its cardiac product line originally introduced for use in cardiac surgery. It's been a very busy year and we have made significant progress from a clinical, commercial and corporate perspective. We still have significant work to do, although the momentum is well underway.

At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to Bob to discuss our financial results for the quarter. And then, I'll come back to review our milestones. Bob?

Thanks, Julian. For the fiscal 2016 fourth quarter, total revenue was $723,000 compared with $701,000 for the same period of fiscal 2015. Gross revenue from the MicroCutter totaled $62,000 for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016, though net revenue was $48,000 based on the amount of blue cartridge returns in the quarter compared to a gross revenue of $59,000 and net revenue of $19,000 in the third quarter of fiscal 2016.

During the third quarter of fiscal 2016, we prioritized component supply away from the MicroCutter with the white cartridge only to the MicroCutter 5/80 to prepare for a broader commercial launch. This negatively impacted MicroCutter revenue for the fourth quarter as the number of MicroCutter devices available for sale is limited at this time. We will continue to focus on market preference testing and targeting clinical adoption by key opinion leaders in calendar year 2016 with anticipated sales ramp expected in calendar year 2017.

Total product sales for the fiscal 2016 fourth quarter were $660,000 compared with $684,000 for the same period fiscal 2015.

During the fiscal 2016 fourth quarter, we shipped 1,126 PAS-Port Systems, bringing cumulative worldwide shipments of our PAS-Port Systems to over 44,500 units. We shipped 50 C-Port Systems during the quarter with cumulative worldwide shipments now over 15,000 units. Cost of product sales was $1.093 million for fiscal 2016 fourth quarter compared to $851,000 for the same period of 2015. Cost of product sales includes approximately $173,000 for scrap and obsolete inventory costs for the MicroCutter, and a lower volume of available product contributed to our higher cost of product sales during the quarter.

R&D expenses were $1.6 million for the fiscal 2016 fourth quarter compared with $1.8 million for the fiscal 2015 fourth quarter. Selling, general, administrative expenses for the fiscal 2016 fourth quarter were approximately $2.2 million. This compares with approximately $1.8 million in the same period of fiscal 2015. Total operating cost and expenses for the fiscal 2016 fourth quarter are approximately $4.9 million compared with approximately $4.5 million for the same period of fiscal 2015.

Net loss for the fourth quarter of 2016 was approximately $4.3 million or $0.48 per share compared to a net loss of $3.9 million or $0.43 per share for the same period of fiscal 2015. The net loss for fiscal 2015 is on a split-adjusted basis as we implemented a 1-for-10 reverse stock split effective in February 2016.

Cash, cash equivalents and investments at June 30, 2016 were approximately $12.7 million compared with $16.5 million at March 31, 2016 with a cash utilization during the quarter of $3.8 million.

I'll now turn the call back to Julian.

Thank you, Bob. Building on our positive momentum, our key objectives during the remainder of the calendar 2016 are to increase clinical adoption of the MicroCutter in Germany and the UK, demonstrate clinical adoption for VATS, pediatrics and solid organ surgery by a select group of centers in both Europe and the U.S., complete the initial evaluation cases which we call our market preference testing with the MicroCutter 5/80 device in the third quarter of calendar 2016, initiate a selective launch in the fourth quarter of calendar 2016, by the end of the calendar year establishing improved MicroCutter supply chain using the most appropriate technologies, and finally, by the end of the calendar year announce Dextera's product pipeline.

In summary, during the fiscal 2016, we brought in a new management team with proven commercial track records. We have significantly improved clinical performance of the MicroCutter. We're working to drive clinical adoption of the MicroCutter in key indications and go deep within accounts, and we are preparing the market for a larger commercial launch. In addition, we continue to look for opportunities to maximize the value of our cardiac surgery products. We look forward to keeping you [ph] appraised (23:00) of our progress. We hope to you see you, some of you at least, at the Wedbush PacGrow Health Conference on August 17.

At this time, we're ready to open the call for questions. Operator? [Operator Instructions]

Our first question will come from the line of Tao Levy from Wedbush Securities. Your line is open.

Yeah. Hi. Good afternoon.

Hi, Tao.

Good afternoon.

So, maybe I could start with, just to be clear on the staplers, so the Gen 4, we understand now you're calling the 5/80. The stapler that's currently being used, the white only, what's the name of that?

Well, it's called the MicroCutter XCHANGE 30. That was the...

Okay.

...original name for that device.

Got you. So, obviously – okay. And I just wanted to be clear about that because some of my next questions are related to the product.

Certainly.

Do we have Dr. Dunning still on the line?

Yes. He's on the line.

Okay. Perfect. So, a question for you. Have you had the opportunity to evaluate the 5/80 at this point?

Yeah. So, let me – Tao, just to jump in first and I'll let you know that we have done some limited evaluation and Dr. Dunning was one of the first folks to use the device. I'll now pass it on to Dr. Dunning.

Yeah. Hi. Thanks for the question. Yeah. We've just had a first couple of firings with the 5/80 in blue and white. Early days, but yeah, we've had a couple of firings.

Got you. And when you say fire, that's not in clinical use, it's more on a...?

Yeah. Yeah. No, I did it in a lobectomy. So, yeah, we use a blue on an upper lobe vein and a white on an artery and we had some satisfactory firings. So, we literally only got to have a day with it, but very shortly, we'll be doing some more. But it all looked good when we fired that device.

Thanks. And so, right now, in your cases, let's say in the [ph] 100 (25:27) that you perform annually, what percent of the stapler firings are using a blue cartridge from another manufacturer?

So, up until now, the MicroCutter is only being available in the [indiscernible] (25:48) earlier this year. What I would like the MicroCutter and what I hope that the new 4th Gen 5/80 will allow me to do is use the MicroCutter for all vascular firings and then I'll just have to use an alternative device for parenchyma, which would be a couple of fires and a bronchus. So, my intention is hopefully very shortly to be using the MicroCutter for all vascular firings. So, in an upper lobe, that's going to be sort of four to six firings, and the lower lobe probably three to four firings.

And would you use the blue cartridge in those cases rather than use a different stapler?

Yeah. When the 5/80 comes to me in white and blue, I've used the blue for larger vessels, so inferior or superior pulmonary veins or basal pulmonary artery. And then I've used white for smaller segmental vessels or if you're doing a segmental resection.

Got you. Perfect. And then for Julian, in terms of inventory, right now, you've kind of mentioned that you're a little bit inventory constrained on just the MicroCutter 30. And I don't know how much production you have for the new 5/80. But what should we be thinking in terms of metrics or targets in terms of how much product you'd like to have available next month, for example?

Well, we are making – we have decided to make a switch from the MicroCutter XCHANGE 30, which is the white only device to the new MicroCutter 5/80 and we are in the process of undergoing that switch. So, we have some inventory in-house for the MicroCutter XCHANGE, but we are not making any more of that product. So, we are making that transition. We are right in the process of transitioning to the MicroCutter 5/80. And we are scaling up our production. So, by the end of the year, we think our supply chain would be supplying us sufficient products for our expansion.

And, Bob, since you were there prior to Julian, the testing that's going on or that went on for the 5/80 as compared to when the company originally launched the stapler that could fire both the white and the blue, what degree of confidence [ph] that we're – (28:29) you're seeing the positive results you're seeing here in the early stages, you've kind of tested that out, whether it's in animal models or bench studies [indiscernible] (28:40) six months down the road, we have a repeat of what happened previously?

So, what we're doing is we're doing a more traditional product development effort, and one of the key things that we did throughout last year was characterize the different subsystems of the product and really to understand more what the key variables were in determining things like staple form height and making staple form height consistent across different tissue thicknesses and that kind of thing. So, we did a fair amount of testing. We've always done a fair amount of testing. I think clearly we did more this year in-house. But I think the key difference now is that we're – you always learn more in clinical settings than you do in a wet lab or in testing in a wet lab. And we want to make sure with our key customers that have experience with our product that the product is performing appropriately and are meeting expectations across a wide range of tissue. That's why we're doing this market preference testing. And we don't know any other way to prove that we're there than doing that.

And just to add a little color to that as well is that we are taking the approach for the MicroCutter 5/80 of what I've sort of considered a classical clinical product development approach where we're looking at doing a solid and thorough pre-clinical testing and validation of the device based on what we've learned in the last year, a well thought-out market preference testing where we're going to learn a lot of the clinical performance parameters, and also developing clinical performance data through the MATCH study that will support the performance of that. And these are the three parameters that we're putting together in preparation for the expansion of the MicroCutter 5/80.

Okay. Great. Thank you very much.

Thank you. Our next question will come from the line of Charles Haff from Craig-Hallum. Your line is open.

Hi. Thanks for taking my questions today. I had a few questions for Dr. Dunning, if I could. Hello, Dr. Dunning. How are you?

Hello. Great. Thanks.

Good. I had a couple of questions. When you perform your microlobectomy procedure, how important is it for you to have the articulation that the XCHANGE 30 and the 5/80 device, the 80 degrees of articulation, how important is that for the microlobectomy procedure?

Well, I think the small size of the MicroCutter gets all the headlines, but actually the 80 degrees articulation is as useful, even more useful, absolutely fantastic having that 80 degrees. I've done quite a few uniportal lobectomies as well and it comes into its own when you're trying to do it all with a single incision and currently uniportal surgery is kind of sweeping across the whole of Asia and India and a lot of Europe and getting that bend on it and also very small [ph] formal (32:01) device is actually fantastic. And I think they all are now with the new title of 5/80 sort of trying of demonstrate the 80 degrees articulation, but is absolutely fantastically important. I'm doing a talk at [ph] EAXA (32:15) this year on the MicroCutter uniportal surgery as an invited talk specifically because I think people are seeing the use of it.

In uniportal surgery, you can only get the artery first, which is quite limiting, and I actually think the MicroCutter does allow you more options. You can get a vein or an artery first, which you can't do normally. So, I think it actually is going to really help uniportal surgery.

Okay. And if you think about the different levels of articulation, I know the larger devices have only 45 degrees or so. Would you say that with microlobectomy, that 45 degrees would be adequate, if it did have a 5 millimeter size to it or is the additional articulation from 45 degrees and up to 80 degrees extremely helpful in the procedures that you do?

I'd say it is very helpful. I think when you're doing multiport surgery; you've got more ports [ph] and options (33:20) to put your stapler into so that you can potentially reduce the articulation. Uniportal is the real one where you only got one port and it's really useful. So I think, they'll probably do about 30% of the time articulate beyond sort of 60 or 80 degrees basically. So I do still use it quite a lot in my multiport surgery. But I suppose if you were then to ask why we just stuck to a 45-degree, why not 40-degree, would be useful. It will still be an advantage, but it would be a shame to lose that fantastic articulation.

That's very helpful. I appreciate you quantifying it for us. And then the podium presentations, I think you mentioned there were two presentations that you've been invited to. What's going to be the forum for those presentations?

I've already given a talk to the Society of Thoracic Surgery (sic) [Society of Thoracic Surgeons] (34:21) which is America's biggest conference, that was in January last year. Then, I went off to the Mayo Clinic, invited for VATS to talk about microlobectomy. I've been invited to the Australian and New Zealand Society of Cardiovascular Surgery (sic) [Australian and New Zealand Society of Cardiac & Thoracic Surgeons] (34:34) to talk about microlobectomy, and that's November this year, and that's their biggest conference. And I'm invited also talking to [indiscernible] (34:44) in October this year, and that's specifically on the MicroCutter. In addition to that, I've got some videos on CTSNet, the world's biggest website for cardiothoracic surgery. So probably two might actually be under playing it a little bit.

Okay. Thank you. And then in terms of performance for the MicroCutter 5/80, I know that the performance that I've heard in various areas is expected to be kind of in that 98%, 97% range. For your microlobectomy, where do you think the acceptable performance level should be in terms of firings?

Very good question, very difficult question. I'm a surgeon, I'd like perfect, but nothing is perfect. So the MicroCutter 5/80 is brand new. As I say, I've only just had the opportunity to use it, but I do think that [indiscernible] (35:43) is really important. We do have some big vessels in lung surgery, and half the blood volume goes through each lung. So we don't like it when they bleed. So I'd love a 100%, but I suppose you'll never get 100%. So we're very early in testing the MicroCutter 5/80 and participating in the MATCH study. So hopefully, soon we'll get some real figures rather than being able to guess. But I would very much [indiscernible] (36:11) too much. And then the other thing is what bleeding is bleeding. So there's different types of bleeding. So you use it as a little bit [indiscernible] (36:18) little clip on it, I wouldn't be too bothered, and obviously, you wouldn't want more than that. So we're going to categorize it in five different ways. So we'll be giving very accurate figures, as Julian said, hopefully in a few quarters time.

Okay. And just going at it from a little bit different angle, would it be fair to say that if the performance for a surgical stapler was in the 95% to 97% range, that would be unacceptable to you?

Well, if you talk 95%, that means 1 in 20 firings, it's going to have a bleed. So if you then think a little bit more about what do you mean by bleed, if those bleeds are just a little clip that I place on it just to stop a little loose, then I'm happy. If that means something really big that I have to re-stapler or open the patient, then that's really bad. So obviously 95%, one in 20, putting a little 5-millimeter clip on it is okay. But 95% where I have to open the patient one in 20 just because of the stapler obviously wouldn't be okay. And again, that's why when you talk about bleedings, we put a five-point scale that we're going to use in the MATCH study to really quantify that. But you wouldn't want one in 20 having to open your patient because of a technical error in a device.

Sure. Okay. And one more question for you that I had regarding NHS. So with the micro-lobectomy procedure, you have a much shorter hospital stay. The patient is more comfortable so on and so forth. Have you heard conversations or have there been inquiries from NHS regarding your microlobectomy procedure, where you feel that NHS might be putting efforts to kind of migrate the cardiothoracic surgery market in that direction?

So suppose in the UK it works slightly different, that surgeons have the ability to sight how they do their operations, just being down to Bristol to do microlobectomy with them. I've been to Cardiff to do one with them. I've been to Edinburgh to do one with them. I've had inquiries from [indiscernible] (38:35) and a few other minor inquiries. So what tends to happen is that we're a group of 70 surgeons and we know each other very well, and people invite you to sort of see if they like the look of it. And if they do like the look of it, then you pretty much have the ability to just make a quick business case to a hospital and then you can use the MicroCutter. So I think the NHS itself would be a barrier to adoption if surgeons really like what they see. And certainly if a surgeon gets a couple of days or a day less in hospital, they would actually flock to a different technique as long as they found it easy to perform. So I think, certainly in NHS, if surgeons like what they see, they will definitely take it up.

Okay. Well, that's great. I really appreciate you taking the questions. And maybe I can transition to Bob and Julian here. Regarding manufacturing guys, you mentioned that by the end of the calendar 2016, you hope to have the manufacturing processes kind of worked out for the MicroCutter 5/80 and where you're going to go. Could you kind of expand on that a little bit what are you working on now in terms of manufacturing? How far along are you? How many vendors are you speaking with now, or if you already narrowed it down to one? And maybe a little more color would be helpful. Thank you.

Sure. Yeah. The supply chain is a very important component for us to resolve, mainly because our devices are very sophisticated devices, and it's got a lot of complex parts. We have actually several vendors that we used, but couple of them are very critical, which makes some of the most important, most complex parts. And those are the ones where we've focused our efforts to improve reliability and supply. And we have indentified alternative vendors in both of those cases. And we are in the process of actually validating those vendors' devices. So we expect by the end of the year to have those vendors, which are providing at least at this point we feel a better quality product to us or a component. And we hope by the end of this calendar year to incorporate all that into our production. And that will improve our both quality and supply going forward.

Okay.

So there is really a couple of critical vendors I would say, and those are the ones we are tackling.

Okay. And then in terms of the validation of the vendors, has that process started now, or when do you expect that process to start and be completed on the validation piece?

Yeah. We just – what I call in the beginning of that process, we're getting first units just to make sure that we are calibrating correctly, our expectations with what they can deliver to us. So it's the beginning of the process. It's actually the effort to identify the right vendors, which has taken us the last few months was a big deal. There's not too many vendors that can make these products, and we're really happy that we've identified what we think are real alternatives.

And then, when would you expect to have the validation process completed in order to hit your milestone by having your vendors identified by the end of the year?

It will be probably – I mean, it's hard to say these things, as you know, but we expect Q4 of this year, calendar year.

Okay. Well, thanks for taking my questions, and thanks again, Dr. Dunning, for being available.

Thanks.

No problem.

Thank you. At this time, I'm showing no further questions. I'd like to turn the call back over to Julian Nikolchev for any closing remarks.

Thank you, operator, and thank you all for joining our call today. And we also especially want to thank Dr. Dunning for taking time of his busy practice, and also the evening of his time to participate on our call. We look forward to communicating our progress in the months ahead, and thank you.

Ladies and gentlemen, you may now disconnect. Everyone have a great day.