Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Robert Y. Newell — CFO, Secretary, VP & Head-Investor Relations, Cardica, Inc.
Bernard A. Hausen — President, CEO, Director & Chief Medical Officer, Cardica, Inc.
Yumi Odama — Analyst, McNicoll, Lewis & Vlak LLC
Sameer Harish — Analyst, ThinkEquity LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Second Quarter 2012 Cardica Financial Results Conference Call. My name is Chris, and I will be your conference moderator for today. Presently, all participants are in listen-only mode. Later, we will facilitate a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.

And at this time I would now like to turn the conference over to your presenter for today Mr. Bob Newell, CFO. Sir, you may proceed.

Thank you. Good afternoon and thank you for participating in our fiscal 2012 second quarter financial results conference call. Earlier today, we issued a press release setting forth our financial results. So please refer to the release for complete details.

This conference call will include forward-looking statements, including all statements regarding the continued clinical and other developments, product features, future CE marking, regulatory approval, and commercial launch and use of our products in our planned Microcutter product line, including our Microcutter XCHANGE 30 and XPRESS 30, including the timing thereof and our expectations regarding future support for and sales of our automated anastomosis products.

Any statements contained in this conference call that are not historical facts may be deemed to be forward-looking statements. The words believe, expect, anticipate, intend, will, continue, on tract, and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.

There are a number of important factors that could cause our results to differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements, including, that we may not be successful in our efforts to complete development and market the XCHANGE 30, conduct a single arm clinical trial or develop any other Microcutter products on our anticipated timeframes, if at all; if unexpected technical or developmental problems arise; that our Microcutter products such as the Microcutter XCHANGE 30 and XPRESS 30 may not obtain U.S. regulatory clearance, and that we may not achieve CE marking for our Microcutter XCHANGE 30 on our anticipated timeline, if at all, if unexpected technical, developmental or regulatory problems arise; that our current and any future products may never gain any significant degree of market acceptance; that any future products face development, regulatory, reimbursement and manufacturing risks; that our intellectual property rights may not provide adequate protection; that our sales, marketing and distribution strategy and capabilities may not be sufficient or successful; that we require substantial additional capital, which if not obtained, may prevent us from completing the development and commercialization of our Microcutter products; that general business and economic conditions may impair our ability to market and develop products; and risks related to our ability to raise additional capital, as well as other risks detailed from time to time in our reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2011.

We expressly disclaim any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements. You're encouraged to read our reports filed with the SEC, available at www.sec.gov.

At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Bernard Hausen, Cardica's President and CEO for a corporate update.

Thank you, Bob. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us on our call today. The last six weeks have been a period of evaluation and prioritization for Cardica, all with the results of positive momentum. While we continue to focus on the development of our Microcutter product line as the top priority for the company, we've had the ability to highlight the product features of our cardiac surgery products with key physicians in our normal course of business.

Under the new leadership of Chris Littel, our sales team successfully represented our currently marketed cardiac products at the recent Society of Thoracic Surgeons' annual meeting. During the meeting, we had productive interactions with a number of cardiothoracic surgeons. We have been able to highlight the benefit of using our cardiac products in less invasive bypass procedures. We do expect this effort to take time but are encouraged by the initial responses. We expect to return to a quarterly revenue rate of $1 million per quarter for this business in the near future. In addition, the substantial body of data generated from these products over the last several years continues to be important for surgeons pursuing less invasive cardiac procedures.

To capture additional data for our C-Port systems, we are conducting a post market surveillance study of our C-Port Distal Anastomosis System. The trial is known as the MAGIC study, which stands for Multi-center Assessment of Grafts in Coronaries and will enroll more than 100 patients. Principal investigator of this study will be Dr. Sam Balkhy of the Wisconsin Heart Hospital. Patients undergoing coronary bypass surgery will be enrolled in the trial and followed for a year to determine the patency or openness of the vessel at the follow-up date.

Also during STS, the small size and increased articulation of the Microcutter product continued to generate enthusiasm among our key prospects in Europe and the United States. Along these lines, we are focused on completing development of our Microcutter XCHANGE 30, our cartridge based device with a 5 millimeter shaft, in order to resume the clinical trial and initiate sales in Europe after obtaining the CE mark this quarter. In addition, we are implementing the necessary changes in the XPRESS 30, the multi-fire Microcutter device.

We expect to use the results of this trial for regulatory submissions in the United States. The clinical protocol for this trial allows the use of different staplers using the same staple design for safety evaluation. Concurrently, we are working to enhance the XPRESS 30 and anticipate the improved product will be available to be used during the latter portion of the clinical trial in combination with the XCHANGE 30.

I'd like to take a moment to talk about the input of Dr. Lee Swanstrom to-date. Last quarter we announced that he joined the Cardica team on a part-time basis as Medical Director to assist in developing our clinical launch strategy for the Microcutter product line. Dr. Swanstrom is well respected, world renown as a surgeon, trainer, and guest lecturer in addition to his thriving clinical practice in Portland.

As we get closer to the commercial introduction of the Microcutter product, Dr. Swanstrom has been instrumental in guiding our product enhancements and optimal features to address surgeons' needs, desires for less invasive surgical procedures. We look forward to our European commercial launch while we believe Dr. Swanstrom will be instrumental in helping us reach target surgeons in a way that resonates with their specific surgical practice.

At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Bob for a discussion of our financial results. Bob?

Thanks, Bernard. For the fiscal 2012 second quarter, total revenue was approximately $912,000 compared to approximately $1.2 million for the same period of fiscal 2011. License and development revenue of $84,000 for both the fiscal 2012 and 2011 second quarters was related to our license agreement with Intuitive Surgical.

Total product sales for the fiscal 2012 second quarter were approximately $811,000 compared with approximately $1.1 million for the same period in fiscal 2011. We hired two additional sales representatives for our cardiac surgery business, bringing the total to four, which we believe is an appropriate sales level to return us to $1 million run rate for this business.

During the fiscal 2012 second quarter, we shipped 1,027 PAS-Ports, bringing cumulative worldwide shipments of our PAS-Port systems to over 26,000 units. We recently announced that we have surpassed the deployment of 25,000 units; a milestone that we believe speaks to the benefit of this product in the field of cardiothoracic surgery.

We shipped 251 C-Port systems during the quarter with cumulative worldwide shipments of C-Port systems now over 12,600 units. Cost of product sales is approximately $1.1 million for the fiscal 2012 second quarter, compared to $1 million for the same period of 2011.

Research and development expenses for the fiscal 2012 second quarter were approximately $1.5 million compared with approximately $2 million in the comparable quarter last year.

Selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal 2012 second quarter were $1.5 million compared to $1.6 million for the comparable quarter in fiscal 2011. Total cost and expenses for fiscal 2012 second quarter were approximately $4 million, compared to approximately $4.5 million same period of 2011.

For the fiscal 2012 second quarter, our net loss was $3.2 million or $0.12 per share compared to $3.3 million or $0.13 per share for the comparable period last year. Cash and short-term investments at December 31, 2011, were approximately $7.6 million compared to $9.1 million at September 30, 2011.

As you know, we signed an agreement with Century Medical to distribute the Microcutter device in Japan. During the fiscal 2012 second quarter, we achieved the second and final milestone under this agreement. And at the end of December, we drew down the remaining $2 million loan under the agreement with Century.

At this time I'd like to turn the call back to Bernard.

Thank you, Bob. To provide an update on our anticipated product development timelines, we currently expect to complete internal design verification to apply the CE mark to our Microcutter XCHANGE 30 in this quarter. We expect to resume the clinical trial in Europe using the XCHANGE 30 in the second calendar quarter of 2012. And we expect to begin commercial launch of XCHANGE 30 in Europe shortly after trial initiation. We look forward to reporting our progress in the months ahead.

At this time we'd like to open the call for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Caroline Corner. You may proceed. [McNicoll, Lewis & Vlak]

Hi. This is Yumi Odama in for Caroline. Thank you for taking my questions today.

Hi.

Hi. How are you? As far as the XPRESS 30 goes, I know you said you're working on the design modifications for that. But, I was wondering if you could give any additional color on where you are in that status and how close you are to having that portion completed.

Yes. So some of the components that need to be changed on that product are metal injection molded components that require some tool changes and then a verification of the new parts and then verification of the whole tool with the new parts, which we anticipate will take a number of months. In terms of timing, we believe we're going to be able to reintroduce that product into the trial in the latter half of the trial.

Okay. And also as far as applying the CE mark to the XCHANGE 30, is it possible to get any other additional color on that as well?

We have an approval for our notified body from Europe to apply the CE mark to any Microcutter product within certain specifications. The XCHANGE 30 falls under that, which means once we have completed design verification and validation, we can apply the CE mark.

Okay. Thank you.

Welcome.

Now next question comes from the line of Sameer Harish [ThinkEquity LLC]. You may proceed.

Hi, guys. Good afternoon.

Hi.

Hi, Sameer.

Hi. I'll start with a financial question for Bob. It seems like the expenses were a little bit lower this quarter, not to be unexpected with the stoppage of the clinical trial. Would you expect that the cash burn there would pick back up as you begin the trial again?

Well, a couple of things, Sameer. First of all, the – on cost of product sales, little higher than normal, and if you look at our inventory position, it's because we – the inventory went down so much. We didn't make that many products this quarter. So the overhead was – had to be spread over more products so the cost of product sales for the cardiac surgery products was a little higher than we would normally expect particularly as sales increase in the future quarters.

Secondly, the burn for the quarter, the total cash burn for the quarter just ended was $3.5 million, $1 million of that was tooling, which was capitalized. So that's part of why the operating expenses were lower.

Okay.

I expect that – I think we're still comfortable with the burn rate in the range of $3 million to $3.5 million a quarter depending on how much money we spend on tooling. As you may recall, the clinical trial expenses are not expensive. It's just a follow-up interview and we just pay the hospital for that. We do give the product away, but the cost per patient is very modest. So as clinical trials go, it's not an expensive trial.

Okay, great. That's good clarity. And in terms of clinical trial, it's been now a few weeks, you've sort of had a little bit of time to reflect on the design of the trial. Understanding that the product itself is changing to some degree, can you just sort of revisit for us your thoughts on size of the trial and sort of the – how long you think it will take to enroll, those kinds of things?

Yeah. Sameer, the trial design is not changing. The trial has – the protocol has been written to allow a number of Microcutter products to be used with the same staple. The trial is primarily to evaluate safety of the staple, not the stapler, and therefore exchanging product A with product B is not an issue at all. The endpoints all remain the same.

So if we can stay on course and get the CE mark this quarter and start the trial in the beginning of the next quarter, we anticipate completing enrollment by towards the end of the year and on the heels of that being able to submit our 510(k) to the FDA. It's a 90-day review period, statutory for 510(k) that may require some back and forth. So we're anticipating right now that we should be able to get the trial approved or the product cleared by the summer of 2013.

Okay. And will all the patients be studied in Europe or are you thinking about including a U.S. branch?

No, this is a entirely European trial. We do not have an IDE approval to do this trial in the U.S.

Okay, understood. And how many surgeons are you expected to include in the trial?

Be up to 10 sites maximum, probably two to three surgeons per site.

Okay, great. Thank you very much, guys.

Thank you, Sameer.

Thank you, Sameer.

[Operator Instructions] And we have no further questions at this time. I would now like to turn the call back over to the presenters for any closing remarks.

Thank you very much for joining us on the call today. Have a great day. Thank you. Bye-bye.

Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes today's conference. Thank you so much for your participation. You may now disconnect. Have a great day.