corrected transcript


Cardica, Inc.
 
CRDC
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 29, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your patience, and welcome


to the Cardica Fiscal Year 2010 First Quarter Financial Results Conference Call. My name is Bill


and I will be your conference coordinator for today. At this time all participates are in a listen-only


mode. We will be facilitating a question-and-answer session towards the end of today’s conference.


[Operator Instruction] As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.


I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today’s conference call, Mr. Bob


Newell, Chief Financial Officer. Please proceed, sir.


Robert Y. Newell, Chief Financial Officer and Vice President, Finance


Thank you. Good afternoon and thank you for participating in our financial results conference call.


Earlier today we issued a press release setting forth our financial results, so please refer to the


release for complete details.


Before we begin, I would like to remind you that we will be making forward-looking statements


about Cardica’s future, expectations and plans, including statements with respect to our fiscal year


2010 financial guidance, further clinical adoption and future sales of Cardica’s automated and


anastomosis products, and the future development and commercial launch, including the timing


thereof and commercial potential of the Cardica Microcutter.


Any statements that are not historical facts may be deemed to be forward-looking statements. The


words potential, expect, will, anticipate, plan, believe, intend, and similar expressions are intended


to identify forward-looking statements. There are a number of important factors that could cause


our results to differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements, including


that our current and any future products may never gain any significant degree of market


acceptance; that we may not be successful in our efforts to develop the Cardica Microcutter and


expand our product portfolio; that any future products face development, regulatory, reimbursement


and manufacturing risks; that our intellectual property rights may not provide adequate protection;


that our sales, marketing and distribution strategy and capabilities may not be sufficient or


successful; that recent workforce reductions and general business and economic conditions may


impair our ability to market and develop products; and that we will need additional financing to


complete development of the Cardica Microcutter as well as other risks detailed from time-to-time in


our reports filed with the SEC, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended


June 30, 2009.


We expressly disclaim any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to


any forward-looking statements. You are encouraged to read our reports filed with the SEC


available at www.sec.gov.


I’ll now turn the call over to Bernard Hausen, Cardica’s President, CEO and Co-Founder to give you


a business update.


Bernard A. Hausen, President, Chief Executive Officer and Co-Founder


Thank you, Bob. Good afternoon everyone. Thank you for joining us on our call today. First quarter


of fiscal 2010 was very productive both in our commercial and our development operations.


Our majority of the activity may not yet be visible to our external audiences. Our cardiac surgery


business, we solidified our sales team with the addition of several new independent distributors and


manufacturers’ representatives. We’ve been able to use the summer month, a time when
corrected transcript


Cardica, Inc.
 
CRDC
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 29, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


cardiothoracic surgeons typically perform fewer bypass procedures as a period of training for our


contract sales representatives.


Today, we have 22 trained independent distributors and manufacturers’ representatives who are


now in the field gaining practical sales experience with our products. Our experience to-date


suggests that it is critical to have representatives [Inaudible] several bypass procedures for each


surgeon to influence behavior patterns and clinical adoptions of our automated anastomosis


product.


It is important to note that the outside representatives we’ve brought on Board to support our core


sales team focused on specialized region of the country and have extensive experience selling


complex devices to cardiothoracic surgeons. As such, the learning curve is substantially shorter


than it should be for less experienced medical device reps.


Very recently, the independent surgeons and manufacturers’ representatives began introducing our


products into their existing network of cardiothoracic surgeons. With this new sales model, we


believe we will be able to service our existing customer base while incrementally increasing clinical


adoptions and containing our costs. Moving forward we plan to expand our total external sales


force, as we believe this will benefit our current and future accounts.


Turning to product development; we continue to make good progress in the development of our


Microcutter, a true multi-fire endolinear cutter and stapling device that can be used in general,


thoracic, pediatric, gynecologic, urologic and other surgical procedures. We are receiving input from


key opinion leaders across countries and share optimal features and benefits and handling.


The feedback from these KOLs continues to be overwhelmingly positive, validating both the design


and product development approach.


In addition, we believe that the completion of our recent private financing further demonstrates


investor confidence in the potential of our Microcutter program and the commercial opportunity for


this innovative line of potential product.


Moving forward, we have an aggressive timeline for the Cardica Microcutter. We planned to initiate


animal testing in the third quarter of fiscal 2010 with the intention of completing both acute and


chronic animal studies by June 2010.


Concurrent with the animal testing, we anticipate that we will complete design validation of the


Cardica Microcutter by September 2010 and we intend to initiates human feasibility testing by the


end of 2010 calendar year.


Ultimately, we anticipate launching the product subject to favorable results from our animal and


human feasibility testing and FDA clearance in calendar year 2011.


At this time, I’d turn the turn the call over to Bob for review of our financial results for the quarter.


Bob?


Robert Y. Newell, Chief Financial Officer and Vice President, Finance


Thanks, Bernard. For the fiscal 2010 first quarter, total revenue was approximately $947,000


compared with $2.1 million for the same period in fiscal 2009. Total product sales for the fiscal 2010


first quarter were approximately 817,000 compared with approximately 1.6 million for the same


period in fiscal 2009.