Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Robert Y. Newell — CFO, Secretary, VP & Head-Investor Relations, Cardica, Inc.
Bernard A. Hausen — President, Chief Executive & Medical Officer, Cardica, Inc.
Sameer Harish — Senior Research Analyst, ThinkEquity LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Fourth Quarter Fiscal Year 2011 Cardica Earnings Conference Call. My name is Jonathan, and I'm your operator for today. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. We will be conducting a question-and-answer session after the prepared remarks. [Operator Instructions] And as a reminder, this conference call is being recorded for replay purposes.

And now I'd like to turn the call over to Mr. Bob Newell, CFO. You may proceed, sir.

Thank you. Good afternoon and thank you for participating in our fiscal 2011 financial results conference call. Earlier today, we issued a press release setting forth our financial results, so please refer to the release for complete details.

This conference call will include forward-looking statements, including all statements regarding the continued clinical and other development, product features, future CE marking, regulatory approval, and commercial launch and use of products in our planned Microcutter product line, including our Microcutter XPRESS 30, XPRESS 45, XCHANGE 30, including the timing thereof and our expectations regarding future support for and sales of our automated anastomosis products.

Any statements contained in this conference call that are not historical facts may be deemed to be forward-looking statements. The words "believe," "plan," "potential," "would," "will," "expect," "can," "allow," "may," "objective," "continue," "ensure," "subject to," and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.

There are a number of important factors that could cause our results to differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements, including, that we may not be successful in our efforts to complete development and market the XPRESS 30, conduct a single arm clinical trial or develop any other Microcutter products on our anticipated timeframes, if at all; that the Microcutter XPRESS 30, XPRESS 45 and XCHANGE 30 may not obtain U.S. regulatory approval and we may not achieve CE marking for our XPRESS 45 and XCHANGE 30 on our anticipated timeline, if at all; that our current and any future products may never gain any significant degree of market acceptance; that any future products face development, regulatory, reimbursement and manufacturing risks; that our intellectual property rights may not provide adequate protection; that our sales, marketing and distribution strategy and capabilities may not be sufficient or successful; that general business and economic conditions may impair our ability to market and develop products; and risk related to our ability to raise additional capital, as well as other risks detailed from time to time in our reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2011.

We expressly disclaim any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements. You're encouraged to read our reports filed with the SEC, available at www.sec.gov.

At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to Bernard Hausen, Cardica's President, CEO and Co-Founder, for a corporate update.

Thank you, Bob. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us on our call today. Over the course of fiscal 2011, we focused our development efforts on the Microcutter product line. We are pleased to report substantial progress on this front today.

We reported in July that our first commercial Microcutter product, the XPRESS 30, completed internal design validation is now CE marked. As you know, the Microcutter XPRESS 30 is a true multi-fire cutting and stapling device with a 30 millimeter staple line that can deliver conventional staple sizes and is designed to be used in a wide variety of surgical procedures.

I've just returned from Germany where I was able to see several cases first hand. The product was used in a variety of procedures as the sole stapler. It was also used in conjunction with other stapling products, for example, with the circular stapler. It was very exciting and rewarding to see how all of our extensive preclinical testing was indicative of human clinical performance, specifically in these initial cases, the XPRESS 30 delivered a secure staple line with no bleeding and was capable of extending staple lines and tissues of various thicknesses. The Microcutter was reloaded in situ and redeployed without the need to swap cartridges, exhibiting its multi-fire nature.

The small-end effector jaws allowed the surgeons to avoid the use of conventional 12 millimeter trocars and even more importantly, in procedures such as in appendectomy, our device avoided the need of more extensive tissue dissection, typically required to accommodate the larger clamping and deploying jaws of conventional staplers. All patients having undergone procedures with the Microcutter XPRESS 30 were utilized – were discharged as planned and were free of any complications.

The XPRESS 30 has only been used in a few patients so far, and so we are still very early in this initial clinical experience with this novel product, but are very pleased with the results to-date. Building on our initial successes, and as we stated in the past, we plan to work with a core group of European surgeons who will gain experience using the XPRESS 30 over the course of the next few months. To prepare us for a successful commercial launch, we believe these physicians will allow us to collect feedback on current uses, as well as any needed adjustments or enhancements for the XPRESS 30 and planned future devices.

With the initial cases under our belt, we're even more excited about the potential of our planned Microcutter product line. In addition to the XPRESS 30, we have made substantial progress in the development of two additional Microcutter devices, the XPRESS 45 and the XCHANGE 30. The XPRESS 45 would be a product almost identical to the XPRESS 30, but with a 45 millimeter staple line. The XPRESS 45 differs from XPRESS 30 by just seven parts, with the shaft and handle being identical. We believe the long staple line will be useful in surgeries such as bariatric and thoracic procedures.

We believe the challenges we have overcome in both internal design verification and manufacturing for the XPRESS 30 will be reduced with the XPRESS 45, given the similarity of these devices. XCHANGE 30, which we also expect to be CE marked and commercially available in Europe this calendar year, is a cartridge based device and it's even smaller than XPRESS 30 with a smaller shaft diameter of just 5 millimeters, 2.5 times smaller than the smallest currently commercially available stapler on the market today. And an added feature of the XCHANGE 30 is an end effector that is designed to articulate up to 80 degrees. This is about double the articulation available from the staplers sold today.

As we talk with surgeons about our planned Microcutter product, one of the things that they are very excited about is the small size of the product that we are developing. Specifically for the XCHANGE 30, a smaller port can be used during laparoscopic procedures and the smaller size may allow a surgeon to dissect less tissue, thereby reducing the trauma typically associated with these procedures.

Of note, the XCHANGE 30 would be the same size of the other surgical tools used during minimally invasive surgery, such as the clip applier, camera and scissors giving the surgeon more flexibility to use all of his or her tools within the same ports. This increases access to the surgical theater. Because of these unique features, we believe and surgeons confirm through feedback that this device may be ideal for surgery on children and in single port surgeries known as SPS or SILS procedures.

We do not expect to report Microcutter revenue in the current quarter and our objective in Europe is to ensure that surgeon using the XPRESS 30 become familiar with this product and provide us with any feedback that will allow us to enhance performance of this product. In the United States, we're continuing our discussions with the Food and Drug Administration that started with pre-IDE meeting and has since included submission of a clinical protocol. As these discussions are ongoing, we will defer providing details on the study design.

Based on the fluidity of this situation, the timing of study initiation and completion are obviously difficult to assess at this time but the trial will be a top priority for our company in the months ahead. Importantly, we have already identified surgeons who would participate in this trial and we will be helping these surgeons become familiar with XPRESS 30 as a next step. With clinical data, we believe that we will be able to pursue 510(k) clearance for our planned Microcutter devices.

Subject to 510(k) FDA clearance and their 510(k) process, we plan to conduct a limited commercial launch to approximately 20 to 30 certain leading surgeons in the United States. We have identified the majority of these surgeons, who is specialized for the most part in thoracic, bariatric, colorectal or general surgery. We now expect the U.S. portion of the soft launch to last only three to six months since we will be gaining the majority of our initial experience in Europe. In addition, we plan to pursue marketing clearance for XPRESS 45 and XCHANGE 30 Microcutter devices that we are developing, so that when we are ready for a broader launch, our sales force would have three to five products to sell rather than just one or two.

Turning to our cardiac surgery business, sales were about flat with our fiscal 2011 third quarter numbers. We currently have three direct sales representatives and plan to hire our fourth this quarter. In addition, we have a handful of manufacturers, representatives and distributors onboard to facilitate the sales process. We continue to find in our cardiac surgery products, while providing excellent clinical outcomes are very specialized. We will continue to require periodic local presence in the operating room to become a standard tool in the cardiac surgeon's armatorium.

In addition, while we have some key proponents of our cardiac surgery devices beating heart surgery has a steep learning curve and has not been really embraced by cardiothoracic surgeons. Our current sales continue to be accretive on a variable cost basis and therefore we will continue to promote these products, believe that with time product adoption will improve.

At this time, I'd like to like to turn the call over to Bob Newell to discuss our financial results. Bob?

Thanks, Bernard. For both the fiscal 2011 and 2010 fourth quarters, total revenue was approximately $1 million. License and development revenue of $84,000 was reported in the fiscal 2011 fourth quarter and was related to the license agreement with Intuitive Surgical.

Total product sales for the fiscal 2011 fourth quarter was approximately $940,000 compared with $965,000 in the same period 2010. During the fiscal 2011 fourth quarter, we increased cumulative worldwide shipments of our PAS-Port systems to over 24,100 units. Of those, 1,113 units were shipped in the fourth quarter.

We shipped 312 C-Port systems during the quarter with cumulative worldwide shipments of C-Port systems now over 12,100 units. Cost of product sales was approximately $850,000 in the fiscal 2011 fourth quarter compared to approximately $1.1 million for the same period in 2010. Research and development expenses for both fiscal 2011 and 2010 fourth quarters were approximately $1.7 million.

Selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010 fourth quarters were $1.3 million. Total operating cost expenses for the fiscal 2011 fourth quarter decreased to approximately $3.9 million, compared to $4.1 million for the same period in 2010. For fiscal 2011 fourth quarter, our net loss was $2.8 million or $0.11 per share, compared to a net loss of $3.1 million or $0.13 per share in the comparable period last year. Cash and short-term investments at June 30th, 2011, were approximately $9.3 million compared with $11.2 million at March 31st, 2011.

Last week we entered into an At-The-Market issuance sales agreement for our common stock with MLV for up to $10 million. As you know, we also have an existing agreement with Aspire Capital in place to raise up to $10 million at our discretion. To date, we have issued to Aspire 1 million shares of our stock under this agreement at an average price of $3.58 per share or net proceeds of approximately $3.6 million.

At this time, I would like to turn the call back to Bernard.

Thank you, Bob. For milestone timelines, we expect to complete internal design verification or to apply the CE Mark to both the XPRESS 45 and XCHANGE 30 devices by the end of calendar 2011. Pending consensus with the FDA on the clinical trial design, we hope to initiate a clinical study using our Microcutter devices in the single-arm trial at selected centers in Europe in the fall of 2011. Completion of the trial will be dependent on the study initiation and the size of the study population. Given that stapling is the gold standard in many surgical procedures, we believe patient enrollment should be accomplished in relatively short order. Subject to FDA clearance and the 510(k) process, which we believe will be in the second quarter of calendar 2012 at the earliest, we plan to conduct a limited market release in the U.S. to approve 25 to 30 surgeons. We look forward to reporting our progress in the months ahead.

At this time, I would like to open the call for questions.

[Operator Instructions] . And your first question is coming from the line of Sameer Harish with ThinkEquity. You may proceed.

Hi, gentlemen, good afternoon.

Hi, Sameer.

Hi, Sameer.

Hi. Maybe just Bernard, I know you're a little reticent to speak too much about the U.S. trial, but just to get some details that you can talk about. Can you at all disclose kind of the – is there any change from your side or your perspective in terms of the size of the trial that you're approaching to the FDA, your thoughts on that? And can you talk about the number of sites that you're looking to, to bring on board, and have you engaged the IRBs at those sites?

Okay, I'll start with the last first. We have engaged IRBs. We actually even have approval in selected sites already. We are going to be – it really depends on the final number of patients. Right now, we still think it's a limited number of patients. Can't give you the exact number. And that will dictate how many sites we're going to include in enrollment. Fortunately, the type of procedures we're looking to include in the trial are very frequent so that I don't think there's going to be a whole lot of sites that we need to do. And I think the expenses for the trial will be very limited because it's a soft endpoint. It's basically assessing the absence or presence of adverse events at a short follow-up period, without any need for interventional procedures or anything that would be costly or out of the ordinary in patient follow-up.

Okay. Would the patients necessarily need to be followed up after they leave the hospital?

Yes, typically, either by phone or you bring him in for one short in-office visit.

Okay. And just in terms of manufacturing, it doesn't seem like your fixed cost structure changed all that much with albeit limited Microcutter launch in Europe. Is that sort of a correct assessment and do you expect a material increase when you launch in the U.S.?

Well, we have our – we have a lot of the fixed expenses in place because of manufacturing the cardiac surgery products, so that's, that infrastructure is on place and one of the benefits of being – of having sales already. As we do ramp up the Microcutter product line, we'll have some start-up expenses related more to product costs. The initial parts costs will be higher because of low volume and tooling coming on board. So there'll be that, but there is not a whole lot of extra fixed costs we need to add. We will be adding some tooling of course, some assembly tooling, but that is pretty manageable too, and that will be capitalized and depreciated. So I expect what you'll see in the next quarters, you'll see some increase in cost of sales above the selling, the actual selling price for the Microcutter line, but basically the overhead structure and infrastructure is in place.

Okay, got it. And just to follow-up on your comment, what were the tooling costs in the quarter and do you have an idea what they would look like next year?

Yeah, we had about $0.5 million of tooling costs in the fourth quarter and $2.7 million for the year. And as I've said in the past, all those tooling, these are tooling investments that we made for the Microcutter product that have all been expensed. Now that we have a CE Mark on one product, future tooling costs will be capitalized, and so you'll see our fixed assets increase and we'll depreciate the cost of the tooling over a period of time, probably three years, as we sell Microcutter products.

Great. Thank you.

Okay.

Your next question is coming from the line of [ph] Steve Brent (20:27), private investor. You may proceed, sir.

Yes, sir. I'm just curious, you have three sales professionals right now, representing your product and you're going to four. That just seems awfully loaded to present a product portfolio that you have which seems very dynamic to me. Can you talk about that?

Yeah, we would love to invest more in sales and marketing for cardiac surgery products, but we had to make a difficult decision a couple years ago to redirect the company's future development efforts into our Microcutter line, which we felt would give us a better chance of creating value for our shareholders. We are supporting the cardiac surgery products with the sales people and supporting our existing customers and trying to continue to support those products, but we don't have the resources right now to try to move the market. That's very much a missionary sell. It's creating a new market. We think over time, that market will develop and become larger, but we don't have the resources right now to put into it on a sales and marketing basis. We think we're better off putting the cash we do have towards development of the Microcutter line. As we have more resources in the future, as the Microcutter gets out in the market, that could change. But right now we feel that's what we should do, is to keep that product supported the way it is.

Thank you.

[Operator Instructions] . Your next question is coming from the line of [ph] Gerald Walker (22:31), private investor. You may proceed.

Thank you. Congratulations on an excellent quarter, gentlemen. I'd like – as far as the number of outstanding shares, I understand that you all have issued a million shares to Aspire Capital. Is that included in the number of outstanding shares?

It is, it is, all except 100,000 shares. So at June 30, we had 26.6 million shares outstanding.

Including the million shares?

Including 900,000 of the million.

Okay. All right. That was my question. Thank you.

Thank you.

At this time, I see no further questions in queue. I'd like to hand the call off to Mr. Bernard Hausen, CEO for closing remarks.

Yeah, thank you. Thank you all for joining us today. We look forward to seeing some of you at the Wedbush Life Science Management Access Conference in New York next week. Bye, bye.

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your participation in today's call. That does conclude the presentation. You may now disconnect. Have a good day.