Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Robert Y. Newell — Chief Financial Officer and Vice President-Finance, Cardica, Inc.
Bernard A. Hausen — President, Chief Executive Officer & Co-Founder, Cardica, Inc.
Duane Nash — Analyst, Wedbush Securities, Inc.
Caroline Victoria Corner — Analyst, McNicoll, Lewis & Vlak LLC
Sameer Harish — Analyst, ThinkEquity LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Fiscal 2012 First Quarter Financial Results and Company Update Conference Call. My name is Jennifer, and I'll be your operator for today. At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. And later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]

I will now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr. Bob Newell, CFO. Please proceed.

Thank you. Good afternoon. Thank you for participating in our fiscal 2012 first quarter financial results conference call. Earlier today, we issued a press release setting forth our financial results, so please refer to the release for complete details.

This conference call will include forward-looking statements, including all statements regarding the continued clinical and other developments, product features, future CE marking, regulatory approval, and commercial launch and use of products in our planned Microcutter product line, including our Microcutter XPRESS 30, XPRESS 45 and XCHANGE 30, including the timing thereof and our expectations regarding future support for and sales of our automated anastomosis products.

Any statements contained in this conference call that are not historical facts may be deemed to be forward-looking statements. The words believe, expect, anticipate, intend, will, continue, and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.

There are a number of important factors that could cause our results to differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements, including, that we may not be successful in our efforts to complete development and market the XPRESS 30, conduct a single arm clinical trial or develop any other Microcutter products on our anticipated timeframes, if at all; and that all Microcutter products such as the Microcutter XPRESS 30, XPRESS 45, and XCHANGE 30 may not obtain U.S. regulatory clearance, and we may not achieve CE marking for our Microcutter XPRESS 45 and XCHANGE 30 on our anticipated timeline, if at all; that our current and any future products may never gain any significant degree of market acceptance; that any future products face development, regulatory, reimbursement and manufacturing risks; that our intellectual property rights may not provide adequate protection; that our sales, marketing and distribution strategy and capabilities may not be sufficient or successful; that general business and economic conditions may impair our ability to market and develop products; and risk related to our ability to raise additional capital, as well as other risks detailed from time to time in our reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2011.

We expressly disclaim any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements. You're encouraged to read our reports filed with the SEC, available at www.sec.gov.

At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to Bernard Hausen, Cardica's President and CEO, for corporate update.

Thank you, Bob. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us on our call today. Over the course of fiscal 2011, we reported substantial progress for our Microcutter product line, and at the end of our fiscal year, we introduced the XPRESS 30 to a couple of key surgical centers in Europe. To-date, the Microcutter XPRESS 30 has been used by eight different surgeons on approximately 20 patients with a total of over 40 deployments.

Our Microcutter XPRESS 30 has been used successfully in a variety of laparoscopic procedures including sigmoidectomies, appendectomies and gastrointestinal surgeries. In all of these procedures there were no adverse events related to the Microcutter and as we understand, all our patients are doing well today.

One quarter into fiscal 2012, we are now focused on broadening our product offering, hiring key members of our commercial team and laying the foundation for a successful commercial product introduction both in Europe and pending clearance from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration in the United States.

The feedback we have received from surgeons using our Microcutter XPRESS 30 continues to be overwhelmingly positive and our excitement about launching this product commercially continues to build. Over the last several months, we have had limited production capabilities due to startup and supply chain challenges. We are working through these fairly customary issues, which are primarily related to qualifying parts from successive production launch from suppliers, particularly those producing complicated components for our products.

We believe we are making good progress in improving the supply chain and transitioning to more consistent manufacturing. We are striving to ensure that every single Microcutter placed in the hands of the surgeon is of the highest quality made for optimal deployment. Moving forward, we expect to be able to produce sufficient numbers of XPRESS 30s per week to begin our clinical trial in November and continue our market preference studies, which we will discuss more shortly.

In addition to our progress with the Microcutter XPRESS 30, we anticipate that our second Microcutter product, the Microcutter XCHANGE 30 will be CE marked by the end of this calendar year. As we have previously discussed, the XCHANGE 30 is a cartridge-based device that is even smaller than the XPRESS 30 with a shaft diameter of just 5 millimeters, a full two and a half time smaller than the smallest commercially available stapler on the market today. In addition, this product can articulate 80 degrees twice the amount of conventional staples, which is highly beneficial for the surgeon when trying to staple in difficult to reach places.

Currently, we are preparing to initiate a clinical trial in Europe to support our planed 510(k) filing in the United States. We expect to enroll upto 200 patients in this perspective non-inferiority trial. The trial will be conducted at multiple centers in Europe, using the Microcutter XPRESS 30 and when available, the Microcutter XPRESS 30 in a variety of laparoscopic and open surgical procedures, primarily gastrointestinal transections, resections and anastomosis.

Once the XCHANGE 30 is CE marked, our goal is again to produce XCHANGE 30s in sufficient quantities to support both the clinical trial and market preference studies. We anticipate that the trial would take approximately six months to complete after which time we plan to submit a 510(k) application to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. We will provide further details about the study in November, when we expect to enroll our first patient.

Key to our successful implantation we have recently bolstered our management team with two critical hires. First, Dr. Lee Swanstrom, a prominent key opinion leader within the field of laparoscopic and minimally invasive surgery has joined us on a part-time basis as Medical Director to assist in developing our clinical and launch strategy for the Microcutter product line. Dr. Swanstrom has a thriving clinical practice at the Orion Clinic in Portland, leads the highly sort after fellowship program in the laparoscopic surgery and has traveled around the world training surgeons both as a guest lecturer and trainer.

He serves on the boards of several leading physician and clinical organizations, including the Society of Gastrointestinal Endoscopic Surgeons known as SAGES, Foundation for Surgical Innovation and Education and the Fellowship Council. We believe that with his creditability, surgical prowess, and established rapport with surgeons around the globe will strengthen our ability to reach and train surgeons on the use and benefits of our planned Microcutter product line.

We are very excited about the addition of Chris Littel to Cardica's executive team as our new Vice President of Sales and Marketing. Chris joined us just this week from Neurowave Medical Technology where he was responsible for all marketing business development. Prior to his time in Neurowave, Chris ran all of global marketing for the endoscopic division of Ethicon Endo-Surgery, a leader in surgical stapling tools for many years.

Chris understands the stapling market intimately and has a deep network of relationship that we believe will be instrument to Cardica as we look towards the commercial launch of our product line, as well as invigorating sales for our cardiac surgery products. In addition to these prominent professionals, we intend to hire additional sales representatives in Europe in the coming quarter as we prepare to book our first Microcutter product revenue in the first quarter of calendar year 2012.

At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to Bob for a discussion of our financial results. Bob?

Thanks, Bernard. For the fiscal 2012 first quarter, total revenue was approximately $870,000 compared to approximately $10 million for the same period fiscal 2012. License and development revenue was $84,000 for the fiscal 2012 first quarter compared to approximately $9 million in the fiscal 2011 first quarter. License and development revenue in both quarters was related to the license agreement with Intuitive Surgical.

Total product sales for the fiscal 2012 first quarter were approximately $767,000 compared with approximately $995,000 in the same period fiscal 2011. Product sales in fiscal 2012 first quarter were affected by staffing changes for our cardiac surgery business.

For a portion of the fiscal 2012 first quarter, we had only two sales reps. We have hired a third rep and are in the process of hiring a fourth rep in the current quarter for the cardiac surgery business. With four representatives in the U.S. and Chris Littel's leadership, we do expect cardiac product revenue to return to approximately $1 million per quarter. It's important to note that the lower sales this quarter was solely from the U.S. market. Our relationship with Century in Japan continues to provide steady revenue and this market has been stable for many quarters.

During the fiscal 2012 first quarter, we shipped 980 PAS-Ports, bringing cumulative worldwide shipments of our PAS-Port systems to over 25,000 units. We will be celebrating this milestone with our customers in the months ahead. We shipped 275 C-Port systems during the quarter with cumulative worldwide shipments of C-Port systems now over 12,400 units.

Cost of product sales was approximately $827,000 for fiscal 2012 first quarter compared to $944,000 in the same period 2011. Research and development expenses for fiscal 2012 first quarter were approximately $1.6 million compared with $1.4 million in the comparable quarter last year.

Selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011 first quarters were approximately $1.5 million. Total operating cost expenses for fiscal 2012 first quarter were approximately $3.9 million, compared to approximately $3.8 million for the same period 2011. For the fiscal 2012 first quarter, our net loss was $3 million or $0.11 per share, compared to net income of $6.2 million or $0.24 per share for the comparable period last year. Cash and short-term investments at September 30, 2011 were approximately $9.1 million compared to $9.3 million at June 30, 2011.

As you know, Century Medical distributes our PAS-Port Proximal Anastomosis System in Japan and we've been pleased with their performance. This quarter, we signed an additional agreement with Century to distribute the Microcutter device in Japan. Century was responsible for autosuture sales until US Surgical decided to go direct in the Japanese market. In return for the distribution rights, we received a loan commitment for up to $4 million depending on milestone achievements.

We achieved the first milestone in September and have drawn down $2 million to date. We expect to achieve the second and final milestone and thereafter draw down the remaining $2 million in the next several months. This loan bears interest at 5% and will be due in September 2016, five years from our original drawdown date. Importantly, under the agreement, Century Medical will be responsible for securing regulatory approvals of any Microcutter products it is distributing from the Ministry of Health in Japan.

At this time, I'd like to turn the call back to Bernard.

Thank you, Bob. To provide an update on our anticipated product development timelines, we currently expect to complete internal design verification to apply the CE mark to our Microcutter XCHANGE 30 by the end of this calendar year. We expect to complete internal design verification and apply the CE mark to the Microcutter XPRESS 45 by the second quarter of calendar year 2012.

Based on the feedback we have just obtained from key opinion leaders at the American College of Surgery Meeting here in San Francisco, we believe the XPRESS 30 and the XCHANGE 30 will be the right initial devices both for clinical testing and initial sales. We see sufficient opportunities for sales of these products in the OUS markets in the near future. As we have noted, we expect to initiate a clinical trial using our Microcutter XPRESS 30 and when available XCHANGE 30 in a single arm trial at selected centers in Europe in November 2011.

We expect to complete the trial and I'll follow up within six months. Following the completion of our clinical trial, we plan to file our 510(k) application with the FDA in calendar 2012. Pending FDA clearance under the 510(k) process, we plan to conduct a controlled and targeted market launch. We have made great strides and believe that we are well positioned to address both the challenges and opportunities ahead. We look forward to reporting our progress in the months ahead.

At this time, I'd like to open the call for questions.

[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Duane Nash from Wedbush Securities. Please proceed

Good afternoon and thanks for taking the question. Regarding European sales for fiscal 2012, should we expect the rate limiting step to be production capacity or instead will it likely to be sales and marketing manpower?

Our primary focus initially will be on the clinical trial, getting it started this quarter and completing it next quarter. Consistent with that primary focus, we will be targeting reference accounts in Europe beginning in January and beginning commercial sales in that quarter and in the second quarter of the calendar year. We do not expect to be limited by production capacity for these sales, but we will be targeting on specific reference accounts initially and not launching broadly. We want to establish 15 to 20 key sites in Europe that are adopting our products and using them before we go more broadly.

And, do you have any color on how long you would plan on targeting those 15 to 20 before you would expand?

I would say, it would be in that period. Of course depends partly on their response, but assuming that we get the response and we expect we will be expanding directly after that. And we'll be doing a combination of direct representation in Europe and reps and also possibly some distributors. Chris Littel just started this week and we're of course working on that effort now, interviewing distributors and also talking to potential direct hires.

Great. Well, thanks very much for taking the questions.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Caroline Corner from McNicoll, Lewis & Vlak. Please proceed.

Hi, guys. Thanks for taking the call.

Sure.

Couple of questions, just first a clarification question. You said in the initial comments that the clinical trial was going to take six months and then you just said you want to start the trial in November and finish it next quarter. So, are we expecting the trial to finish first calendar quarter 2012 or second calendar quarter 2012.

You are too attentive. It's six months.

Six months. So, it will be a second quarter event that you will finish the trial?

Yes.

Okay. Thanks. I just wanted to clarify that. And then other thing, on the R&D line, I heard some commentary from you guys that you've re-jiggered, so to speak, the anvil based on initial physician feedback. Can you talk a little bit about the kind of things you are doing with R&D with the existing products? I know, as you roll it out, part of the intent there is to get some feedback from what physicians want, minor details and things like that for usability, et cetera. Can you just talk a little bit about any changes to the products and just how trends going forward for – how you see the R&D line playing out?

So, some of the feedback – the feedback in general has been very positive. There are iterations to the XPRESS 30 that we were implementing that we've always planned to implement independent of what the feedback is right now. Certain features that we didn't have in the initial release that are going to be in the future releases, in the future. That whole product will be expanded to include white and green staples and further into articulation. So there are a bunch of features that we need to implement over the coming months to make it a commercially fully viable product. The way it is right now, however, allows us to gain exactly the feedback we are looking for, which is how does this stapler and staple work in tissue and are we getting satisfactory results in terms of staple line anastomosis resection surfaces and that so far has been very positive.

Okay. And as for R&D as a line item, you just reported about $1.6 million in expense there. Going forward, is that a reasonable run rate? Do think you can get done what you need to get done spending about that a quarter?

Yeah, I think, we are – yes, we are continuing to develop additional products, and I think that's a typical quarter.

Okay. Thanks very much.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Sameer Harish from ThinkEquity. Please proceed.

Hi, guys, can you hear me?

Yes.

Yes.

Okay, wonderful. Maybe just in terms of some of the feedback that you are getting from the clinicians in Europe, just in terms of the firing, the feel that it has in their hands to handling that sort of thing?

Yes. So very positive feedback on the size 8 millimeter and 10 millimeter trocars are what they are currently – what they are now using instead of 12 millimeter trocars. That's a big deal. It doesn't sound like a big deal, but because you have to look at the cross sectional area of a trocar with the surface area rather than just the diameter, moving from 12 millimeter to 10 millimeter in trocar size is a change in about 140% across sectional surface area. So, that is a big deal.

The feel of the handle has been very positive. We showed it around here at the American College of Surgery and we got the same response. Force to fire is very low, that has been very positive. Quality of the staple line, had been no issue, bleeding has not been an issue and as I said before, there have been no negative outcomes, no adverse events, which of course is kind of the paramount endpoint for us.

So, I think it's very good. Then we move on to get the XCHANGE 30 obviously, the feedback we got here at the ACS is overwhelming. Surgeons seem very, very excited about having the opportunity to have a product that small as it opens up a totally new avenue for them, and we can't wait to get that product out.

And in terms of the U.S. strategy, I didn't hear if you have mentioned it on the call, but what's the timeline you think in terms a potential launch there after you get FDA approval, and in terms of hiring strategy around that?

We're going to be quite aggressive, because the plan now is to get most of the learning done and the iterations and the completion of the product portfolio done in these months ahead in Europe, so that by the time we have FDA approval, be it fall or end of the year 2012 calendar year, we should be in good shape to have quite an aggressive launch, again going primarily after key accounts, because this is about proving adoption and showing that the key accounts are willing to switch from the commercially available staplers and then expanding from there.

And lastly, can you talk a little bit about how you're going to work around some of the purchase groups and just being able to target some of those accounts?

Yeah. We asked a lot of questions to surgeons about that and had interactions with the big buyer groups. The products we're offering generally fall outside of the contracts they have and therefore are kind of free to be sold to the individual accounts. So I don't think it requires a big workaround. It does require a very careful pricing strategy as that is very sensitive subject in this environment obviously. And we feel that we're in a good position to react to that.

Great. Thank you.

Welcome.

There are no further questions at this time. I will now turn call over to Mr. Bernard Hausen for closing remarks.

Thank you all for joining us today. We look forward to seeing you at the Lazard Health Care Conference in New York, November 15 and the Piper Jaffrey Health Care Conference on November 29. Thank you.

Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes today's conference. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect. Have a great day.