Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Robert Y. Newell — CFO, Secretary, VP & Head-Investor Relations, Cardica, Inc.
Bernard A. Hausen — President, CEO, Director & Chief Medical Officer, Cardica, Inc.
Akiva Felt — Analyst, Wedbush Securities, Inc.
Caroline Victoria Corner — Analyst, McNicoll, Lewis & Vlak LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Fiscal Third Quarter 2012 Cardica Financial Results Conference Call. My name is Larry, and I will be your operator for today. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]

I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr. Bob Newell, Chief Financial Officer. Please proceed.

Thank you. Good afternoon. Thank you for participating in our fiscal 2012 third quarter financial results conference call. Earlier today, we issued a press release setting forth our financial results. So please refer to the release for complete details.

This conference call will include forward-looking statements, including all statements regarding the continued clinical and other developments, product features, regulatory approval, and commercial launch and use of products in our planned MicroCutter product line, including our MicroCutter XCHANGE 30, XCHANGE 45 and XPRESS 30, including the timing thereof and our expectations regarding future support for and sales of our automated anastomosis products.

Any statements contained in this conference call that are not historical facts may be deemed to be forward-looking statements. The words anticipated, expect, continue, believe, can, potentially, may, plan, planned, beginning, would, will, intend look forward and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. There are number of important factors that could cause our results to differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements, including those set forth in our press release of today as well as other risks detailed from time to time in our reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2011.

We expressly disclaim any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement. You are encouraged to read our reports filed with the SEC available at www.sec.gov. This call is a property of Cardica and any re-broadcasting of this call without the express written permission of Cardica is prohibited.

At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to Bernard Hausen, Cardica's President and CEO for a corporate update.

Thank you, Bob. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us on our call today. The fiscal 2012 third quarter was one of focus and execution for Cardica, as we build momentum toward an anticipated commercial introduction of our MicroCutter cutting and stapling device in the European markets.

We have completed all regulatory requirements in the European markets for MicroCutter XCHANGE 30, our cartridge based device with a 5 millimeter shaft diameter and articulation of up to 80 degrees. The XCHANGE 30 is a single patient use device is indicated for a broad range of advanced laparoscopic, endoscopic procedures and can be fired multiple times in a procedure.

We have applied the CE Mark to the XCHANGE 30 and last week [ph] Dr. Hemley (03:30) from the Sana Klinikum Hameln-Pyrmont in Germany successfully performed the first laparoscopic procedure using our XCHANGE 30. Today we have performed a number of procedures that include appendectomies, intestinal resections and lung resections.

In the current quarter we anticipate three phases moving toward our anticipated commercial launch. The coming four to six weeks we will be evaluating the device performance in a variety of procedures in our clinical sites outside of the official trial. During this period we plan to train the associated surgeons or nurses in the use of XCHANGE 30 and carefully document product performance.

Assuming that the device performance is acceptable, the next phase would be to resume enrollment for the clinical trial. Shortly thereafter we anticipate training of sites outside of the clinical trial for commercial use. At this time we are implementing tooling and supply chain optimization to help ensure we are well-positioned to scale up manufacturing for XCHANGE 30.

We continue to believe that our MicroCutter devices will offer surgeons true advantage over traditional stapling products. The MicroCutter XCHANGE 30 has the smallest profile of any laparoscopic or thorascopic paper in the world. This has already proven very beneficial in a recent procedure where XCHANGE 30 was used for lung parenchymal transection including transection of the segmental pulmonary artery, vein and bronchus.

The bronchial structures in the lung are small and fragile and surgeons like to divide them with penetrating staple lines rather than clips and switches to avoid clip slip off and later severe bleeding complications. Often the state constraints do not allow placement of conventional staplers and the 5 millimeter profile of XCHANGE 30 provided significant benefit in this setting.

In addition, staplers available today require larger trocars than any other tool used during a laparoscopic, ortho laparoscopic procedure. With the XCHANGE 30 the cross sectional area of the trocar port needed for the stapler is reduced by nearly six times compared to the smallest existing stapling device and as such the anatomy of the body can dictate the trocar size rather than the size of the stapler as is currently practiced today.

For example, in appendectomy typically performed by placing two 5 millimeter trocars for the camera in grasper and a 12 millimeter trocar for conventional stapler. The XCHANGE 30 avoids the need for a 12 millimeter trocar and thereby reduces the potential for trocar hernias, trocar side infection, larger scars, pain and discomfort. It further enhances the flexibility for the surgeon or he can choose to use any of the three trocars placed with the MicroCutter and thereby optimized tissue access.

We believe that especially for appendectomies in children or young female adults the ability to avoid the use of a 12 millimeter trocar will be greatly beneficial to surgeons and patients alike. As you know appendectomies are one of the most frequently performed laparoscopic procedures worldwide.

Finally, the advanced articulation or reach of the XCHANGE that is almost twice that of current laparoscopic staplers. This key feature enable surgeons to reach areas more easily and safely, while enabling them to better visualize tissue and potentially avoid inadvertent tissue trauma, by way of comparison, surgeons often require an additional trocar for access to their target organs due to the limited articulation of conventional staplers.

The improved control of the XCHANGE 30 is a major innovation that may benefit many surgical specialties. This advanced articulation is especially advantageous in thoracic procedures where the constraints of the chest cavity often requires maximum articulation to allow the surgeon to resect lung parenchyma or reach arteries, veins or bronchi.

We continue to meet with a wide variety of experience surgeons practicing in the United States and Europe to create awareness of our MicroCutter product line and also to generate productive feedback as we finalize product features and the product pipeline for future MicroCutter devices.

In early March several members of our management team attended the annual meeting of the Society of American Gastrointestinal and Endoscopic Surgeons also known as SAGES. This was an excellent opportunity to interact with leading laparoscopic and thoracoscopic surgeons from the U.S and Europe and the feedback we received at this key specialty meeting continues to validate the need, the utility and the clinical value of the MicroCutter platform as well as our commercial approach.

As we prepare for our planned initial commercialization in Europe, we have identified key surgeons who we believe will be first adopters of the XCHANGE 30 and we are beginning to build relationships with these physicians and their staff. Also we have identified several key distributors that we believe would be valuable partners as we bring the XCHANGE 30 to the market in Europe.

And we are preparing the necessary sales, marketing and training materials to demonstrate the value and benefits of using the XCHANGE 30 in laparoscopic procedures. We expect that over the coming weeks the handful of European surgeons will use XCHANGE 30 in a variety of laparoscopic and thoracoscopic procedures and provide us with very useful feedback to support our anticipated launch in Europe.

As we discussed earlier, after the clinical trial resumes in Germany we tend to begin booking commercial sales in Europe. Now we do not – we do expect them to be modest initially. In addition, Century Medical, our distributor for our Cardiac product and the MicroCutter in Japan has started its internal process to prepare for submission to the Japanese Ministry of Health to secure marketing clearance for the XCHANGE 30. We expect this process may take more than a year, but we're encouraged by Century's positive view of the potential market in Japan.

Turning to our cardiac business. We've had the opportunity to introduce our C-Port Distal Anastomosis Systems and PAS-Port Proximal Anastomosis Systems to several new accounts during the quarter. We look forward to continue the opportunities to showcase our cardiac surgery products to surgeons seeking to perform bypass procedures with less invasive techniques such as a MIDCAB.

We believe our cardiac surgery products are ideally suited for less invasive coronary bypass procedures as was demonstrated at the recent Re-Evolution Summit, Minimally Invasive Cardiac Surgery Summit featuring hands-on case studies and labs. This Summit takes place each year in Houston at the Methodist DeBakey Hospital under the direction of Dr. Mahesh Ramchandani the pioneer of the MIDCAB procedure. Several of the case studies presented at the meeting featured our C-Port and PAS-Port Systems and we left the meeting with many new cardiothoracic surgeon contacts and leads.

We continue to believe that the movement towards truly less invasive procedures, as witnessed in almost every surgical field, will eventually include cardiac surgery and we believe our cardiac surgery products will be one of the key contributors for this change.

In that respect cardiac is in a very special situation as we are worldwide the only provider of proximal and distal Anastomotic devices for vascular anastomosis in cardiac surgery.

At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Bob for a discussion of our financial results. Bob?

Thanks, Bernard. For the fiscal 2012 third quarter, total revenue was approximately $953,000 compared to approximately $954,000 in the same period fiscal 2011.

License and development revenue was $84,000 for both fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011 third quarters which resulted from our license agreement with Intuitive Surgical. Total product sales for fiscal 2012 third quarter were approximately $852,000 compared with approximately $851,000 in the same period fiscal 2011. During the fiscal 2012 third quarter, we shipped 1,177 PAS-Port systems bringing cumulative worldwide shipments of our PAS-Port systems to over 27,000 units. We shipped 275 C-Port systems during the quarter with cumulative worldwide shipments of C-Port systems now over 12,900 units.

Cost of product sales was approximately $969,000 for the fiscal 2012 third quarter compared to approximately $598,000 for the same period fiscal 2011. R&D expenses for fiscal 2012 third quarter were approximately $2 million compared with approximately $2.4 million in a comparable quarter last year. Selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal 2012 third quarter were $1.6 million compared to $1.5 million for the fiscal 2011 third quarter.

Total operating costs and expenses for fiscal 2012 third quarter were approximately $4.6 million compared to approximately $4.5 million for the same period of 2011. For the fiscal 2012 third quarter our net loss was $3.7 million or $0.12 per share compared to $3.6 million or $0.14 per share for the comparable period last year. During the quarter we completed a public offering of approximately 9 million shares of Cardica common stock for total net proceeds of about $14 million. Cash and short-term investments at March 31, 2012 including the proceeds of the offering were approximately $18 million compared to $7.6 million at December 31, 2011.

At this time I'd like to turn the call back to Bernard.

Thank you, Bob. To provide an update on our anticipated product development and commercialization timelines, we expect to resume the clinical trial in Europe using the XCHANGE 30 during this calendar quarter. Subsequent to the resumption of the trial we anticipate booking initial sales of our XCHANGE 30 in Europe. We understand the need for quality, reliability and repeatability of stapling products in these surgical fields and are therefore totally focused on achieving these attributes. Carefully planned and controlled release of XCHANGE 30 in Europe is essential to achieving these goals.

Further, the market potential for our MicroCutter product outside of the U.S. is immense and many of these near-term company goals can be achieved in these markets underlining and proving the value of these products. In addition, we continue to make progress on design modifications to our MicroCutter XPRESS 30 as well as advanced development of our MicroCutter XCHANGE 45, a second cartridge based device that allows for the larger green staple line necessary for bariatric procedures. We look forward to reporting our progress in the months ahead.

At this time I'd like to open the call for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Akiva Felt of Wedbush Securities. Please proceed.

Hi. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Thanks for taking the question.

Sure.

I was just wondering if you could maybe expand a little bit on the company's plan for communicating near-term progress of XCHANGE 30?

Beside the earnings calls, we will be issuing press releases at significant milestones. Definitely the reinitiation of the clinical trial would be one of them, the initiation of commercial sales would be another, any type of major product additions or changes would be press released. And we will be able to communicate to you other developments as the key reference accounts that we are adding, certain types of procedures where our technology is proven to be beneficial or a game changer in medical practice.

Okay, great. So it sounds like we will be able to track progress. What about – any plans for MicroCutter presence at any upcoming medical meetings or is it too soon for that?

Yeah. Our philosophy is that we tend to go to medical meetings and industry shows when we are in a position to broadly launch these products, so from previous earnings calls we tried to emphasize that it will be selective launches, very focused, trying to get into reference account, trying to find key opinion leaders and then go abroad once we have that as a good basis. And so there will be medical meetings. I am not sure if they will be this year, more likely the beginning of or middle of next year.

Okay. I appreciate the color. I'll jump back in queue.

Okay.

Our next question comes from the line of Caroline Corner of MLV. Please proceed.

Hi, guys. Thanks for all of the updates. Just a couple from me then, the XPRESS 30 roll-in, and I apologize if I missed this in the commentary, but when should we expect that one to be completed with regard to the development effort there and when should we expect it to roll into the trial in Europe?

Yes. I can't give you a date on that. We're still planning and hoping for it to be in the trial at a time that will make an impact on the enrollment. The way the trial is designed now, we can achieve the majority of our goals with the MicroCutter XCHANGE 30 and that is where the primary focus still of the company is.

Okay, very good. And then my other question around the cardiac products, it looks like sales there have been steady, but you recently added two new sales reps, I was just wondering to have any comments about sales productivity as pertains to the cardiac product and what we should be expecting there going forward?

Yes. We are very pleased with a rep we added in the Chicago area and we did pickup some good leads at the SPS Meeting in January. And we are doing some new cases and seeing some new customers. So we hope to over time increase our sales in this effort based on better coverage with a few more reps. It's – we see good progress in meeting with new customers, but it's not showing in the sales quite yet.

Okay. Thanks very much, guys.

Yeah. Thank you, Caroline.

[Operator Instructions] . Next we have a follow-up question coming from the line of Akiva Felt of Wedbush Securities. Please proceed.

Hi. Thanks for taking the additional question. Just a quick one for Bob. I know you've said in the past that the clinical trial is not too expensive. I am just wondering on the R&D line. Should we see this quarter as somewhat of a plataued or do you think there is still room to increase meaningfully?

I am glad you asked the question, Akiva. We had some extra costs this quarter in R&D, about a couple of hundred thousand really in prototype parts and due to some extra work we were doing in development. So I don't expect the R&D line to grow up much from here, in fact I'd like it to go down a little bit.

Okay.

With no further questions, I would like to turn the call back over to management for closing remarks.

Yeah. Let me just make a final remark. We, as I said, we just started introducing the product into patients a week ago, in that week we have done over 27 deployments in five different hospitals by seven surgeons which is substantially more than we ever did with the MicroCutter XPRESS 30. So feedback has been very positive. And on that note I'd like to close the call. Thank you all for joining and look forward to talking to you in near future. Bye, bye.

Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference. Thank you for your participation. You may disconnect at this time. Have a great day.