Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Robert Y. Newell — Vice President, Finance & Chief Financial Officer, Dextera Surgical, Inc.
Julian N. Nikolchev — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Dextera Surgical, Inc.
Liam Burns — Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Marketing, Dextera Surgical, Inc.
Tao L. Levy — Analyst, Wedbush Securities, Inc.
Jeffrey S. Cohen — Analyst, Ladenburg Thalmann & Co., Inc.
Charles Edward Haff — Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Dextera Surgical Fourth Quarter Financial Results Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time. [Operator Instructions]

As a reminder, this call is being recorded. I would now like to turn the call over to Bob Newell. You may begin.

Good afternoon and thank you for participating in our fiscal 2017 fourth quarter financial results conference call. This conference call will include forward-looking statements, including all statements regarding continued clinical and other developments, and commercial progress, and use of our MicroCutter 5/80, including the timing thereof. The words expect, believe, plan, continue, anticipate, opportunity, intend, will, explore and similar words are intended to identify these forward-looking statements. Any statements contained in this conference call that relate to future events, results or predictions are forward-looking statements.

There are a number of important factors that could cause our results to differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements, including those set forth in our press release of today, as well as other risks detailed from time to time in our reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2017 under the caption, Risk Factors. We expressly disclaim any obligation or undertaking to release publicly, any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements. You're encouraged to read our reports filed with the SEC available at www.sec.gov.

At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to Julian Nikolchev, Dextera Surgical's President and CEO, for a corporate update.

Thank you, Bob. Good afternoon and thank you for participating on our call. Beginning with the most pressing area of interest, I'd like to provide an update on our shipping status for the MicroCutter 5/80, the world's smallest profile articulating surgical stapling device.

You'll remember that on July 6 we announced a shipping hold on both the MicroCutter 5/80 surgical stapler and the MicroCutter reload due to relatively infrequent event of the lock-out safety feature engaging prematurely, preventing the device from stapling.

As we discussed in July, we identified the root cause in the stapler and a second root cause in the reload. Today, I'm pleased to report that we successfully implemented an effective solution for the stapler tested in extensively internally and resumed shipping to customers last week.

This stapler has been used in few cases and is performing well. We will continue to monitor all cases through our quality management system as we have in the past. We are confident that the change implemented will be a solid solution.

For the reloads, we have identified, verified and implemented minor production changes. We shipped these reloads over the last few days and together with the staplers have cleared approximately half of our backorder. We will still have a slight backorder of approximately $70,000 for reloads and staplers until we return to full production capacity.

We have initiated production for the reloads and anticipate returning to our previous production capacity of 100 staplers per week for both the staplers and 500 reloads per week by the end of the quarter. Today, we have achieved the ability to produce between 90 and 100 staplers per week consistently.

Prior to the shipping hold, we had run a rate at approximately 90 staplers per week. In our continued effort to optimize our supply chain, we are working to bring additional suppliers on board and believe we will meet our goal of 120 staplers per week by the end of calendar 2017. In parallel with our efforts to bring on new suppliers, we're also exploring additional opportunities to reduce our cash burn, as well as improve our gross margin for the MicroCutter, while improving our yield. We will keep you informed of our progress in this front.

Turning to business development, we remain in an active dialogue with B. Braun regarding a strategic partnership for both the MicroCutter and the cardiac products. Last month, we were invited to present both the MicroCutter and the cardiac products at the annual B. Braun strategy meeting, which included worldwide senior managers and sales and marketing staff. Dextera Surgical was the first outside company invited to present at this meeting. We believe both the MicroCutter and the cardiac product lines fit well with B. Braun's product line, areas of expertise and worldwide distribution capabilities. We look forward to a continued productive relationship.

Also we continued to work with Intuitive Surgical and are supplying them with reloads to test with their robotic devices.

Moving to our post-market MicroCutter Assisted Thoracic Surgery Hemostasis or MATCH Registry, we now have eight centers enrolling patients with Charité – Universitätsmedizin Berlin, a world renowned institute in Germany and Golden Jubilee Hospital (sic) [Golden Jubilee National Hospital] in Glasgow, Scotland, as the newest centers. Of the eight hospitals enrolling patients, three have completed patient enrollment with 92 patients enrolled as of August 7.

As a reminder, the MATCH Registry is designed to evaluate the hemostasis and ease of use for the MicroCutter stapler and reloads in a real world clinical setting in up to 120 patients. We anticipate the enrollment will be complete this quarter. We're targeting presentation of this data at the Society of Thoracic Surgeons in January 2018. We expect to publish full results in a respected peer-reviewed journal.

In June, we submitted a 510(k) application to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to expand the indications for use of the MicroCutter device to include liver, pancreas, kidney, and spleen surgeries as we currently have in Europe. We have had productive interactions with the FDA and continue to believe we will receive timely market clearance for these indications. In addition to the MicroCutter, we're seeing an increased interest in our cardiac products. We have several new cardiothoracic surgeons evaluating our PAS-Port and the C-Port anastomosis product for bypass procedures.

As a reminder, our cardiac products, PAS-Port and C-Port are the only FDA cleared fully automatic proximal and distal anastomosis devices for minimally-invasive coronary artery bypass surgery.

At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to Bob to discuss our financial results for the quarter. And then, I'll review our milestones. Bob?

Thank you, Julian. MicroCutter product sales totaled $359,000 for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017 compared to product sales of $516,000 for the third quarter of fiscal 2017. MicroCutter sales for the fourth quarter were impacted by the backorder of the blue reloads during the quarter and the shipping hold at the end of the quarter.

Total product sales for fiscal 2017 fourth quarter were $1 million compared with approximately $700,000 for the same period in fiscal 2016. In addition, we had approximately $100,000 in development and contract and royalty revenue in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017. While we have cleared a large portion of the back order to date, we have a current back order of approximately $70,000 until our full production capabilities are back online.

During the fiscal 2017 fourth quarter, we shipped 1,076 PAS-Port systems, bringing cumulative worldwide shipments of our PAS-Port systems to over 47,600 units. We shipped 80 C-Port systems during the quarter with cumulative worldwide shipments now over 15,300 units.

Cost of product sales was approximately $1 million for the fiscal 2017 fourth quarter, including approximately $110,000 for scrap and obsolete inventory costs compared with approximately $1.1 million for the same period in fiscal 2016.

R&D expenses were approximately $1.4 million for the fiscal 2017 fourth quarter compared with approximately $1.5 million for the fiscal 2016 fourth quarter. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the fiscal 2017 fourth quarter were approximately $1.5 million. This compares with approximately $2.2 million in the same period of fiscal 2016.

Total operating cost and expenses for the fiscal 2017 fourth quarter were approximately $4 million compared with approximately $4.8 million for the same period of fiscal 2016 and including a reversal of previously accrued incentive compensation of approximately $500,000 which will not be paid. The net loss for the fiscal 2017 fourth quarter before the deemed preferred dividend was approximately $3.1 million.

Additionally, net loss applicable to common stockholders including a deemed non-cash preferred stock dividend of $4 million, representing the value of beneficial conversion rights embedded in the preferred stock shares issued in the company's recently completed convertible preferred stock public offering. This amount was determined as the difference between fair value of common stock into which the preferred shares are convertible and the proceeds of the financing allocated to the preferred shares. The total net loss attributable to common stockholders for fiscal 2017 fourth quarter was $7 million or $0.40 per share. Net loss attributable to common stockholders for the fiscal 2016 fourth quarter was approximately $4.2 million or $0.47 per share.

Cash, cash equivalents and investments at June 30, 2017 were approximately $6 million compared with approximately $2.5 million at March 31, 2017 with cash utilization of about $3.2 million during the quarter.

I'll now turn the call back to Julian.

Thank you, Bob. Our key objectives for the next three quarters are to execute a strategic partnership with B. Braun by the end of the third quarter of calendar year 2017; continue optimizing supply chain and establish production capacity of 120 MicroCutters per week by the end of the calendar year 2017; complete enrollment of patients in the MATCH Registry Trial by September 30, 2017; expand MicroCutter indications for use in the U.S. to include liver, pancreas, kidney and spleen surgery by the end of calendar year 2017; demonstrate success in Spain with the B. Braun collaboration throughout calendar year 2017; continue advancement of our co-development project with Intuitive Surgical to develop a new robotic stapler based on our proprietary MicroCutter technology; and evaluate and execute initiatives to reduce cost structure and improve long-term gross margins. We look forward to keeping you apprised of our progress.

Liam Burns, our VP of worldwide sales and marketing will join us for the Q&A portion of the call. Operator, we are ready to open the call for questions. [Operator Instructions]

Our first question comes from Tao Levy of Wedbush. Your line is open.

Great, thanks. Good afternoon.

Hi, Tao.

Hi, Tao.

Hi. Maybe we can start with just in terms of sort of a recap of where you stand in terms of how much you can manufacture or how much you can ship, maybe you can provide us with some guidance as to how much you expect to generate in MicroCutter revenues this quarter?

So Bob, do you want to tackle that?

Yeah. Tao, we currently are able to make about 90 to 100 MicroCutter staplers per week, and we also can make approximately 500 reloads per week. We are implementing some additional production capacity for reloads and we expect to be in full production in September and to clear all of our backorders by September.

Based on the hold and based on the relatively – the summer vacation in Europe, we don't expect a strong MicroCutter sales this quarter and we're not going to give product guidance. However, we do certainly expect to have sequential growth in our MicroCutter sales.

Got you. Okay. That's perfect. And then, in this press release unlike last quarter's earning call, you do spell out B. Braun being your strategic partner that you expect to sign an agreement with – I don't think there was much difference between the two, but maybe if you [ph] could comment (00:15:08), was there anything that's different between the prior press release and this one?

Sure. Well, we continue to have productive discussions with B. Braun. As you know B. Braun is a large organization, so a lot of discussions take time. B. Braun is performing diligence on how our products fit with their distribution chain. And given that their – I think they have presence in about 65 countries worldwide, so it takes time.

But we were this – part of the reasons why we were asked to be part of the strategy week which we presented our products and we – is to demonstrate the products and how they fit with their distribution line to the international country managers. So we're continuing to have very positive discussions and I expect as we've said before that within the next couple of months, we'll complete the transaction.

Great. Thanks. And then just lastly, you mentioned you supplied Intuitive with some reloads to test with their robotic system. Is that new or different than what you've been providing to them in the past? I mean, is this sort of like the next step in, I guess, your internal product development relationship?

Yeah. This is a continual relationship. We have – it's a co-development relationship, so we are developing as you may remember the reload for their robotic system. So they are in control of the rest of the components, so they are working on those components. So they use our reloads to test with their development. And so it's still, I would call it a prototype stage...

Perfect.

...where we are right now and it's an ongoing effort. It's going to take some time, but it's going well.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you.

Thanks, Tao.

Our next question comes from Jeffrey Cohen of Ladenburg Thalmann. Your line is open.

Hi, Julian and Bob. Can you hear me, okay?

Yes, Jeff.

Yes, Jeff.

Thanks.

Wonderful. So I'll try to go in order. So firstly, you talked about your backorders, was that 7,000 or 70,000 and was that dollars or units?

I'm sorry, it's $70,000 as of today.

$70,000 as of today. Okay, got it. And, what was the expanded indication you are going for, it was liver, pancreas, spleen and one more I missed?

Kidney.

Kidney. Liver, pancreas, kidney and spleen.

Okay. And is that all under one filing?

Correct.

Okay. And did you submit that yet?

Yes, we have submitted the filing roughly a month-and-a-half or so ago.

Okay. So what's your confidence level of achieving that in the next two months?

Well, as you know, it's very [audio gap] (00:18:37-00:18:47)

Did l lose you?

We did lose them.

Operator, why don't we hold on for one minute and see if we can get them back.

Yes, sir.

I'm still here, can you hear me?

Jeff, I can hear you. Let's just wait one second. We can get Julian back.

Okay.

Operator, are you dialing the call back number for Julian, please? Appreciate everybody's patience while we try to resolve this, thank you.

Jeff, your line is open.

Certainly. Thanks. So I think you were discussing the submittal?

Yes, with the FDA. As I was saying, it's always difficult to predict exactly how things go with the FDA. But what I can certainly tell you that our discussions and our – so far have been going well and we feel that the progress is going as well as expected at this point.

Okay. And if you achieve clearance, would we see a press release for that?

Yeah, Absolutely.

Okay. And...

And just to make clear, we have the clearance for these indications already in Europe under our CE Mark.

Yes. Okay. And then, you were talking about some of your goals for the year, so you were talking about B. Braun to have a partnership, did you say by when?

By the end of this quarter.

End of Q1.

Q1 2018 fiscal year.

Yes. And you're hoping to fully enroll the MATCH Registry by the end of September?

Correct.

And receive additional indication for the four indications in the coming few months, did you say Q1 or Q2?

Yeah. We said by the end of this year, by the end of 2017 calendar year.

End of calendar 2017. Okay, then lastly can you walk me through a little bit about the OpEx, so it was $2.9 million for the quarter, I'm not counting the cost of goods, but OpEx was $2.9 million for the quarter, could you kind of give us a flavor of how that may look in fiscal 2018?

Yes, Jeff. Thanks for asking that. That's why I pointed out too that that is an unusually low number because of the reversal of an accrual. We had accrued $0.5 million of potential year-end incentive compensation, which we agreed with our board that we would not pay in cash or not pay at all. So, we reversed that $500,000, so that $2.9 million is lower by that number.

Okay. So are you saying the number is around $3.5 million then, around $14 million or $15 million in OpEx?

That's a more – the $3.5 million is a more realistic number.

Okay, got it. And let me just see if I had any additional questions. I think that does it for me and did you have an update on the 8 millimeter size for the cutter?

No, that is what we are working jointly with Intuitive.

Okay. But the – what you're testing is on 8 millimeter theoretically?

Correct. With Intuitive, yes.

Okay. So that's a separate production run for the staple sizes or it's not?

No, no. We are in a prototype stage with them.

Yes. So, it is a separate – it's a separate staple size.

Right. It's a separate and larger staple size?

Correct, yes.

Right, by about 50%?

50% and also longer staple line from 30 to 45 millimeters.

Longer line from 30 to 45 millimeters, okay. Got it. Okay. I think does it for me for the moment. Thank you very much for taking the questions.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Our next question comes from Charles Haff of Craig-Hallum. Your line is open.

Hi. Thanks for taking my questions. So the preferred dividends that were deferred, is it your understanding that those are going to be continued to be deferred and at what point would those deferrals stop?

No, they're not deferred, they're deemed, it's not – first of all, it's non-cash and it's a deemed dividend, this is a one-time event.

Okay.

An accounting method for allocating the way the financing work in terms of allocating costs to the various elements of the financing including the warrants and preferred stock.

Got you. Okay. Sorry, I misunderstood there. And then on operating cash flow for the quarter, do you have that number, Bob?

Just the cash usage was about $3.2 million.

Okay. And then, Liam on the expanded label, what's your sense in terms of how that may change utilization, what – how much demand is there in the marketplace, maybe talk about the European expansion – or the European utilization for those four indications?

Thanks, Charles. So, in Europe, we've been selling in the solid organ space as our number two target for quite some time. And the applications in these procedures in terms of the clinical advantages, they're the same here as they are for thoracic surgery, with the one difference when you're working around some of the larger solid organs there's really not a lot of space to maneuver. And some of these procedures, even though they're done in an open procedure and not done laparoscopically, the articulation and size because of the solid organ mass that gets in the way of using a stapler, the same benefits are present clinically for these procedures as they are in thoracic surgery, which we said over and over again, it's one of the killer applications for the MicroCutter.

So bringing that back to the U.S. to where we can promote that actively, we believe we'll add a second target, which should have some revenue implications. It also enables us to have multiple specialties acting for the MicroCutter, which will help push things through the Value Analysis Committee.

Okay, great. Thanks. And then, as a follow-up to that Liam, having these four solid organs targets as your number two target, could you help us understand in terms of magnitude, I mean, versus lobectomy in Europe that is – what percentage of the MicroCutter sales in Europe are the first target versus the second target? Or any kind of way you can help us quantify this a little bit? I know it's still early days over there, but any help you could give us there?

Yeah. So it's difficult to quantify, because once the hospitals bring the MicroCutter in, we don't always have visibility or a mix of what's liver surgery versus thoracic surgery, so that kind of makes it difficult.

Sure.

I think we talked in the past about the markets that we're going after in terms of the total available marketplace. And so when you look at the total available marketplace that we've been going after, the solid organ represents about two-thirds of the volume that thoracic surgery does from a potential standpoint.

So in the U.S. we've long talked about 150,000 thoracic procedures. They're applicable to the MicroCutter. We believe in the U.S. in solid organ, there is roughly 80,000 procedures. So that gives you a kind of a relevant size to the market.

Okay. Great. And then in terms of sales hires, Liam, what's your pipeline look like there? I mean, what are you able to do with the resources that you have right now? I know you're doing a lot of selling yourself, but maybe explain to us what your pipeline looks like and what your plans are for hiring?

So the plan has been to add one or two reps per quarter, but certainly with some of the production difficulties that we've encountered recently, we didn't want to have reps on the payroll before we resolve our supply chain issues. So I think once we get back to full production, the plan will be to add sales resources in the U.S., and of course we've long talked about the relationship with B. Braun and their global presence to increase our presence globally. So that's the plan in the near-term.

Okay. And when you say get back to full production, do you mean the 120 MicroCutters per week by the end of the calendar year or are you talking about the 90 to 100 MicroCutters per week where you are now?

Yeah, the 90 to 100 MicroCutters and resolving through those short-term issues.

Okay. So it sounds like in the fairly near-term, you may have enough capacity to start doing your hiring. We wouldn't have to wait until the end of the calendar year?

I think that's correct. Yes.

Okay. Great. Thanks for taking my questions.

Thanks, Charles.

Our next question comes from [ph] Peter Wade of Institutional Investors (00:30:51). Your line is open.

Hi, guys. Can you hear me?

Yes.

Hi, [ph] Peter (00:30:59).

Hi, [ph] Peter (00:30:59).

Hi, guys. Just a question for Liam. Liam, could you talk a little bit about how this hold in production is affecting your efforts, if any on your end? I mean as a surgeon, how are the surgeons reacting to it? And maybe talk a little bit about the reliability, is it consistent as before? And as far as the sales reps, I think to the previous caller asked – answered that question. But talk a little bit about the reliability, how are things progressing on that end? And the hold in production, is the demand still there? Are the surgeons worried? Things of that nature, if you can elaborate on that?

Sure. Well, the supply chain availability and the challenges that we're facing right now is, it's frustrating for everyone. It's frustrating to the reps, for our customers, and our distributors, mainly because they want this product in the operating room, and they don't have access to it. So our sales reps in the U.S. and our sales reps in Germany have been focusing on accounts where the product is already stocked, and working with surgeons that have been using the product.

The good news is the fact that the customers expressed frustration, I think, tells a story that they want this product available to them in the OR. Of course, sometimes that frustration can lead to them having to choose another product, but I think we'll manage through that.

The sales reps are focused on doing two things, one, these existing accounts and two, continuing to pull accounts through the Value Analysis Committee process, which as you know is somewhat of a lengthy project.

Right.

But we hope [indiscernible] (00:32:59) result, the supply chain issues that we're working on right now, the reps can get back to doing cases in these new target accounts.

Okay. Liam, the surgeons still happy with the reliability of the product from what you can see?

Yeah. I think overall, we're seeing the same...

Consistent?

...the [ph] clients we've seen (00:33:24).

Consistent?

So that I don't think has changed in the near-term.

Okay. Great. Julian, I have a question for you. You mentioned cost structure, can you elaborate in maybe a little more detail what the entails going forward?

Sure. We are in the process of evaluating a number of options. We're looking at some near-term things that we can do. We are looking at our facility and how we can rationalize the cost of our facility and reduce the costs for that. We're looking at our services that we are using. And in addition to that, we're also looking at a longer term relationships and partnerships that we can build with potential contract manufacturers, who can also provide some efficiencies. All of that is something that's on the table right now for us to evaluate.

Okay. The last question is, I think Tao might have mentioned B. Braun. Your relationship with B. Braun, he touched upon it, but has the – is the focus – the goal – the focus the same as it was before or has it been slightly degraded a little bit? I mean, I guess I'm trying to get a sense of how they feel after this recall. I mean, are things still progressing as they were at that level or has it tipped a little bit?

No. Things are progressing on our expected timeline and pathways that we have communicated before and the way we've structured it with them, they're great.

And just one point of clarification, we didn't have to do a recall. Our shipping hold was not a recall.

Yeah. That's a good point.

Okay. Well, great. Thanks, guys and yeah, keep up the good work. Thank you.

Thank you, [ph] Peter (00:35:31).

Thanks.

Our next question comes from [ph] Bob Horton (00:35:35), a private investor. Your line is open.

Hello. I have a very quick question for you. I'm a retired small investor and I just noticed from the trading today by looking at it, that the shorts really hammered that stock. Does the company have any plans of going in and maybe buying some in their own account?

Well, we'd love to. And we do think, of course, we do think it's a great value, but we are a venture really and we have to use our cash to build our business. What we will be doing and Julian will talk more about this as we have a lot of plans to go out and meet with new investors over the coming months and we certainly plan to communicate our story and communicate the opportunity that we have. But we're not in the position to repurchase any stock in the open market. We need to use our cash for – to create – try to create value for our business and our shareholders.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you.

There are no further questions. I'd like to turn the call back over to Julian Nikolchev for any closing remarks.

Thank you. Thank you for joining us on the call today. We hope to see you, some of you all at our upcoming presentations. We will be at the Wedbush PacGrow Healthcare Conference, the Southern California Investor Conference and the Ladenburg Thalmann Annual Healthcare Conference on the investor front. And we'll also be exhibiting at the 2017 International Coronary Congress and the 31st EACTS Annual Meeting as well.

We look forward to communicating our progress in the months ahead to everyone. Thanks for your time.

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. This does conclude the program and you may all disconnect. Everyone have a great day.