Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Robert Y. Newell — Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer, Dextera Surgical, Inc.
Julian N. Nikolchev — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Dextera Surgical, Inc.
Liam Burns — Vice President-Sales & Marketing, Dextera Surgical, Inc.
Tao L. Levy — Analyst, Wedbush Securities, Inc.
Charles Edward Haff — Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Quarter One Fiscal 2017 Dextera Surgical Financial Results Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time. [Operator Instructions]

As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded today, November 7, 2016. I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference, Mr. Bob Newell. Sir, you may begin.

Thank you. Good afternoon, and thank you for participating in our fiscal 2017 first quarter financial results conference call. This conference call will include forward-looking statements, including all statements regarding continued clinical and other developments, and commercial launch and use of our MicroCutter 5/80, including the timing thereof. The words expect, believe, plan, continue, anticipate, opportunity, intend, will and similar words are intended to identify these forward-looking statements. Any statements contained in this conference call that relate to future events, results or predictions are forward-looking statements.

There are a number of important factors that could cause our results to differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements, including those set forth in our press release of today, as well as other risks detailed from time-to-time in our reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2016 under the caption, Risk Factors. We expressly disclaim any obligation or undertaking to release publicly, any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements. You're encouraged to read our reports filed with the SEC available at www.sec.gov.

At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to Julian Nikolchev, Dextera Surgical's President and CEO, for a corporate update.

Thank you, Bob. Good afternoon, and thank you for participating on our call. Today, we also have Liam Burns on the call, our VP of Global Marketing and Sales. I'm pleased to report that we recently completed several significant milestones in our efforts to achieve our primary objective, to bring the MicroCutter 5/80, the world's smallest profile articulating surgical stapling device, to surgeons around the globe to enable less invasive and minimally invasive procedures which we anticipate will lead to better patient outcomes.

We continue to believe that successful commercialization of our disruptive technology targeting the $2 billion surgical stapler market would depend on three key components. First, we confirm clinical performance for the MicroCutter 5/80, which works with both white for thin tissue and blue for medium tissue staple reloads. This is a significant accomplishment for us.

Second, successful early adoption by key opinion-leading surgeons in high-volume centers who can participate in broader training and education initiatives as we expand our market presence. This is a milestone that we are in the midst of achieving. And, third, development and execution of an effective market awareness and surgeon training program. This step will be a major focus for our team as we step into calendar 2017.

To our first point, the clinical performance of the MicroCutter 5/80, we recently completed our initial cases for the delivery with several key – for the device with several key opinion-leading surgeons worldwide. These 55 cases confirmed excellent performance of both the blue and white reloads across multiple tissue thickness and surgical specialties.

Through these cases, we have confirmed excellent hemostasis as well. In fact, surgeons using the MicroCutter 5/80 in these procedures stated that the hemostasis performance is equivalent to what they have seen with conventional 12-millimeter staplers. The cases were performed by world-leading surgeons and institutions including Mayo Clinic, New York Presbyterian Cornell Hospital, Florida Hospital, James Cook University Hospital in the UK, Royal Infirmary in Scotland, Glasgow Children's Hospital in Scotland, [ph] Klinik Schillerhain (04:38) in Germany, Klinikum Bogenhausen, also in Germany; and Kantonsspital at St. Gallen in Switzerland. These prominent surgeons are recognized as leaders within their specialty and we have worked with them over the course of multiple iterations of the MicroCutter 5/80.

The objective of these cases were to have the surgeon evaluate the MicroCutter clinical performance and reliability in terms of hemostasis and staple line quality; further validate the clinical benefits of the MicroCutter 5/80 across a range of surgical specialties; confirm the key procedures where these benefits are most compelling; identify device performance parameters that may be specific for each clinical use, thus identifying possible product extension opportunities for procedure-specific MicroCutters; and develop product training and refine market positioning and sales marketing programs to drive adoption and grow revenue.

To give more detail on 55 completed cases, these included 200 firings of the MicroCutter 5/80; we've data-collect in on the quality of hemostasis and surgeons' assessment of both staple firing and staple line formation. The 55 cases included 39 thoracic and 16 pediatric, general and urology procedures, including three totally endoscopic bowel resections and two complex lung resections in pediatric patients.

These key opinion-leaders consistently commented that they found the MicroCutter 5/80 to be an innovative surgical stapler that will enable new less invasive procedures due to its small size and large degree of articulation. Specifically, in thoracic surgery, surgeons commented that we were able to achieve firings on vessels that could not be done with larger, conventional 12-millimeter stapler.

In pediatric procedures, surgeons performed totally endoscopic bowel resections for Hirschsprung disease as well as lung resections using only 5-millimeter ports, something that is impossible with conventional pediatric staplers available today.

With more than 50 cases completed successfully, we believe the MicroCutter 5/80 is ready for selective commercial use. This quarter, we're working to scale up our manufacturing capacity. We intend to expand the manufacturing capacity [ph] ahead of our sales round (07:09) with ability to manufacture 120 MicroCutters per week by the end of the first quarter of calendar 2017. As we begin a selective commercial launch of the MicroCutter 5/80, we have already added our first clinical specialist in the U.S. to support sales and surgeon training. Several surgeons are already raising the profile of our surgical stapler at leading medical meetings.

In September, two different surgeons presented data using our MicroCutter 5/80 in thoracic procedures at the annual meeting of the German Society for Thoracic Surgery. In October, Dr. Joel Dunning presented the first data on the MicroCutter-enabled microlobectomy procedure at the European Association for Cardio-Thoracic Surgery, the largest meeting of cardio-thoracic surgeons in the world.

Microlobectomy is similar to current video-assisted thoracic surgery, or VATS techniques but uses only 5-millimeter incisions between the ribs instead of 12-millimeter incisions, and a small incision below the ribs. The early positive results of these ongoing series of cases demonstrated significant benefits for patients including early discharge.

Dr. Dunning reported on the first 72 patients undergoing microlobectomy at six hospitals in the U.S. and Europe. Average hospital length of stay for the VATS lobectomy was reduced to three days with 22% of the patients going home the day after surgery, and 42% going home two days after surgery. This compares to an average hospital stay of three to four days for VATS procedures using the traditional 12-millimeter surgical stapler.

Presentations from Dr. Dunning and other thought-leaders at major medical meetings are an excellent representation of the positive impact the MicroCutter is having in thoracic surgery, as well as the relationships we have built with global key opinion leaders as they have become advocates for our technology.

As we look forward to our commercial launch, we're extremely pleased to have entered into a market and distribution agreement during the quarter with B. Braun Surgical S.A. to bring Dextera MicroCutter 5/80 surgical stapler to surgeons in Spain. B. Braun Surgical S.A. is the distribution arm of B. Braun Aesculap Group headquartered in Tuttlingen, Germany, a global leader in developing, manufacturing and marketing innovative medical products and services in the healthcare industry. B. Braun Surgical S.A. holds as well the Center of Excellence within Group of Closure Technologies, leading the global responsibility for business operations in surgical sutures, surgical meshes and stapling devices.

Under the terms of the agreement, B. Braun Surgical will have exclusive rights to distribute the MicroCutter in Spain through their laparoscopic unit. B. Braun has an extensive network of direct and indirect sales representatives in Spain who focus on surgeons performing minimally invasive surgical procedures.

Importantly, the MicroCutter 5/80, with its unique design and ability to enable minimal invasive surgery, fills an important gap that complements B. Braun's comprehensive portfolio of surgical devices, and other laparoscopic instruments. We believe that this synergy and product portfolio makes the company a perfect partner to continue to advance minimally invasive surgery in Europe and around the world.

In addition to our commercial preparation, we're beginning to enroll patients in our post-market registry called the MicroCutter Assisted Thoracic Surgery Hemostasis Registry, or MATCH Registry, to evaluate the hemostasis and ease of use of the MicroCutter device in clinical setting. The MATCH Registry will have data on up to 120 patients, and we anticipate that the data will be available in the first half of calendar 2017. We intend to present the registry data at a major thoracic meeting and publish the data in a respected peer review journal.

Moving to business development, we continue to make progress with our co-development effort with Intuitive Surgical to develop new robotic stapler products for the da Vinci Surgical System.

At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to Bob to discuss our financial results for the quarter and then I'll come back to review our milestone. Bob?

Thanks, Julian. For the fiscal 2017 first quarter, total revenue was $467,000 compared with $755,000 for the same period of fiscal 2016. Revenue from sales of our PAS-Port Proximal Anastomosis System were significantly lower than the last quarter due to a smaller order from Century Medical in the first quarter of the year to balance their inventory.

Revenue for the MicroCutter totaled $56,000 for the first quarter of fiscal 2017, compared to a revenue of $47,000 for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016 as we focused on and completed our initial 55 cases. We anticipate sales growth in the current and succeeding quarters as we re-launch in the U.S. and through our distributors in Europe.

Total product sales for the fiscal 2017 first quarter were $427,000 compared with $737,000 for the same period in fiscal 2016. During the fiscal 2017 first quarter, we shipped 596 PAS-Port systems, bringing cumulative worldwide shipments of our PAS-Port systems to over 45,000 units.

We shipped 62 C-Port systems during the quarter with cumulative worldwide shipments now over 15,000 units. Cost of product sales was $515,000 for the fiscal 2017 first quarter compared with $1.023 million for the same period of fiscal 2016.

Cost of product sales was lower due to lower sales and partly due to approximately $90,000 less in scrap costs compared to the same quarter last year. This has been an area of focused expense reduction, and we're now beginning to see results of our efforts on this front.

R&D expenses were $1.8 million for the fiscal 2017 first quarter compared with $1.6 million for the fiscal 2016 first quarter. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the fiscal 2017 first quarter were approximately $2 million. This compares with approximately $2.7 million in the same period of fiscal 2016. The reduction of SG&A expenses is primarily due to lower professional service fees and severance costs.

Total operating costs and expenses for fiscal 2017 first quarter were approximately $4.3 million compared with approximately $5.3 million for the same period of fiscal 2016. Net loss for the first quarter of fiscal 2017 was approximately $4 million or $0.44 per share compared with a net loss of $4.6 million or $0.52 per share for the same period of fiscal 2016.

Cash, cash equivalents and investments at September 30, 2016 were approximately $9 million compared with $12.7 million at June 30, 2016 with cash utilization of $3.7 million during the quarter, which includes approximately $360,000 for increases in inventory and receivables.

I will now turn the call back to Julian.

Thank you, Bob. Building on our positive momentum, our key objectives over the next three quarters are to demonstrate clinical adoption of video-assisted thoracic surgery by a select group of centers in both Europe and the U.S., initiate a selective launch of the MicroCutter 5/80 in the fourth quarter of calendar 2016, expanding the launch in calendar in 2017, demonstrate adoption by 15 key opinion leaders in the U.S. and 15 key opinion-leaders in the Europe by the end of first quarter of calendar 2017, optimize the supply chain and establish production capacity of 120 MicroCutters per week by the end of the first quarter of calendar 2017. Continue advancement of our co-development project with Intuitive Surgical to develop new robotic stapler based on the MicroCutter technology and establish Dextera Surgical's product pipeline, including final design of the next generation MicroCutter to expand, use and achieve cost goals.

In summary, we continue to make significant progress in bringing the MicroCutter 5/80 to surgeons and patients around the world. We look forward to keeping you apprised of our progress.

Before turning the call over to questions, I would like to note that on the investor relations front, we will be presenting and meeting with investors at the upcoming Craig-Hallum Conference in New York on November 16. If you have interest in seeing us during that trip, please let us know. In addition, we'll be meeting with investors during JPMorgan meeting in San Francisco in early January.

Now, we're ready to open the call for questions. I'd like to note that Liam Burns, our VP of World Sales & Marketing is with us on the Q&A portion of the call, as I said earlier. Thank you. Operator?

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Tao Levy from Wedbush. Your line is now open.

Good afternoon, everyone.

Hi, Tao.

Hi, Tao.

Hi. Maybe we could start with feedback that you guys have gotten so far from the surgeons. I know, Julian, you did provide some commentary, but maybe as a frame of reference, how does it sound relative to the experience with the prior staplers that Cardica had introduced?

Sure. Yeah. Thanks for the question, Tao. And it's a great question. So, let me turn it over to Liam Burns, who actually has lived through both of those experiences very directly, and he's been in most of the cases that we did most recently.

Thanks, Tao. I've been in many of the 55 cases that we reported on today and what we're hearing from the surgeon is a couple of things. First and foremost, these surgeons that we've worked with, many of them have used earlier generations of the MicroCutter and they have confirmed for us that the MicroCutter 5/80, especially in terms of the hemostasis performance, is better than what they've seen in prior generations.

They've also told us that the device is performing at a level now, from a terms of reliability in hemostasis. That's equivalent to the conventional devices, which has enabled them to use the MicroCutter in ways that we were hoping that they would use it, to advance minimally invasive techniques. I think one of the most common comments we hear from the thoracic surgeons, we've heard this from pediatric surgeons as well is that, I've been able to achieve firings with the MicroCutter that I could not achieve with a conventional larger stapler.

Okay. And how about on the other side in terms of cases that maybe you had a little bit more to be desired or any sort of changes that they might've requested out of the second or future models?

The cases that we've seen, the feedback has been very, very positive. One of the good parts of working with leading surgeons and the key opinion leaders in thoracic and pediatric and solid organ is, these are the innovators that always have small adjustments that are not material to the device, but are tips in how to use it, tips in how to approach different firings, and we're integrating that feedback into our training and development programs. So, we're using videos from their procedures, and we're taking their words and using that to train other surgeons as we broaden our launch.

Got you. And just finally, in terms of the relationship with B. Braun in Spain, was that – is that something that needs to be signed off from B. Braun, the mother ship, or is that something that is taken care of at the local distributor level? And I'm just wondering whether this is the type of relationship you would want to carry through to other international geographic locations?

Yeah. That's – it's a good question. That relationship actually started a while ago at a local level in Spain by Liam and the local distributors. And it's really – it represents sort of the forward thinking over the last, I would say, 18 to 24 months of thinking of, what are the other – the attractive markets where we want to have presence. And over that period, it was built so that it actually ended up into the headquarters and it had to be approved by the headquarters. But it is based in Spain right now.

And Liam, do you want to comment a little further because you've been working with the local group for some time?

Yeah. We were approached actually almost two years ago by the Spanish sales management. They saw the technology and they saw that it fits in with their portfolio in Spain with energy devices, with instruments and other therapeutic devices. So, they've been following the technology. I think when they saw the results we're achieving over the last year, they knew it was time to add it to their portfolio, but of course, they only represent Spain, and we're very excited to launch into Spain, but as you know, they needed to be reviewed by the corporate offices before we could proceed for this – it's a local deal, just want to emphasize that.

I noticed in the geographies that you mentioned, [ph] they are very used (22:42) participate in those 55 cases, Spain wasn't one of them? Is this coming up?

Correct. We just recently signed the agreement with them. So, they were not part of that at this point.

Okay. Great. Thanks.

Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Charles Haff from Craig-Hallum. Your line is now open.

Hi. Thanks, guys, and thanks for taking my questions. Liam, great to hear your voice on this call. Congratulations on that progress with the 5/80. I had some questions for you guys around kind of Joel Dunning's work and what's the plan on getting him out into the field? How do you expect him to be a part of this 5/80 launch? Is he going to be putting considerable amount of his time into that or is it more just reviewing his public work and you guys will do your own stuff?

Yeah. Charles, thanks for that question. I mean, as you know, Joel Dunning has been a pioneer in developing less invasive thoracic surgical procedures and especially he has really believed in what the MicroCutter has been – enabled to – for him to accomplish. So, he's very much part of our plan, but I would let Liam sort of give you some of the details because he's actually in the process of developing that.

So, we've been very lucky to be working with Dr. Dunning. The good news is that micro-lobectomy is one of the hottest topics in thoracic surgery today and all of the major meetings that are being held in Europe and the U.S. are having [ph] base (24:34) and abstracts and video presentation of micro-lobectomy which certainly the MicroCutter is enabling that procedure. So, first and foremost, we're excited that from a peer review standpoint, Dr. Dunning is able to present his work to thought-leading surgeons and to the entire thoracic surgery community at this major meeting.

Secondly, his work is routinely published on CTSNet, which is the largest online community of thoracic surgeons where surgeons share their procedural videos of how they're doing new procedures and difficult procedures. And so, you'll see routinely, not only Dr. Dunning, actually other surgeons as well; they're sharing their videos of how they're doing the procedures and how the MicroCutter helps that.

On the other side of it, Dr. Dunning is being invited routinely around Europe and in the U.S. to work with thoracic surgeons that are interested in learning his technique. This [ph] preceptoring (25:34) and proctoring happens routinely in thoracic surgery. You see it with robotic surgery. You see it with uniportal surgery and so, Dr. Dunning has been invited to many of these hospitals. We certainly want to support that with him and often times, we are coordinating visits with him to those hospitals, so that we can present the MicroCutter at the same time. There's also surgeons coming to observe him in Middlesbrough in the UK and we're often there, or our distributor is very often there during those cases, and they get to see the MicroCutter in action during that time.

That's great to hear, Liam. Obviously, what a big help that is to the relaunch here of the product. Congratulations on getting his efforts to your company. The other question I had was on the clinical performance. You said it was similar, I believe to the 12-millimeter staples, if I heard you right. So, are we talking about a 97% firing success or how – are you measuring success in a different way?

So, a couple of things, Charles. There's a lot of questions in there. First and foremost, there is not a database that tells us exactly how competitive staplers are performed. You can go to the FDA.gov database and look at MDRs, but you don't know how many cases that the staplers are used in.

So, to quote a comparison of exact numbers would be inaccurate or a guess at best. We're relying on a couple things. One, our surgeons are telling us because they have used the competitive staplers that they're seeing the same kind of performance when it comes to hemostasis as they have seen over their entire careers from the 12-millimeter staplers. We take data internally. When a Dextera person is at a case, we record the observations of the surgeon and exactly how they handle the device. That data uses an objective scale that was developed by surgeons, leading surgeons, and according to that, we're seeing very, very good hemostasis.

Okay. That's great. And I think you guys were explaining the 200 firings and I missed the first one, you said 39 of one particular procedure, but I missed which one that was. Can you repeat that?

39 thoracic surgical procedures.

Got it. Okay. Okay. I'll jump back in queue and might re-queue with another question. Thank you.

Thanks, Charles.

Thank you and I am not showing any further questions at this time. And I would now like to turn the call back over to Mr. Julian Nikolchev, for any closing remarks.

Thank you. Thank you for joining us on the call today. We look forward to communicating our progress in the months ahead and we hope to see you at one of our next meetings.

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. This does conclude the program, and you may all disconnect. Everyone, have a great day.