corrected transcript


Cardica, Inc.
 
CRDC
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 17, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2010 Cardica Inc.


Earnings Conference Call. My name is Amicia :11 and I’ll be your coordinator today. At this time all


participants are on a listen-only mode. We will conduct a question-and-answer session towards the


end of the conference. [Operator Instructions]


I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Bob Newell, Chief Financial Officer. Please proceed.


Robert Y. Newell, Chief Financial Officer and Vice President, Finance


Good afternoon and thank you for participating in our fiscal 2010 fourth quarter financial results


conference call. Earlier today we issued press releases setting forth our financial results and the


terms of a license agreement with Intuitive Surgical, so please refer to the press releases for


complete details.


This conference call will include forward-looking statements, including all statements regarding the


future development, regulatory approval, commercial launch and potential of products in our


planned Microcutter product line, including the timing thereof and statements regarding the


development of products and our potential receipt of royalty payments under our license agreement


with Intuitive Surgical. Any statements contained in this conference call that are not historical facts


may be deemed to be forward-looking statements. The words will, entitled, plans, believe, on track,


subject to, pending, expect, potential, planned, would and similar expressions are intended to


identify forward-looking statements.


There are a number of important factors that could cause our results to differ materially from those


indicated by these forward-looking statements, including that we may not be successful in our


efforts to develop the Microcutter ES8 and other potential products in our planned Microcutter


product lines, that the Microcutter ES8 may not obtain regulatory approval on our anticipated


timeline, if at all, that any future products face development, regulatory, reimbursement and


manufacturing risks, that any future products may never gain any significant degree of market


acceptance, that we may not receive any royalty payments under our license agreement with


Intuitive Surgical, that our intellectual property rights may not provide adequate protection and that


general business and economic conditions may impair our ability to market and develop products,


as well as other risks detailed from time to time in our reports filed with the U.S. Securities and


Exchange Commission, including our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31,


2010. We disclaim any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any


forward-looking statements. You are encouraged to read our reports filed with the SEC available at


www.sec.gov.


At this time, I’d like to turn the call over to Bernard Hausen, Cardica’s President, CEO and Co-


Founder for a corporate update.


Bernard A. Hausen, M.D., Ph.D., President, Chief Executive Officer and Co-Founder


Thank you, Bob. Good afternoon everyone. Thank you for joining us on our call today. As you


know, today we announced an exclusive worldwide license agreement with Intuitive Surgical for our


intellectual property related to the Microcutter technology for use in the field of robotic surgery.


The license excludes vascular anastomosis product. We have received 12 million from Intuitive for


a royalty-bearing license and an equity investment. Intuitive plans to develop products based on


technology used in the Microcutter.
corrected transcript


Cardica, Inc.
 
CRDC
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 17, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


Overall, we are extremely pleased to have this agreement with Intuitive, the worldwide leader in


robotic surgery. We believe this partnership is very much in line with our mission to enable


minimally invasive surgery through our Microcutter stapling technology.


In addition to our license agreement with Intuitive, which is limited to the field of robotics, we made


significant progress in the development of our internal Microcutter product line and we believe that


we remain on track to launch the first product in this line in the first half of calendar year 2011


subject to FDA clearance under a 510(k) process.


During the quarter, we completed our initial tooling for the Microcutter ES8 and we are now focused


on iterating this device to obtain our design reliability goals. We expect to have a fully functional


device in the fourth quarter of calendar 2010 concurrent with the initiation of human testing in


Europe.


Earlier this quarter, we completed the first phase of chronic animal testing for our Microcutter staple


lines with very good performance. We compared the Microcutter ES8 to staple lines from


competitive products and chronic animal models when performing partial gastrectomies in small


intestinal anastomoses. Our chronic animal studies evaluated the staples out to 10 weeks and in all


models the Cardica Microcutter ES8 performed very well providing [inaudible] small intestinal


anastomosis or well-healed gastrectomies.


In addition, we’ve expanded our discussions with key opinion leaders from different surgical


specialties to solicit further feedback on the design and usability of the Microcutter ES8. As we talk


to different surgeons, we are expanding our understanding of the market needs as well as the


acceptance of new technologies and are prioritizing potential products in our Microcutter product


line as a result.


We believe that we are on track to launch the first in our planned lines of Microcutter ES8 in the first


half of calendar year 2011 pending 510(k) clearance initially focused on bariatric and other


abdominal surgeries such as, for example, appendectomies.


Expanding our potential product line, we completed product design of the Microcutter MES5, a


cutting-stapling device that is even smaller than ES8 with a shaft diameter of only 5 millimeters and


the ability to articulate up to 80 degrees.


I want to reiterate that we believe the Microcutter technology lends itself to a full suite of products to


enhance the wide variety of laparoscopic procedures, including bariatric, general, colorectal and


gynecological surgeries, as well as natural orifice transluminal endoscopic surgery or NOTES and


single port surgeries.


All of our Microcutter devices would be significantly smaller than commercially available cutting-


stapling devices and upon completing development of the ES8, we will have developed the first and


only linear staple to deploy multiple staple lines without the need for cartridge reloads in an


individual procedure.


We believe that we provide a technological improvement upon existing cutting stapling-devices


providing surgical tools that are smaller, more flexible, easier to use and could potentially cost less


than competing products. In the quarters ahead, we look forward to reporting our progress on this


line of stapling-cutting devices.


Turning to our cardiac surgery business, we maintained a revenue rate of approximately $1 million


of total product sales per quarter with only two dedicated sales representatives. We are very


pleased that we are able to maintain a consistent revenue stream, which contributes to overhead


without significant investment in sales and marketing.