Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Robert Y. Newell — Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer, Dextera Surgical, Inc.
Bernard A. Hausen — President & Chief Executive Officer, Dextera Surgical, Inc.
Tao L. Levy — Analyst, Wedbush Securities, Inc.
Charles Edward Haff — Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC
Edward Walbridge — Analyst, Ergon Institute, LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the First Quarter Fiscal Year 2015 Cardica Financial Results Conference Call. My name is Steve, and I'll be your operator for today. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. We will conduct a Q&A session towards the end of the conference. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this call is being recorded for replay purposes.

Now I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Bob Newell, CFO. Please proceed, sir.

Thank you. Good afternoon and thank you for participating on our fiscal 2015 first quarter financial results conference call. Earlier today, we issued a press release including our financial results, so please refer to the release for complete details.

This conference call will include forward-looking statements, including all statements regarding continued clinical and other developments, future product features, future regulatory approvals, commercial launch and use of our products and our planned MicroCutter product line, including our MicroCutter XCHANGE 30 and XCHANGE 45, including the timing thereof, and our expectations regarding future support for and sales of our MicroCutter products and automated anastomosis products.

The words expect, believe, plan, continue, intend, will and similar words are intended to identify these forward-looking statements. Any statements contained in this conference call that relate to future events, results or predictions are forward-looking.

There are a number of important factors that could cause our results to differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements, including those set forth in our press release of today, as well as other risks detailed from time to time in our reports with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2014 under the caption Risk Factors.

We expressly disclaim any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements. You're encouraged to read our reports filed with the SEC available at www.sec.gov.

This call is a property of Cardica, and any rebroadcasting of this call without the expressed written permission of Cardica is prohibited.

At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to Bernard Hausen, Cardica's President and CEO for corporate update.

Thank you, Bob. Good afternoon and thank you for participating in our call today.

Before I start to describe the accomplishments of the past quarter, I'd like to take a minute to put the development timelines of the MicroCutter, a truly innovative product based on radically novel technology into perspective. It has been just over five years since we began development of the MicroCutter, and we have spent $60 million supporting this product line to-date.

The product was CE marked within 34 months of the start of this project. The product was launched in Europe in December 2012 and cleared by the FDA in January of this year. Those of you familiar with typical development timelines for similar disruptive products will be able to appreciate this.

You'll also understand that complex products mature over time and are associated with the learning curve in terms of product performance and reliability. These facts need to be figured into the product launch strategy. Understanding the complexity of the MicroCutter and based on the regulatory clearances we have obtained, Cardica is diligently executing a strategy that we believe will generate stockholder value, enable us to realize the full potential of our cutting-edge technology.

As we enter fiscal 2015, we continue to build on the momentum of our initial U.S. introduction of the MicroCutter XCHANGE 30 which, as you know, is the world's first and only 5-millimeter surgical staple that articulates to 80 degrees.

We're building a market for a highly differentiated surgical stapling technology by executing a disciplined commercialization rollout for the MicroCutter XCHANGE 30 and by developing additional market-enhancing products, including the XCHANGE 45.

As we look into fiscal 2015, we have already accomplished a tremendous amount in the first few months. We just returned from the American College of Surgeons Annual Meeting, one of the largest national conventions for general surgeons. During the meeting, we provided an opportunity for interest in surgeons to deploy the product in our wet lab at the convention. This hands-on experience with deployments in tissue allowed the surgeons to understand the product features and assess the quality of the staple line, which is the true measure of product performance. Further, surgeons had the opportunity to meet with members of our research and development team to express and discuss their specific needs.

Without exception, this was a very positive experience for all parties involved, and undoubtedly in the view of the surgeons that have an opportunity to use the MicroCutter either in the lab or in patients, our product has matured significantly.

Based on the feedback from this meeting, we are encouraged that the product as developed meets the surgeons' needs for many procedures. We also feel that the desire to include a MicroCutter in their surgical armamentarium motivates the surgeons to work with Cardica in getting our product through the value analysis committees.

In this healthcare environment, it is necessary to have both the breakthrough product and a surgeon advocate to successfully navigate through the value analysis committee process. It's very clear from these meetings that the expectations in terms of product performance and staple line quality are very high and need to be met in order to see product adoption and widespread use.

As I mentioned, we are constantly looking to improve the performance of our technology. And based on the surgeon input we have received to-date, we recently introduced a new iteration of the XCHANGE 30, as well as two options tailored for specific procedures, which I will discuss later in this call.

We expanded our sales teams with representatives that know the stapling market and bring extensive relationships in the United States and hired an experienced sales director to lead our commercial efforts in Germany. And we continue to expand our visibility through key medical meetings. Most importantly, our MicroCutter surgical stapler continues to facilitate less invasive surgical procedures and allows surgeons to innovate procedures previously not possible.

Turning to our commercial progress, as we expand our sales footprint and successfully navigate hospital administrative procedures, we continue to expand a number of hospital value analysis committees who have approved our device for evaluation or purchasing. As of September 30, 58 VACs had approved the device, up from 38 last quarter, which includes nationally recognized academic medical centers and thought leaders in a variety of specialties.

In addition to reaching new hospitals, we continue to expand deeper within specific customer accounts. Importantly, we're beginning to see adoption which typically starts with general surgeons within a hospital and then spreads to other surgeons within that facility.

For our U.S. sales team, we now have eight full-time sales representatives in addition to our VPs of Sales and Marketing. It is very important to note that six of these representatives have extensive backgrounds in surgical stapling and introducing new surgical devices.

Importantly, they have experience navigating VACs and career-long relationships with surgeons from multiple specialties. As we expand our reach through the sales team, R&D continues to respond to customer feedback to expand the capabilities and breadth of our products.

In terms of product enhancements, we're focused on three areas of expansion. First, we improve robustness of the MicroCutter to ensure that even when deployed significantly outside the specified range, good and reliable results can be obtained. For a stapler of 5 millimeters or one-fifth of an inch, this is no small feat. The introduction of the new iteration, which internally we call Generation 3, addresses this need specifically, increasing our capable range from the Generation 2 device. The feedback we have received to-date confirms this.

Second, we focus on enhancements or options that make the device easier to use. This month, we introduced the curved tip cartridge/reload to provide greater control in confined and deeply recessed areas, directly addressing a request from surgeons. The curved-tip cartridge is available for both the white and blue staples lines to address both thin and thicker tissue.

In addition, we recently announced the availability of the short shaft handle ,which is 24 centimeters in shaft length and provides greater control, particularly in confined spaces, small incision procedures and in smaller patients.

As we continue to work with early adopters and surgeons who often are key opinion leaders in their surgical field, we are working to create a product line that can be extended to mainstream users. Overall, we continue to make progress in driving down the cost of manufacturing of the device, while improving the capabilities, ease of use and clinical benefits of the product.

In Japan, our partner, Century Medical, continues to work with the Ministry of Health to enable potential market clearance of the XCHANGE 30 in this significant market. As part of the product approval process, the Ministry of Health did complete an audit of the Cardica facility. Century has been very active in introducing Japanese surgeons to Cardica for initial familiarization of the MicroCutter, and we believe the Japanese market holds great promise for our product line. Century anticipates market clearance within this calendar year.

Turning to product development. As we expand our commercial offerings, we continue to advance our development of additional devices to grow our available market opportunity. Notably, we continue to develop the XCHANGE 45, a surgical stapler designed with an 8-millimeter shaft and a 45-millimeter staple line.

We continue to expect CE Mark for this product and accomplish first use in humans by the end of the calendar 2014. We will continue to make refinements and improvements to the XCHANGE 45 based on feedback on the clinical use of this product by our surgeon customers just as we have for the XCHANGE 30.

Our cardiac business continues to generate revenue but, as anticipated, was impacted by the typically slower summer months. During the quarter, Dr. [indiscernible] (11:37) in Japan published a peer-reviewed article in The Journal of Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery showing the results of using the PAS-Port System in off-pump bypass procedures. We published results from 126 patients demonstrating a patency rate of 99% at discharge and excellent long-term patency of more than 94% up to five years postoperatively compared to long-term patency rates in the medical literature of 74% to 83%. The authors concluded that the PAS-Port device is highly reliable, performed appropriate proximal anastomosis and improved the patency of the vein graft to the aortic wall.

Turning to our corporate progress, I'm pleased to announce that after discussions with many shareholders, we added two very experienced executives, Bill Moffitt and Gary Petersmeyer, to our board of directors in October. This brings our board total to eight members, seven of whom are independent. Both Bill and Gary share a deep understanding of our industry and have valuable experience running public companies during a major product launch. We're confident that their addition to the Cardica board will provide valuable strategic insights and perspective as we continue to expand the market opportunity for our MicroCutter XCHANGE product line, both in the U.S. and internationally.

Before I turn the call over to Bob to discuss our financial results, I'd like to give you a few examples of procedures where the MicroCutter is making a difference in the lives of both patients and surgeons.

In Europe, we continue to see surgeons use the MicroCutter in a variety of innovative minimally invasive procedures, such as a new microlobectomy procedure in the UK where part of the lung is removed through a very small incision, or a Hirschsprung's procedure in an infant where the colon is transected with a MicroCutter without having to open the two-month-old infant's abdomen.

In the United States, we have also seen innovation advancement in a variety of surgical procedures, including an emergency small intestinal tumor removal for acute bleeding, as well as hemicolectomies where in both procedures, access is gained using only 5-millimeter trocars.

As you can see from the diverse nature of these procedures, the MicroCutter is advancing patient care, both in the United States and internationally.

At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to Bob for a discussion of our financial results. Bob?

Thanks, Bernard.

For the fiscal 2015 first quarter, total revenue was approximately $1.1 million compared to $805,000 for the same period of fiscal 2014. Total product sales for the fiscal 2015 first quarter were approximately $1.1 million compared with $746,000 for the same period in fiscal 2014, an increase of over 40%. Total worldwide sales of the MicroCutter XCHANGE 30 were approximately $418,000 this quarter, up sequentially from $306,000 in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014 and compared to $32,000 for the first quarter of fiscal 2014. Revenue from the U.S. increased substantially to approximately $274,000, with revenue from Europe impacted by the summer quarter and relatively flat compared to last quarter.

Important to note that MicroCutter sales in U.S. were close to the same level as that of our U.S. cardiac sales in just the second quarter of our U.S. introduction. The number of U.S. hospitals ordering the MicroCutter XCHANGE 30 continue to increase, both in the U.S. and internationally, as we gain traction and expand our market presence.

During the fiscal 2015 first quarter, we shipped 990 PAS-Port Systems, bringing cumulative worldwide shipments of our PAS-Port System to over 38,000 units. We shipped 86 C-Port Systems during the quarter with cumulative worldwide shipments now over 14,400 units.

Cost of product sales was approximately $1.6 million for the fiscal 2015 first quarter compared to approximately $1 million for the same period 2014. The increase in cost is primarily due to excess in obsolescence write-offs of the parts inventory of approximately $147,000 based on design changes, primarily the change to the Generation 3 device, scrap cost of approximately $125,000 related to early manufacturing of MicroCutter, and inventory reserves of $178,000 for the fiscal 2015 first quarter.

We continue to make good progress in reducing the cost of component parts which will lead to improving our gross margin. Currently, our overall gross margin is still negative due to manufacturing overhead and scrap and obsolescence charges. However, we do anticipate a positive gross margin in future quarters, as our MicroCutter sales continue to increase.

R&D expenses for both fiscal 2015 and 2014 first quarters were approximately $1.7 million. Selling, general, and administrative expenses for the fiscal 2015 first quarter were approximately $2.7 million compared to approximately $1.8 million in the same period of fiscal 2014. The increase in SG&A expense was primarily due to hiring additional sales and marketing staff, MicroCutter sales reps, an increase in MicroCutter demo and sample expenses as part of our marketing and training efforts, increased marketing efforts for the MicroCutter stock option compensation expense related to the amortization of fair value of options. We currently have eight sales reps and plan to hire additional sales staff in the current quarter.

Total operating costs and expenses for the fiscal 2015 first quarter of approximately $6 million compared to approximately $4.4 million for the same period in fiscal 2014. Net loss for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 was approximately $5.1 million or $0.06 per share. Net loss to common shareholders for the first quarter of fiscal 2014 was approximately $3.7 million or $0.07 per share. Cash, cash equivalents and investments at September 30, 2014 were approximately $38 million compared to approximately $42.8 million at June 30, 2014.

I'll now turn the call back to Bernard.

Thank you, Bob.

In summary, we received consistent positive feedback from surgeons that there are three key benefits to our device. First, the XCHANGE 30 allows surgeons to perform surgeries in a less-invasive manner when compared to using conventional 12-millimeter staplers. Reducing the invasiveness reduces the risks associated with surgery and generally improves patient outcomes.

Second, the XCHANGE 30 enables surgeons to use staples to gold standard in closure when alternative closure methods like clips have been used in the past, allowing for safer and faster transections.

Third, our device allows surgeons to innovate procedures where the small size and large range of articulation provides substantial opportunities.

Moving forward, we will continue to book revenue from commercial sales of the XCHANGE 30 in the United States and internationally, with initial sales from the new short-shaft option available for the first time this quarter. To expand our product line, we plan to submit regulatory documentation for the XCHANGE 45 and begin use in humans in the current quarter. We also expect market clearance of the MicroCutter XCHANGE 30 in Japan this quarter.

We look forward to keeping you apprised of our progress in the months ahead. It is an exciting time for Cardica.

At this time, we'd like to open the call for questions.

[Operator Instructions] Please stand by for your first question, which comes from the line of Tao Levy from Wedbush Securities. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good afternoon.

Hi.

Hi, Tao.

Hi. So, actually, just a quick clarification first. The Gen 3, is that the current system that you're selling now with the tougher metal?

Yes.

Yes.

Okay. So that's a product that you currently have, okay.

That was launched in September.

Okay. And so, as we look at the quarter that you just reported and last quarter, how should we think about how the rest of the year progresses? This is kind of like one of the slower quarters just given the summer seasonality. Should everything kind of move up sequentially here in the calendar fourth quarter? That's my first question.

First of all, we're very pleased to see a continued growth in the number of value analysis committees approving the product, and we're seeing good progress in the entire commercialization efforts. Surgeon acceptance is very positive. The product performance is very good, much more robust than it has been.

We are climbing up the learning curve with this product, and we're doing more and more procedures internationally. We expect the next quarter to be better simply because the summer months are over, and we expect to show growth quarter for quarter.

Yes.

Okay. And then sort of on the manufacturing front, now that – I guess you've got the Gen 3 all set and some of those costs that you had to report this quarter and last quarter. Do those mostly come out of the equation going forward?

Of course, we're really focused on quality. So as we continue to make more and learn more in the manufacturing effort, we'll – the scrap – we feel like scrap costs will go down, but we'll still have some scrap costs in the next few quarters. In terms of the excess and obsolescence, where that comes in is when we make changes to lower cost of components, if we have the old version of components in inventory, we have to write those off.

So there's still going to be some of that as we continue to reduce our component cost, but we feel very good about the changes we've made in cost, and we do feel as we grow these sales in succeeding quarters that you'll see the improvement in gross margin.

And sales reps, you mentioned that you're going to add some more this quarter. Are you still thinking that kind of three to four per quarter.

I think generally yes. That would be the number. We are very satisfied with the reps we've hired and the reps we've had on board for a number of quarters now. We're seeing the traction. It's just a process as we've alluded to in previous calls going through the value analysis can be these days not just for our product, for any product is a real process that varies quite significantly from hospital to hospital. And that's just something that we have to tackle, we and other companies just have to tackle.

Okay. And then just last question. I forgot to ask something on the proxy contest that's going on. What are the next steps that are involved there and is it – then I don't know, you didn't call out what the cost has been and you expect to be from that?

But the rationales of not just sort of replacing three of the current board members with three of the ones that are being nominated by one of the shareholders. Again, I'm just trying to understand why we don't – why this isn't just an easier, less costly process?

Yeah. I mean, this conference call is about our first quarter results primarily, and I think in the interest of this whole proxy contest, moving forward, at the lowest cost to all parties as possible, we'd like to just restrict the questions to quarter results if you can understand that.

Okay. And just in terms of the steps or really what's next?

Well, there's an annual board election in December 13.

11.

11. So that is what we will be preparing for.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you.

And your next question comes from the line of Charles Haff from Craig-Hallum. Please go ahead.

Hi. Thanks for taking my call – questions. Can you hear me okay? I'm calling on a cell phone. Is the quality okay?

It's very good. Yeah.

It's fine.

Okay. Good. So I was wondering how many hospitals purchased the product this quarter. I understand you had 58 VACs, but how many actually purchased?

We said last time that for competitive reason, we're just going to talk about value analysis committees quarter-by-quarter.

Okay. Would you be able to say that any – you saw any repurchases this quarter from hospitals that purchased last quarter? Is there any reorder activity that's occurring yet?

We're definitely seeing reorders, and we're definitely seeing clinical adoption in some very prominent centers.

Okay. Great. And R&D expenses were quite a bit lower than I was expecting this quarter, but you have had good new product flow. Was there anything specific to this [audio gap] (27:15-27:22)

...with our planning. In previous years, we had a lot of prototype materials and parts which increased R&D expenses a lot and also a lot of depreciation for tooling. So I don't see it going up a lot from these levels.

Okay. And then the short shaft handle, well, they have similar pricing to the standard XCHANGE 30 handle or is that a different pricing?

The same.

Okay. And the sales reps that converted from the anastomosis product that you are now selling the exchange product. Are they also still selling the anastomosis product or is there any sales focus being put on in the anastomosis product or is it basically just selling itself right now?

Their primary focus is on the MicroCutter and we are maintaining the accounts we have had on the cardiac anastomotic products.

Also, Charles, half of the anastomosis products are international which are through distributors which don't require any sale support in the U.S.

Okay. And then as a follow up to Tao's question earlier about the three to four sales people per quarter, you mentioned, Bernard, generally, yes, you're goal is that but then you wove in the VAC approval process. So the sales force additions is predicated on the pacing of the VAC approvals that you have are those two independent kind of events?

Our goal was always to show organic growth. That's not getting ahead of ourselves in generating a huge sales organization expense before the revenue has caught up to that. And I think that's what we're trying to balance here very carefully.

Okay. Great. Thanks for taking my questions.

Thanks, Charles.

Thank you.

And your next question comes from the line of Edward Walbridge from Ergon Institute. Please go ahead.

Gentlemen, looking at the MicroCutter at your website, it looks like it might be heavy during long surgeries, that is, will the surgeons get tired or what? I'm not a surgeon.

I hope you're on the right website. It's quite the opposite, right? It's much lighter than competitive or – it is much lighter. It hardly weighs anything so that is not a problem. Plus, the way it's used, it's used through trocars. So, you're really not carrying the product in your hand; it's kind of just rested through the trocars. So, it's an issue at all.

Okay. Thank you. Second question on that, the 5-millimeter shaft, is there any possibility that such a narrow shaft might be bent like if it bumps into bone inside the body or I guess it's also a tissue, but nonetheless, it's a thin shaft?

Yes, it's very stable. Now we've never seen it being bent.

Okay. One more question. Could you describe the VAC process, I mean, it's like – it's a committee and they get testimonies from other surgeons or they simply order the product for trial or what goes on in the VAC and how long does it take before they start ordering for actual use on surgeries?

Yeah. It's a good question. So, you start by finding a surgeon advocate champion who sees a real interest in this product, and he can't just use that product without going through this committee. The committee then have to listen to his arguments and reasoning. There's often already discussions with us on pricing and volume discounts et cetera. And then the committee needs varies from hospital to hospital once a month or once a quarter. And then they decide if they want to product this product in for trial if they're going to ask for free product for trialing or if they will pay for the trial product.

And the surgeon then evaluates the product in procedures and a set number of procedures and provide an evaluation for them back to the value analysis committee. And they make a final vote and when you're through that entire process, you can expect if everything went well your first orders.

And how long do that process take?

It can vary from a few weeks to months.

Have any VACs tried out MicroCutter decided not to order?

Yes. Yes, it's a very small – it's truly very small percentage but there are committees were we couldn't, we weren't willing to go down in the pricing that they were comparing us to volume pricing of competitors without giving a volume commitment. And we'll have to revisit that later in the wholesales process and go back to these hospitals and see if there is some more common ground that we can explore?

So what percentage of the committees have ordered a MicroCutter at least on a trial basis?

At least all of them. Every value analysis committee that we quote as having a approved it.

58.

Have used...

All 58 have ordered, I see.

Okay.

Yeah. Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you.

And your next question comes from the line of [ph] Todd Mitchell (33:28) from UBS. Please go ahead.

And, Bob, how are you?

I'm good, Todd.

Bernard, you mentioned or said on the call about climbing up the learning curve, I think was the line used. Could you give me some kind of sense where we are with the XCHANGE 30, the third generation? Are there significant iterations that need to be made to this? Is it kind of set now where it is? What kind of changes are still needed to be made with that product going forward?

That's a good question. The learning curve that we went through initially had to just do with product performance from a mechanical basis. We basically passed that learning curve. We are very, very reliable I'd say above 98%, probably 99% if the product is used within specified tissue ranges. What we're doing with our generations of improvement such as this Generation 3 is trying to broaden the tissue ranges. The product is still capable of operating in despite the fact that it's outside the specified range.

Surgeons are fond of this product and they want to use it everywhere where they typically staple. But it is only a 5-millimeter stapler. There's only so much strength you can get out of those – that kind of a footprint. So what we've been doing in this past year was working on improvements to make it more robust and more capable of going into out of spec tissue ranges, and these efforts have, kind of, been summarizing the Generation 3 product. We're going to continue to try to broaden that.

So, I'm not ruling out just like there's an iPhone 4, 5 and 6, that there will be a Generation 4, 5, and 6 of the MicroCutter, not for product reliability in the specified wrench but to make it broader in its applications which will have an impact on the quantity of the product being sold in the long term.

Okay. Okay. And back on the Japan approval process, is it typical that it's this long? I think you guys said that you are anticipating about 12 months. Are there issues with that?

There you go.

No.

[indiscernible] (36:14)

It's been very typical. You can compare it to any other medical device trying to get approval in Japan. Typically, one of the last markets that get approval because it is...

Okay.

...very lengthy, and it's totally out of our control in many regards. I mean-

Okay. Would the XCHANGE 45 have to go through a lengthy process like that too or if we had approval in the United States at some point next year, we potentially would be looking at a year for that market also?

In Japan?

Yes.

I can't really tell you. I don't think so because they would probably view it as a predicate to itself, but to be honest, I can't really answer that. We have to kind of see where we end up with the first one and then, we can make some better estimates on what the second one would take.

Okay. And I do appreciate you covering the timeline earlier regarding development companies because I've been along the ride since [audio gap] (37:11-37:12)

Yeah.

It has been a process and resets and things like that, but I do believe in the IP. I guess what I'm trying to get to is trying to understand why the market, from the standpoint of market being – how the stock trades and the environment out there, why we seem to not be appreciated for what's taking place at the company.

It just – it doesn't make – it perplexes me, where it seems like we have made significant progress, but we're still trading at an $80 million market valuation and – or let's say $90 million or close to $100 million, let's say between $80 million and $100 million, and you take cash out, you've got about a $60 million on your IP. What is it that's not being told here, or what's the market missing out there? Maybe you could help me out. I mean...

Of course, we're not going to – I don't want to speculate on what that is, but I think – we believe that we have an enormous opportunity, and it will become apparent month-by-month, quarter-by-quarter. We have a phenomenal sales leader in Liam Burns and a great sales team that has extensive experience in stapling, 10 years or more, many of them extensive relationships.

We've been on record as saying the goal is $1 million quota for our sales rep, and by month 12, we will stick with that forecast. And I'm – nobody is more disappointed than we are that the market is not giving us more credit. But we have an enormous opportunity and a phenomenal product, and as you mentioned, a terrific proprietary base, both patents and know-how. And eventually the value will be recognized.

Okay. One last question here. The deferred revenue of $0.5 million, what is that tied to?

That's a very, very complex accounting. Sometimes accounting makes things more complicated.

Okay.

The Japanese loan that was – we got – it was essentially good news. We got the Japanese loan extended to be due in 2018 instead of 2016. And we had to, for some complicated reasons, increase deferred revenue.

Okay. Okay. Thank you.

Thank you.

Appreciate it.

And now I would like to turn the call back over to Bernard Hausen for closing remarks.

Thank you. Thank you for joining our call today. We look forward to seeing some of you at the Brean Life Sciences Summit in New York on November 24.

Thank you for your participation in today's conference. This concludes the presentation. You may now disconnect. Have a good day.