corrected transcript


Cardica, Inc.
 
CRDC
 
Q3 2011 Earnings Call
 
May 10, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Fiscal 2011 Third Quarter Cardica


Financial Results Conference Call. My name is Jeff, and I’ll be your operator for today. At this time,


all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will facilitate a question-and-answer session.


[Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.


I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today, Mr. Bob Newell, Chief Financial


Officer. Please proceed, sir.


Robert Y. Newell, Chief Financial Officer, Secretary, Vice President and Head, Investor Relations


Good afternoon and thank you for participating in our conference call. Earlier today, we issued a


press release setting forth our financial results, so please refer to the release for complete details.


This conference call will include forward-looking statements, including all statements regarding the


continued development, regulatory approval, commercial launch and first-in-man use of products in


our planned microcutter product line, including our Microcutter XPRESS 30, including the timing


thereof, our expectations regarding future sales of our automated anastomosis products and the


potential future sale of shares to Aspire Capital under December 2010 common stock purchase


agreement.


Any statements contained in this conference call that are not historical facts may be deemed to be


forward-looking statements. The words “believe,” “planned,” “anticipated,” “ensure,” “would,” “[ph]


wants (1:29),” “expect,” “intend,” “expand,” “want,” “could,” “will be,” “potentially subject to,” and


similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.


There are a number of important factors that could cause our results to differ materially from those


indicated by these forward-looking statements, including, that we may not be successful in our


efforts to complete the development and initiate first-in-man use of the Microcutter XPRESS 30 or


develop any other microcutter products on our anticipated timeframes, if at all; that the Microcutter


XPRESS 30 may not be subject to a 510(k) rather than the longer pre-market approval application


process or otherwise may not obtain U.S. regulatory approval on our anticipated timeline, if at all;


that our current and any future products may never gain any significant degree of market


acceptance; that any future products face development, regulatory, reimbursement and


manufacturing risks; that our intellectual property rights may not provide adequate protection; that


our sales, marketing and distribution strategy and capabilities may not be sufficient or successful;


that general business and economic conditions may impair our ability to market and develop


products; and risk related to our ability to access capital under the terms of the December 2010


agreement with Aspire Capital or otherwise; as well as other risks detailed from time to time in our


reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Quarterly Report on


Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2010.


We expressly disclaim any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to


any forward-looking statements. You’re encouraged to read our reports filed with the SEC,


available at www.sec.gov.


At this time, I’d like to turn the call over to Bernard Hausen, Cardica’s President, CEO and Co-


Founder, for a corporate update.
corrected transcript


Cardica, Inc.
 
CRDC
 
Q3 2011 Earnings Call
 
May 10, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


Bernard A. Hausen, President, Chief Executive and Medical Officer


Thank you, Bob. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us on our call today. During


our third fiscal quarter, we continued to work diligently towards bringing our Microcutter XPRESS


30 to the market. As a reminder, our Microcutter XPRESS 30 is a true multi-fire cutting and stapling


device with a 30 millimeter staple line that can deliver conventional staple sizes known as white,


blue, and green, and is designed to be used in a wide variety of surgical procedures.


We’ve made consistent progress to date. We’re focused on completing the initial design validation


testing for our first anticipated commercial microcutter product. Part of receiving the CE Mark for


initial version of the microcutter device, we implemented specific protocols to receive the European


Union Full Quality Assurance certification for design and manufacturing processes.


As you know, design validation testing is a rigorous process undertaken to ensure that all


components within the XPRESS 30 work together consistently and reliably and we believe we are


very close to completing this milestone for the XPRESS 30. Once the XPRESS 30 passes the


validation testing we can apply the CE Mark to this device and within weeks thereafter we plan to


initiative first-in-man use of the XPRESS 30.


Over the succeeding months we expect to schedule multiple cases at several centers in Europe to


gain experience in a variety of surgical procedures. We intend to begin using the XPRESS 30 in


these cases during the current quarter.


At that time the XPRESS 30 will be the first and only true multi-fire endoscopic stapling that is


commercially available. It is the smallest in terms of end effector and shaft diameter. As proposed,


cases are completed in selected European centers using the XPRESS 30. We expect to gain initial


experience and feedback for this device that would allow us to make minor changes to the product


if necessary. Once we have incorporated the feedback into the device, we plan to conduct a limited


commercial launch to approximately 25 to 30 leading surgeons in the United States, subject to


obtaining FCA clearance under a 510(k) process.


We have already initiated the vast majority of [ph] VCUS (6:09) surgeons who specialize for the


most part the thoracic, bariatric, colorectal and general surgery. These surgeons are thought


leaders in their respective fields and they perform large number of varied surgical procedures


where we believe our XPRESS 30 would provide a substantial advantage over current stapling


technology.


We’re planning to work with this group of renowned surgeons to make final improvements and


small enhancements to the products to help ensure consistent reliability, prior to launching this


product more broadly. We believe these surgeons will also bring strong clinical credibility to the


Microcutter product line upon full commercial launch.


We expect this initial launch period in the United States to last nine to 12 months and during this


period we want to accomplish the following key goals. Demonstrate the reliability of our Microcutter


products prior to a full scale commercial launch, solicit feedback from these initial customers and


make any appropriate products enhancements or improvements, validate our sales model in terms


of both the percentage of targeted surgeons who converge to using Cardica product and the time


required to achieve clinical adoption and targeted accounts and to complete development of


additional devices in our planned Microcutter product line based on our proprietary staple-on-the-


strip platform so that when we are ready for a broader launch, our sales force would have three to


five products to sell rather than just one or two.


Taking a step back as we build relationships with more surgeons, we continue to hear validation of


our end desire to use our planned Microcutter product line. Specifically, the feedback often result