Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Robert Y. Newell — CFO, Secretary, VP-Finance & Head-Media Relations, Dextera Surgical, Inc.
Bernard Hausen — President and Chief Executive Officer, Co-Founder, Dextera Surgical, Inc.
Matthew Won — Analyst, Wedbush Securities, Inc.
Charles Edward Haff — Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2015 Cardica Financial Results Conference Call. My name is Tony and I will be your operator for today. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.

I will now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Bob Newell, CFO. Please proceed.

Good afternoon and thank you for participating in our fourth quarter financial results conference call. This conference call will include forward-looking statements, including all statements regarding continued clinical and other developments, future products features, future regulatory approvals, commercial launch and use of products in our planned MicroCutter product line including our MicroCutter XCHANGE 30 and XCHANGE 45, including the timing thereof; and our expectations regarding future support for and sales of our MicroCutter products and automated anastomosis products.

The words expect, believe, plan, continue, intend, will, and similar words are intended to identify these forward-looking statements. Any statements contained in this conference call that relate to future events, results or predictions are forward-looking statements. There are a number of important factors that could cause our results to differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements including those set forth in our press release of today as well as other risks detailed from time to time in our reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2015 under the caption Risk Factors.

We expressly disclaim any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements. You're encouraged to read our reports filed with the SEC available at www.sec.gov. This call is the property of Cardica, and any rebroadcasting of this call without the expressed written permission of Cardica is prohibited.

At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Bernard Hausen, Cardica's President and CEO, for a corporate update.

Thank you, Bob. Good afternoon and thank you for participating in our call. Today on our call I'd like to review our progress over the course of the last quarter, Bob will review our financials, and I'll provide a roadmap for the company moving forward. In addition I'll make some comments regarding my planned departure.

Focusing on the business at hand, and taking a moment to recap our progress, at the end of March following a clinical evaluation with approximately 250 deployments over 100 patients, we reintroduced the modified version of the MicroCutter XCHANGE 30, a product compatible with only white cartridges designed to staple thin tissue, primarily blood vessels, during surgical procedures. This device is primarily used in Europe where the device is cleared for use in a very broad range of indications, including vascular transections.

As you know, the MicroCutter is the world's only articulating 5-millimeter surgical stapler. We're now selling the MicroCutter with the white cartridge primarily in Europe. We see – we sell the MicroCutter through our distributors as well as through our subsidiary and our sales manager in Germany. Our controlled commercial release, target surgeons who have been strong advocates of the MicroCutter device within their institutions and who truly understand the game-changing nature of our surgical stapler. Surgeons are using the MicroCutter primarily in thoracic procedures where the white cartridge is exceptionally beneficial for stapling vessels in the lungs. Specifically, we're seeing the benefit of the white cartridge in minimally invasive video-assisted thoracic surgery, also known as VATS.

Our MicroCutter XCHANGE 30 is ideal for this procedure because of its size and articulation. We've identified 10 to 15 centers in both the UK and Germany that perform VATS procedures on a regular basis. Working with these sites, we're building relationships and have been able to demonstrate the benefit of the MicroCutter in a large majority of these centers.

In order to expand the reach of the MicroCutter, we are focused on product refinements to the MicroCutter with the white cartridge only, expansion of the MicroCutter indications for use in the U.S. to include vascular transections, product enhancements and a significant redesign towards the introduction of the Generation 4 device, and an independent assessment and validation of our market opportunity. In regards to product refinements, we continue to iterate the MicroCutter with the white cartridge, and with the introduction of the white-only device we have been able to demonstrate improved hemostasis during vascular transections while maintaining good functionality and reliability.

While the MicroCutter with the white cartridge is working well in VATS procedures in Europe, we have a strong desire to expand the usability of the device to be employed during other minimally invasive procedures in Europe and the United States. We're applying to the FDA to expand our clearance in the United States to include vascular indications, and we believe the experience we are gaining in Europe for VATS procedures will be directly applicable to the United States market as VATS is growing in popularity here as well.

In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015 we submitted a 510(k) application to the FDA to expand the current IFU for the XCHANGE 30. Today in the United States XCHANGE 30 is indicated for use in small and large colon transections as well as appendectomies. The majority of these cases require using the blue cartridge for thicker tissue. We have received initial feedback and questions from the FDA in our 510(k) as well as a request for data from a chronic animal trial. We believe we can address both the questions and any additional data requests in an expeditious manner, including conducting the animal trial. We expect we will be able to complete the animal trial and respond to all FDA inquiries during this calendar year.

Turning to product enhancements. In order to expand the application of the MicroCutter into a wide range of procedures and for the ultimate benefit of the patient, we need the device to work reliably and in a wide range of tissue thicknesses. Our objective for the Generation 4 device, which is a device designed to deploy both the white and blue cartridges depending on tissue thickness, is to have a capable range for tissue thicknesses of 0 to 1.5 millimeters for the white cartridge and a capable range of tissue thickness of 1 to 3 millimeters for the blue cartridge. The device needs to be reliable and consistent when deployed in all tissue thickness ranges.

Moving from Generation 3 to Generation 4 is a significant step and includes many substantial design changes when compared to moving from Gen 2 to Gen 3. The Gen 4 device is designed to do two important things: first, it simplifies the design by changing the way the clamping and deployment mechanism works. These changes reduce both the complexity of the design and also the variability in how the product performs.

A second – and second, we are increasing the strength of the device which specifically benefits thick tissue performance. Deployments in thick tissue require a very high force to compress the tissue to only a fraction of its original thickness. With a 5-millimeter form factor, there are limits to what we can achieve in compressive forces. But with modifications to the design and changes to the materials used, we believe we're making progress in achieving our goal of improving the capable range of tissue performance.

We're gaining key insights and making critical enhancements to the device, but the changes necessary are significant and require changes to multiple components with associated lead times. Based on the extents of these changes, it currently seems unlikely that we can begin our clinical evaluation of the Gen 4 product before the end of this calendar year. However, we absolutely believe that spending the necessary time to get these enhancements right is critical at this juncture for our company.

To reiterate, we are moving two devices forward: the MicroCutter XCHANGE 30 Gen 3, for use only with white cartridges, will continue to be refined for its use in tissuess suitable for its capable thickness range; and second, the Gen 4 device, for use with both the white and blue cartridges, is undergoing a substantial redesign to facilitate product enhancements designed to increase strength and simplicity to ultimately expand the capable tissue range.

Allow me to switch topics. We're recently engaged – we recently engaged an independent market research firm and completed an extensive survey of over 140 doctors and have re-verified that there is a clinical need and significant interest from surgeons both in the U.S. and Europe in a 5-millimeter articulating surgical stapling device such as the MicroCutter XCHANGE 30. This survey confirmed that almost 80% of the market opportunity for the MicroCutter XCHANGE 30 is concentrated among five procedure categories and in four surgeon types: general, thoracic, pediatric, and colorectal.

The top three procedures identified as applications for the XCHANGE 30 were appendectomies, typically performed by general surgeons; anatomical lung resections performed by thoracic surgeons; and a broad range of pediatric surgical procedures. Importantly, both thoracic and pediatric surgeons represent a concentrated market opportunity for Cardica with just 4,000 thoracic surgeons and 2,000 pediatric surgeons in the United States; this compares to 25,000 general surgeons.

Looking at the international landscape, the process for product clearance of the MicroCutter in both Japan and Canada continue to advance. We believe each of these markets offer significant opportunity for Cardica. We still have much work to do, but we have also made significant progress in our efforts to enhance this novel technology and bring the MicroCutter to surgeons around the world.

Finally, as it was announced today, almost 19 years after co-founding this company and 15.5 years as President and CEO, I have made the decision to step down from all my roles. I have made this decision after significant thought and careful consideration. I'm working with our board of directors to identify a new CEO, and a search is already under way. I and the board are confident that we will find a strong and experienced candidate to take the helm and continue Cardica's efforts to advance minimally invasive surgery.

At the company's request, I have agreed to stay in my current role for a transition period through the end of this calendar year. During this time I'm fully committed, and as I always have been, and will continue to work very hard to move the company forward to achieve the objectives we have set together. I absolutely believe that Cardica is on its way to perfecting its revolutionary stapling technology, and the company is poised to facilitate current and new procedures and allow for more minimally invasive procedures, ultimately benefiting patients around the world.

At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Bob to review our financial results. Bob?

Thanks, Bernard. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015 we sold the MicroCutter primarily in Europe. For the fiscal 2015 fourth quarter, total revenue was $701,000 compared to $1.025 million for the same period of fiscal 2014. Total product sales for the fiscal 2015 fourth quarter were $684,000 compared with $1.008 million for the same period in fiscal 2014. Total MicroCutter product sales were approximately $157,000, with more than 90% coming from Europe.

During the fiscal 2015 fourth quarter we shipped 884 PAS-Port systems, bringing cumulative worldwide shipments of our PAS-Port systems to over 40,500 units. We shipped 85 C-Port systems during the quarter with cumulative worldwide shipments now over 14,700 units.

Cost of product sales was $851,000 for the fiscal 2015 fourth quarter compared with $1.3 million for the same period of 2014. Cost of product sales in this quarter includes approximately $140,000 for scrap and obsolete inventory costs for the MicroCutter. R&D expenses were $1.8 million for both the fiscal 2015 and fiscal 2014 fourth quarters. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the fiscal 2015 fourth quarter were approximately $1.8 million compared with approximately $2.4 million at the same period of fiscal 2014. Total operating cost and expenses for the fiscal 2015 fourth quarter was approximately $4.5 million compared with approximately $5.6 million for the same period of fiscal 2014.

Net loss for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015 was approximately $3.9 million or $0.04 per share. With fiscal 2014 fourth quarter, our net loss on a non-GAAP basis before non-cash charge was approximately $4.7 million or a $0.06 loss per share. Cash and cash equivalents and investments at June 30, 2015 were approximately $25.2 million compared with approximately $29 million at March 31, 2015.

I'll now turn the call back to Bernard.

Thank you, Bob. Our key objectives for the rest of 2015 are to continue to use Europe as an important area of commercial validation and learning, continue to refine the MicroCutter XCHANGE 30 with the white cartridge, obtain FDA clearance for the MicroCutter XCHANGE 30 for a broader range of indications including vascular transections, continue to advance the development of the XCHANGE 30 Generation 4 device suitable for deployment of blue and white cartridges across a wider tissue range, and obtain final regulatory approval in Japan and Canada.

We look forward to keeping you apprised of our progress. At this time we are ready to open the call for questions. Operator?

[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Mr. Tao Levy of Wedbush Securities. Please proceed.

Hi guys. This is actually Matt Won filling in for Tao. Thanks for taking the questions.

Hi, Matt.

Hey. So my first question, regarding the animal data that's new for the blue cartridge. Can you just elaborate on that? What specifically are they looking for?

This is a chronic animal study where we demonstrate in an animal model that with the MicroCutter in comparison to conventional stapler we can safely transect vessels and have animal survive for a defined period.

Okay. Great. And regarding – going back to Japan, can you just give – is there any like other update regarding data and what are they looking for? Any more details there?

Yeah. If you recall we have had preliminary approval from the Ministry of Health in Japan, and we're just getting subsequent approval for the change in material, the plastic material. We changed to Ixef from LCP in the cartridge, and that is still going through the process. We expect in the next month or two to get approval in Japan; final approval.

Okay. And then lastly I guess regarding the cash burn this quarter?

Yes.

How much was it and [indiscernible] (17:21)?

It was about $3.8 million, and there were some unusual items in the quarter related to severance payments and some legal expenses. So I think we're capable of getting to our goal of $3 million to $3.5 million in the cash burn per quarter.

And how much of that is going to be related to the CEO transition?

I don't have a number for that. I don't anticipate it that that's taking that into account at this stage.

Okay. Great. Thanks. And Bernard, thanks for all the help this year. Best of luck in your future endeavors.

Thank you very much.

[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Mr. Charles Haff of Craig-Hallum. Please proceed.

Hi, guys. Can you hear me okay?

We can hear you.

Hi, Charles.

Okay. Yeah. I had a question. I know you're trying to fill your VP of operations position. Has that been filled yet?

Yes. Yes. We filled it more than two months ago with Mr. Greg Watson. We're still in the process of defining who the new VP of R&D will be, and that's still a work in progress.

Okay.

And we have an acting VP of R&D.

Okay. And Bernard, with your deep understanding of the MicroCutter, have you given any consideration to staying on with Cardica as the Head of R&D? Was that a possibility or is that just another workable situation? And if so, how would that not be a viable solution?

Yeah. No, I think what this company needs is some new leadership, a new CEO. I don't think I'm qualified as a VP of R&D; I have no engineering background. I do understand the product well enough, but just probably well enough to be dangerous. I am very convinced that the technology we're developing is very good technology. It has a true market and a real need from the surgical community to begin with the other half of myself as a surgeon. I believe we're well in our way. The recent results we've been achieving in Europe are excellent; they're very, very good. The product's working in the white-only mode as planned.

Getting the blue and white product, the Gen 4, is essential; I think we're well in our way to doing that. And the new CEO will have, as one of his early tasks, is to define who will work for him as a VP in R&D. And as I stated earlier, I'm going to stay in my role as the CEO until that transition is completed up to the end of this year.

Okay. Well I understand, it's been great working with you and sorry to see you go. A question for you on the machining process using the 416 steel anvil. How is that process working? Is that still the preferred plan at this point or have you moved away from that?

Well that is exactly one of the paths we're going down. We do know that it will take more than just a material change and a process change in how that part's manufactured, and that's where the delays in getting this product done are coming from. There are other components that need to change to give us the strength, and we're talking hundreds of pounds per square inch of forces that need to be created in this 5-millimeter envelope, and that is the challenge. But it looks like we're well on our way to getting there; it's just a process in medical device manufacturing that you have to go through to ensure that you have a reliable – repeatedly reliable and producible product.

Okay. And then my last quest for Bob. XCHANGE 30 revenues of $157,000 this quarter, is that a good run rate to be using on a quarterly basis going forward for the remainder of the fiscal year or should we moderate those or any thoughts around that?

Charles, our real goal right now in Europe is for clinical adoption and focusing on these VATS centers. And we will gain revenue, but what we really want to show is that we have a majority of our target markets. I expect that we will have decent revenue and modest growth in our revenue prior to launching the Gen 4. But the real goal right now is showing clinic adoption in these VATS centers, and we're very pleased with how that's going.

Okay. Thanks a lot, guys.

Thank you, Charles.

There are no further questions in the queue. We will now proceed with closing remarks from Mr. Bernard Hausen. Please proceed.

Thank you, operator. Thank you for joining us on the call. We look forward to seeing some of you at the (sic) [Wedbush PacGrow Healthcare Conference] (23:05) Wedbush PacGrow Health Conference on August 11 or at the Craig-Hallum Alpha Select Conference, September 11, also in New York.

Thank you very much. Have a good day. Bye-bye.

Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes today's conference call. Thank you so much for your patience. You may now disconnect. And everyone, have a great day.