corrected transcript


Cardica, Inc.
 
CRDC
 
Q2 2011 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 27, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Cardica’s Fiscal 2011 Second


Quarter Financial Results Conference Call. My name is Melanie and I will be your coordinator


today. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. We will accept your questions at the


end of this conference. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, today’s call is being recorded.


I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Bob Newell, CFO. Please proceed.


Robert Y. Newell, Chief Financial Officer and Vice President, Finance


Thank you. Good afternoon and thank you for participating in our second quarter financial results


conference call. Earlier today, we issued a press release setting forth our financial results, so


please refer to the release for complete details.


This conference call will include forward-looking statements, including all statements regarding the


future development, potential surgical uses, regulatory approval, first-in-man use and commercial


launch of products in our planned Microcutter product line, including our Microcutter XPRESS 30


and including the timing there of our expectations regarding future sales of our automated


anastomosis products and a potential future sale of shares to Aspire Capital under a December


2010 common stock purchase agreement.


Any statements contained in this conference call that are not historical facts may be deemed to be


forward-looking statements. The words “plan,” “anticipate,” “if,” “expect,” “will,” “could,” “would,”


“potentially,” “subject to,” “pursue,” “believe,” and similar expressions are intended to identify


forward-looking statements. There are a number of important factors that could cause our results to


differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements, including, that we may


not be successful in our efforts to develop the Microcutter XPRESS 30 or any other Microcutter


products and to expand our product portfolio, that the Microcutter XPRESS 30 may not be subject


to a 510(k) rather than a longer pre-market approval application process or otherwise may not


obtain U.S. regulatory approval, or the CE Mark on our anticipated timeline if at all.


There are regulatory and any – that our current and any future products may never gain any


significant degree of market acceptance, that any future products based development, regulatory,


reimbursement, and manufacturing risks, that our intellectual property rights may not provide


adequate protection, that our sales, marketing, and distribution strategy and capabilities may not be


sufficient or successful, that general business and economic conditions may impair our ability to


market and develop products, and risks related to our ability to access capital under the terms of


the December 2010 agreement with Aspire Capital or otherwise, as well as other risks detailed from


time to time in our reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including our


Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2010, and our current


report on Form 8-K filed on December 17, 2010.


We disclaim any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any


forward-looking statements. You are encouraged to read our reports filed with the SEC available at


www.sec.gov.


At this time, I’d like to turn the call over to Bernard Hausen, Cardica’s President, CEO, and Co-


Founder, for a corporate update.
corrected transcript


Cardica, Inc.
 
CRDC
 
Q2 2011 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 27, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


Bernard A. Hausen, M.D., Ph.D., President, Chief Executive Officer and Co-Founder


Thank you, Bob. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us on our call today. We’ve


had a productive quarter in all aspects of our business, specifically in product development. We’ve


been focused on advancing our planned Microcutter product line through development and towards


commercialization. As we get closer to our anticipated selective launch of our first Microcutter


product, we have recently released the commercial product names that we plan to use going


forward in place of the internal product codes we previously used to differentiate our products in


development.


We completed tooling of our first planned Microcutter product, the Microcutter XPRESS 30,


formerly called the Microcutter ES8, during the second quarter of fiscal 2011, and are now in the


final phase of product development, primarily directed at maximizing product performance,


consistency and reliability. At the end of this stage, which we anticipate will occur during the current


quarter; we expect to receive the CE Mark and thereafter to initiate first-in-man use in Europe.


If we’re successful in this regard, the Microcutter XPRESS 30 would be the first and only true


multifire endo stapler commercially available. It is the smallest in terms of end effector and shaft


diameter and it is the stapler that can articulate more than any other commercially available stapler.


I want to take a moment to talk about why we believe the instrument size of our planned microcutter


products represents a competitive advantage in today’s surgical market. When a surgeon performs


a laparoscopic or thoracoscopic procedure today, he or she uses several different tools routinely,


including in most cases a grasper, camera, sealing devices, clipper pliers and staplers. All versions


of these devices that are commercially available today with the exception of the staplers are 8


millimeter in diameter or smaller. Staplers available today are 12 millimeter or more requiring a


larger trocar specifically for the stapling device. The larger the trocar, the greater the risk of


bleeding and abdominal wall herniation following removal of the trocar.


Unlike currently available technologies, our first three planned microcutter products – the


Microcutter XPRESS 30 and XPRESS 45 and the Microcutter XCHANGE 30 are either 8


millimeters or 5 millimeters in diameter and therefore could be used with the same trocars used for


graspers, cameras, sealing devices and clipper pliers, reducing the risk for the patient.


Additionally, the true multi-fire design of our EXPRESS 30 and EXPRESS 45 products would allow


the surgeon to complete successive deployments without having to remove the device for a


cartridge reload, thereby reducing the risks associated with repeated stapler insertions and


removals.


For example, bariatric and thoracic procedures today require a surgeon to reload a conventional


staple with new cartridges as many as eight to ten times, with each reload requiring removal and


reinsertion through the trocar. With our planned microcutter product, there would be no need to


remove the device to reload the cartridge and as such using one of our true multi-fire staplers could


potentially significantly improve procedure flow and even reduce overall procedure duration.


As you can see, there are many reasons why the surgical community is excited about our planned


Microcutter product line. We are very excited to move closer to obtaining regulatory approval and


then bring these products to market.


Today, the annual market for endo staplers is in excess of $750 million in the U.S. alone. If we


include sealing devices in our estimates, the total market jumps to $1.2 billion. Importantly, subject


to obtaining regulatory clearance, we plan to introduce our Microcutter device in a selective and


methodical way. Following completion of product design validation and CE Mark, we plan to use the


Microcutter XPRESS 30 in a few selected centers in Europe to gain some initial experience while


we pursue 510(K) clearance in the U.S. Subject to obtaining FDA clearance, we plan to then