corrected transcript


Cardica, Inc.
 
CRDC
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 29, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Second Quarter 2009 Cardica


Financial Results Conference Call. My name is Wayne and I’ll be your coordinator for today. At this


time, all participants are in listen-only mode. We will be facilitating a question-and-answer session


towards the end of this call. [Operator Instructions]


I’d now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today’s call, Bob Newell, Chief Financial


Officer. You may proceed.


Robert Y. Newell, Chief Financial Officer and Vice President, Finance


Good afternoon and thank you for participating in our fiscal 2009 second quarter financial results


conference call. Earlier today, we issued a press release setting forth our financial results. So


please refer to the release for complete details.


Before we begin, I would like to remind you that we will be making forward-looking statements


about Cardica’s future expectations and plans, including statements with respect to our revised


fiscal 2009 financial guidance, planned new product introductions, adoption of our products,


expansion of the uses of our products, progress on our collaborations with Cook Medical, and other


corporate products and clinical projections.


The words anticipates, will, expect, believe, and similar expressions are intended to identify


forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based upon Cardica’s current


expectations. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties.


Our actual results and the timing of our events could differ materially from those anticipated in such


forward-looking statements as a result of these risks and uncertainties which include, without


limitation, risk associated with Cardiac’s dependence upon the success of our current products,


market acceptance of our C-Port and PAS-Port systems, manufacturing of the C-Port and PAS-Port


system, and our suppliers, Cardica’s sales, marketing and distribution strategy and capabilities,


success of clinical studies and regulatory activities related to our collaborations, the impact of the


work force reduction on our business, unanticipated charges not currently contemplated that may


occur as a result of the restructuring plan, our ability to execute on our strategy and general


business and economic conditions and our need for additional funding. These and other risk factors


are discussed under risk factors in Cardica’s quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter


ended September 30, 2008 and additional filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange


Commission.


Cardica expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or


revisions to any forward-looking statements contained herein. You are encouraged to read


Cardica’s reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission available at


www.sec.gov.


I will now turn the call over to Bernard Hausen, Cardica’s President, CEO and Co-Founder, to give


you a business update.


Bernard A. Hausen, M.D., Ph.D., President, Chief Executive Officer and Co-Founder


Thank you, Bob. Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you for joining us on our call today. In


September 2008, we received 510(k) clearance from the FDA for our PAS-Port system. With one


full quarter of selling experience under our belt, we are very encouraged and gratified by the clinical
corrected transcript


Cardica, Inc.
 
CRDC
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 29, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


adoption of this innovative product by cardiothoracic surgeons for use in coronary artery bypass


graft or CABG procedures.


We immediately started training surgeons to use the PAS-Port after the FDA clearance. Since that


time we’ve trained 226 U.S. surgeons including 196 in the fiscal 2009 second quarter alone. Of


those approximately one-third are new customers for Cardica product. Just this week at The


Society of Thoracic Surgeons for STS Annual Meeting in San Francisco we featured PAS-Port at


our exhibit booth. We were particularly gratified with the number of positive mentions of Cardica


technology and surgeons presentations at the STS. For instance Dr. Vassiliades of Emory


University highlighted our connective technology both PAS-Port and C-Port in a non-company


sponsored presentation.


In his comments he pointed out the fact that Cardica remains the only provider of anastomotic


devices for both proximal and distal applications. We also held an educational symposium that we


jointly sponsored with Intuitive Surgical and other companies about how cardiothoracic surgeons


can revolutionize their conventional and minimally invasive practice by using our products. More


than 120 cardiac surgeons attended and the presentations were very well received.


I will go into more detail about these achievements later, but let me now turn the call back to Bob


for a review of our second quarter financials.


Robert Y. Newell, Chief Financial Officer and Vice President, Finance


Thanks, Bernard. For the fiscal 2009 second quarter total net revenue was approximately $2.9


million compared with 1.7 million for the same period in fiscal 2008. Total product revenue for the


fiscal 2009 second quarter was approximately $2 million compared to 1.3 million for the same


period in fiscal 2008.


During the fiscal 2009 second quarter, we increased cumulative worldwide shipments of the PAS-


Port to more than 11,500 units with 1,827 units shipped in the fiscal 2009 second quarter. The


majority of units were shipped to U.S. customers. Also in fiscal 2009 second quarter, we increased


cumulative worldwide shipments of C-Port systems to over 8,000 units with 993 units shipped in the


fiscal 2009 second quarter.


Cost of product revenue was approximately $1.5 million for the fiscal 2009 second quarter,


representing a product gross margin of 27% compared with $1.2 million in cost – for product cost


for the same period in fiscal 2008. Research and development expenses were approximately $2


million for the fiscal 2009 second quarter compared with 1.7 million for the same period fiscal 2008.


Selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal 2009’s second quarter were approximately


4.1 million compared with 3.2 million for the same period of fiscal 2008. For the fiscal 2009 second


quarter net loss was approximately $4.7 million or $0.30 a share compared with the net loss of


approximately 4.2 million, or $0.29 a share for the same period in fiscal 2008. Cash and


investments at December 31, 2008 were $13.1 million compared with 17.6 million in the quarter


ending September 30, 2008.


Turning to financial guidance for fiscal 2009. We are pleased with the surgeon adoption of our PAS-


Port system to date. But the acceptance of new technology by hospitals and regular consistent


usage patterns are difficult to predict. We expect revenue from both our PAS-Port and C-Port


systems to grow quarter-over-quarter. However because it is hard to accurately forecast product


revenue for new and recently introduced products in the current economic environment, we have


determined not to provide product revenue guidance for fiscal 2009.