corrected transcript


Dune Energy, Inc.
 
DNE
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 7, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Dune Energy


Second Quarter Financials Call. At this time, all lines are in a listen-only mode. Later there will be


an opportunity for questions and instructions will be given at that time [Operator Instructions]. And


as a reminder this conference is being recorded.


I will now turn the conference over to your host, Chief Executive Officer, James Watt. Please go


ahead, sir.


James A. Watt, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you very much. Good morning and welcome to Dune Energy’s second quarter conference


call to review financial and operating results of the last quarter and provide forward guidance as to


plans for the remainder of calendar 2009 and into 2010.


With me today is, Alan Gaines, Chairman of the Board; Frank Smith, Senior Vice President and


Chief Financial Officer; and Steve Craig, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.


Let me caution everyone about forward-looking statements, which will be included in this


presentation. This presentation contains projections and other forward-looking statements within


the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1993, and Section 21E of the Securities


Exchange Act of 1934. These projections and statements reflect the company’s current view with


respect to future events and financial performance. No assurances can be given, however, that


these events will occur or that these projections will be achieved, and actual results could differ


materially from those projected as a result of certain factors. A discussion of these factors is


included in the company’s documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


After the market closed last night, we released our 10-Q for the quarter along with a press release


this morning detailing many items within the 10-Q and discussing operating plans for the remainder


of 2009. This morning, I will highlight and expand on several items within those releases, and then


open the line for up to questions.


Production for the quarter was 2.34 billion cubic feet of gas equivalent, essentially the same as the


first quarter of the year which was 2.37 Bcfe. Oil production accounted for 45% of the volumes on


a gas equivalent basis, but 67% of revenues. Total revenues for the quarter were 14.9 million, as


compared to 14.3 million for the first quarter and 51.5 million for the second quarter of 2008.


In the second quarter of 2009, the average sales price for a barrel of oil was 56.43 versus 118.87 in


the second quarter of 2008. Gas sales averaged $3.80 per million cubic feet in the second quarter


of 2009, versus $12.43 in the second quarter of 2008. Cash controllable cost were down


dramatically in the second quarter of 2009 versus the same time period in 2008.


Operating expenses were 8 million versus 11.3 million a year ago. Cash G&A totaled 2.7 million in


this quarter versus 3.9 million in the second quarter of 2008. Interest expense remained essentially


flat at 8.7 million in this quarter, versus 8.9 million a year ago. As prices have declined from a year


ago, we have focused on reducing costs wherever possible.


The emphasis in the first half of the year has been on preserving cash, achieving rapid payout of


cash invested, and maintaining production at 24 to 28 million cubic feet of gas equivalent a day to


workovers of existing wells in our fields.


Total capital spent during the first half of the year was 5.4 million, which was sufficient to offset


normal production declines. We have refocused the capital program by bringing in industry joint
corrected transcript


Dune Energy, Inc.
 
DNE
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 7, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


venture partners to cover a significant portion of the risk costs on new projects in exchange for an


interest in the reserves and production. Reserves associated with these projects are exploratory in


nature, and thus are not booked.


We anticipate this program, coupled with a continuing investment in field workovers, should provide


for increased volumes in reserves for the second half of the year. As part of this program, we are


currently deepening a well at Alvin Townsite in Brazoria County, Texas, where the company has a


77% working interest. The rig removed from that project to a new well at our Chocolate Bayou


Field, also in Brazoria County, where we will have a 50% interest in the reserves and production


from the well, but will not pay any of the exploratory drilling cost.


In our Bateman Lake Field, we have structured a deal whereby we can either be carried for a 20%


working interest, or participate to a certain level plus have a carry. At least one well will be drilled


under this program before January 2010, and probably in the next couple of months, and at least


one well per year thereafter.


We are seeking joint venture partners and other deeper pool tests at Chocolate Bayou, and


anticipate seeking partners for a three to five well shallow program in our Garden Island Bay field.


We have expanded the area covered by our deep sub-salt marketing program at Garden Island


Bay to 9,000 acres in exchange for $1 million payment, and anticipate a deep, high potential sub-


salt well being drilled in 2010, in which we would have the right to participate for up to a 15%


working interest.


At Bayou Couba field, we have relinquished operations and our interest in the shallow production in


exchange for $1 million cash, a $300,000 promissory note payable in $50,000 quarterly


installments, and an assignment of 65% of the deep rights in the field. Previously, we were netting


approximately 20 barrels of oil a day, but paying a significantly higher proportion of the operating


costs based on the structure of the deal to earn our initial interest in the field.


All of these projects are designed to preserve the upside opportunity of new reserves and


production, while limiting the initial risk capital needed to test the prospects and lowering our overall


cost structure.


Unaudited mid year proved reserves increased approximately 5 Bcfe to 138 Bcf after production of


4.7 Bcfe in the first six months. This increase was primarily associated with a successful workover


in our Comite Field in Baton Rouge Parish, Louisiana, where no reserves were booked to this well


at year end 2008. The well is currently producing approximately 4 million cubic feet of gas a day,


and we have a 100% interest in the well.


We have estimated that our mid-year proved and probable reserves, or possible and probable


reserves, at 23.2 billion cubic feet of gas equivalent. The net exploratory upside, after accounting


for joint venture marketing on identified projects, could contribute an additional 142 billion cubic feet


of gas equivalent.


PV10 valuation of the proved reserves based on NYMEX strip pricing as of June 30th was about


$460 million. The probable and possible reserves had a value of 42.5 million, and the net


exploratory upside could add another 388 million in value based on strip pricing. Our challenge is


to access the upside potential of our asset base with limited capital, which is why we are seeking


industry joint venture partners for a number of our exploratory projects.


Near-term liquidity is critical to preserving the upside value of our asset base. We have reduced


cash costs dramatically and reoriented our capital program to minimize risk dollars expended. At


the end of the second quarter, we had 12.8 million in cash. Our revolver with Wells Fargo Foothill


has 35 million available, of which 17 million is currently drawn in cash, and 8.8 million is in


outstanding letters of credit.