corrected transcript


Dune Energy, Inc.
 
DNE
 
Q1 2009 Earnings Call
 
May 7, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Welcome ladies and gentlemen to Dune Energy First Quarter Earnings Call. At this


time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later we will conduct a question-and-answer


session and instructions will be given at that time. [Operator Instructions].


I will now like to turn the conference over to your host James Watt. Please go ahead, sir.


James A. Watt, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you Pablo. Good morning and welcome to Dune Energy’s 2009 first quarter conference call.


I’m James Watt, President and Chief Executive Officer of the company. With me today is, Alan


Gaines, Chairman of the Board; Frank Smith, our Chief Financial Officer; and Steve Craig, our


Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.


Let me caution everyone about forward-looking statements, which will be included in the


presentation. The presentation contains projections and other forward-looking statements within


the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1993 and Section 21E of the Securities


Exchange Act of 1934. These projections and statements reflect the company’s current view with


respect to future events and financial performance. No assurances can be given, however, that


these events will occur or that these projections will be achieved, and actual results could differ


materially from those projected as a result of certain factors. A discussion of these factors is


included in the company’s documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


After the market closed yesterday, we released our 10-Q for the first quarter of 2009 and provided a


press release highlighting critical items from the 10-Q. This morning, I’ll emphasize several items


within the 10-Q along with providing additional insight into our future financial and operational


plans. The updated operational plan that was provided in the press release of April 6, 2009,


provides a primary basis for the operational plans and guidance of the company for the remainder


of the year.


In light of the dramatic fall off in commodity prices in the first quarter of 2009, and anticipated to


remain and affect at least until the third or fourth quarter we scale back our operational plans to live


within anticipated cash flow and availability under our revolver. The revised plan should allow the


company to maintain production essentially flat to 2008 and replace reserves produced. Very


simplistically, our efforts are focused on preserving liquidity while maintaining the upside of our


property basic can be exploited in an anticipated better commodity price environment in 2010 and


beyond.


Fortunately, our concentrated asset base and operational control allows us the flexibility to adjust


capital spending as needed to maintain liquidity. We have demonstrated how well our properties


can perform when significant capital is invested as in late in 2007, we’ve also demonstrated that the


properties can be managed to maintain production even in periods of relatively low capital


investment. I will now review some of the specifics of our first quarter, and we will return to a


discussion on liquidity and longer term plans at the end of the conference call.


Revenue for the first quarter totaled 14.3 million as compared with 36.7 million for the first quarter


of 2008. Revenue was derived from production of 2.4 billion cubic feet of gas equivalent in the


quarter versus 3 billion cubic feet of gas in the first quarter of ‘08. The average sales price prior to


hedges on the million cubic feet of gas equivalent basis was $6.04 in this quarter versus $12.40 in


the first quarter of 2008. Thus prices which declined over 50% on a million cubic feet equivalent


basis were the primary driver in the lower revenue on the quarter.
corrected transcript


Dune Energy, Inc.
 
DNE
 
Q1 2009 Earnings Call
 
May 7, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


In light of the dramatic price decreases, we focused the first quarter activity on reducing our cost


structure and deferred capital spending projects for an anticipated improvement in commodity


pricing environment later in 2009 and into 2010. Total lease operating expenses were 7 million in


the first quarter of ‘09 versus 12 million in the first quarter of 2008 this dramatic 42% reduction on


operating cost was achieved in all areas, with direct field lease operating expense going from 6.5


million to 5.1 million Severance and Ad valorem taxes going from 3 million to 1.4 million


transportation going from 0.5 million to 0.4 million and workover trans going from 2 million to 0.2


million.


We anticipate maintaining these levels on a go forward basis. However, workover expense is


always a very difficult item to accurately forecast. DD&A was 8.1 million in this quarter versus 13.2


million a year ago, on a million cubic feet of gas equivalent basis our DD&A rate went from $4.46 in


the first quarter of 2008 to $3.40 in the first quarter of ‘09. This decrease reflected the year end-


ceiling test write-down of reserve value. There were no further write-downs on the first quarter of


2009, cash G&A expense was 3.4 for the first quarter of 2009 versus 3.8 million in 2008. This


decrease was a result of our continued focus on cost reductions. This focus will allow for continued


decreases in the cash G&A cost in subsequent quarters.


Interest and financing expenses were flat at 8.7 million in this quarter and a year ago, reflecting the


payments of interest on our 10.5% senior secured notes. We have no cash borrowings against our


revolver.


Hedging activity resulted in a $2.8 million gain, 2.4 million of which was realized versus an $11.9


million loss a year ago. We remained hedged throughout the remainder of the year in compliance


with the terms of our credit agreements.


Net loss for the quarter totaled 12.1 million versus 8.7 million for the first quarter of ‘08 preferred


stock dividends paid in the form of payment in kind or PIK were 7 million in the first quarter of 2009


versus 5.7 million a year ago. This reflects the increase in the coupon rate from 10% to 12% that


occurred on May 1, 2008 and an increase in the number of preferred shares outstanding. On a per


share basis, the basic and fully diluted loss was $0.21 in this quarter versus $0.18 a year ago.


Cash at the end of the quarter was $9.6 million. Availability under our revolver was 34.9 million.


There are no cash borrowings against the revolver. However, we have 8.8 million in various letters


of credit outstanding; resulting in a total liquidity at the end of the quarter of approximately $36


million. Covenants of our various credit agreements require that we’ve maintained 10 million of


liquidity in the form of cash or availability under our revolver.


We anticipate that the revolver will be reinstated to the previous $40 million level in the next review


after the internal mid-year report is provided to the lender. The borrowing base is currently


determined by only two properties, one of which is Comite Field, Baton Rouge, Parish, Louisiana.


At the end of 2008, we took a write down of approximately 12 billion cubic feet of gas with a present


value at 10% of about $50 million this was associated with an apparent unsuccessful side track and


completion attempt in the Cobb #1 well.


In the first quarter of this year, we were successful at establishing production that approximately 3


million cubic feet a day from this well and thus the reserves and value will be added back to our


midyear reserve report and should allow for the increase in the borrowing base back to the $40


million level. Additionally, we are currently negotiating with our lender to extend the term of the


revolver until 2012, and increase the availability under certain revised terms and conditions.


Capital for the first quarter was limited to $3 million, and is anticipated to be an additional 26 million


over the remainder of the year. We intend to balance these cash expenditures with available cash


from operations and availability under our revolver, while maintaining the required 10 million of