corrected transcript


Dune Energy, Inc.
 
DNE
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 4, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Dune Energy Third


Quarter Financials Conference Call. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later we


will conduct a question-and-answer session; instructions will be given at that time. [Operator


Instructions]. As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded.


I’ll now like to introduce your host for today’s presentation, Mr. James Watt. Mr. Watt you may


begin, sir.


James A. Watt, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, [inaudible], and good morning and welcome to Dune Energy’s third quarter conference


call to review financial and operating results of the last quarter and provide forward guidance as to


plans for the remainder of calendar 2009 and into 2010.


With me today is Alan Gaines, Chairman of the Board; Frank Smith, Senior Vice President and


Chief Financial Officer; and Steve Craig, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.


Let me caution everyone about forward-looking statements which will be included in this


presentation. The presentation contains projections and other forward-looking statements within the


meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1993 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange


Act of 1934. These projections and statements reflect the company’s current view with respect to


future events and financial performance. No assurances can be given, however, that these events


will occur or that these projections will be achieved, and actual results could differ materially from


those projected as a result of certain factors. A discussion of these factors is included in the


company’s documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


After the market closed last night, we released our 10-Q for the quarter, along with a press release,


detailing many items within the 10-Q and discussing operating plans for the remainder of 2009.


This morning, I will highlight and expand on several items within those releases, and then open the


lines up to questions.


Production for the quarter was 2.1 billion cubic feet of gas equivalent, slightly below the levels of


the first half of the year, reflecting delayed investments in a very low commodity price environment.


Total revenues for the quarter were 15.2 million, as compared with 36.3 million from the third


quarter of 2008. In the third quarter of 2009, the average sales price for a barrel of oil was $66.59


versus 123.81 for the third quarter of ‘08. Gas sales averaged $3.49 per million cubic feet in the


third quarter of 2009, versus $10.29 in the second quarter of 2008.


For 2010, we have put costless collars in place for approximately 50% of our PDP production, as


required by our Wells Fargo Foothill credit agreement. Generally for gas the floor price of the


collars is 4.50 per Mcf and the ceiling is $7.68. For oil the floor is $55 and the ceiling is 88.10.


Based on current forecast, gas and oil prices are anticipated to stay within these collars for 2010.


Cash controllable costs were down again in the third quarter of 2009 versus the same period in


2008.


Operating expenses were 7.6 million versus 10.5 million a year ago. Cash G&A totaled 2.3 million


in this quarter versus 3.4 million in the third quarter of 2008. Interest expenses remained essentially


flat at 8.8 million for the quarter versus 8.9 million a year ago. As prices have declined from a year


ago, we have focused on reducing costs, both operating and G&A, wherever possible.


In the first half of the year, almost all our investments focused on recompetitions. In the third


quarter, we invested in some higher cost, higher return projects, such as the completion of the Alvin
corrected transcript


Dune Energy, Inc.
 
DNE
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 4, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Townsite Gas Unit #1 well which tested over 3 million cubic feet of gas a day. We’re currently


completing and commencing testing on the Wieting #32 well in Chocolate Bayou Field, along with a


major recompletion at Garden Island Bay Field #912 well.


We anticipate these three wells will add approximately 10 million cubic feet a day net of the


company’s production in the fourth quarter. The Wieting #32 and the Garden Island Bay #912,


should commence production in the next couple of weeks and the Alvin Townsite Gas Unit by


December 1, 2009. Revenue from these new volumes will allow for a more aggressive drilling


program going into 2010 to generate additional production.


The focus of our program year-to-date has been designed to preserve the upside opportunity of


new reserves and production, while limiting the initial risk capital needed to test these prospects


and lowering our ongoing operating cost structure.


With our second quarter financial announcement, we provided an updated reserve report detailing


the unbooked upside 4P opportunities within our property base. The upside potential associated


with our existing properties could more than double our current reserves. The obvious challenge is


the capital to implement the plan, which we are assessing through numerous industry joint venture


programs.


Near-term liquidity is critical to preserving the upside value in our asset base. We’ve reduced cash


costs dramatically and reoriented our capital program to minimize risk dollars expended. At the end


of the third quarter, we had 19.9 million in cash. Our revolver with Wells Fargo Foothill has 40


million available, of which 17 million is currently drawn in cash and 8.3 million in outstanding


standby letters of credit. So our total liquidity is over $34 million.


We will balance cash expenditures with cash flow from operations on availability under the revolver


to stay within the covenants of our credit agreements. Currently the main covenant we must meet is


maintaining total cash and availability under the revolver in excess of 10 million at the end of each


quarter.


Dune’s total debt is 317 million, or $2.30 per proved Mcfe of reserve. This level of debt is almost


double most of our small market capitalization Gulf Coast peers. Annual interest payments of


approximately $32 million severely limits our available cash flow for investment in our property


base, especially when commodity prices are low, as occurred earlier in this year. As a point of


reference, we’ve almost the same debt and total reserves as when we purchased the Goldking


assets in May of 2007.


On the positive side, we understand the upside potential of our asset base very well, and whenever


we invest new capital on our assets we see an almost immediate increase in production. We have


structured joint venture deals with outside private entities providing us the opportunity to be carried


at no cost or participate with an additional carried interest at both Leeville and Bateman Lake


Fields. Only unbooked 4P reserves are associated with these in all of our marketing programs.


At Garden Island Bay, we and our joint venture partner have identified an approximately 500 Bcfe


gross sub-salt structure that would require a 20,000 foot well of test. This partnership involves only


depths below 12,500 feet. Our joint venture partner is actively marketing this prospect to major


industry participants.


To earn interest in the prospect would require carrying Dune and its joint venture partner on the first


well to be drilled in 2010 and providing the partnership a significant upfront cash payment. Success


on this project would provide meaningful reserve and production upside for Dune. We have


approximately 170 Bcfe of shallow upside potential at Garden Island Bay, identified with a recently


reprocessed depth-migrated 3D dataset.