raw transcript


Ebix, Inc.
 
EBIX
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 2, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the Ebix Inc. second


quarter conference call. During the presentation all participations will be in a listen only mode;


afterwards we will conduct a question and answer session. [Operator instructions]. As a reminder


this conference is being recorded, Tuesday August 2nd 2005. I would now like to turn the


conference over to Mr. Robin Raina, Chairman and CEO. Please go ahead, sir.


Robin Raina, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Welcome to the second quarter conference call. Thank you


for participating. Let me introduce our financial controller, Matt Freed, who’s also participating in


this call. Our chief financial officer, Dick Baum, couldn’t attend the call since he is running a fever


and some complications in his back. The call will start with an overview of the business from the


management and will be followed by a question and answer session where you can ask any


questions from us. Before we begin, we must read the Safe Harbor language. David, would you


please read the Safe Harbor language?


Company Representative


Sure. The statements made by Ebix and its representatives in this conference call and webcast will


include certain forward looking statements that are based on current expectations of Ebix’s


management, as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, Ebix’s


management. Whenever possible we will try to identify these forward looking statements by using


words such as ‘believe’, ‘expect’, ‘anticipate’, and similar expressions. Please see the earnings


release issued by Ebix on August 01 2005 as well as Ebix annual report on Form 10-K for the year


ended December 31 2004, as filed with the SEC for discussions of risks, uncertainties, and other


factors that could cause Ebix’s actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied


by, these forward looking statements. Except as expressly required by the federal securities laws


Ebix undertakes no obligations to update or revise any forward looking statements, whether as a


result of new information, future events, or changed circumstances or for any other reason, after


the original date of this conference call and webcast. Ok.


Robin Raina, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Dave. Since this is our second conference call in quite a few calls today, our new


investors to Ebix and prospective investors to Ebix, I feel that it is important enough to cover a brief


overview of our business again. It might be repetitive information for investors who followed Ebix


closely, but still have the cost of being repetitive I would prefer to actually repeat some of that


information.


Ebix today is a 29 year old company. The company has historically been involved in designing,


selling and supporting agency management systems for insurance. This management team took


over the reins five years back, at a time when the company was in dire straits. Since then we’ve


seen the company evolve from a broker management systems company into an end to end


insurance services player. Today the company has consistently produced four years of


consistently increasing profitability. The company has evolved into an insurance services group


whose focus today is convergence, B to C, and B to B, front end and back end processes, any


outlets that exist in insurance today. This convergence involved Ebix becoming a total solutions


player who provides consulting, design help, software [ph] development products, as a part of the
raw transcript


Ebix, Inc.
 
EBIX
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 2, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


total solution implementation and support. This involves different phases of insurance ranging,


from carrier systems, broker systems, exchanges, rating engines [ph] and of course product based


services. Over the last few years, the Company has made major strides in many areas. 2004 was


a record year for the company in terms of its profitability and earnings, and now the first half of


2005 has been a record time for the company in terms of net income and earnings. The half year


performance is already close to what the company did for the last full year in terms of net income


and earnings. Like in Q1, most of our domestic and international divisions performed as expected.


In the last few months, we have been ranked by the coveted magazine Fortune, amongst the 100


fastest growing companies, with a market capitalization of less than $200 million. Fortune Small


Business ranks us amongst the 100 fastest growing companies with a market capital of less than


200 million. We've also been ranked amongst the fastest 50 companies in the greater Chicago


area by Deloitte & Touche.


The company has done remarkably well in the area of the overall cash position. The company has


little debt today and has successfully continued to generate cash from within. The recent purchase


– the repurchase – of 200,000 shares was made with money driven rater [ph] again from within. To


think we are looking at expanding our markets worldwide, we are presently working in close to 50


countries, our offices are spread across Sydney, Melbourne, Auckland, Singapore, India, Walnut


Creek, Pittsburg, Park City, Chicago and Atlanta, with remotes in Toronto and London, besides a


few other US cities. With our recent success in the European markets, we are presently


contemplating setting up localized bases in Germany and London.


In terms of acquisitions, the company made two accretive acquisitions last year in the form of


LifeLink and Heart. Both have been successfully integrated and both acquisitions have been


delivering through to their promise, and again that was proven in Q2 again. In terms of brand


positioning, evolving the Ebix brand name across the world is a priority today for us and we have


taken many necessary steps in that direction, including changing the name of two of our recent


acquisitions.


In terms of providing a stable and tested management team, the company has retained the same


senior management team worldwide for the last five years now, with minimal changes. This team


has helped the company turn around and have worked together to make this happen. The


company has a strong professional both from diverse professional background that has been


supportive of the management and has played its independent role well.


In terms of product development, we have designed what we believe are pioneering technologies


for the insurance industry in the last few years. In 2004, we launched the industry's first Datanet


[ph] based ASP for insurance companies, a product named as BRICS. We already have big


customers on this product in United States and Europe both. We launched the industry's first e-


commerce based system for brokers, Ebix ASP, almost a year and a half back in the United States.


That product already has a customer base of a few hundred brokers…


<Operator:>


This is the operator. The line of Robin Raina has disconnected. I'll be re-establishing his line


shortly, please.


And the line of Robin Raina has reconnected. Please proceed, sir.


Robin Raina, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you. In terms of product development this company has built some cutting edge products


leading from BRICS, the Business Reinsurance and Insurance Company, that have been deployed