raw transcript


Ebix, Inc.
 
EBIX
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 1, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen thank you standing by and welcome to the Ebix in Third Quarter


Conference Call. [Operator Instructions.] As a reminder this conference is being recorded Tuesday,


November 1st 2005. I would now like to turn the conference over to Robin Raina, President and


Chief Executive Officer at Ebix. Please go ahead sir.


Robin Raina, President & Chief Executive Officer


Thank you. Good morning everybody welcome to Ebix Third Quarter Investor Call. Before I do a


little bit of a preamble I think I’ll hand over the moderation to David Collins to read the safe harbor


language.


David Collins, Investor Relations


Okay. The statements made by Ebix and it’s representatives in this conference call and webcast


will include certain forward looking statements that are based on current expectations of Ebix’s


management as well as assumptions made by and information currently available to Ebix’s


management. Wherever possible we will try to identify these forward looking statements by using


words such as believe, expect, anticipate and similar expressions. …you see earnings release


issued by Ebix yesterday October 31st as well as Ebix’s annual report on form 10K for the year


ended December 31st 2004 as filed with the FCC for discussion of risks, uncertainties and other


factors that could case Ebix’s actual results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied


by these forward looking statements. Except as expressly required by the federal securities Ebix


undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward looking statements whether as a result of


new information, future events or changed circumstances or for any reason after the original date of


this conference call and webcast. Robin?


Robin Raina, President & CEO


Thank you David, well good morning again. All of you must have already gone through the


companies third quarter results announced yesterday. It was a record quarter for the company, the


best ever in it’s history across three decades. The company reported a diluted EPS of $0.40 as


compared to a diluted EPS of $0.31 last year in Q3. The basic earning per share in Q3 2005 was


$0.45 as compared to $0.34 per share in Q3 of 2004. The Q3 2005 results also ensured that the


company’s nine month diluted EPS of $1.08 was 50% higher already than the full year diluted EPS


of $0.72 for the year 2004. That by itself is something we are rather pleased with. As Ebix evolved


itself from a primary insurance broker focused software vendor into an insurance services provider


to the entire insurance industry. The company is prioritizing its focus into areas that are high margin


and give us an edge from a future perspective. For example four years back Ebix’s prime revenue


source was Legacy support from its broker clients. When you support clients and products you


cannot sell any more then you have to realize that you can only have diminishing returns


progressively while the revenue goes down in the Legacy support area every quarter, your costs do


not go down proportionately as you still have to maintain offices and employees until you have


customers on those Legacy products even if it is just a few customers left. It is a question of


balancing financial prudence with commitment to your customers. In four years Legacy support has


become just 10% of our revenue base from being our prime source of revenue as recent as four


years back. Every quarter the company has to continue to make up for the shortfall of Legacy


support revenue with new revenue sources that can be higher margin also so that the net income
raw transcript


Ebix, Inc.
 
EBIX
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 1, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


continues to go up, or the net income shortfall arising out of Legacy support revenue drop can be


overcome. We have successfully managed to do that till now and I pleased with that.


Our business model has transformed from a software player to a services player, accordingly very


little revenue – if anything – is recognized up front as we sign a deal. Revenue is recognized as we


perform the service, at times over one year and at times over many years depending on the kind of


hosting involved. We are new to the services market and thus it will take the company some time


before we can build a cycle where we have cycles of revenue recognition happening from old deals


while we are bring in new deals that would give us revenue in subsequent times and the right


cycles are maintained. In summary our focus has been on building high margin, reputable business


and today almost 70% of our business is repetitive in nature.


We are pleased with the forays we have made in the carrier markets. We recently deployed


successfully an enterprise wide carrier system in Europe and are presently in the process of


deploying one in the United States. The fact that we consider this service as a top line offering


today is something that we are all proud of. The company’s broker system products outside the US


are presently deployed in 50 plus countries even as I speak we’re deploying large implementations


in Germany, Belgium, Sweden, Australia etc. and the revenue would be recognized from these


implementations as we perform services in line with our services model today. We have a good


prospect base today, especially in Europe. Beginning 1st January 2006 we are starting a new base


in United Kingdom to specially target the European carrier customer base. Our acquisitions have


continued to do well and today there enmeshed in Ebix as parts of Ebix rather than just be kept


separate. We have effectively optimized usage of resources and products in each market region


on account of Ebix as a whole marketing all the products. For example, Australian Resource have


worked in Europe and vice versa to optimize usage of manpower and also products are sold and


services are sold across offices, past and new, irrespective of which office got the deal.


The most encouraging number in our Q3 2005 results has been the operating cash flow number


with the nine month cash flow number improving by 200% year-over-year. Our management team


has been intact with very little turnover at the senior level for the last four years. We’re pleased


with that.


In Q3 of 2005 we got out of a credit line, with LeSalle [ph] and converted that existing line into a


zero interest bearing open credit line. This will save us almost $50,000 a quarter, beginning


November 1, in interest costs. We recently took expert help to undertake a global tax re-


structuring. This is likely to save us substantial sums of money beginning October 1 2005 in tax


savings. So at present the whole tax re-structuring exercise has cost us close to $220,000 with a


net, [indiscernible], in excess of 17 million we have [indiscernible] time on the tax issue especially


since the re-structuring has already been done.


To summarize, Ebix is a brick and mortar company that is the lifeline of hundreds of businesses


globally today. Our products are cutting edge, our services continue to expand, our customers are


happy, our strengths are unique, we have a huge cost and productivity edge in the form of a global


development base in India. Our debts are minimal today, our costs are under control, our business


is increasingly becoming repetitive and we have a management team that believes in the


company’s long term future. Thank you.


Let me now had over the call to the moderator for the Q&A session.