corrected transcript


Ebix, Inc.
 
EBIX
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
May 7, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Ebix, Inc First Quarter 2010


Investor Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a


question and answer session; instructions will follow at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a


reminder, this program is being recorded.


I would now like to introduce your host for today’s program, Mr. Neal Van Halen, Corporate


Manager, Marketing Communications and Media. Please go ahead, sir.


Company Representative


Good morning, everyone and welcome to Ebix’s Inc’s first quarter 2010 earnings conference call.


Joining me to discuss the quarter is Ebix President and CEO, Robin Raina. Following Robin’s


remarks, we will open up the call for your questions to be addressed by Robin and the Ebix’s CFO


Robert Kerris.


Now let me take this time to remind you that the primary purpose of today’s call is to provide you


with information regarding our first quarter fiscal year 2010 performance. However, some of our


discussions or response to your questions may contain forward-looking statements. These


statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Should any of these risks or


uncertainties materialize or should our assumptions prove incorrect, actual company results could


differ materially from these forward-looking statements.


All these risks, uncertainties and assumptions as well as other information on potential factors that


could affect our financial results are included in our report filed with the SEC, including our most


recently reported Form 10-K for the year ended 31 December, 2009, particularly under the heading


Risk Factors. Our press release announcing our standing first quarter results was issued a few


hours back. You can look at Ebix financials beyond what has been provided in the release on our


website at www.ebix.com. The audio and the text transcript of this call will be available also on the


investor home page of the Ebix website after 2 PM EDT.


With that, let me turn you over to Ebix’s CEO and President, Robin Raina.


Robin Raina, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Neal. Good morning gentlemen.


We announced our first quarter 2010 results a few hours back and I am delighted to be able to


share with you today our outstanding results. We started the year by delivering the biggest financial


quarter in our history. First quarter revenue rose 53% to 31.6 million as compared to the first


quarter of 2009. GAAP diluted EPS of $0.32 increased from $0.23 a year ago, that’s an increase of


38% year-over-year. These are record results and mark the highest revenue, net income and


diluted EPS in any one quarter that the company has reported in its 34 year young history.


First quarter net income was $12.4 million, an increase of 49% on a year-over-year basis as


compared to net income of 8.3 million in the first quarter of 2009. To put these numbers in


perspective, let me remind you that the net income of 12.4 million in the first quarter of 2010 is


approximately equivalent to the net income of Ebix for the full year of 2007. For those of us who


have been associated with Ebix for some time, this net income comparison, comparison of our


quarterly results to the full year income results just two years back has a lot of special meaning.
corrected transcript


Ebix, Inc.
 
EBIX
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
May 7, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


This is also the first quarter where our U.S. income was taxed at an average rate of 33.2% due to


partial NOL allowance released in the fourth quarter of 2009. Our consolidated worldwide tax rate


benefits from the majority of our manufacturing base and income being in low tax jurisdictions


across the world. The Exchange segment continued to be our largest revenue generator with 72%


of our revenues coming from it this quarter. 11% of our revenues came from the BPO channel, 9%


from the P&C Backend Systems, Broker channel, and 8% from the P&C Backend System


insurance company channel.


The Exchange channel grew 90% year-over-year, the BPO channel grew 4% year-over-year and


the Broker channel grew 19% year-over-year. That Carrier channel dropped 17% year-over-year


because of the relative freezing of IT budgets by insurance companies in 2009 in the area of


procuring backend systems. The insurance company market has since improved quite a bit in 2010


and we expect to get our Carrier revenues growing back again soon.


In the first quarter of 2010, the company continued its focus on organic growth by signing key


named accounts, like Sun Life, Universal Life, U.S. Bank, Ameriprise, American General Life,


National Western Life, Principal Financial Group, Metlife, Bechtel, Sea World, Lockton, Hillard


Lyons, Port Authority of New York/New Jersey and AVIS amongst others, et cetera. This list of


names is just a sample representation of contracts signed by the company in the first quarter of


2010 with large accounts easily recognizable to the investor community and is by no means a


comprehensive list of contracts signed by Ebix in the first quarter of 2010.


Some of the other material contracts signed previously in 2009 are still in implementation mode and


thus did not generate any transaction exchange revenue in the first quarter of 2010. Some of these


named accounts in implementation mode at present are Bank of America, Wells Fargo, Fidelity, US


Bank, Ameriprise, Marsh, Disney Consumer Products, John Hancock, Bechtel and Genworth, et


cetera.


This is in addition to all the new contracts signed by Ebix in the first quarter of 2010, which are also


now in the implementation pipeline.


Today, Ebix has emerged as a largest on-demand insurance services exchange in the world. We


intend to build on our success and deploy many new exchanges across the world. We continue to


invest in research and development towards developing and deploying many of these key


exchanges in 2010 itself. Some of these new initiatives targeted at growing revenue organically are


in the areas of servicing an annuity policy, portability of an annuity policy across multiple carriers,


life insurance e-policy delivery with para-med exams, e-signatures, et cetera; on-demand cloud


computing infrastructure in Latin America to provide Property & Casualty Insurance company


systems on a utility service bases across multiple insurance companies and an ambitious


enterprise wide system code-named GR8 to provide a state of art on-demand backend system for


health, employee benefits, life, enrollment, billing and accounting, et cetera, are some of the other


key initiatives that we are pursuing at present.


We believe that we are ready to enter certain markets that we had stayed away from in the United


States till now. Noteworthy amongst them is the property and casualty insurance exchange market


in the United States, presently dominated by one player IVANS. We believe, we are ready to


compete with IVANS in the United States P&C insurance market now. You could expect us to make


some announcements soon in that area.


We believe that at our present income rate, we expect to accumulate additional cash of


approximately 50 million over the next 12 months. This is an addition to the company’s present


cash balances of 23.5 million as of 3, May 2010. We intend to reinvest this cash towards growing


our revenues organically and towards making accretive complementary acquisitions in the short


and long-term, both.