corrected transcript


Ebix, Inc.
 
EBIX
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 9, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day ladies and gentlemen. And welcome to Ebix’s Second Quarter 2010 Investor


Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we’ll conduct a question-and-


answer session and instructions will be given at that time. [Operator Instructions].


As a reminder this conference call may be recorded. I would now like to hand the conference over


to Mr. Neil Van Halden, Corporate Manager, Marketing. Sir, you may begin.


Neil Van Halden, Corporate Manager, Marketing


Good morning everyone. And welcome to Ebix’s Second Quarter 2010 Earnings Conference Call.


Joining me to discuss the quarter is Ebix’s Chairman, President and CEO, Robin Raina. Robin is


participating in this call from one of our offices in Delhi, India.


Following Robin’s remark today, we will open up the call for your questions to be addressed by


Robin and the Ebix’s CFO, Robert Kerris.


I want to take this time to remind you that the primary purpose of today’s call is to provide you with


information regarding our second quarter fiscal year 2010 performance. However, some of our


discussion or responses to your questions may contain forward-looking statements. These


statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Should any of these risks or


uncertainties materialize or should our assumptions prove incorrect, actual company results could


differ materially from these forward-looking statements.


All these risks, uncertainties and assumptions as well as other information or potential factors that


could affect our financial results are included in our reports filed with the SEC including our most


recently reported Form 10-K for the year ended 31st of December, 2009 particularly under the


heading ‘Risk Factors’.


At times in our prepared remarks or in response to your questions today, we may offer certain


additional metrics to provide a greater understanding of our business or quarterly results. Please be


advised that we may or may not update these additional metrics in future calls.


Our press release announcing the record second quarter results was issued a few hours back. The


audio of this Investor Call also often being webcast live on the web on www.ebix.com/webcast. You


can look at Ebix’s financials beyond what has been provided in the release on our website


www.ebix.com.


The audio and the text transcript of this call will be available on the investor homepage of the Ebix


website after 02:00 pm Eastern Standard Time.


Robin will open today’s call with a few prepared remarks and then we’ll open things up to your


questions. Because we want to address as many of you as possible, I do ask that you limit your


questions to one single question today.


With that, let me turn the call over to Robin Raina.
corrected transcript


Ebix, Inc.
 
EBIX
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 9, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


Robin Raina, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Neil. Good morning gentlemen. I am joining into this call from one of our buildings in


Noida. We have five offices spread across three cities in India, and I’m presently dialing in from our


new 50,000 square feet campus building in Noida.


Our second quarter 2010 results were record results again for EBIX in terms of revenues, net


income, earnings and cash flows. I feel that it is befitting these record results that I’m doing this call


from India, which has been at the center of our research and development efforts to get to this point


in our journey.


India is a fascinating power today. That in another few years they will have one of the youngest


populations in the world. Imagine a country where in a few years from now, approximately 840


million people will be below the age of 45 years. Incidentally, that is approximately three times the


population of the United Sates.


As to this mix, India’s strong focus on education and technology excellence, collective divide of the


youth to succeed, and the result with a highly diligent work force willing to learn, adapt and then


lead.


At Ebix owned facilities here in India, the average age of an employee is 25 years old and every 3%


of our staff has an engineering degree. It is presently 8:40 PM here in India, and the majority of our


staff from the day shift is here in office still working. That exemplifies to me the spirit of the new


youth for India in general and our offices here in particular.


Before I get into a discussion of our quarterly results, I want to take this opportunity to salute the


effort for this fantastic workforce in youth India that has contributed strongly to Ebix becoming a


state-of-the-art world class player that close to zero customer attrition rate worldwide.


We reported today, the strongest quarter in Ebix’s history on many fronts. I’m going to take this


opportunity to discuss the results on the financial and quantitative funds while giving you an insight


into where Ebix would like to go from a future business perspective.


On the financial front, we are extremely pleased with these results. Our press release today


morning disclosed these results, so I’ll concentrate on talking about just a few financial metrics.


The revenue this quarter increased 44% from a year ago to $32.2 million. Six-month cumulative


revenues at the end of June 30, 2010 increased by 48% to $63.8 million as compared to the same


period a year ago.


Our Exchange business grew 73% year-over-year to become 71% of our total revenue this quarter.


Nothing speaks more to the operating strength of a company than its continued strong cash


generation abilities.


Cash from operations totaled 16 million in the quarter, an increase of more than 107% from a year


ago. This translates into more than $0.40 per share of operating cash flow in a single quarter,


reasonably close to which is incidentally reasonably close to our diluted EPS in the prior first half of


our last fiscal year.


At the end of June 2010, we had already recovered 90% of our six-month net income in positive


operating cash flows. That to me sums up the financial strength of Ebix today.


EBITDA grew 55% this quarter to 16.1 million as compared to a year ago. EBITDA margins grew to


become 50% of our quarterly revenues in the second quarter of 2010 as compared to 47% in the


second quarter of 2009.