raw transcript


Princeton Review, Inc
 
REVU
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 18, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day and welcome everyone to the Princeton Review First Quarter 2004 Earnings


Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time for opening remarks and introductions I


will like to turn the call over to Sandy O'Keefe. Please go ahead ma'am.


Sandy O'Keefe, Investor Relations


Thank you operator and good morning everyone. This morning The Princeton Review issued a


press release reporting financing results for it's fourth quarter and fiscal year ended December 31,


2004. If you have not received the copy of the release, you can access on the companies website


at www.princetonreview.com. Or you may contact Harriet Brand at 212-874-8282 and she will


forward one once right away.


Before we begin, please note that all statements made by the company's management during this


conference call, they are not historical facts or forward-looking statements within the meaning of


Section 21E of Securities and Exchange Act of 1934.


Such forward-looking statements may be identified by words such as "believe," "intend," "expects,"


"may," "could," "would," will," "should," "plan," "project," "contemplate," "anticipate" or similar


statements. Because these statements reflect the Princeton Review's current view concerning


future events, these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties.


That Princeton Review's actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these


forward-looking statements, as a result of many factors, including but not limited to, demand for the


company's products and services, the companies ability compete effectively and adjust to rapidly


changing market dynamics, the timing of revenue recognition from significant contracts with schools


and school districts, market acceptance of the company's newer product and services; continued


federal and state focus on assessment and remediation in K-12 education, and the other factors


described under the caption "Risk Factors" in The Princeton Review's SEC filings.


The Princeton Review undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements


made during this conference call. I will now turn the call over to John Katzman, Chief Executive


Officer and Founder of the Princeton Review. John.


John Katzman, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you Sandy, and thanks to each of you for joining us this morning. Last year we tried to do


too much. And we tried to grow too quickly. In every division, our goals were aggressive and


complicated. Test Prep launched now SAT LSAT, GMAT, and SES courses. K-12 went after eight


figure contracts with states and districts. And admission services struggled to remake it sales,


marketing and technology and to break free of its doldrums and become a contributor to our bottom


line. Meanwhile our accounting department worked on it's handling of our new large contracts.


Beginning it's – it began its implementation of vertical for managing Sarbanes compliance. Mark will


give specifics, but in short we took on more than we could carry and we missed many of our goals.


We focused four years string of strong growth on our top and bottom-line. Growth fell through a bit


under 10% and the expenses we put in place to support large growth along with money spend in


complying with Sarbanes, swung the company from $0.16 net profit to a $0.13 net loss for the year.


These losses force us to take a harder look at our Embark related goodwill and our deferred tax


asset.
raw transcript


Princeton Review, Inc
 
REVU
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 18, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


After a long review, we’ve agreed it was necessary to write down the goodwill and to take a $22.1


million of reserve, primarily against the NOL carry forward which is gained over the past several


years through investments in our two new divisions. These non-cash expenses swung the full


year's net loss to a $1.12 per share.


In reviewing the past year we paid attention to three areas. First, is our management team strong,


deep and experienced enough? We've made substantial changes to our marketing and sales


management in every division, hired a general counsel, replaced much of the accounting


department and added new leadership to K-12. We over reached last year largely of my direction


and as a large stockholder I am looking at our performance this year as a measure of my ability to


stay disciplined and focused.


Second is our strategy. Overall, I still feel it is sound. We look for dispensable niches in education


where a smaller firm among $1 billion organizations can brand itself based on quality and grow


quickly. Overall, we feel good about the prospects for the Test Prep business. The markets we play


in is especially SES have a great deal of growth to come with the exception at the end of 2004, we


steadily picked up market share based on word-of-mouth and what we firmly believe is a better


product. We also feel good about K-12. We continue to show large districts our capabilities and


deepen our relationships there, with the best answer to increase the accountability, the need to use


data to differentiate instruction or professional development and the new open list of districts to


partner with for profits.


Most outside investors argue that we should not be in the admissions services business. It's not


that they think we are positioned wrong in this market, but that there is no market. Further they


argue that the division takes away from our focus. And it's true that I spent a great deal of time this


year working with young to fix this business. 2004 supported that attracts this case. The work has


gone slowly and results have continued to disappoint. So why have I stuck with this division? Well


for one thing, I hate to give up before making our best effort. I continue to believe in the idea and in


our ability to grow the business if we execute against it. So we are working to see-- to give it our


best sort and to make this thing everything it could be and see how it goes.


Second, the upside is enormous. This division has excellent margins and huge synergies with both


K-12 and Test Prep. And finally, it's a hedge against the Test Prep market. If the college bound


population falls, universities will market much harder even if they became less selective. I hope to


have more metrics by now that proved the new models but here are two, from 50 marketing clients


in October we now stand in over 250 such clients. From 26% of our web users, giving the side


highest marks 2 months ago, we now stand at 56% and the launch is not yet complete.


Finally, we are looking at our execution as a company. We have made a lot of changes throughout


the company, but the biggest change is in humility. We are bringing our SG&A inline with revenues


and we are focused on solid growth and profitability in the core businesses.


I want to turn the floor over to Mark Chernis, our President and COO who will take you through


review of each division. Steve Melvin, our CFO will go through the financials and then I will speak


more about our 2005 plans and take questions. Mark?


Mark Chernis, President and Chief Operating Officer


Thank you and good morning everyone. Before beginning my remarks on each of the divisions, I


want to echo that 2004 was deeply disappointing for all of us at Princeton Review. And we take the


setbacks we faced this year very seriously. We have a clear understanding of what caused our


difficulties and we've embraced them in order that we may find at least strength in the company and