raw transcript


The Princeton Review, Inc.
 
REVU
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 8, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day and welcome everyone to the Princeton Review Third Quarter 2005 Earnings


Conference call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time for opening remarks and


introductions, I'd like to turn the call over to Ms. Sandy O'Keefe. Please go ahead ma’am.


Sandy O’Keefe, Investor Relations


Thank you operator, and good morning everyone. This morning the Princeton Review issued a


press release reporting financial results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2005. If you


have not received a copy of the release, you can access it on the Company's website at


www.princetonreview.com or you may contact Harriet Brand at 212-874-8282 and she will forward


one to you right away.


Before we begin, please note that all statements made by the Company's management during this


conference call that are not historical fact are forward-looking statements within the meaning of


Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements may be


identified by words such as believe, intent, expect, may, could, would, will, should, plan, project,


contemplate, anticipate or similar statements.


Because these statements reflect the Princeton Review's current views concerning future events,


these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties. The Princeton Review's


actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a


result of many factors, including but not limited to demand for the Company's products and


services, the Company's ability to compete effectively and adjust to rapidly changing market


dynamics, the timing of revenue recognition from significant contracts with schools and school


districts, market acceptance of the Company's newer products and services, continued federal and


state focus on assessment and remediation in K-12 education, and the other factors described


under the caption, "Risk Factors," in the Princeton Review's SEC filings or Form 10-K for the year


ended December 31, 2004.


The Princeton Review undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements


made during this conference call.


I'll now turn the call over to John Katzman, Chief Executive Officer and founder of the Princeton


Review. John?


John Katzman, Chairman, and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you Sandy, and thanks for joining us this morning. Revenue was up 18% from Q3 last year


to $34.8 million, with gross profits slightly up as well. EPS improved to $0.04 pre share this quarter


versus last year's loss in $0.02. In Test Prep, revenue was up 11% for the quarter, gross margins


remain right around 70% and operating margins increased to 22.3%, which I think is as highest it


been. LSAT and MCAT, stay strong and further we signed a large cross original contract in Texas


that got underway last month and should give a nice boost to institutional sales.


Having addressed the new SAT this spring we promised to ramp-up our new SES programs this


year. Accordingly we worked hard to staff and spent a significant marketing expense this quarter


and put a great deal of management time against 10 markets. We are an on track to hit our goals


for the school year at pretty much our standard margins. We're running these courses now and for
raw transcript


The Princeton Review, Inc.
 
REVU
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 8, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


the next two quarters, so moving forward this will be one of the three largest contributors for the


division.


In K-12, assessment intervention of professional development to our growing even with the tough


start to this year. Contract in cycles remain slow in the industry but as an organization we


significantly improved, from a year ago. The division's on track to post almost 20% growth this year


and we believe that upgrades the sales and product management will support even stronger growth


moving forward. Most importantly we hired Kevin Howell a new head of this division.


I'm excited about Kevin's skills. He brings a great expertise in the technology, in the technology


area and in both the for profit and non-profit education spaces. It also bring some great contacts


and a lot of energy to streamline and ramp up growth and profitability in the division. And in


division services are goal is been to drive our higher Ed marketing services and turn this division


into post secondary match make that we've talked about for years. So far marketing revenues has


doubled this year and with increasing in counseling services this will drive modest growth year for


full year 2005.


Adoption of lead generation model and construction of the full site is taking time, particularly among


the traditional colleges we're targeting. But everything suggests we're on track. So we've made


progress against every goal I set for the year and growing well and at the same time, I'm


disappointed with our inability to bring our hard work to the bottom line. The problem is not our


gross margins, those are quite good and it's not our selling expenses which remain around 15%.


It's our general administrative expenses both corporate and divisional and although they've come


down as a percentage of revenue there's still wildly high for a company our size and this next year


is about bringing them under the control, under control. I'll speak more about this at the end of the


call. A key step in reaching this goal was bringing on Andrew Bonnie as our CFO, Andrew is a


proving financial leader with vast experience in creating objectives this is process our systems.


His mandate is to take what we've traditionally thought that was a back office and work hand-in-


hand with the divisions to drive business performance, create accurate forecasts and projections


and create the models that help us better manage our growth. I expect he'll contribute immediately


and significantly to our ongoing efforts here. With that I'd like to turn the call over to Mark Chernis


our President and COO to provide further details on the performance of all three divisions. Andrew


will then review the financials for the quarter and lastly I'll wrap things up and open the call for


questions. Mark.


Mark Chernis, President and Chief Operating Officer


Thank you and good morning everyone. I will begin with the Test Prep Division, as John noted


Test Prep came through with another strong quarter. Revenue increased 11% over Q3 of 2004


and on a year-to-date basis revenue was up 15%. SAT continued to perform very well for us this


quarter fall enrollment for the new SAT was on target with solid results in classroom courses and


institutional sale. Our customer satisfaction ratings are excellent and we expect a strong word of


mouth and better sales execution will maintain demand.


While growth in 2006 will no longer be fueled by the change of the SAT we do anticipate a solid


spring. Both one and one tutoring, and school based sales have increased nicely over the last year


and MCAT, continue to grow at a nice enrollments for the October LSAT were well over 2004 but


while LSAT enrollment has not completely return to 2003 levels which is how we are measuring our


success internally we do feel we now have the right products in terms of market, appeal and


quality.