raw transcript


Princeton Review, Inc
 
REVU
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 9, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Please stand by, we are about to begin. Good day and welcome everyone to the


Princeton Review First Quarter 2005 Earnings Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. At


this time for opening remarks and introduction, I would like to turn the call over to Ms. Sandy


O'Keefe [ph]. Please go ahead.


Company Representative


Thank you, operator, and good morning everyone. This morning the Princeton Review issued a


press release reporting financial results for its first quarter ended March 31, 2005. If you had not


received a copy of the release you can access it on the company's website at


www.princetonreview.com or you may contact Harriet Brand at 212-874-8282 and she will forward


one to you right away.


Before we begin, please note that all statements made by the company's management during this


conference call that are not historical fact or forward-looking statements within the meaning of


Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements may be


identified by words such as "believe," "intend," "expect," "may," "could," "would," "will," "should,"


"plan," "project," "contemplate," "anticipate" or similar statements. Because these statements reflect


the Princeton Review's current views concerning future events, these forward-looking statements


are subject to risk and uncertainties. The Princeton Review's actual results could differ materially


from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of many factors, including


but not limited to, demand for the company's products and services, the company 's ability to


compete effectively and adjust to rapidly changing market dynamics, the timing of revenue


recognition from significant contracts with schools and school districts, market acceptance of the


company 's newer products and services, continued federal and state focus on assessment and


remediation in K-12 education and the other risk factors described under the caption "Risk Factors"


in the Princeton Review's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004. The Princeton Review


undertakes no obligations to update publicly any forward-looking made during this conference call.


I will now turn the call over to John Katzman, Chief Executive Officer and Founder of the Princeton


Review. John?


John Katzman, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Sandy, and thanks for joining us this morning. We made some progress in Q1.


Revenue grew 20% over Q1 last year to 33.6 million. It's up 55% from two years ago. At the same


time we were successful in keeping a tighter rein on expenses. As a percentage of revenue SGA


[ph] of 63% in Q1 versus 68% a year ago, and this in spite of nearly 1.5 million in – of 1.5 million in


spending on accounting due to Sarbanes-Oxley in Q1 alone. As a result we lost only a penny


versus $0.03 last year and $0.04 in Q1 of 2003.


A quick look at our divisions. Test Prep had a solid quarter with strong results extending broadly


across the business. SAT and LSAT were strong as well as tutoring and sales to schools. The K-12


division continued to deliver strong growth. We have a solid base of happy customers and we are


growing our business with each of them. We still think we have an unrivaled blend of tools and


services and our pipeline is promising. We are aggressively pursuing several long-term


opportunities and have already won a couple. Our transformation of admission services is slowly


coming together. The new website is doing what we intended, registered users, marketing clients,


and leads are all growing well. We have proven that we can generate a huge number of leads and
raw transcript


Princeton Review, Inc
 
REVU
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 9, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


that has prompted significantly more interest from post secondary schools. It's still early and we will


update you on our progress each quarter, but this division will earn your respect this year.


One final note, our successes this past quarter are much less joyful given the unexpected death of


Tim Conroy, former Executive Vice President of K-12. Tim rejoined K-12 last summer, had a huge


impact on its morale, focus and effectiveness in a short-time running the division. He was


thoughtful, irreverent, hardworking and deeply committed to our students and our employees and


he is sorely missed.


With that I would like to turn the call over to Mark Chernis, our President and COO to provide


further details on the performance of all three divisions, as well as the management changing K-12.


Steve Melvin, our CFO will then review the financials for the quarter and lastly I will wrap things up


and open the call for questions. Mark?


Mark Chernis, our President and Chief Operating Officer


Thank you and good morning everyone. I will begin with the Test Prep division. I am very pleased


with the performance of the Test Prep division this past quarter. Revenue increase 22% over last


year and healthy enrollment increases during the current period give us confidence that Q2 will be


strong as well. Not surprisingly, the new SAT was a large contributor to the quarter's success.


Confusion surrounding the new test pushed student's to prepare and push them to trusted sources.


We spent a great deal of time and money preparing for this change and I am pleased we were the


folks students turned to for help. For the March SAT courses, the first in the new format, enrollment


was up 68% in company owned sites over last years' first quarter.


For the spring overall, SAT growth was up 45%. SAT was not the only retail course to perform well


in Q1. For the June term, LSAT enrollment was up 10% over last year, a very encouraging


indication given the weakness during the last two quarters of 2004. We are pleased that the new


Hyperlearning LSAT product has LSAT advancing again after almost five years of limited growth.


The course itself is getting spectacular score improvements in student ratings. LSAT has gone from


having the lowest the evaluations of any Princeton Review course to having the second highest.


We hope and expect to see continued growth here as word spreads about this great new product.


Unfortunately the GMAT environment remains weak. In a recent USA Today article, GMAC cites a


continued decline in the number of applications to traditional MBA programs. Considering the


condition of the market, we are not overly concerned that our GMAT enrollment for the first quarter


was flat, the course itself is generating good margins, score improvements, in customer satisfaction


numbers and despite the weaker demand we'll work hard to grow this line of business. MCAT and


GRE performed well for us this quarter and beyond retail classroom courses we saw excellent


growth in 1012 [ph] during an SES. Growing SES is the division's main focus for the rest of this


year and our plans for the upcoming SES season are moving forward as anticipated.


One last but important note about this division, about 30% of our U.S. students take courses that


our operated by our network of independently owned franchisees. Many of the underline domestic


franchise contracts will expire at the end of 2005, and we have some reason to believe that the


renewal negotiations with the owners will be somewhat contentious. This fact comes as no surprise


to us though, we have been planning for these discussions for several years and to that end we've


budgeted for additional legal expenses and are very confident that things will ultimately be resolved


to our benefit. K-12, our K-12 division had another solid quarter, revenue increased 26% over Q1


last year to $7.9 million. We continue to execute well against all our existing contracts and our


pipeline is building. Tim Conroy put some excellent strategies and motion over the past year, and


our team is executing well against them. Some of the highlights of the quarter include our


relationship with the School District of Philadelphia continues to grow and although we can't take all


the credit for the turnaround of these schools over the past few years. We feel like a valued partner