corrected transcript


The Princeton Review, Inc.
 
REVU
 
Q1 2008 Earnings Call
 
May 8, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, everyone, and welcome to The Princeton Review, Incorporated, First Quarter


Earnings Conference Call and webcast. As a reminder, today’s conference is being recorded. At


this time, I’d like to turn the conference over to Miss Nicole Rowe. Please go ahead, ma’am.


Company Representative


Thank you, operator. Good morning, everyone. This morning The Princeton Review issued a press


release recording financial results for its quarter ended March 31, 2008. If you have not received a


copy of the release, you can access it on our company’s website at www.princetonreview.com. Or


you may contact Harriet Brand at 212-874-8282, extension 1091.


Before we begin, please note that all statements made by the company’s management during the


conference call that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements within the meaning of


the Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1994. Such forward-looking statements may be


identified by words such as believe, intend, expect, may, could, would, will, should, plan, project,


contemplate, anticipate or similar statements. Because these statements reflect The Princeton


Review’s current views concerning future events, these forward-looking statements are subject to


risks and uncertainties.


The Princeton Review’s actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these


forward-looking statements as a result of many factors which are described under the caption Risk


Factors in The Princeton Review’s most recent Forms 10-K and 10-Q filed with the Securities and


Exchange Commission. The Princeton Review undertakes no obligation to update publicly any


forward-looking statements during the conference call.


I will now turn the call over to our CEO, Michael Perik.


Michael J. Perik, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you very much, Nicole. Good morning. Earlier today The Princeton Review announced its


results for the first quarter of 2008. I will ask Steve Richards, our company’s Chief Operating Officer


and our Chief Financial Officer, to walk us through the specific numbers. But before I do so, I


thought I’d discuss the results in the context of what they tell us about the overall direction of The


Review.


We were brought in as a team to manage a turnaround. And this quarter proves to me that we are


turning it around. Our release indicates that we have narrowed the operating loss from 1 million last


year in the first quarter to about $700,000. That number understates what really happened.


As we’ve indicated in the past, due to the timing of the signing of a K-12 contract in early 2007 that


actually should have been signed by the last days of 2006, the K-12 business actually had a gift of


essentially $3.5 million in the first quarter of 2007. If we back that out and did a true apples-to-


apples comparison, the company actually would have had a much more dramatic swing from about


a $4.5 million loss to this narrow loss of 700,000 which, after the restructuring amount, is very close


to break-even. And that’s where we wanted to be this quarter. And that’s exactly where we are. So I


am pleased with the trend of the business.


When I became the Chief Executive Officer in July, I indicated that I had four goals for The Review.


First of all, I wanted to refocus our energies on our Test Prep business. Anyone who’s seen any of


our presentations knows that in the last five years the division has had average annual growth of


about 3.9%. But at the same, it watched gross margin shrink from 72% down to, on an annual
corrected transcript


The Princeton Review, Inc.
 
REVU
 
Q1 2008 Earnings Call
 
May 8, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


basis, of 60%. Given the scale of that decline, the scale of our business, I should say, that decline


has cost our shareholders about $10 million a year. So turning this trend around is job #1 at


Princeton Review.


The first quarter’s performance in this respect was encouraging. We saw a 170 basis-point increase


on a year-over-year basis in gross margin. And this was largely driven by classroom efficiency. We


have a number of other initiatives related to improving the gross margin of our company that we


have started to implement and hope to see the results on as we move through the rest of this year.


But we got off to a good start on the classroom efficiency side of things. And we are very confident


about our ability to continue to improve on the gross margin line.


Now I was also pleased by the revenue growth of the business. It’s up about 11% year-over-year.


organic growth was about 6.5%. We did bring in the TSI acquisition which was completed in mid-


March which added to a little bit of our growth, but it was only a few weeks so we think, obviously,


as the rest of the year goes out, that will help us.


One other thing that I would just comment on with respect to the Test Prep business, historically I


think the previous management had given a lot of information on enrollment by various subjects. In


my last call I indicated that, because we’re a new management team and we’re still understanding


the biorhythms, if you will, and the seasonality of this business that that wasn’t something that we


felt comfortable in doing. And I maintain that position.


Having said that however, it is something that we track very, very closely. Once a week I delve into


the specifics of our enrollment trends so I would think as I start to look towards the back half of the


year, I have some cautious cause for optimism as I look at some of our enrollment trends. We will


see how the year goes but it is something that we are tracking carefully and as I say, have some


cautious optimism.


The SES business had another strong quarter. Revenue increased from 6.2 million to about $12


million. EBITDA increased from 1.9 million at this time last year to $3.4 million this quarter. When I


took over this business in the summer, I said this was one of the segments of the business I was


very excited about. And I think that these results have confirmed my opinion. And in fact, the


business did grow at a rate that was faster than we had anticipated.


My second priority has been to ensure that the K-12 division does no harm to our turnaround. As I


said in my first quarterly call in August, I was prepared in K-12 to trade revenues for profits because


I thought, frankly, that the company, while it had grown its revenue in K-12, it had done them in a --


it had done it in a way that was not profitable or helpful to the bottom line of company. We indicated


and were very clear in our conference call that in order to do that we had exited a number of


contracts, the largest of which was a New York City professional development deal. This transition


was really felt in this first quarter of 2008 but I think we are through the bulk of that transition and I


am very confident that we are going to see this business be a good contributor to us as the rest of


the year goes.


In the quarter, because of getting note of a number of these marginally profitable or unprofitable


pieces of business, we did have a 57% drop in the revenues of the division. This was planned; this


was not a surprise to us. And in spite of this, the division broke even on an EBITDA basis which


was a very important goal for us.


I indicated at the beginning of my comments and it’s worth reiterating, that there is an anomaly in


the first quarter of last year in K-12. Due to this timing of this signing of the significant contract, $3.5


million fell into the first quarter that, from a practical point of view, should have been in 2006. That


made the numbers look very good in that particular quarter and the raters of our financial results


should understand that the revenue decline did not impact the profitability of the division this year


as much as it might appear to. And, as I’ll reiterate that I am confident that we are through the most