raw transcript


The Princeton Review, Inc.
 
REVU
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 3, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day and welcome everyone to the Princeton Review Second Quarter 2005


Earnings Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time for opening remarks and


introductions I would like to turn the call over to Ms. Sandy O'Keefe. Please go ahead, ma'am.


Sandy O'keefe, Princeton Review


Thank you operator and good morning everyone. This morning The Princeton Review issued a


press release reporting financial results for its second quarter ended June 30, 2005. If you have not


received a copy of the release, you can access it on the Company's website at


www.princetonreview.com, or you may contact Harriet Brand at 212-874-8282 and she will forward


one to you right away.


Before we begin, please note that all statements made by the Company's management during this


conference call that are not historical fact are forward-looking statements within the meaning of


Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements may be


identified by words such as "believe", "intent", "expect", "may", "could", "would", "will", "should",


"plan", "project", "contemplate", "anticipate" or similar statements. Because the statements reflect


the Princeton Review's current views concerning future events, these forward-looking statements


are subject to risks and uncertainties.


The Princeton Review's actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these


forward-looking statements as a result of many factors, including but not limited to demand for the


Company's products and services, the Company's ability to compete effectively and adjust to


rapidly changing market dynamics, the timing of revenue recognition from significant contracts with


schools and school districts, market acceptance of the Company's newer products and services,


continued federal and state focus on assessment and remediation in K-12 education, and the other


factors described under the caption, "Risk Factors", in the Princeton Review's Form 10-K for the


year ended December 31, 2004. The Princeton Review undertakes no obligation to update publicly


any forward-looking statements made during this conference call.


I will now turn the call over to John Katzman, Chief Executive Officer and founder of the Princeton


Review. John.


John Katzman, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Sandy and thank you all for joining us this morning. As some of you will remember, this


year is about keeping it simple. In Test Prep we want to build an SES business while growing our


new SAT and LSAT courses. In K-12 we want to sell hard and ride the wave of districts


implementing formal assessment programs – formative assessment programs and in Admissions


Services, as well as matching schools and students in a pay for performance model.


At the corporate level we want to put the Sarbanes transition in the rear view mirror, keep a lid on


costs, and get back on the road to quickly increasing profitability. Q2 was a good quarter. We


continued to make good progress against all of those goals. At the midpoint of the year each


division is on plan, and all indications are that we should have a nice come back year. Overall


revenues were up only slightly from last year to $29.8 million, putting us 12.4% up for the year.


Profit is slightly down from a year ago due to increased accounting expense. With the exception of


Sarbanes-Oxley related costs, SG&A expense is flat, and by year end we will have moved it from


69% to 61% of revenue on its way to our target of 50% in the next year or two.
raw transcript


The Princeton Review, Inc.
 
REVU
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 3, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Test Prep delivered another terrific quarter. The division is up 18% this year so far. Its gross


margins are back to 69%. Its operating margins are back over 16%. SAT and LSAT are strong, as


are most of our other offerings. And we're starting to see some early indications that our SES


efforts are working. K-12 renewed or expanded all of its significant customers and secured several


new ones, including Orlando, Palm Beach and Sarasota, all in Florida. We're still working to find a


permanent replacement for Tim Conroy. Meanwhile our positioning in products continued to


improve, and will show solid, if unspectacular, growth this year.


Admissions Services tech revenue declined this quarter, but marketing revenues were up 178%, or


almost $1 million year-to-date over the six months ended June. More importantly, bookings were up


significantly, driven not only by marketing services and by solid renewals, but for the first time in


several years the tech side of the business. Our website continues to improve with improvement in


almost every key metric. We have gone from a handful of regional clients to almost 300 and are just


starting a marketing and sales push to double that, even while we look to sell more leads to existing


clients.


Our Finance and Accounting Group had a heinous year, but appears to be coming out of the woods


now, and even as it tackles the remaining Sarbanes-Oxley and Oracle implementation issues.


With that, I would like to turn the call over to Mark Chernis, our President and COO, to provide


further details on the performance of all three divisions. Steve Melvin, our CFO, will then review the


financials for the quarter. And lastly I'll wrap up things and open the call for questions. Mark.


Mark Chernis, President and Chief Operating Officer


Thank you and good morning everyone. I will begin with the Test Prep Division. Q2 was another


strong quarter for Test Prep. Revenue for the quarter increased by 14% over 2004, and on a year-


to-date basis revenue is up 18%. By just about every measure this year Test Prep is looking


stronger than last year, and this could easily turn out to be one of the best years Test Prep has had


in quite some time.


SAT was again a significant contributor for us this quarter. Enrollment for our May and June


courses were up 23%. And despite this dramatic growth both our quality and student score


improvement metrics continued to meet or exceed our expectations. SAT summer enrollment was


strong as well. And looking ahead enrollment for our fall courses is building nicely. Although we


don't expect the growth in the back half of the year to be as significant as it was earlier in this year,


we're very pleased with our position as we move into the next enrollment period for this exam.


Strength in SAT also spurred increases in one-on-one tutoring and institutional sales. On a year-to-


date basis tutoring is up 24%, while our test preparation product sales to schools have increased


an equally impressive 27%.


Our LSAT courses continue to generate terrific quality and word-of-mouth numbers, which


combined with increased sales support, is leaving to stronger enrollment. Though we are still


registering LSAT students for our fall courses, the enrollment figures for the year appear to be


consistent with 2003 and not 2004, and are on or ahead of our plan. Enrollment for the August


MCAT delivered our best enrollment growth for this already well performing product in several


years. We have continued to invest in our SES business, which has more than doubled since Q2


last year. Our reputation as a trusted and reliable source for educators and students has allowed us


to rapidly gain traction in a number of markets, including Chicago, the Bay Area, upstate New York


and Louisiana. We have numbers next quarter, but for now we have every reason to believe that


we will meet or beat our internal plan, and will walk out of this year as one of the country's largest


SES providers.