raw transcript


Electroglas, Inc.
 
EGLS
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 21, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Please, stand by. Good day, and welcome to the Electroglas Inc. First Quarter 2005


Teleconference. As a reminder, today's call is being recorded. For opening remarks and


introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Keith Barnes, Chairman and Chief Executive


Officer. Please go ahead, sir.


Keith Barnes, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Kim. Good morning or good afternoon as it may apply. I am here with Tom Brunton,


Chief Financial Officer. We would like to discuss the results of our first fiscal quarter for 2005. Tom


will discuss the quarterly financial details and I will go through some operational highlights. After


conclusion of our comments, we will open it up for questions. We intend to limit today's conference


to about an hour, including our questions at the end. And we will try to keep our opening comments


somewhat brief. By now you should have received the press release that was sent out this morning.


If you have not received the press release, please visit our Company's website or call Candi Lattyak


at 405-528-3801 and she can provide it to you.


Before, I begin I would like to make some cautionary statements. During the course of this


conference call we may be making forward-looking statements regarding future events or on future


performance of our Company. Any such projections are based on limited information available to


the Company and are subject to change. Although projections and factors influencing those


projections will likely change, we will not necessarily update the information since the Company is


only providing guidance at certain points during the year. Actual events or results could differ


materially, and no reader or listener of this release should assume later in the quarter that the


information we will provide today will still be valid. Such information speaks only as of today.


Specific factors could change causing our projections not to – we refer you to the documents on file


from the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission. If you need further detail about


risk factors or those kinds of things.


Our revenue for the first quarter was $7.7 million down sequentially from $11.2 million posted in the


fourth quarter of 2004. We believe this will represent revenue for us this year. The following factors


contributed to these results. First, we saw a slowdown in incoming orders. Many of our customers


had been experiencing a similar slowdown in order input for months and their capacity utilization


[indiscernible] as a result and some levels were reported to us as low as 60% in some cases in


terms of capacity utilization. When this occurs, they don't place or orders. Certainly not many new


orders and they push out existing orders. We also have one customer who ordered and asked for


delivery of approximately $1 million worth of probers and changed their acceptance to occur one


day after the close of our quarter. So, that has already been brought into this quarter.


An additional contributor to this slow Q1 was our product transition. We released our 200 mm, 4090


Micro Plus product in December and our EG6000 300 mm prober in January. Some customers


wanted to evaluate one or both products because of the new features or because they didn't want


to own older models. In one case that I will refer to later, we had a two to three day evaluation of


the 4090 Micro Plus which [indiscernible] for system sale at a premium price because it was perfect


for the new process technologies this customer was doing. In another case a customer was going


to buy five 300s and chose to wait for the opportunity to take a look at the new 6000 300 mm


system.


I would like to make some additional comments about the macro economic trends in the industry


and then I will focus on new product rollout results. The new information released by SEMI in the


last few weeks pretty much tells the macro story well. As you may have seen the total


semiconductor equipment book-to-bill – that's front-end and back-end equipment dropped below
raw transcript


Electroglas, Inc.
 
EGLS
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 21, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


1.0 in September of 2004 and stayed below 1.0 book-to-bill through February of 2005. It also hit the


worst lows in January and February of 2005 since 2003, coming in at 0.78 in February. The March


numbers for the North American equipment suppliers were just released a day or two ago and


came in essentially flat at 0.81. So, we've had three pretty crummy months here in the first quarter.


The story for the test assembly and packaging Company's book-to-bill was similar. The test


assembly and packaging book-to-bill dropped below [indiscernible] in July of 2004 and stayed


below 1.0 book-to-bill through February of 2005. We don't have the new data for that particular


piece broken out for March. That is eight straight months in a row and I can tell you when you're in


the middle of that happening you're never really sure whether that is going to snap back or not. And


so, I think a lot of people including us were surprised that it continues to be below 1.0 through the


first quarter. This is obviously because there was too high a semiconductor inventory and there was


too much out there during that period. The good news is that the semiconductor device book-to-bill


increased in January by 23% year-to-year and almost 16% in February year-to-year, and the test


assembly and packaging companies, even though it was below 1.0 for eight months in a row it has


been climbing back towards 1.0 in the last five months. So, if you look at – fortunately you don't


have a slide in front of you but I do then it kind of peaked out in September of '04 to 0.64 book-to-


bill for the test and assembly book-to-bill ratio and it has been moving up into the right towards 1.0


for the last 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 months and maybe even in March we will get the data soon. So, at least it is


moving in the right direction and we hope that that means that capacity is now being absorbed and


that things will turn to a 1.0 book-to-bill in the upcoming quarters.


Now, I would like to focus on what we've been doing on the product and sales opportunity that we


have control over. Even though, we've been in the middle of a product transition, we have good


news on the product rollouts. I will start with the 4090 Micro Plus which is our 200 mm product first.


We introduced this product in December and we already have installations of new systems and


upgrades at seven customer sites. Five different customers including four in Asia, one in the United


States, and two in Europe. Four of these customers are IDMs, and one is an established


semiconductor company. We shipped 9 new systems and when I say shipped 9 new systems, I


mean they are out the door and installed with customers. We have upgraded systems, and that is


very important because upgrades are much more difficult to do because they are done in the field


by a team of people who go site-to-site to do the upgrades. So, that means that we can not only


ship new systems, but we are also able now to do field upgrades. And the learning curve on the


upgrades is dropping rapidly. We are getting very good results from both the new and the upgraded


systems and in some areas we are getting results which are far better than our specifications. So, –


and this is on systems that are measured by customers on metrology tools and then compared with


us. So, we know that this is correct. We are also told by one IDM that because of the new 4090


Micro Plus, we would now be able to compete for 50, 200 mm business and by another IDM that


our product – our new product would put us in a position to be able to compete for over 100


systems that they plan on purchasing in the next year to eighteen months.


We would have been locked out of these facilities to compete for this business last year because,


we didn't have the features in place with the new product. The customers who purchased 4090


Micro Plus systems or who were upgraded during the quarter have a combined potential of more


than 600 additional systems which could be upgraded. So, we had a universe out there of over


3000 systems and we have now done upgrades for customers who have another 600 systems that


could be potentially upgraded and we are working on orders right now from some of those


companies to be able to book upgrade revenue. And there is about 2500 other systems beyond


this. There's over 3000 total. So, each quarter we are going to be working on doing upgrades for


other customers who are already in queue so we can start to get larger upgrade potentials in here.


A customer probed one wafer with the new 4090 Micro Plus and after analyzing the scrub marks


which are what occurs after you probe, immediately ordered four systems at a premium price and


demanded short lead time delivery product. So, we know, we have a hot product for the newer


process technologies, what seems to be really hot these days is aluminum over copper, in this case