raw transcript


Electroglas Inc
 
EGLS
 
Q1 2006 Earnings Call
 
Sep. 22, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Welcome to today's teleconference. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.


Later you will have the opportunity to ask questions during our Q&A session. Please note that call


maybe recorded. I would like to turn the program over to Mr. Keith Barnes. Mr. Barnes you may


now begin.


Keith Barnes, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Cassidy. Today I am here with Tom Brunton our Chief Financial Officer, and we are


going to discuss the results of our first fiscal quarter of 2006. At the conclusion of our comments we


will open it up for questions. We intend to limit today's conference to that in hour and therefore our


opening comments will be relatively brief. By now you should have received our press release,


which was sent out today. If you have not received it and need a copy please visit our Company's


website in the investor section or call Candi Lattyak at 408-528-3801 and she can provide it to you.


Before we begin however I would like to make some cautionary statements. During the course of


this conference call we may make forward-looking statements regarding future events or on the


future performance of our Company. Any such projections are based on limited information


available to the Company and are subject to change. Although projections and the factors


influencing those projections will likely change, we will not necessarily update the information since


the Company is only providing guidance at certain points during the year.


Actual events, programs, projects, forecast, data that we find from other sources or our Company's


results could differ materially and no reader or listener of this release of this session should assume


later in the quarter that the information we provide today will still be valid. Such information speaks


only as of today. Specific factors could change causing our projections not to be achieved. We refer


you to the documents the Company files from time-to-time of the Securities and Exchange


Commissions.


As you know over the last 22 months since I came to Electroglas we’ve been working each quarter


to drive down our operating costs, to improve our customer service, products and process quality


and our customer satisfactions. Further we've set out to reengineer our products to be competitive,


as to move the Company towards profitability. We’ve made very good progress in many areas. We


sold off two non-contributing businesses. We sold our campus; we reduce our facilities charges by


approximately $2 million a year. We reengineered our 200 millimeter and 300 millimeter Probers


and made good progress towards establishing our Sidewinder strip product.


We lowered our R&D costs; we rebuilt our service organizations added to our sales and application


teams. We started that customer evaluation for our new product. And our new products are being


evaluated and ordered. And we have lowered our operating expenses below the $7 million per


quarter a month. Our breakeven is now around $17 million when we achieve gross margins of 40%.


One of the ways we found the lower operating expenses and become more efficient as the


Company was by changing our fiscal year and by switching to a different auditing firm thereby


lowering costs.


From we went Ernst & Young to video achievements. We discussed these changes in July with you


and this transition has now been accomplished. We already successfully passed our Sarbanes-


Oxley out of [ph] station for 2004 without any significant issues. Our new fiscal year ends in May


and we just completed our first fiscal year ending in August. This means quarterly closes in August


for Q1, 2006, November for Q2, 2006, February for Q3, 2006 and of course May 31 for Q4, 2006.
raw transcript


Electroglas Inc
 
EGLS
 
Q1 2006 Earnings Call
 
Sep. 22, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


We gave guidance for our Q1 revenue between 8 million and 10 million and came in at a higher


end of the range that $9.7 million. We see things starting to pick up with our new products and we


believe this there are signs that the market climate is improving as well. Therefore we're increasing


our guidance slightly for fiscal Q2 to the $9.5 million to $11 million range for revenues. I will speak


for a few minutes about product, sales, and customer updates.


In July we announced that our customer satisfaction and quality rating have grown substantially in


the last year. We announced that we were named to the top 10 Suppliers List for Test and Material


Handling company. This survey is conducted by BLSI research and it's done each year on a double


client survey basis using data supply by customers who represent 96% of the world's


semiconductor customers.


They were asked to report their experiences in 8 to 10 categories of support and quality for the


company. We have devoted much attention to get-well programs, new service offering, we've hired


more service personnel. We provided more training and in general we've been working to improve


years of customers neglect. Customers were especially pleased with the new levels of performance


of the Electroglas products. This is one of the key areas of the survey. This survey is one of the first


steps in measuring the changes at EG.


On the sale side, we believe it hits the bottom of the trough in the two previous quarters and are


now hoping to sales moving in a positive direction. This has already started with our fiscal Q1.


We are cautiously optimistic about the next two quarters. We are very busy right now with customer


activity on our new products. We shipped our first Sidewinder strip test product to a major


component manufacturer with volume potential and have stated in July when we did our last call.


They have placed their first follow on order for shipment in fiscal Q2. Unfortunately, we cannot


identify this customer. Some customers allow themselves to be identified and some do not.


However, on July 12, we did send out a press release which outlined our collaboration with


Credence Systems Corporation to provide an integrated test cell solution for testing devices in strip


format for a major U.S. electronic component manufacturer. This press release refers to this


customer.


Part of the buying solution with the Credence Piranha system, which is their analog and mixed-


signal test system, will be integrated for very specialized components. The Credence Piranha


system typically focuses on automotive, advanced analog and power devices.


We also announced that we received an order from Fujitsu Nantong for a Sidewinder and that they


or their partner companies could make volume purchases when their process is qualified. The first


system is scheduled to ship in November. We are also in the middle of scheduling further


Sidewinder evaluations through the year with several companies.


The strip market is a nascent or emerging market which seems to be finally heating up. Our 300


millimeter evaluations have been going well. We were in one evaluation with Lattice


Semiconductor, with both of our Japanese competitors and we won hands down. We announced


this win with Lattice on August 2. They ordered two units which have been accepted and have


already reordered again. We are running at Lattice or we were running at Lattice for over two


months probing many different product families and interfaced to several different testers. Our


EG6000 ran nearly flawlessly through the entire evaluation. This was a crucial evaluation for us to


prove that we have all of the interfaces, software drivers and other features to win against Tokyo


Electron and Tokyo Seimitsu.


We also received an initial order for our new 300 millimeter system from a large Asian offshore


assembly and test company at the end last quarter for shipment this quarter. This company has