raw transcript


Electroglas, Inc.
 
EGLS
 
Q2 2006 Earnings Call
 
Dec. 22, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Welcome to today's teleconference. All participants are now in a listen-only mode. Later


there will be an opportunity to ask questions during our Q&A session. Please note this call maybe


recorded.


I will now turn the program over to Mr. Keith Barnes, go ahead please.


Keith Barnes, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Victor [ph], good afternoon. I am here today with Tom Brunton, our Chief Financial


Officer. Today we will discuss the results from our fiscal Q2 2006 which ended in November, at the


conclusion of our comments we will open it up for questions. We intend to limit today's conference


call to one hour, and therefore our opening comments will be relatively brief. By now you should


have received our press release, which was announced today. If you have not received the press


release, please do visit our company's website, investor section or call Candi Lattyak at 408-528-


3801 and she can provide it to you.


Before we begin however, I would like to make some cautionary statements, during the course of


this conference call, we may make forward-looking statements regarding future events or future


performance of our company, any such projections are based on limited information available to the


company and are subject to change. Although projections and the factors influencing those


projections will likely change, we will not necessarily update the information since the company is


only providing guidance at certain points during the year. Actual events, programs, forecasts,


projects, data we cite from other sources and our company results could differ materially and no


reader or listener of this release should assume later in the quarter that the information we provide


today will still be valid. Such information speaks only as of today. Specific factors could change


causing our projections not to be achieved. We refer you to the documents on the company files,


excuse me, that the files from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


As you know, over the last couple of years, we have been working each quarter to drive down our


operating cost to improve our customer service, product and process quality and our customer


satisfaction. Further, we set out to reengineer our products to be competitive and to move the


company towards profitability. We have made very good progress in many areas and we believe


that the benefits of all this effort could get us to profitability in the next few quarters. This will require


us to successfully compete in several 300 millimeter evaluations and Sidewinder evaluations for our


strip handler to get customers to adopt our 300 millimeter and Sidewinder products and for the chip


market to stay healthy.


Our growth opportunities going forward lie in three general areas: 200 millimeter probers, 300


millimeter probers and strip handling products with our Sidewinder strip product. In the 200


millimeter area, we think [ph] very good progress on the new systems. Essentially all of our


European customers have adopted our new 4090 Micro Plus product. Many of our Asian customers


and U.S. customers have also converted to the new product as well. It works well and we can


produce it in volume, 200 millimeter is an important for the maturing market. All the market for 200


millimeter is maturing or will be maturing custom 200 millimeter applications like thin wafer and film


frame applications for known good die can be a continuing source of growth with decent gross


margins for our company. Now than we have a competitive 300 millimeter product with technical


superiority and thorough areas, we hope to make good head way. We will end to do two to three


customer evaluations per quarter to 300 millimeter area. In this last quarter we were involved in


three; one was wrapped up with the system purchase and acceptance of the product one is in the


process of being finished up and we hope to complete it soon and the third requires buying from


multiple locations if there are larger company and we expect to finish the evaluation in the next few
raw transcript


Electroglas, Inc.
 
EGLS
 
Q2 2006 Earnings Call
 
Dec. 22, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


months. We are not able to give the customer needs on these as of yet, but as soon as we can we


will.


We are shooting for two to three more in February quarter and two to three more in our May


quarter. The number of evaluations we believe will be studied for at least the next two quarters.


Some customers have large purchase potentials and some have small to medium purchase


potential when they are buying probers. We are mostly concentrating on IBM, foundries also


assembly and test companies and some strategic customers who drive volume and where


purchases as a part of their technology development. We also have what I would call qualifications


rather than former evaluation. These are for smaller quantities of probers to existing EG users for


production and engineering use. We are working with about 8 to 10 customers in this category


currently and we hope to ship more 300 millimeter probers in Q3 than in any other previous periods


of the company.


Our win strategy remains the same. We had designed a more advanced system which


concentrates on circuit [ph] enhancement and yield improvement by being better and disturbance


rejection, thermal agility, MicroTouch and very good in accuracy. The new market data from


[indiscernible] research for probers for calendar year 2006 shows sales increasing to approximately


$800,000 in this market not including servers but the bulk of sales going to the 300 millimeter


applications. Turning to research firm calls for a significant upturn for semiconductor process


equipment as well. They start early in 2006 and last up to two years. They forecast this upturn to be


driven by two years or 29% compounded annual growth rate for CapEx equipment, growing and


mainly due to the advances node utilizations for semiconductors which are --- with geometries and


features small than 0.16 micron. They are expecting advanced node utilization rates to be a strong


driver or the strongest driver and their forecast for the fab equipment utilization rate is to be above


94% from now until Q3 of 2007. Recent reports from our service group corroborate that capacity


utilization for the backend that our customer side just quite high above 90%. Offline probers are


being put back into service and spares orders remain good, the highest that we seen in the last five


quarters. Refurbished equipment sales were good last quarter for us as well, the best in five


quarters. From these data we would expect that once the ideal probers the one that haven’t been


used for while brought that online and refurbished systems are snapped up in the market from other


sources but sales for new products will increase. Due to the increased market forecast and uptick in


our own sales file, we have increased our manufacturing headcount in Singapore by about 20% in


Q2 to respond to what we see as increasing order flow.


We also look at other companies in adjacent market to try to correlate additional data. An uptick for


the further consult the bonder [ph] business is often a precursor to an uptick in the backend in our


space. Recently they were upgraded by CSFB's John Pitzer, here is a couple of the comments in


that upgrade. Plenty of gas in the tank, we are upgrading quick from new neutral through [ph]


outperform, a bonder cycle that we will be more resilient than many expect. We believe bonder


again will resume strong at least mid cycle plus shipment at a levels driven by secondly, consumer


emerging market spending driven IC unit growth and that the bonders still have ample way, we


believe what is tracking towards 1,400 bonder shift intended to [indiscernible] quarter.


Also many of you have seen the data from the larger test companies which have been pretty


positive in last couple of months as well and we have been hearing those reports from many of the


baking companies. Third area for us to grow in 2006 is a new area for EGLS for packaged product


in the strip handling area. Last quarter we shipped our second system, the system shipped to Asia


almost configured with coal cost, coal thermal capability. It is the second system to our initial


customer and we expect to ship an additional system this coming quarter to predict Fujitsu


Nantung, which is the single-sided IO version of our product; it’s a new version of the product. We


expect that this version of the product will have broad appeal and we have recently received


another order for our system with the single-sided IO capability. If we are successful in helping


these customers in this combined consortium with their process, they tell us there to be tens of


systems orders in the 2006-2007 fiscal timeframe.