corrected transcript


Electroglas, Inc.
 
EGLS
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Dec. 18, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, hello and welcome to today’s Electroglas Second Quarter Fiscal


Year 2009 Results. As a reminder, all your lines will be on listen-only mode and there will be a Q&A


session at the end of the call. [Operator Instructions]


At this time, I’d like to welcome and turn the call over to Mr. Tom Brunton. Go ahead sir.


Thomas E. Brunton, Senior Vice President of Administration and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Mona. I’m here today with Tom Rohrs, our Chairman and CEO; and Warren Kocmond,


our COO. Good afternoon.


Today, we’re going to discuss results from our fiscal Q2, 2009, which ended on November 29. At


the conclusion of our comments, Tom, I, and Warren will be happy to answer your questions. We


intend to limit today’s conference call to about an hour.


By now you should have received our press release, as it was sent out a few minutes ago, if you


have not received it or have gotten it – haven’t gotten it off the web, please feel free to contact


Candi Lattyak at 408-528-3801, and she will send it to you.


Before we begin, I’d like to make some cautionary statements. During the course of this conference


call, we will make forward-looking statements regarding future events or the future performance of


our company. These statements are based on limited financial information available to us, and


these projections are subject to change. Actual events and forecasts could differ materially. No


reader or listener of this release should assume later in the quarter that the information that we


provide today will be still current. We refer you to document the company files from time to time


with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


Now more information on Q2. Revenues for the second quarter were 6.4 million, down from 8.4


million in Q1. The revenue for the quarter was short of the bottom end of our revenue range of 7


million as provided in last quarter’s call. Why the miss? Basically bookings dried up in the second


half of the quarter well below our normal run rates as people remain cautious, had excess capacity,


and we’re reacting to a very difficult semiconductor climate. Many customers pushed out their order


capital buying decisions to 2009 and said that they were on the sidelines until their order climate


improves.


The revenue mix by geography for the quarter was as follows 27% from North America, Europe,


15%, Asia-Pacific 58%. GAAP gross margins for the quarter were at 17% versus last quarter’s


15%. Our margins were negatively impacted by two principal factors, lower volumes of our eight-


inch products with lower ASPs and under-absorption of factory overheads at these low sales levels.


When we are at the bottom of the cycle and when we get to these low sales levels, these factors


come in to play and negatively impact our gross margins as they have in the past.


A few comments on operating expenses. In last quarter’s call, we discussed the steps we were


taking to lower operating costs. We took these steps, again, in Q2 and lowered our head count


again. Second quarter R&D spending was 1.7 million, down approximately 300,000 from Q1 levels


primarily due to lower salaries and outside services. SG&A expenses were 2.9 million, up 100,000


from Q1 levels due to higher stock compensation expenses. Our restructuring and impairment cost


for the quarter were 300,000, the same as last quarter. These costs consist of severance costs for


employees terminated during the quarter across all functions.


So in summary for operations, the company recorded a net loss for the second quarter of 4.7


million or $0.18 a share. Some additional supplemental information that we normally provide during
corrected transcript


Electroglas, Inc.
 
EGLS
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Dec. 18, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


the call: Capital spending was nil for the quarter; depreciation and amortization was 0.5 million; and


stock compensation was 0.3 million.


Turning to the balance sheet. Our cash and investments at the end of the quarter were 8.9 million.


In last quarter’s call, we forecasted cash usage of 1 to 2 million. The cash – usage of cash was


higher principally for two reasons: Our revenue was lower, short of forecast by 2 million because of


slow bookings, hence the operating cash usage was higher than forecasted; and our receivables


higher by approximately 1 million because our customers lengthened their payment terms.


In the receivable area, trade receivables were 6 million with DSOs trading ending the quarter at 86


days, once again, we are back-end loaded with our sales during the quarter, which affected our


collections, and some of our key customers slowed down their payment patterns during the quarter.


In the area of inventory. The ending inventory was 6.7 million, up 800,000 from Q1. We had


increases in our finished goods inventory as well because of the shortage in our sales forecast.


Now some notes as to what we see in the third quarter. Our guidance for the third quarter, as


again, the months of December, January, and February, we expect revenue for Q3 to be in the 4 to


$5 million range. We expect our book-to-bill ratio to be positive for the quarter, but visibility at this


time is extremely limited. We expect to have cash usage to be in the same range as the second


quarter. As I pointed out before, we have about $7.5 million bank line also available to us with


Comerica Bank.


Operator: I beg your pardon sir. Could you speak just a little bit louder?


Thomas E. Brunton, Senior Vice President of Administration and Chief Financial Officer


Sure. So in summary, we continue to focus on our business model, cutting cost, and supplying our


customers with quality products. This concludes my remarks and now I’ll turn the mic over to Tom


Rohrs.


Thomas M. Rohrs, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Tom. Current market for semiconductor capital equipment is the worst I have seen and


one of the worst markets ever. Most profit based metrics are relatively useless today as a majority


of equipment companies are losing. But asset and revenue based metrics are at their lowest points


in 20 years for even a number of companies with enterprise values.


There are others with significant debt payments that are due in calendar year ‘09 who are


struggling for a bailout. In times like these, long-term strategies give way to studies of viability in


staying. While this meltdown in the equipment market worse than anyone predicted, surely it will


give way to an upturn which could be of dramatic proportions. Some analysts are saying that could


happen in the second half of ‘09, others are saying it could happen in the first half of 2000 (sic).


We are making our plans under the assumption that it will be 15 to 18 months before we see any


recovery. At this time, we are modeling revenues of about $5 million per quarter for the next six


quarters. At these revenue levels, we do not see a way to achieve operational profitability. While we


are fortunate that we have no debt due for the next 30 months, we will need additional influx of


cash to fund our operating losses. We are diligently working to secure additional cash inflows from


both our bank line of credit, as Tom mentioned, and our technology partners. We will work to


secure a combination of billion dollars of additional funds, bank loans, and cost savings over the


next six quarters to weather this storm. We feel confident that we’ll be able to accomplish this task.