raw transcript


Electroglas, Inc.
 
EGLS
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 27, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, and welcome to the Electroglas Incorporated Fourth Quarter 2004


Teleconference. As a reminder, today's call is being recorded. For any remarks and introductions, I


would like to turn the call over to Mr. Tom Brunton, Chief Financial Officer, and Keith Barnes, Chief


Executive Officer of Electroglas. Please go ahead, sir


Keith Barnes, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Paula. This is Keith Barnes. I'm here today with Tom Brunton, our CFO. Today we will


discuss the results of our fourth fiscal quarter of 2004. Tom will discuss the quarterly financial


details, and I will discuss some operational highlights and lowlights. At the conclusion of our


comments, we will be open for questions and we intend to limit today's call to about an hour, and so


we'll make our comments relatively brief, and leave some time for questions. By now you should


have received our press release, which was sent out this morning, and if you have not, please visit


our company's website in the investors section, which you can download from there or call Candi


Lattyak at 408-528-3801 and she will provide it to you.


Before we begin, however, I would like to make some cautionary statements. During the course of


this conference call, we may make forward-looking statements regarding future events or the future


of our company. Any such projections are based on limited information available to the company


and are subjected to change. Although projections and the factors influencing those projections will


likely change, we will not necessarily update the information, since the company is only providing


guidance at certain points during the year. Actual events or results could differ materially, and no


reader or listener of this release, should assume later in the quarter, that the information we provide


today will still be valid. Such information speaks only as of today. Specific factors could change,


causing our projections not to be achieved. We refer you to the documents on file, from the


company, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and if you have any difficulty getting


those, please let us know and we'll provide them to you.


So, the revenue for 2004 was up 40% over 2003. The company's loss during the period was


reduced 90% from 2003's loss. Our revenue for Q3, 2004 came in at 11.2 million and at the


midpoint of our most recent revised guidance. This represents a sequential decrease of 38%, from


Q3 2004, and a 22% decrease over Q4, 2003. During the fourth quarter many semiconductor


companies and back-end equipment companies reported large drops in bookings, revenues and


earnings guidance and earnings, of course. As you know, there were very few exceptions. The


back-end book-to-bill was 0.76 in November, and we are waiting for the December numbers right


now. Based on what we are hearing from customers and our interested partners, Q1 for many of


them will remain soft, and Q2 could mark the bottom of the current draw.


We also guided down during the fourth quarter due to customers either holding off on purchases or


pushing out deliveries on already booked orders. Tom will give you more specific details with


respect to the financial data in a few minutes. But I wanted to update you with regards to how we


did during on our product development and product release plans, our operating expense


improvements and our conversion of assets to cash. These are key details which will position the


company to grow its revenues in 2005 and beyond, to regain profitability and cash generation, to


regain market share, and to increase shareholder value.


During 2004, we were focused on designing our new EG6000 300mm prober. Introducing our new


4090 Micro Plus 200 mm Prober, deploying Sidewinder Strip test product and deploying our new


SORTmanager test automation software. At the end of December, we introduced the 4090 Micro


Plus 200 mm prober; this new product offers substantially improved accuracy. This accuracy


improvement will help customers do what smaller fab sizes, which are found on newer and more
raw transcript


Electroglas, Inc.
 
EGLS
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 27, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


advanced ICs, which they are getting into their shops today. And with MicroTouch, which is our new


Z stage capability, customers can handle aluminum over copper pads and locate dielectrics, and


the cut devices substantially. Several other features were introduced with this product to help


customers address higher productivity. We will sell both new 200 mm 4090 Micro Plus systems, as


well as upgrades. The upgrade program will be focused on the roughly 3,000 systems, which are in


our install base, which are upgradeable. They will sell for around $30,000 average selling price, this


means we have a captive market in the range of around $90 million per upgrades.


During Q4, we finished BETA test with the first IBM customer, and confirmed that our new accuracy


is correct, and this customer was using their own independent metrology system to confirm our


accuracy measurements, I'm currently sitting here looking at two plots that we have from two


separate customer locations, where the data on accuracy confirms that we actually need or


exceeds the specs that we have on the product. So we feel very comfortable with that. We are


currently upgrading approximately 15 systems, which the customer has paid for. And with this initial


customer, we are streamlining our upgrade process, as we speak, with our dedicated on-site


upgrade team. We will start quoting other large upgrade orders this quarter. We are also engaged


with a second customer to install upgrades on their floor this month. They were also BETA in Q4 for


us, and have the potential to be a large upgrade customer as well.


We have instructed our sales force during our worldwide kickoff meeting that was held last week, to


focus on orders in the range of 25 units per order or higher. Although we will eventually take


smaller orders, the Optimum quantity to put team on site is around 25 or more orders, and so those


are the blocks of orders that are looking for this product and we hope to get into the 100 units per


quarter range by Q3, and then increase from there. So we feel that the 4090 Micro Plus is getting


ready go to prime time. We have also finished the design of the new EG6000 300 mm prober. The


EG6000 was introduced officially on January the 18th. The EG6000 is a revolutionary direct drive


design and is the world's most accurate 300 mm prober. Coming in at 1.5 microns in what we call


our S version and 2.5 microns in the standard production version, and different technology need


different accuracy specs. And we have a specific design features also in this product, which are


aimed at the needs of the offshore assembly and test houses. So we are aiming at both the IDM


and the offshore assembly and test houses with this new product. We put a lot of new features into


the system.


The EG6000 is going through final release phase, including internal and external customer


evaluations, internally we are putting the EG6000 through many test cases, Probe cards, tester


interfaces et cetera, and our external customer will put it on their production floor and around both


the wafers on the product. We will then start selected evaluations of the customers in the


March/April timeframe and be ready for production shipments in Q2. We're gearing up our


manufacturing to do that. The EG6000 has many capabilities such as full thermal agility, a super


accurate Z stage, MicroTouch capability as is the case with our 200 mm product; although, much


more accurate for soft touchdown, so we can handle copper and locate devices with these product


as well. The product has a rock solid P forward and P back control system to be able to handle the


vibrations which occur on the floors. And it has one button probing capability which is very


important to a fully automated environment.


So we believe that we have the world's most accurate 300 mm Prober today, and we hope to prove


that it is the best as well in the other areas. We will fill you in regarding our progress on this product


each quarter. Now 300 mm is clearly a big growth area for this company. In 2004, the 300 mm


sales of probers started to exceed the 200 mm sales for the first time and – as an industry.


According to the LSI, there were about 2,000 300 mm probers shipped in 2004, there will be about


2,600 shipped in 2005, and somewhere on the order of 5,000 shipped in 2008, or by 2008. We


believe from reading various reports, that there are about 25 to 40 300 mm fabs being built from


Greenfields between now and '06 or '07. The current lull in the market in an ironic way give us the


precious time that we need to engage the customers that our billing new fabs and outfitting them,