raw transcript


Energy Conversion Devices,


Inc.
 
ENER
 
Q1 2006 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 8, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon and welcome to the ECD Ovonics first quarter fiscal operating results


conference call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the


speaker's remarks, there will be a question-and-answer period. If you would like to ask a question


during this time, simply press star then the number one on your telephone keypad. If you would like


to withdraw your question, press star then the number two. Thank you. Mr. Stempel, you may begin


your conference.


Robert Stempel, Chairman & CEO


Good afternoon, and thank you for joining us. I am Bob Stempel, Chairman and CEO of ECD. And


joining me here at our headquarters at Rochester Hills are Stan Ovshinsky, President, Chief


Scientist and Technologist; Jim Metzger, our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer;


Iris Ovshinsky, Vice President and Director; Nancy Bacon, our Senior Vice President; Steve


Zumsteg, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Roger Leninski, General Counsel; Ghazaleh


Koefod, Secretary; and joining us by phone is Dr. Subhendu Guha, President of the United Solar


Ovonic.


This call is to discuss the operating results for the first quarter of the fiscal year 2006 ended


September 30, 2005 along with other important business items. A press release was issued today


at 4:15. Tomorrow, November 9, we'll be filing our quarterly report on Form 10-Q with the Securities


and Exchange Commission. In compliance with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002,


Steve Zumsteg and I have made the certification required by the new law and SEC rules.


This investors' teleconference is also available today on the Internet and will be available on the


ECD website for one month after the call. You may also listen to a replay by telephone. For


information on how to access this information, please go to the ECD website, www.ovonic.com.


Just before we start the presentation, I will read the cautionary statement as required by the SEC. It


states, and I quote, My presentation to you today and the responses we will give your questions


may contain, or may be interpreted by you to contain, forward-looking statements within the


meaning of the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995


concerning, among other things, the company's expectations, plans, and strategies for the


development and commercialization of products based on its technologies. These forward-looking


statements are generally identified by the use of such terms as intends, expects, plans, estimates,


anticipates, should, and believes.


Many companies are now releasing earnings or business news after the market closes. And our


shareholders and investors have requested that conference calls be as close to any news


announcements as possible. Today's release and conference call reflects that timing. And I've said


the news release went out at 4:15 and our conference started promptly at 4:45 p.m. Form 10-Q for


the first quarter fiscal year 2006 ended September 30 will be available on the ECD website on or


about November 9, 2005.


Let us look at the financial data. A loss from operations of 6.8 million compared to a loss from


operations of 6.1 million in the same quarter last year. Net loss for the first quarter of fiscal 2006


was 6.5 million compared to a net income of 1.3 million in the same quarter last year. The change


in net income was due to a one-time $8 million distribution to ECD following the settlement of a


patent infringement disputes and counterclaims in July 2004 partially reimbursing our legal
raw transcript


Energy Conversion Devices,


Inc.
 
ENER
 
Q1 2006 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 8, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


expenses. On a per-share basis, the loss was $0.22 in the first quarter 2006 compared to income of


$0.05 in the same quarter last year.


The change in the loss from the continuing operations in the quarter versus last year primarily


resulted from first, an improvement of 2.3 million in operating profit at United Solar Ovonic resulting


from a 4.3 million increase in revenues and lower product costs. Gross profit on 18.1 million of


product sales this quarter was 3.6 million for a gross profit margin of 19.7%. A 2.6 million reduction


in revenues for Ovonic Hydrogen Systems as a result of Chevron's transfer of 50% its interest to


this venture to us in December 2004, just like our successful wholly owned plug-and-play units ECD


now owns 100% of Ovonic Hydrogen. We are continuing business discussions to fund and expand


the testing and commercial activities of Ovonic Hydrogen.


A 1.0 million hit decrease in consumer battery royalties due to the recognition last year of 1.1


million advanced royalty payment made in 1993, for which the license fee no longer had a


contractual obligation to make payments. Additionally the change in net income from continuing


operations from the loss of 6.2 million in the current quarter compared to a $1.7 million profit last


year was due to the favorable impact by the company's receipt of an $8 million one-time distribution


from the settlement of patent disputes and counter claims in 2004 as previously mentioned.


Additional information about the company and its consolidated financial results can be found in the


company's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2005 filed with the


Securities and Exchange Commission and will be available on the company's website on or about


November 9.


Now let's consider some of the exciting activities taking place at ECD Ovonics. The demand for


United Solar Ovonic lightweight flexible rugged triple junction Thin Film PV products continues to be


strong as evidenced by a 40% increase in Photovoltaic sales to 18.1 million. We achieved an


operating income of 1.7 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 compared to an operating loss of


632,000 in the prior year quarter. We operated close to capacity during the quarter, producing 5.8


megawatt as Uni-Solar Ovonic products, which included a record 2.1 megawatt during September.


On July 14, 2005 we broke ground for our second 25-megawatt facility on Auburn Hills, less than a


mile from our current facility. This will double our manufacturing capacity, with occupancy


scheduled for May 2006, starting manufacturing in the fall of 2006. We are currently on schedule


and slightly be below budget due to the hard work and extra effort of our people at ECD machine


division in charge of construction.


Based on market demand, we are evaluating opportunities for the expansion of United Solar


Ovonic manufacturing in the future. We are evaluating major opportunities in the United States,


China, and Germany as well as other regions. For example, in September we signed an MOU with


Tianjin Investment Company for a 25-megawatt photovoltaic module manufacturing joint venture in


China. Solar Integrated Technologies (SIT), United Solar Ovonics biggest United States customers


has been named winner of The Wall Street Journal Technology Innovation Award in the Energy


and Power category. SIT used a single ply roofing membrane to which they apply our flexible Thin


Film PV material. It's rolled up and delivered to the site ready to be unrolled and installed on the


roof, ready to start generating electricity. It certainly demonstrates the flexibility and durability of our


products.


Cobasys, our 50-50 Ovonic nickel metal hydride battery manufacturing joint venture, announced it


has been registered to the International Standard TL9000, which is a prerequisite to supply major


telecommunications equipment and service providers. This is the third quality certification within


one year for Cobasys, where it previously announced certification to ISO/IS 16494, the most


advanced standard required to supply the automotive industry and registration to ISO 17025


certifying Cobasys' testing and calibration laboratories. This demonstrates Cobasys' commitment to


sustaining the highest levels of quality and continuous improvement while serving the


transportation, telecommunications, and stationary markets.