raw transcript


Energy Conversion Devices
 
ENER
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 8, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon. My name is Nicole and I will be your conference facilitator. At this time I


would like to welcome everyone to the Energy Conversion Devices Second Quarter 2005


Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent a background noise. After the


speakers' remarks will be a question and answer period. [Operator Instructions] Thank you. Mr.


Stempel, you may begin your conference.


Robert Stempel, Chairman, and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you very much, Nicole. Good day and thanks all of you for joining us. I am Bob Stempel,


Chairman of ECD, and joining me here in headquarters in Rochester Hills is Stan Ovshinsky,


President, and Chief Technical Officer and Founder; Iris Ovshinsky, Vice President and Founder;


Jim Metzger, Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer; Nancy Bacon or our senior Vice


President, Steve Zumsteg, our Chief Financial Officer, and Dr. Subhendu Guha, President of


Ovonyx Solar. Leslei Coulthard [ph], our Secretary and Roger Lesinski, our General Counsel.


As noted, this call is to discuss the operating results for the second fiscal quarter ended December


31, 2004 and other important business items. The investors teleconference is also available today


on the Internet and will be available on the ECD web site for one month after the call. You may also


listen to a replay by telephone. For information on how to access this information, go to the ECD


web site, www.ovonic.com. First as is our practice, let me remind you of the Safe Harbor cautionary


statement and it states my presentation to you today and the responses we give to your questions


may contain or may be interpreted by you to contain forward-looking statements within the meaning


of the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities and Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


Concerning, among other things, the Company's expectations, plans and strategies for the


development and Commercialization of products based on its technologies. These forward-looking


statements are generally identified by the use of such terms as "intends," "expects," "plans,"


"estimates," "anticipates," "should," and "believes". During our last conference call on December 6,


2004, ECD noted the good news about our 50/50 joint venture for manufacturing Ovonic nickel


metal hydride batteries, Cobasys.


I am pleased to announce the good news for ECD continues. Yesterday's news release announced


ECD's operating results for the second quarter ended December 31, 2004. The Company reported


net income of $67.1 million on revenues of $95.7 million compared to a loss of $13.4 million on


revenues of $15.7 million in the same quarter last year. On a per share basis, the income was


$2.63, $2.44 on a fully diluted basis. In the second quarter of 2005 compared with the loss of $0.57


in the same quarter last year. Increased income in revenue in the second quarter resulted from a


79.5 million in revenue from a license agreement reflecting the value of intellectual property, newly


licensed to our battery joint venture Cobasys. This one-time non-cash event is consistent with our


strategy of systematically monitorrising our intellectual properties which has historically been


carried as zero on our balance sheet. ECD through our subsidiary Ovonic battery company has


extend the scope of the licenses granted to Cobasys when the joint venture was formed in July


2001 increasing value of the venture. Expanded license now includes applications for military,


Homeland Security, load leveling and stationary power and other prismatic battery applications not


previously part of the license.


As hybrid vehicles are introduced by domestic automakers and their production schedules


gradually increase these applications or new fields provide a means to smooth Cobasys's


production schedules to some uniformed volume of modules per week. The military operations


include large heavy vehicles that use large battery packs containing four or five time the number of


modules typically found in a passenger car hybrid. While vehicle volumes may be small, battery


volume modules are large. The additional make Cobasys a full line nickel metal hydride battery
raw transcript


Energy Conversion Devices
 
ENER
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 8, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


manufacturer. Of the 79.5 million of revenue realized by ECD for the additional rights licensed to


Cobasys was in the form of an option granted by ChervronTexaco Technology Ventures to ECD to


purchase ChervronTexaco's 4,376,633 shares of ECD common stock at a price of $4.55 per share.


The revenues are calculated December 2, 2004 using the Black Shoals evaluation model.


As a 50/50 joint venture, the Black Shoals evaluation of the technology implies an increase in


Cobasys's value by approximately $160 million. The agreement also provides for mechanism for


additional funding from CTTV to continue Cobasys's expansion. ChervronTexaco technology


ventures will be entitled to a priority right of repayment for providing the additional funding. ECD


and CTTV will continue to own 50% interest in Cobasys subject to adjustment under certain


circumstances. Both joint venture partners, ChervronTexaco and ECD want Cobasys to be


successful and the world leader in nickel metal hydride energy solutions. The agreement draws on


the strength of the partners to make Cobasys a complete company. All the technology needed to


complete in the full range of nickel metal hydride markets with enough capital funding to provide


adequate capacity to meet customer demands over the next few years.


For the quarter, product sales increased 20% compared to a year ago on the strength of $4.6


million sales increase in United Solar's photovoltaic products. Jim Metzger noted, and I quote, the


sales growth of our solar products continues to be strong, and we expect to achieve our sales goals


for the remainder of the year. We continue to see a reduction in the operating expenses as a result


of our cost containment programs and restructuring initiatives will lead to continued revenue growth


and Commercialization of our technologies. For first half of the year, sales increased $8.9 million,


due primarily to a $12.9 million that is 113% sales increase in the United Solar Ovonyx photovoltaic


sales partially offset by a reduction in equipment sales. Royalty increased by $880,000 as result of


recognition of revenue of an advanced royalty payment received in 1984 under which the licensee


no longer has an obligation to make payments.


We will also start to receive increased royalties for cylindrical nickel metal hydride batteries used in


hybrid electric vehicles. Our licensee Sanyo [ph] supplies the nickel metal hydrides for the Ford


mid-sized SUV Escape hybrid and the Honda Accord hybrid. Other improvements in our net income


came from a $1.3 million improvement in the three months ended December 31, 2004, in gross loss


on product sales at United Solar because of the increased sales and lower material costs. For the


first half the profit margin improved to a gross profit of $389,000 versus gross loss of $3,285,000


last year. For the first half of the year, net income was favorably impacted by an $8 million


distribution from Cobasys to partially reimburse ECD for legal expenses in conjunction with the


patent litigation resolution in July 2004.


In December 2004, the Company received $2,266,000 net of tax in connection with the transfer of


CTTV's interest in Ovonic Hydrogen. The Company has recognized this as an extraordinary item in


the three months and six months ended December 31, 2004. With 100% ownership of Ovonic


Hydrogen, ECD is able to focus our efforts to near-term projects involving solid hydrogen storage.


Many people are asking will hydrogen ever become the oil replacement fuel that many in industry


and government are betting on or can hydrogen help divert global warning. In scientific American


frontiers, Hydrogen Hopes, Alan Alda meets with hydrogen enthusiasts working towards a future


when hydrogen can be made in unlimited quantities from renewable, non-polluting resources.


Hydrogen Hopes will be airing on public broadcast system Wednesday, February 23, from 8:30 to 9


p.m. Eastern time. Both Stan and Iris are featured in the program.


The Company also has a contract to provide battery making equipment to [indiscernible] in China.


To date we received payments of $59.5 million. That is about 98% of the $60.7 million total we had


expected – anticipated receiving. Due to delays in completion of the project, we have adjusted our


revenues and cost estimates and have reduced the estimated margin from 12% to 8%. This


resulted in recording negative revenues of $2.7 million in the current quarter. Additional information


about the Company and its consolidated financial results can be filed in the company's quarterly