corrected transcript


Energy Conversion Devices,


Inc.
 
ENER
 
Q4 2005 Earnings Call
 
Sep. 12, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Good afternoon. My name is Valencia and I will be your conference facilitator. At this time, I would


like to welcome everyone to the ECD fiscal year 2005 operating results conference call. [Operator


Instructions]. Mr. Stempel, you may begin your conference, sir.


Robert C. Stempel, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you very much Valencia and good afternoon and thank you all for joining us. I am Bob


Stempel, Chairman and CEO of ECD. And joining me here in our headquarters at Rochester Hills


are Stan Ovshinsky, President, Chief Scientist and Technologist, Iris Ovshinsky, Vice President,


Nancy Bacon, Senior Vice President, Steve Zumsteg, Vice President and CFO, Dr. Subhendu


Guha, President, United Solar Ovonic, Roger Lesinski, our General Counsel, Ghazaleh Koefod, our


Secretary. And joining us by phone since he is traveling, Jim Metzger, Executive Vice President


and COO.


This call is to discuss the operating results for our fourth quarter and the fiscal year ended June 30,


2005 along with other important business items. The press release was issued today at 4:15 p.m.


Tomorrow, September 13th, we'll be filing our Annual Report on Form 10-K with the Securities and


Exchange Commission. In compliance with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002,


Steve Zumsteg and I have made the certification required by the new law and SEC rules.


This investors' teleconference is also available today on the Internet and will be available on the


ECD website for one month after the call. You may also listen to a replay by telephone. For


information on how to access this information, please go to the ECD website, www.ovonic.com.


Just before we start our presentation, I will read the cautionary statement as required by the SEC.


It states, and I quote, “my presentation to you today and the responses we will give to your


questions may contain or maybe interpreted by you to contain forward-looking statements within


the meaning of the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995,


concerning among other things, the company's expectations, plans and strategies for the


development and commercialization of products based on its technologies. These forward-looking


statements are generally identified by the use of such terms as intends, expects, plans, estimates,


anticipates, should, and believes.”


Many companies are now releasing earnings or business news after market closes, potentially


avoiding unnecessary movement in the stock. Shareholders and investors have requested that


conference calls be as close to any news announcements as possible. Today's release and


conference call reflect that timing. The news release went out at 4:15 p.m., and we've just started


our conference call. Form 10-K for the fiscal year 2005 will be available on the ECD website on


September 13th, 2005.


Looking at the results for fiscal year ended June 30 2005, income from continuing operations of


49.5 million on revenues of 156.6 million. That compares to a loss from continuing operations of


49.2 million on revenues of 66.3 million in fiscal year 2004. On a per share basis, income was


$1.70 fully diluted in 2005, compared to a loss of $2.15 in 2004.


The major contributor to the increased income and revenue for 2005 was the non-cash revenue of


79.5 million for the additional nickel metal hydride battery rights licensed to Cobasys, and an $8


million cash distribution from Cobasys to partially reimburse ECD for legal expenses incurred in


connection with the patent resolution in July of 2004. The license was in the form of an option
corrected transcript


Energy Conversion Devices,


Inc.
 
ENER
 
Q4 2005 Earnings Call
 
Sep. 12, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


granted to ECD by Chevron to purchase approximately 4.4 million shares of ECD common stock at


$4.55 a share.


Stakeholders should keep in mind that the license agreement is consistent with our business


strategy of monetizing our intellectual property, historically carried at zero on our balance sheet. It


should also be noted the additional rights and fields licensed to Cobasys allows the joint venture to


be a full line battery and energy system supplier to a broad range of business and industry users,


increasing the intrinsic value of the venture. As a 50% owner of Cobasys, this increase is important


to ECD stakeholders.


Cobasys had some very important announcements in August. They achieved the ISO/TS 16949


Global Automotive Supplier Certification, which supersedes the former ISO quality requirements.


16949 Standard focuses on continuous improvement to reduce automotive manufacturing costs


with improvements in quality. Once certified, a supplier company eliminates the need to register


and be approved by individual automakers. Cobasys is also assisting its suppliers in achieving the


certification. Cobasys is recognized worldwide as a nickel metal hydride battery systems supplier


by all automakers.


Also in August Cobasys confirmed that it had received battery pack purchase orders from


customers for upcoming hybrid electrical vehicle programs. These battery pack systems are fully


integrated solutions currently being manufactured and assembled at Cobasys’ Springboro, Ohio


plant.


Before we leave the financial report, the quarter-to-quarter data also shows improvement with


product sales and royalty revenues increasing up to 1 million, while expenses decreased 2.4


million, reducing operating loss by 3.4 million, reflecting the impact of restructuring and cost


reduction efforts. The major factor in these trends is the continuing improvement in United Solar


Ovonic production, sales, and cost reductions. For the year ended June 30, 2005, United Solar


Ovonic sold 16 megawatts or roughly $50.8 million of Photovoltaic Systems, an 84% increase over


2004 sales. Current order backlog is valued at $51 million. In the quarter, PV sales by United


Solar Ovonic increased to 13.9 million compared to 9.3 million in the 2004 quarter, an increase of


50%.


Also in the quarter, United Solar Ovonic’s gross profit improved 4.9 million to 2.4 million compared


to a gross loss of 2.5 million last year. In the fourth quarter, United Solar Ovonic manufactured a


record level of 5.7 megawatts of production with a sales value of 18 million. May and June


production ran at 2 megawatts per month and the plant is essentially running at the rated capacity


of 25 megawatts. The favorable 2005 results reflect improved factory utilization and significantly


reduced variable cost. As a result, United Solar Ovonic had a gross profit of 4.4 million in 2005


versus a gross loss of 6.3 million last year.


The demand for United Solar Ovonic’s light-weight, flexible, rugged, triple-junction thin-film PV


products continues to be strong and the forward outlook is positive. On July 14th, we broke ground


for our second 25-megawatt facility in Auburn Hills, Michigan, less than a mile from our current


facility. This will double our manufacturing capacity with occupancy scheduled for May 2006,


starting manufacturing in the fall of 2006.


The US Secretary of Energy, the honorable Samuel W. Bodman, was on hand with other state and


local officials. The secretary delivered the keynote address along with comments about Stan's


pioneering work. In his prepared comments, the Secretary said, and I quote, “I congratulate Uni-


Solar on this ground breaking that will bring 200 jobs to the Auburn Hills area. This new facility will


help provide customers and contractors with another option to reduce energy costs and improve


energy efficiency. Expanding the use of solar power is an important component of decreasing our