raw transcript


Exide Technologies
 
XIDE
 
Q4 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 17, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon and welcome to Exide Technologies Conference Call. My name is


Jeanne [ph] and I will be your conference facilitator today.


[Operator Instructions]


I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today’s call, Mr. Gordon Ulsh,


President and Chief Executive Officer of Exide. Please go ahead sir.


Gordon A. Ulsh, President and CEO


Thank you operator, and good afternoon everyone, and thank you for joining us. I would like to


point out I’m having a little respiratory and voice problem this afternoon, so you’ll just have to bear


with me, as we go through our meeting. With me today are Tim Gargaro, our Chief Financial


Officer; Stuart Kupinsky, our General Counsel; Phil Damaska and Ian Harvie from our Controller’s


Office; and Nick Guyano, our Treasurer.


Let me remind you that certain statements on this call may constitute forward-looking statements as


defined by the Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. As such they involve known and unknown


risks uncertainties and other factors that may cause the actual or expected results of the company


to be materially different from any results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.


Please refer to the company’s recently filed Form 10-Q for a list of these factors.


The purpose of this call today is to provide an update on our business operations including


yesterday’s announcements about our financial covenants under our bank credit agreement, and


the actions we are pursuing to improve this business. Since this is my first call as Exide’s CEO, I


would also like to point out that this teleconference reflects the commitment of our entire


management team to improve shareholder communication by the company. We intend over time to


provide greater visibility into business issues and opportunities, as well as our steps to address


them.


At this point, I would like to turn the call over to Tim Gargaro who will provide you with some details


about our fourth quarter performance, which led to these covenant issues. Afterwards, I’ll return to


discuss my plans and my view for Exide.


J. Timothy Gargaro, EVP and CFO


Thank you Gordon, and good afternoon to everyone. As we reported yesterday, we are now far


enough along in the close of our fourth quarter and year-end that we believe it is appropriate to


provide an indication to you that we expect to have issues with a couple of our financial covenants


and our senior credit facility. Specifically, our consolidated adjusted EBITDA and our leverage ratio


test.


As the company has said in the past, we use adjusted EBITDA as the key measure of our


operational financial performance. This measure underlies our operational performance and


excludes the non-reoccuring impact of our current restructuring actions. Adjusted EBITDA is


defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, and restructuring charges.


Our adjusted EBITDA definition also adjusts reported earnings for losses from discounts and sale


of accounts receivable, the effect of non-cash currency re-measurement gains or losses, the non-


cash gain or loss from revaluation of the company’s warrants liability, and non-cash gains or losses
raw transcript


Exide Technologies
 
XIDE
 
Q4 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 17, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


on asset sales. I encourage you to refer to our website for a reconciliation of adjusted EBITDA to


income reported earnings under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. Under our credit


agreement, our minimum EBITDA requirement for the quarter is a 130 million, which includes a test


period benefit of approximately 8 million indicating that we need to be in a range of 122 million. As


we announced, we expect adjusted EBITDA to be in the range of a 100 million to 107 million. In


terms of our leverage test, the expected covenant issue was a result of this lower EBITDA level, not


because of the amount of debt that the company had on its balance sheet.


The company is working with the administrative agent for its senior credit facility to secure


amendments to these covenants. The company expects to conduct meetings with the


administrative agents and member institution over the next three weeks. Well, of course, we


cannot provide assurances that we will obtain these amendments; we are hopeful that we will


secure them in the next few weeks. As indicated in our release yesterday, our approximate


revenue for the quarter of 712 million exceeded our prior year of 676 million. About half of the


increase, over the prior year, is due to benefits from currency, the remixing half of the increase is


largely due to pricing actions related to our efforts to recover lead cost.


In terms of the fourth quarter, we experienced a mild January in Europe in regards to weather. This


had a negative impact on results in our European transportation business. However, demand met


our expectations in both February and March. Several unanticipated or unusual items impacted our


preliminary results during the quarter in the range of 15 million to 20 million. Those items include:


inventory write-offs of approximately 4.5 million related to obsolescence adjustments, and physical


inventories, which were results of the year-end process. Of this amount, 2 million was the result of


non-cash obsolescence charges in Europe resulting from ongoing sku reduction efforts and


discontinued product lines. We have initiated more clearly defined procedures to ensure that we


better manage these issues going forward to minimize the financial impact of these ongoing efforts.


We also continue to refine our inventory cycle counting processes and other control enhancements


as a means of earlier identification of its inventory issues.


The company had forecast inventory reductions in the fourth quarter, but clearly not to the levels we


ultimately achieved. In March alone, we reduced consolidated inventories by over 30 million.


Compared with the same quarter last year the reduction was even more pronounced, the result


being a $6 million loss of absorbed overhead costs. That said, we are not satisfied and we are


improving our forecasting capabilities and forward visibility.


We are implementing a more structured forecasting methodology that better connects sales and


production planning cycles, and we expect to have these more robust processes in place within the


next 30 to 45 days. Our goal from these efforts is to drive even greater management


accountability. As many companies have found, we incurred substantially higher Sarbanes-Oxley


costs than anticipated. The increase relates in large part to additional testing and remediation work


principally in our European operations. The variance to the prior year quarter is approximately 5.5


million.


Finally, we have recorded adjustments of approximately $1.5 million to $2 million to reconcile


pricing and commercial items in accordance with contractual provision applying to a large customer


in North America. While, we are disappointed in the weakness in our check and balances in this


instances we believe the controls we have in place are appropriate. We also believe we have


made appropriate personnel changes to assure that our controls function as intended going


forward. With respect to conditions surrounding our operating performance in the quarter we


experienced unfavorable volume and mix from lower demand in certain markets within an impact of


approximately 4 million. Our unrecovered lead cost met expectations at approximately 8 million


versus about $10 million in the third quarter. Our lead recovery was slightly above 70%


companywide.