raw transcript


Exide Technologies
 
XIDE
 
Q1 2006 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 27, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning everyone and welcome to Exide Technologies First Fiscal Quarter 2006


Earnings Conference Call. My name is Carlo and I will be your conference facilitator today. Exide’s


earnings release can be found on the Company’s website at www.exide.com. Following opening


remarks from Exide’s management there will be a brief question and answer session. If you have a


question at that time, please press star one on your touchtone telephone. To remove yourself from


the queue if you question has been answered press star two. If you need operator assistance


please feel free to press star zero on your touchtone telephone. This call is being recorded and is


copyright. Please note that it cannot be recorded, transcribed or rebroadcast by anyone else


without Exide’s permission. Your participation implies consent to our recording of this call. If you do


not agree with these terms, simply drop off the line. I would now like to turn the presentation over to


your host for today’s call Mr. Gordon Ulsh, President and CEO of Exide, please go ahead sir.


Gordon Ulsh, President and CEO


Thank you Carlo. Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today as we discuss our


financial results for the first quarter of fiscal 2006, which ended June 30th. Joining me on the call


this morning are Tim Gargaro, Exide’s Chief Financial Officer, Stuart Kupinsky, our General


Counsel, Ian Harvie, VP and Corporate Controller, Phil Damaska, our VP of Finance and Nick


Guyano, Vice President and Corporate Treasurer. Before we begin let me remind you that certain


statements on this call may constitute forward-looking statements as defined by the Private


Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. As such they involve known and unknown risks,


uncertainties and other factors that may cause the actual or restricted results of the company to be


materially different from any results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.


These factors are enumerated in further detail in the custom and the company’s most recent form


10-K filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission on June 29th 2005 and the company’s


registration statement form S-3 filed with the commission on July 15th 2005.


Much has happened at Exide since our last call with the financial community in May. There is


positive progress to talk about today as we work to strengthen this company. In terms of our


financial performance, our first quarter numbers were within the range we expected and we met the


amended covenants under our loan agreements. In general, three of our four divisions were on


target. The exception being our transportation Europe division. In total though, our progress today,


our performance is still far from satisfactory. For the quarter consolidated net sales grew to 690 or


669.3 million from 612.5 during the same quarter a year ago. Our adjusted EBITDA Tim will discuss


in a few minutes was $19 million. During the first quarter and in the month of July we took a number


of steps to make Exide a stronger and more competitive organization. Although, the benefits of


these changes may not show up on our balance sheet and in our results until later in the year, you


need to know that we are moving aggressively to make this some more efficient and cost effective


company that is better able to respond to the needs and expectations of customers and


shareholders. I told you have made in the primary area of focus for Exide has been the rising


pricing of led, which constitutes about one-third of the companies cost of goods sold.


Today led prices continue to remain high although we have seen some softening in recent weeks.


We are recovering more but not all of the increased cost. We continued to recover approximately


70% during the first quarter so there is still room for improvement despite the significant progress


we have been making. Our main report during the first quarter that began to implement a series of


actions to reduce and better manage the other two- thirds of our cost. Items that are more within


our control where we can and must have an impact, the most visible action was aimed at reducing


cost in our organizations by eliminating positions that we felt that did not add sufficient value to our


goods and services that we just could not afford. This reduction in North America is basically
raw transcript


Exide Technologies
 
XIDE
 
Q1 2006 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 27, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


complete and should cut our expenses by approximately $7.5 million a year, after severance cost


obtained.


Unfortunately this reflects reduction of about a 100 employees; never a cost for celebration but


again this broad action has been implemented in similar actions that are underway directed by Neil


Bright and Rodolphe Reverchon. It’s important to note however that we have taken a major


approach to this reduction the leadership team understands that we cannot separate cut away the


profitability and growth. We must retain king contributors and ensure that we remain strong in the


areas of our business that cuts our customers that I believe we’ve been successful in doing that so


far. As we become a leader organization we are looking for ways to identify day-to-day activities


that do not add value and therefore should be discontinued.


We will be using a reinvigorated excel lean program Six Sigma methodologies and other tools to


eliminate work and that is not what we call mission protocol. I have seen evidence worldwide that


this has had a positive impact, and we’ll continue to implement the philosophy. To help drive these


changes we’re creating the team that shares my commitment to restore in Exide and a strong


brand. Since May, we’ve announced the following and introduce the Exide leadership team


including E.J O'Leary as President of our transportation North America division. Rodolphe


Reverchon as President, transportation Europe and rest of the world. George Jones, as again


Executive Vice President Human Resources and Mark Cummings as Vice President of global


environment and health and safety global environmental and health and safety. These are


experienced leaders and know the business of our company and have worked with many of our


customers in the past. Just as important they share my passion and that of our management team


for rebuilding this company. We have also made one other key addition to our team, on Monday


Rich Cockrell as Exide as a Senior Director of Investor Relations. Two month ago I pledged to you


that we would increase the level of communication to shareholders and make our company’s


performance more transparent to the investment community.


With Rich on our team I believe we have taken a significant step to fulfilling that pledge. This does


not mean you will no longer have access to Exide management, its with Rich on board you will now


hear from us with an additional experienced voice, you will receive quality of informed responses


sooner and hopefully this keeps also Gargaro working on the real fixes within the business. You


can read about Rich’s credential in Monday’s press release if you haven’t seen it all ready, and I


encourage you to contact him here in our Alpharetta corporate office. In addition to strengthening


our leadership, we have also engaged some added resources to help look to a specific near term


needs. For instance we are working with Miller Buckfire and company and that’s only recognized


investment-banking firm to assist management and the Board of Directors and full developing our


strategy and evaluating the action to improve our goals and objectives.


We recently engaged Miller Buckfire and they are already deeply involved. We are studying our


current and alternative strategy for maximizing value for shareholders. Secondly we have hired


[indiscernible] Consulting to lead us in a detailed analysis of our worldwide organization and


business processes, from motor inception to cash application. This review is aimed at identifying


the opportunities to remove more waste for our processes, that frustrate our employees shrink their


bottom-line, consumes valuable resources and inhibits our ability to deliver a world class customer


service. This action puts some experienced operating personnel in place to assist our team in


implementing change faster.


Finally in transportation Europe, we are continuing to improve the robustness of our forecasting and


consolidation processes, and we have secured some outside expertise to work with us on a project


basis. This is a focused effort by Rodolphe Reverchon to strengthen and speed reporting and


analysis in the areas of cost and cash reporting, and we will be tightly coordinated with our


corporate finance organization. With that I will now turn the call over to Tim, who will take you


through the quarters financial results. Tim?