raw transcript


Exide Technologies
 
XIDE
 
Q2 2006 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 9, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning, and welcome to the Exide Technologies' Second Fiscal Quarter 2006


Earnings Conference Call. My name is Renita, and I will be your conference facilitator today.


Exide's earnings release can be found on the Company's website, at "www.exide.com."


Following the opening remarks of Exide's management, there will be a question-and-answer


session. [Operator Instructions]. If you need operator assistance, press "star, zero." This call is


being recorded and is copyrighted. Please note that it cannot be recorded, transcribed or


rebroadcasted by anyone else without Exide's permission. Your participation implies consent to our


recording of this call. If you do not agree with these terms, simply drop off the line.


I would now like to turn the presentation over to Mr. Rich Cockrell, Senior Director of Investor


Relations of Exide. Please go ahead, sir.


Rich Cockrell, Senior Director of Investor Relations


Thank you. And welcome to Exide Technologies' Earnings Conference Call for the second quarter


of 2006 that ended on September 30th 2005. We appreciate your interest and support of Exide


Technologies. Joining me on the call today are: Gordon Ulsh, our President and CEO; Tim


Gargaro, our Chief Financial Officer; Stuart Kupinsky, our General Counsel; Phil Damaska,


Corporate Controller; and Nick Iuanow, our Corporate Treasurer.


Before I turn the call over to Gordon, I need to remind listeners that certain statements, on this call,


may constitute "forward-looking statements" as is defined by the Private Securities Litigation Act of


1995. As such, they involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may


cause the actual or expected results of the Company to be materially different from any results


expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. These factors are enumerated in further


detail in the Company's most recent Form 10-Q to be filed today with the US Securities & Exchange


Commission and the Company's registration statement on Form S-3 – file number 33126619 – and


amendments thereto.


With that, I'll now turn the call over to Gordon.


Gordon A. Ulsh, President & Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Rich, and good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today, as we discuss our


financial results for the second quarter of fiscal 2006.


I'm pleased to report that since our last call in July, we have continued to make measurable


progress towards strengthening our company. In terms of our financial performance, our second


quarter mirrored the first. In that, we again met the covenants under our loan agreements, and


three out of four divisions exceeded their revenue goals.


Restructuring continues to be in our Transportation Europe Division, which operates in a market


with ongoing intense prices competition. But even though we are beginning to see signs of positive


movement, the organization is restructured to strip out layers that are less essential in doing


business or serving our customers.


Admittedly, restructuring Europe is more challenging than it is in United States because of local


labor laws and social policies. Nevertheless, we're seizing every opportunity to reduce our cost
raw transcript


Exide Technologies
 
XIDE
 
Q2 2006 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 9, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


structure in Europe as well as restructuring the division is reinvesting in the sales organization and


the product lines.


For the second quarter, our consolidated net sales grew to 687 million from 638 million in the


second quarter of fiscal 2005. That's a 7.7% increase quarter-over-quarter and is $17 million more


than our sales during the first quarter of fiscal year 2006, despite the fact that some of our OE


operations in Europe our closed during the summer holiday periods.


Our adjusted EBITDA during the second quarter was 24.9 million, which is an increase of 3.4


million, or nearly 16%, over the same period a year ago and is adjusted $6 million, or 31%, more


than our first-quarter adjusted EBITDA. And Tim will discuss this in a few minutes.


Looking at our individual businesses. The stars of this quarter were our Industrial Energy divisions.


Mr. Bregman, Neil Bright, and their teams have given us a good start this year. Global net sales for


Industrial Energy increased nearly 17% during the quarter, faced a significantly higher product


demand in the Network Power segment in North America and the Motive Power segment in Europe


and the rest of the world divisions, as well as improved pricing in all geographies.


In addition to increased sales and improved EBITDA, the Industrial Energy Group scored several


noteworthy business wins. These could total $20 million to $25 million over the next two to three


years. First, we won a contract to supply backup batteries for Saudi Telecom’s long-distance


network.


Second, thanks to Ricard Hult and our team in Nordics, Exide was selected to provide batteries to


help ensure an uninterruptible power supply for a new communication network that will link safety


and security personnel across Sweden. And third, we solidified our position as a leading battery


manufacturer and supplier to militaries of the world.


In August and again this month, we announced new business with the German army, which has


been an Exide customer for more than 20 years. We also became the first manufacturer to qualify


valve-regulated lead-acid technology using our advanced absorbed glass mat technology for main


storage batteries by the US Navy Nuclear Submarine.


As we announced earlier, we also won the first VRLA contract for the US Navy subs. And I am


proud to say that George Hunt and Keith Schmid and the rest of the Network Power team


positioned our quality and our technology as the first to meet the Navy’s stringent demands.


On the transportation side of our business, our two divisions continue to battle the impact of high


commodity costs and extremely competitive pricing environment, while implementing productivity


and cost-reduction measures and developing new products and growing the business.


In North America, those challenges were partially offset by several business wins, including the


extension of our agreement with Tractor Supply as its exclusive supplier of aftermarket batteries. In


addition, Sherrie Bard and the rest of our John Deere team helped Exide to attain partner status as


an original equipment supplier to Deere under its "Achieving Excellence" program.


Lastly, Transportation North America, EJ O’Leary and his team, launched an aggressive program to


increase our recapture rate for spent batteries that we recycle in our US smelters. We do so to


meet that purchase high priced lead on the open market, and we’re seeing success in this area


already.


Finally, in Transportation Europe and the rest of the world, intense competition remains as well as


the import of low-cost batteries. In response, we have analyzed not only our market segments but


our approach to and support of them. We are aggressively revamping the Division’s product line to