corrected transcript


Fleetwood Enterprises
 
FLE
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 3, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31. 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon. My name is Kimberly and I will be your conference facilitator. At this


time I would like to welcome everyone to the Fleetwood Enterprises Third Quarter Fiscal 2005


Financial Results Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background


noise. After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer period. [Operator


Instructions]. Thank you. I would now like to turn the conference over to Kathy Munson, Director of


Investor Relations. Ma'am, you may proceed.


Kathy Munson, Director of Investor Relations


Thank you. Good day and welcome to Fleetwood Enterprises’ conference call for the third quarter


fiscal 2005. I'm Kathy Munson, Director of Investor Relations. First, we hope that all of you have


seen today's news release announcing Fleetwood’s results for its third quarter ended January 23rd,


2005. The company's 10-Q was also filed today. This call is being broadcast live over the Internet


at streetevents.com and fulldisclosure.com and is accessible from our own website, fleetwood.com.


A replay of the call will be available at each site shortly after the end of this call and the call is also


being taped. If you have any questions about accessing any of this information, please call the


PondelWilkinson Investor Relations office in California at 310-279-5980 after the conference call.


Before we start the presentation I must advise you that the statements made by Fleetwood


Enterprises in today's press release and during this conference call that relate to future plans,


events, or performance are forward-looking statements and are being made against the backdrop


of the safe harbor protection. These statements are based on the beliefs of the company's


management as well as assumptions made by and information currently available to the company's


management. Such statements reflect the current views of Fleetwood with respect to future events


and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions including risk factors identified in the


company's 10-K and other SEC filings. Actual results, events, and performance may differ


materially.


Readers and conference call participants are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these


forward-looking statements which speak only as of today's date. The company undertakes no


obligation to release publicly the results of any revision to these forward- looking statements that


may result from changing circumstances or unanticipated events. With that in mind, let's move on to


today's call. Ed Caudill, President and Chief Executive Officer, will give a brief summation of the


quarter and introduce the Executive Vice Presidents of our two primary operating groups to discuss


the quarter’s result. Then Boyd Plowman, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer will


detail our financial results and discuss our outlook; then we will address your questions.


The Fleetwood executives who are available to help answer your questions are Ed, Boyd, Roger


Howsmon, Executive Vice President of our Housing Group, Chris Braun, Executive Vice President


of our RV Group, Lyle Larkin, Vice President and Treasurer and Andy Griffiths, Vice President and


Controller. I'll now turn the call over to Ed Caudill, Fleetwood's President and CEO. Ed?


Edward B. Caudill, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Kathy. Again, welcome to our third quarter earnings conference call. The quarter was


disappointing in a number of ways, especially financially, but also for the break in our near


continuous improvement that we had been experiencing in operations. The execution of our


amended credit facility was a positive development, and we believe underscores the confidence


that our lenders have in our long-term future. We're also having constructive conversations with the
corrected transcript


Fleetwood Enterprises
 
FLE
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 3, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


new leadership and ownership teams at Coleman. We're hopeful that we will come to some


acceptable agreement soon. During the quarter we experienced setbacks in both housing and RVs.


While a number of factors contributed to the downturn we want to make it clear that several are


inherently short-term in nature. This is why I've asked Chris Braun, Executive Vice President of the


RV Group, and Roger Howsmon, Executive Vice President of the Housing Group, to talk this


morning. Chris, why don't you go first, and then we'll hear from Roger. Then we'll turn the call over


to Boyd to provide detailed financial information. After that, we will be happy to take your questions.


Chris.


Christopher Braun, Executive Vice President – RV Group


Thank you, Ed, and good morning. As Ed mentioned this was a disappointing quarter for the RV


Group, and we are working hard to ensure that we get back on track. I'm going to share with you in


greater detail what happened to impact the quarterly results and I'll talk about what we're doing on


a go-forward basis to fix it. A large component of the negative swing in operating income stemmed


from building higher dealer inventories in the first two fiscal quarters, which resulted in lower


wholesale shipments in the third quarter. We also found that motor home dealers were reluctant to


order because retail sales have shown signs of softening, thus motor home dealer inventories year-


over-year and compared to the prior quarter remain consistent even though dealers – dealer


inventories typically start to build during the winter in preparation for the spring selling season.


Another contributing factor to lower sales was our decision to discontinue heavy quarter-end


discounts, particularly on motor homes. Quarter-end discounting had been a practice for the past


several quarters. Without these incentives dealers had no reason to take on additional inventory


since their inventory was already at reasonable levels. Our dealers responded positively to this


change as it allows them to better plan their inventory. This change also benefits Fleetwood as it


allows us to more effectively schedule our production and improve our manufacturing efficiency.


In our towable division sales were down 19% this quarter in spite of new product introductions.


While the new products have been well received, there are still high levels of older products on


dealer lots. In addition, the price point for certain travel trailer products will be reassessed. We are


taking steps to reduce our manufacturing complexity to lower our cost in both material and labor


and in turn offer more competitive pricing. Towable sales were also negatively impacted by the


declining folding trailer market and dealer uncertainty due to the ongoing Coleman litigation. The


combination of all these factors resulted in lower sales for both divisions for a total decrease of


16%. Lower sales combined with higher G&A and increased warranty expense resulted in this


quarter's loss. The increase in our G&A expense of $18 million was primarily caused by the


adverse judgment in the Coleman case, but as Ed mentioned, we are in constructive negotiations


with Coleman.


In addition to G&A, warranty costs increased 3.6 million year-over-year. We have recently


implemented a quality system in all of our manufacturing facilities to ensure that these warranty


issues are addressed before the product leaves the plant. As for finished goods inventory, we


entered the quarter with higher than desired inventory levels and as is generally the case in the


third quarter, finished goods continued to build during the quarter. Motor home and towable


inventory grew to a high of approximately 1,000 motor homes and 3,900 towables in early to mid-


January. Since then, build rates have been adjusted and motor home inventory has been reduced


to approximately 600 units and towables are down to about 2,800 units. We were not able to


significantly reduce build rates in the January quarter because we needed to deliver units that had


been sold at the Louisville trade show.


During the first week of the fourth quarter, the majority of our plants were shut down and as of now,


build rates have been adjusted to meet current market demand. We have many reasons to be


optimistic about the future, both near term and long term. We talked extensively in last quarter's call