raw transcript


Fleetwood Enterprises, Inc.
 
FLE
 
Q4 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 7, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Fleetwood Enterprises Fourth


Quarter and Fiscal Year 2005 Financial Results Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in


a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. Please note this


conference is being recorded. I will now like to turn the call over to Miss Kathy Munson. Ms.


Munson, you may begin.


Kathy Munson, Director of Investor Relations


Thank you. Good day and welcome to Fleetwood Enterprises conference call for the fourth quarter


fiscal 2005. I am Kathy Munson, Director of Investor Relations. First, we hope that all of you have


accessed via the internet or facsimile. Today's news release announcing Fleetwood's results for


fourth-quarter ended April 24, 2005. The Company's 10-K was also filed today. This call is being


broadcast live over the Internet at streetevents.com and earnings.com and is accessible from our


own website, fleetwood.com. A replay of the call will be available at each site shortly after the end


of this call and the call is also being taped. If you have any questions about accessing any of this


information, please call the Pondel Wilkinson Investor Relations office in California at 310-279-5980


after the conference call.


Please be advised that the statements made by Fleetwood Enterprises in today's press release and


during this conference call that relate to future plans, events, or performance are forward-looking


statements and are being made against the backdrop of the Safe Harbor rules. These statements


are based on the beliefs of the Company's management as well as assumptions made by and


information currently available to the Company's management. Such statements reflect the current


views of Fleetwood with respect to future events and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and


assumptions including risk factors identified in the company's 10-K and other SEC filings. Actual


results, events, and performance may differ materially.


Readers and conference call participants are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these


forward-looking statements which speak only as of today's date. The company undertakes no


obligation to release publicly the results of any revision to these forward- looking statements that


may result from changing circumstances or unanticipated events. With that in mind, let's move on to


today's call. Elden Smith, President and Chief Executive Officer will discuss the quarter and fiscal


year's results and tell you on some of the recent corporate developments. Then Boyd Plowman,


Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer will detail our financial results and provide


insight into some of our balance sheet changes. To conclude, Elden will discuss our outlook and


then we will address your questions. The other Fleetwood executives are available to help answer


your question are Chris Braun, Executive Vice President of our RV Group, Charley Lott, Executive


Vice President our Housing Group; Lyle Larkin, Vice President and Treasurer and Andy Griffiths,


Vice President and Controller. I would now turn the call over to Elden Smith, Fleetwood's President


and CEO, Elden.


Elden Smith, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Kathy. Thank you to all of you for joining us today for or four quarter earnings


conference call. Many of you told us you expected the quarter to be ugly and it was. The biggest


part of the fourth quarter loss was from discontinued operation and by far the majority of that loss


was due to asset impairment charges related to pending transactions connected with our retail and


financing operations. Beyond that, however, we experienced operating difficulties in both housing


and RVs, and I want to address those and what we are doing to make lasting improvements.
raw transcript


Fleetwood Enterprises, Inc.
 
FLE
 
Q4 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 7, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


As many of you are aware, I returned to the company in March. I am happy to be here and I


continue to be excited about Fleetwood's future. I am very optimistic about our opportunities to


show meaningful improvement in our results throughout fiscal 2006 and beyond. We are


implementing a lot of change and it is always difficult and usually costly at least in the near term to


execute change. I am pleased to say that I have found Fleetwood's associates to be open and


supportive as we go through this process, and I am encouraged by their eagerness and the ability


that they have shown to ride the ship.


Our fourth quarter had a lot of moving pieces. We are working to simplify the company, but as


might be expected in doing so, our short-term results have been significantly impacted. Our exit


from housing retail and finance businesses was one the primary factors in our poor results. We are


returning to our core competency of manufacturing, which will improve our focus and our financial


results longer term. But meanwhile, the sales transactions themselves and the related charges


require some explanations. We are announcing as this call takes place a definitive agreement with


Clayton Homes to purchase FRC, as well as a letter of intent with Clayton Homes subsidiary, and


have built Mortgage to purchase the retail loan portfolio of HomeOne. We are pleased to have


made this progress towards completing our exit from retail and finance and to further our business


relationship with Clayton. Clayton has been an excellent customer as well as a respected


competitor for many years. We have been working to sell both businesses at nearly the same time,


knowing that the sale of retail was likely to be a cash negative event, but that it should be more


than offset by the sale of our finance company's portfolio. The agreement for the disposition of FRC


is subject to customary conditions, but assuming it goes through as expected, we will sell the


assets of all our company operated stores for $74 million.


We have 22 stores s that are company owned but not company operated as they have been run by


several years by an independent dealer. We will continue to act as landlord for the dealer and will


hold on our balance sheet to assets related to those stores. We recorded asset impairment charges


of $50.8 million in the fourth quarter related to both the assets that are being sold and those that we


are retaining. We expect to incur similar cash charges that could not be recorded in advance but in


a much lesser amount, perhaps $5 million to $7 million throughout fiscal '06, with the majority of


that being recorded when the retail transaction closes. The debt related to the stores that we are


selling, which we will be settling as the transaction closes, totals approximately $80 million. The


primary positives in the transaction are that we will stem the operating losses from the retail


division, and we are selling the stores to a strong retail company that has already proven itself to be


an excellent customer of ours.


The finance company's portfolio is highly liquid, and while we continue to pursue opportunities to


sell the finance company's operating platform, the portfolio sale represents the bulk of the assets.


The proceeds from that sale, offset by the payoff of the related warehouse line will significantly be


cash positive. The asset impairments combined with the quarterly operating loss in discontinued


operations totaled $64.6 million, which accounts for the majority of the quarter's overall loss. There


was another $49.1 million in operating loss from continuing operations. Some unusual costs related


to our management organization are included, but there were larger issues that hurt our results


throughout the second half of the year. External issues impacting our operational results included a


lack of significant recovery from the prolonged slump [ph] in the manufactured housing industry.


Slower folding trailer industry sales, and an untimely softening of the motor home market during the


spring selling season, particularly in the more profitable class A products.


More importantly, a number of internal factors played a large role in the third quarter's performance


and spilled over into our fourth quarter. The most notable of these was the overproduction of


recreational vehicles that took place during our second and third quarters. A more timely and


gradual slowing of production rates would have allowed the Company to reduce cost in a more


orderly fashion and avoid some of the heavy product discounting that ensued in the later part of the