corrected transcript


Fleetwood Enterprises, Inc.
 
FLE
 
Q1 2006 Earnings Call
 
Sep. 8, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning Ladies and Gentlemen and welcome to the Fleetwood Enterprises First


Quarter 2006 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later


we will conduct a question and answer session. Please note that this conference is being recorded.


I will now turn the call over to Ms. Kathy Munson. Ms. Munson you may begin.


Kathy A. Munson, Director of Investor Relations


Thank you, Kristine good day. And welcome to Fleetwood Enterprises conference call in the first


quarter of fiscal 2006. I am Kathy Munson director of investor relations. First we hope that all of you


have access via the internet or facsimile today's news release announcing Fleetwood results for the


first quarter ended July 31, 2005. The Company's 10-Q was also filed today. This call is being


broadcast live over the internet at streetevents.com and earnings.com and is accessible from our


own website fleetwood.com. A replay of the call will be available at each site shortly after the end of


this call. And the call is also being taped. If you have any questions about accessing any of this


information please call PondelWilkinson Investor Relations office in California at 310-279-5980 after


the conference call.


Please be advised that the statements made by Fleetwood Enterprises in today's press release and


during this conference call that relate to future plans, events or performance are forward-looking


statements and are being made against the backdrop of the safe harbor rules. These statements


are based on the beliefs of the company's management as well as assumptions made by and


information currently available to the company's management. Such statements reflect current


views of Fleetwood with respect to future events and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and


assumptions including risk factors identified in the company's 10-k and other SEC filings. Actual


results, events and performance may differ materially.


Readers in conference call participants are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-


looking statements which speak only as of today's date. The company undertakes no obligation to


release publicly the results of any revision to these forward-looking statements that may result from


changing circumstances or unanticipated events. With that in mind, let's move on to today's call.


Elden Smith, President, Chief Executive Officer, will discuss the quarter's results and fill you in on


some of the recent corporate developments. Then Boyd Plowman, Executive Vice President and


Chief Financial Officer will detail our financial results and events. To conclude Elden will discuss


our outlook then we will address your questions. The other Fleetwood executives who are here


today, to help answer your questions are Chris Braun, Executive Vice President of our RV Group,


Charlie Lott, Executive Vice President of our Housing Group, Lyle Larkin, Vice President and


Treasurer and Andy Griffiths, Vice President and Controller. I will now turn the call over to Elden


Smith. Fleetwood's President and CEO. Elden?


Elden L. Smith, President and Chief Executive Officer, Director


Thank you, Kathy. Welcome and thank you to all of you for joining us today. I'm pleased to have


this opportunity to talk about the first quarter and walk you through our results. There was a fair


amount of what we could term is background noise in the results and it is my hope that Boyd and I


can eliminate that and make it clear as to why we consider this a successful transitional quarter. As


I’ve told many of you, my long-term goal for this company is to return Fleetwood to consistent


profitability with margins matching or exceeding those of our competitors. There were a number of


organizational issues that needed to be dealt with before we were in a position to reach that goal.
corrected transcript


Fleetwood Enterprises, Inc.
 
FLE
 
Q1 2006 Earnings Call
 
Sep. 8, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


First, I believe that the move towards centralization at Fleetwood over the past few years was a


significant contributing factor to some of Fleetwood's operational problems. It had been the


company's culture since its inception to operate decentralized profit centers and to require that


decision-making be made at the lowest possible level. This employee empowerment provides for


more timely resolution of operating issues and allows local pace in housing and RV design to be


taken into account and permits a more focused response to dealer, as well as home and RV owner


requirements. While we anticipate tangible long-term benefits from this move toward


decentralization, making such a transition involves restructuring costs. In this quarter alone, as we


pointed out in the release, severance and relocation expenses totaled $4.3 million. I believe that the


majority of these costs are behind us now and we will begin to see the savings in corporate


overhead take effect.


I feel confident about the choices we have made regarding the placement of our people in positions


where they can be most effective. For example, the company had centralized housing service


functions and pushed RV service out to the dealers. We are now returning service responsibility


and the related resources to our manufacturing plants. Of course, while we had many people who


simply are going back to jobs they are used to perform, some will need training. And that is a cost


that is hard to quantify. But on both housing and the RV sides of our business, the lack of regionally


operated service and training centers has been costly. During the last two quarters and since the


beginning of my recent tenure at Fleetwood, we have also had to deal with excess RV inventory


issues. Both our owned finish goods inventory and our dealer inventories were too high due to


overproduction based on overly optimistic vision of calendar 2005 RV sales combined with a lack of


internal discipline. We have been successful in eliminating the excess inventory, but it had negative


financial ramifications as we had to slow production to a point well below retail volume levels.


Consequently, our RV revenues, capacity utilization and efficiencies were lower than they would


otherwise have been in this market environment. In addition, costly discount programs were


required to move aged inventory.


Finally, Fleetwood had moved away from its traditional focus on manufacturing. Our recent sale of


the retail and finance units in our housing group eliminated some longstanding recurring operating


losses as well as a great deal of debt. We believe that the return to our core competency as


manufacturers will strengthen our positions. However, there were charges involving – involved in


divesting the businesses that appeared in both the fourth quarter 2005 and the first quarter 2006. In


the first quarter, they were almost half of the $12.1 million loss from discontinued operations.


Another charge, which Boyd will talk about, is an income tax related charge, which made up more


than half of our loss from continuing operations.


I'm not saying that we would have had a profit without all of those factors. We're not there yet. But


clearly our operating income was significantly impacted by many of these issues, and yet we were


less than $1 million shy of operating profitability. We still have a lot of work to do, particularly in our


travel trailer operations. But we believe that our momentum is gathering and anticipate that our


focus and our core competencies will accelerate that improvement.


Now I'm going to turn it over to Boyd to discuss some of the financials in more detail before I wrap


up the formal presentation. Boyd?


Boyd R. Plowman, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thanks Elden. First let me address the S-3 shelf registration statement that we filed with the SEC


on Tuesday evening, simply because it is so recent. It is a universal shelf registration for the


proposed offering of up to $125 million of various securities including our common stock, preferred


stock and/or debt securities. We would anticipate using the proceeds from any such offerings to


pay down debt, possibly including deferred interest on our convertible trust preferred securities and


for general corporate purposes. We believe that having this type of shelf registration will provide us