raw transcript


Fleetwood Enterprises, Inc.
 
FLE
 
Q3 2006 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 9, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Fleetwood Enterprises


Incorporated Third Quarter Fiscal 2006 Financial Results Conference Call. [Operator Instructions].


I will now turn the call over to Ms. Kathy Munson. Ms. Munson you may began.


Kathy A. Munson, Director of Investor Relations


Thank you, Adam. Good day and welcome to Fleetwood Enterprise’s conference call for the third


quarter of fiscal 2006. I am Kathy Munson, Director of Investor Relations. First, we hope that all of


you have accessed via the Internet or facsimile, today's news release announcing Fleetwood’s


results for its third quarter ended January 29, 2006. The Company's 10-Q was also filed today.


This call is being broadcast live over the Internet at streetevents.com and earnings.com and is


accessible from our own website fleetwood.com. A replay of the call will be available at each site


shortly after the end of this call, and the call is also being taped. If you have any questions about


accessing any of this information, please call the PondelWilkinson Investor Relations office in


California at 310-279-5980 after the conference call.


Please be advised that the statements made by Fleetwood Enterprises in today's press release and


during this conference call that relate to future plans, events or performance are forward-looking


statements and are being made against backdrop of the SEC’s Safe Harbor rules. These


statements are based on the beliefs of the Company's management as well as assumptions made


by and the information currently available to the Company's management. Such statements reflect


the current views of the Fleetwood with respect to future events and are subject to certain risks,


uncertainties, and assumptions, including risk factors identified in the Company's 10-K and other


SEC filings. Actual results, events, and performance may differ materially. Readers and


conference call participants are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking


statements, which speak only as of today's date. The company undertakes no obligation to release


publicly the results of any revisions to these forward-looking statements that might result from


changing circumstances or unanticipated events.


With that, in mind, let's move on to today's call with Elden Smith, President, and Chief Executive


Officer and Boyd Plowman, Executive Vice President, and Chief Financial Officer. The other


Fleetwood executives who are available to answer your questions at the conclusion of the


introductory comments are Chris Braun, Executive Vice President the RV Group; Charlie Lott,


Executive Vice President of the Housing Group; Lyle Larkin, Vice President and Treasurer, and


Andy Griffiths, Vice President and Controller.


I will now turn the call over to Elden Smith. Elden?


Elden L. Smith, President, Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Kathy. It is a pleasure to welcome all of you to our third quarter fiscal 2006 conference


call. I have been back with Fleetwood for a year now. It seems appropriate to provide a progress


report on changes in our company, as well as to give you our third quarter report. A year ago,


looking in from the outside, I felt the company had been pursuing two ill-conceived initiatives both of


which needed to be addressed immediately. The first was the change the company had made in


the organization from a decentralized organization focused on decisions being made close to the


customer to a functional more a centralized organization. And the second was expansion in the


business where we had little or no expertise, businesses that had become costly distractions at a
raw transcript


Fleetwood Enterprises, Inc.
 
FLE
 
Q3 2006 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 9, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


time when the company had to be focused on its core businesses, manufactured homes, and


recreational vehicles.


After returning I felt that among other things there were also personnel and compensation matters


that required immediate attention. So after a year what have we accomplished? We will put the


focus back on products first and foremost. We’ve sold, divested or discontinued costly activities


that were not directly related to manufactured housing or recreational vehicles. Where needed we


have brought in new experience management and refocused associates in other areas. We


changed management incentive compensation converting $20 million from a largely fixed cost to a


variable cost based on business unit operational results focusing management on the importance


of profitability. We have reduced the number of corporate officers from 24 to 11 and pushed


authority and responsibility further down in the organization closer to our customers whatever


possible. We have reorganized operations with three regional divisions in housing and three


distinct operating divisions in the RV group, motor homes, travel trailers and folding trailers. And


we have reduced our employee account by more than 15% or 2100 associates.


As a result in these initiatives a number of people have moved into more precisely defined positions


where we have spent them to develop a greater depth of expertise and to be more responsive to


our Company’s needs and our customers' expectations. For instance, sales people who previously


represented a full range of products might now only have one to three brands to sell. With this


change, they will not only know their Fleetwood product inside and out, but also be experts on our


competitors’ products. They will train dealers on the advantages of Fleetwood’s offering and report


to sales management and product development any advantages that our competitors might have.


As a result, we anticipate we will become more competitive in each of our business units through


better utilization of the ability of our associates. As you might expect, many of these initiatives take


time and are still gaining momentum as many of our people are learning new aspects of their job.


In addition, new products, and new product lines must be developed and the dealers need to


acquainted with our new products and services. Over time these moves will not enable us to


reduce our cost structure, but also enhance our revenues and our market share.


We see many years for cost reductions. Among the most visible our first, our labor cost, which is


suffered in past quarters from inefficiencies due to plan consolidations in complex production runs


particularly in FEMA drivers. This was complicated by an excessive across the board wage rate


increase that was implemented in all plants 15 months ago. Although, it may be difficult to achieve


the consistency of production inefficiencies that we enjoyed in the third quarter during the FEMA


production, those results were a good indication of the potential of this operation for improved


product engineering and sound production planning.


Second our warranty and service cost. These will decline as we reduce the inefficiencies and cost


of centralized service, reduced the complexity of our production runs in travel trailer plants and


implement more quality controlled process in all of our plants. And, third our SG&A expenses,


where we continue to pursue ways to support our operations and our dealers more cost effectively.


Shortly after the close of the third quarter, we announced the reopening of our Edgerton, Ohio,


travel trailer plant. This was one of the moves we’ve made to address the product manufacturing


complexity issues mentioned earlier. When the plant was closed in 2004, the products that were


built there were moved to two near by plant without dropping any product lines or model. This


meant that the surviving plants were expected to build a very diverse complicated mix products. It


could not be done efficiently. As the FEMA units have illustrated so well, consistency in production


creates efficiency in production. The Edgerton plant associates will begin by building a large


number of the remaining FEMA units, which should result in a very efficient start up. The plant will


then transition to producing Prowler, Wilderness and Terry [ph] products and we will move


production responsibility for those products out of the nearby plant.