corrected transcript


Fleetwood Enterprises, Inc.
 
FLE
 
Q2 2006 Earnings Call
 
Dec. 8, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Second Quarter 2006 Fleetwood


Enterprises Incorporated Earnings Conference Call. My name is Angela and I will be your


coordinator for today. [Operator Instructions]. And now I would like turn the presentation over to


your host for today's call, Ms. Kathy Munson. Please proceed, ma’am.


Kathy A. Munson, Director of Investor Relations


Thank you, Angela. Good day and welcome to Fleetwood Enterprise’s conference call for the


second quarter of fiscal 2006. I am Kathy Munson, Director of Investor Relations. First, we hope


that all of you have accessed via the internet or facsimile. Today's news release announcing


Fleetwood’s results for its second quarter ended October 30, 2005. The Company's 10-Q is also


filed today. This call is being broadcast live over the Internet at streetevents.com and earnings.com


and is accessible from our own website fleetwood.com. A replay of the call will be available at each


site shortly after the end of this call. And the call is also being taped. If you have any questions


about accessing any of this information, please call the PondelWilkinson Investor Relations office in


California at 310-279-5980 after the conference call.


Please be advised that the statements made by Fleetwood Enterprises in today's press release and


during this conference call that relate to future plans, events or performance are forward-looking


statements and are being made against backdrop of the safe harbor rules. These statements are


based on the beliefs that the company's management as well as assumptions made by and


information currently available to the company's management. Such statements reflect the current


views of Fleetwood with respect to future events and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties, and


assumptions including risk factors identified in the company's 10-K and other SEC filings. Actual


results, events and performance may differ materially.


Readers and conference call participants are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these


forward-looking statements which speak only as of today's date. The company undertakes no


obligation to release publicly the results of any revisions to these forward-looking statements that


may result from changing circumstances or unanticipated events.


With that, in mind, let's move on to today's call. Elden Smith, President, and Chief Executive


Officer will discuss the quarter and fiscal year’s results and fill you in on some of the recent


corporate developments. Then Boyd Plowman, Executive Vice President, and Chief Financial


Officer will detail our financial results and provide insight into some of our balance sheet changes.


To conclude, Elden will discuss our outlook. Then we will address your questions. The other


Fleetwood executives that are available to help answer your questions are Chris Braun, Executive


Vice President of the RV Group; Charlie Lott, Executive Vice President of our Housing Group; Lyle


Larkin, Vice President and Treasurer and Andy Griffiths, Vice President and Controller.


I will now turn the call over to Elden Smith, Fleetwood's President and CEO. Elden?


Elden L. Smith, President, Chief Executive Officer and Director


Thank you, Kathy. We appreciate all of you joining us today for our second quarter 2006


conference call. We have spent a lot of time talking with the investment community over the last


month or so and it’s been very helpful for me. I have been asked a number of times if our


turnaround is going according to the timetable I had imagined. At this point I would say that


generally it is. However, it is not just exactly as I envisioned it. This particular quarter, we had
corrected transcript


Fleetwood Enterprises, Inc.
 
FLE
 
Q2 2006 Earnings Call
 
Dec. 8, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


anticipated that motor home operations would be more profitable than they were and that travel


trailers would have incurred greater losses. The main reason each performed differently than


expected was the variation in revenue. With motor homes sales off as a result the market that is


softer than expected and travel trailer revenues up reflecting the significant unexpected demand for


trailers to provide emergency shelter. The quarter was notable for evidence of advances toward


our long-term goal. We put a number of very capable people into leadership positions. Our


liquidity improved significantly.


We implemented planning systems and disciplines allowing us to control finished-unit-inventories.


And we completed the disposition of virtually all the assets associated with our discontinued


operations. But perhaps equally as significant, were the large orders for emergency sheltering


units that were placed in late September. The initial orders for 7500 trailers and 3000 homes with


consistent specifications have allowed us to raise production rates in both divisions to very efficient


levels. Production of these units will bolster our performance through an otherwise slow seasonal


period. Shortly after the second quarter ended, we received an additional order for 3100 trailers.


The majority of these units will be produced during our fourth quarter. A more recent highlight was


our announcement shortly after the quarter ended of a successful direct placement of common


shares that enabled us to raise the capital needed to pay off the deferred distributions on our 6%


trust preferred securities, eliminating a cloud that has overshadowed the company and our common


stock for some time.


We spent most of last week in Louisville, Kentucky at the annual National RV Show. This is the


largest wholesale show of the year. We had the opportunity to spend time with many of our dealers


as well as several of you in the investment community. We found that most dealers were optimistic


with regard to the direction that Fleetwood is going. As to the products on display, they seemed


particularly interested in our diesel and gas high-end motor home products, especially the three


diesel brands into which we introduced the Full Wall Slide feature and the new floor plans in our


previously introduced Full Wall Slide Pace Arrow.


On the travel trailer side, the new Nitrous Toy Haulers, our GearBox product line and the new


Ultralight Lynx Dakota and Yukon trailers received the most attention. Although Folding Trailers


didn’t introduce any new product at the show, we did hear positive comments about our focus on


lighter, more innovative units aimed at younger, more active buyers. This show was particularly


important to us as a reality check on the direction we are headed in travel trailers. Feedback from


the dealers reflected their acknowledgement of the improvement in our travel trailer product.


Although we have further progress to make in this area, we are optimistic that the new travel trailer


product introduced at the show, and the more significantly revamped product that we will introduce


in our model year ’07 lineups will be increasingly more competitive. Model year ’07 will be the first


time that our new organization and focus will have an opportunity to influence full product lines.


We have preliminary order backlog numbers post Louisville: from motor homes we now have 1,115


units in our backlog; in travel trailers it’s 9,831, including 5,004 FEMA units; and in folding trailers,


we have 1,569 units. Last year, again a week after the show, we had 1,192 motor homes in the


backlog, 4,178 travel trailers and 2,238 folding trailers. We feel good about our orders from the


show and we are very pleased with the year-over-year comparisons, especially considering the


optimism that was still prevalent among dealers at this time last year and the relative conservatism


with which many industry participants are approaching 2006, particularly in motor homes.


On the housing side of our business, our backlogs are currently at 2,100 units, including about 300


FEMA units compared with 2,000 units at this time last year. We are continuing to see a striking


geographic discrepancy between strong markets and weak ones, although there has been some


shifting as the demand in the Gulf region has increased causing our Texas plants to run at much


higher capacity utilization rates than at this time last year. And there has been some slowing in the


previously most active markets in California and Florida.