Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Kim Rogers-Carreté — Partner, Genesis Select Corp.
Stanton Nelson — CEO, Director & Head-Investor Relations, GrayMark Healthcare, Inc.
Thomas A. Michaud — Chairman, GrayMark Healthcare, Inc.
Mark R. Kidd — Chief Financial Officer & Secretary, GrayMark Healthcare, Inc.
Anderson B. Carothers — Vice President, Bagley Securities

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Graymark Healthcare Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are on a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session with instructions following at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. Now I will turn the conference over to your host, Kim Rogers of Genesis Select Investor Relations for Graymark Healthcare. Please begin.

Thank you, Tyrone. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for participating in today's conference call to discuss Graymark Healthcare's financial results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2013 as well as the announcement made on July 23, 2013 regarding the acquisition of Foundation Surgical Hospital Affiliates, LLC and Foundation Surgery Affiliates, LLC.

Joining us on the call today are Graymark Healthcare's CEO, Mr. Stanton Nelson along with Mr. Tom Michaud, Chairman of Graymark Healthcare as well as Graymark's CFO, Mark Kidd. Following the prepared remarks, we will open the call for questions. Before we begin the conference call today, I would like to take a moment to read the company's Safe Harbor statement.

Statements made during the call today include forward-looking statements that are based on the company's current expectations, forecasts and assumptions. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from the company's expectations, forecasts and assumptions.

These risks and uncertainties include risks that the company's actual results may materially differ from its expected results, that the company is unable to raise additional debt or equity to continue normal operations, that the company is unable to continue as an ongoing concern; risks and uncertainties not in control of the company, which include without limitation the current economic climate and other risks and uncertainties enumerated and described in the company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012 and the other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which are available on the SEC website at www.sec.gov.

And with that, I'd like to hand the call over to Stanton Nelson, Graymark Healthcare's CEO. Stanton?

Thank you, Kim. Good afternoon and thank you for joining. Today, we'll discuss our results for the second quarter as well as the recent merger we completed in late July with Foundation Healthcare. As we announced in our press release on July 23, Graymark recently acquired Foundation Surgery Affiliates, FSA and Foundation Surgical Hospital Affiliates, FSHA.

I am very excited about this acquisition as it brings the necessary revenue and earnings to Graymark to properly scale the company. We are delighted to have the Foundation team, led by the founder Tom Michaud, joining forces with Graymark to build a highly scalable hospital and surgical platform. We look forward to growing the combined business, expanding our geographic footprint and providing excellent patient experiences to all of our customers. Graymark, as a public company, will provide flexibility in building out our services and our presence.

Now let me give you a brief overview of the opportunity we have in front of us. As you may know, healthcare spending continues to outpace GDP. In fact, healthcare spending is growing three times faster than GDP. There are two contributing factors to this: baby boomers started to become of age in 2011 and the life span of people continues to increase as well. Since 70% of all surgeries are performed on people 65 years and older, this plays well into our new business model.

Especially beneficial to Foundation's hospital and surgery centers is the fact that a majority of people who require surgery now prefer to have it performed in a specialized environment similar to our facilities. Tom Michaud founded Foundation Surgery Affiliates in 1996. Today, FSA manages and has equity interest in 11 surgery centers in seven states. FSA is an industry-leading ambulatory surgery center management and development company focused on partnering with physicians and employees to create an outstanding patient experience, while maximizing partner and shareholder value. Foundation is a leader in offering turnkey management and development solutions for physician partners as well as creating an optimal experience for the patients they serve.

Foundation Surgical Hospital Affiliates, LLC, or known as FSHA, was formed in 2009 from the success of the outpatient surgery company. FSHA focuses on the development and management of surgical hospital in the inclusion of ancillary service lines. These additional service lines, such as hyperbaric, sleep labs, imaging and robotic surgery truly make Foundation's specialty hospital environment unique. We believe that partnering with physicians not only is good business sense, but also allows us to bring our management expertise to the partnership, which allows the physicians to concentrate on his patients. Today, there are approximately 250 physician-owned hospitals in the U.S. that potentially could be acquisition targets for Foundation/Graymark.

I'd like to take this opportunity to introduce Tom Michaud, who will outline the strategic advantages to the merger with Graymark. Tom?

Thanks, Stanton. As I've mentioned previously, the Foundation team is very excited to complete this transaction with Graymark. Being part of a public company was an important step for Foundation, as we now have other options to grow our company. There are many acquisition opportunities in the marketplace. And with the public vehicle and the addition of management depth, Foundation/Graymark is poised to act on these opportunities. Back to you, Stanton.

Thank you, Tom. As we integrate our companies, we plan to focus on surgery and ancillary opportunities in our existing markets as well as other markets inside the U.S. These ancillary opportunities will include imaging, oncology, sleep diagnostic, physical therapy and wound care to name a few. Expanding our scope of services in new and existing geographies with these additional specialties will allow us to have a fully-integrated health system, which ultimately will be more convenient to the people we serve, our patients.

I'll now turn the call over to Mark Kidd to walk you through the specifics of the transaction. Mark?

Thanks, Stanton. I'd first like to take a few minutes to discuss the components of the merger. We issued 114.5 million shares of common stock and a $2 million demand note to Foundation Healthcare Affiliates in exchange for 100% of the interest in FSA and FSHA. We also assumed certain liabilities and obligations of FHA related to the ongoing operations of FSA and FSHA.

In addition, on July 22, 2013 as part of the Foundation transaction, we executed an additional note with Mr. Roy Oliver, one of our greater than 10% shareholders, in the amount of $5.6 million. The proceeds from the note were used to pay down our credit facility with Arvest Bank and fully release Mr. Oliver from his guarantee on the Arvest Bank credit facility. Simultaneous with the closing of the Foundation transaction, we converted all of the debt owed to Mr. Oliver, which totaled $8.1 million and approximately 18 million shares of our common stock.

In addition, we purchased a $6 million participation in the Arvest Bank credit facility in exchange for 13.3 million shares of our common stock. The cumulative effect of the Oliver and Arvest transactions reduced our outstanding debt by approximately $14 million. Stanton?

As to the financial results of Foundation that I will share today, I would remind everyone that these results are unaudited and would refer to our Safe Harbor statement. We are required to file audited financial statements by October 7 of this year, 2013, and are working to meet this deadline.

In 2011, Foundation achieved approximately $42 million of revenue and about $7.6 million of operating income. In 2012, revenues increased to $54 million and about $8.5 million of operating income. As we look at the first six months of 2013, Foundation has already generated approximately $40 million of revenue and about $1 million of operating income.

Let me give you some more insight on the latter part of 2012 and the first six months of 2013. In November 2012, Foundation acquired East El Paso Physicians Medical Center and has since changed the name to Foundation Surgical Hospital of El Paso. This was a takeover project, as the hospital was on the verge of failing. Tom Michaud and his team saw an opportunity. Tom was very familiar with the El Paso market, having acquired a surgery center in El Paso back in 1996, which was later sold to Tenet Healthcare in January of 2011.

In early 2012, Foundation agreed to take over management of Foundation Surgical Hospital of El Paso and during 2012 successfully re-syndicated the hospital with 66 physician partners. However, during the turnaround, Foundation funded substantial operating losses, which impacted overall earnings in the latter part of 2012 and to the first six months of 2013. To-date, the project has been a great success and we're happy to report the Foundation hospital in El Paso continues to make huge strides. We now anticipate the facility to contribute to overall earnings sometime in the second half of 2013.

I will now turn the call over to Mark to discuss our financials for the second quarter. Mark?

Thanks, Stanton. Before I review the results for the quarter, I would like to discuss the accounting for the Foundation transaction, which will be accounted for as a reverse merger for accounting purposes. Under the reverse merger accounting rules, Foundation will be treated as the acquirer for accounting purposes and as a result, our historical operating results will become those of Foundation. The results of our legacy Graymark business will only be represented in our results on a prospective basis.

With respect to our historical results for the quarter ended June 30, 2013, net revenues were $2.4 million, a decrease of 43% from $4.3 million in the second quarter of 2012. Our net revenues are composed of both our service revenues, which include sleep diagnostic studies performed and sleep therapy, and products sales, which include the sale of CPAP equipment and the sale of disposable supplies related to the use of CPAP equipment.

Net revenues from our sleep diagnostics business decreased 43% to $1.8 million compared to $3.2 million in the year-ago quarter, which was primarily due to a decline in sleep study volume at our existing locations, as well as the loss of volume from sites that we closed earlier in 2013.

Net revenues from our sleep therapy product sales decreased 45% to $0.6 million compared to $1.1 million in the year ago quarter. The decrease was due to a reduction in CPAP setups and re-supply volumes and patient mix fluctuations that resulted in lower reimbursement levels for both CPAP setups and re-supply shipment.

SG&A expenses for the second quarter of 2013 decreased 32% to $2.6 million compared to $3.8 million in the year ago quarter. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in field operating cost associated with the site closings in early 2013 and a decrease in our central office support resulting from staff and other reductions.

Our bad debt expense for the second quarter of 2013 decreased 67% to $116,000 compared to $355,000 in the year ago quarter. The reduction in bad debt expense is a result of our improved collection and billing processes.

The breakdown of deferred purchase consideration represents deferred purchase price payments for membership interests of Midwest Sleep Specialists. In 2012, we entered into a purchase agreement to acquire 100% of the membership interest of MSS. Under the agreement, the membership interest would not be transferred to us until we made the final payment. We were not obligated to continue to make the monthly payments and in July 2013, we exercised our right to terminate the agreement. And as a result the cumulative semi-monthly payments totaling $300,000, which had been capitalized, included in other assets in our consolidated balance sheet, were charged to operating expense.

Our loss from continuing operations net of taxes in the second quarter of 2013 was $1.8 million compared to a loss of $5.3 million in the year ago quarter. Net loss attributable to Graymark was $1.6 million or $0.09 per share in the second quarter of 2013 compared to a net loss of $5.3 million or $0.34 per share in the year ago quarter.

Moving to the balance sheet, on June 30, 2013, cash and cash equivalents totaled $0.1 million compared to $0.3 million on December 31, 2012. The primary uses of cash flow during the quarter included cash required to fund losses from continuing operations and repayment of debt. As of June 30, 2013 our total debt was $18.7 million compared to $18.6 million at December 31, 2012. The increase in outstanding debt was primarily related to proceeds from notes issued to Mr. Oliver, which were offset by principal payments made on our credit facility with Arvest Bank.

I will now turn the call over to the operator so we can take questions. [Operator Instructions]

We have a question from [ph] Bryan Sadoff of The Jude Group (16:26). The line is open.

Hi. Good afternoon, gentlemen. How are you?

Good. How are you?

I'm good. Thank you. Could you just briefly explain just Tom's role going forward? I realize he's going to be Chairman of the board, but is he also going to be acting in his previous capacity of the Foundation entities?

Tom – Yeah, I'll speak to that, he – and, Tom jump in here when you feel like it. But, yeah he's a vital piece going forward. I can tell you spending the last year with Tom, nobody does – puts deals together, especially with physicians better than he does. And so, he's going to continue. He's really an executive chairman in the sense that he's going to remain very active in continuing to grow our existing hospitals, but also look for new opportunities. But Tom, you want to speak to that?

Sure. When we did this deal, and you might be interested to know that 100% of our senior staff came along with the deal. We lost nobody. I will continue on – basically I'm the Chief Development Officer is what I do. I am involved with Stanton and Bob Byers and [ph] Brad Ott (17:52) was our CFO and Tom Newman as COO involved in the strategic planning on it. But my major role is business development and I plan on staying for as long as Stanton will let me stay around.

Okay. Is there anybody else that has questions? Or can I ask a couple more?

Go ahead.

Can you get more specific as to the numbers that you expect for El Paso in the second half? You said it's going to contribute in second half of 2013, but can you get more specific as to the numbers?

Stanton, are you going to take that? We may have lost Stanton.

You know I can address some of the volumes with you if that would help.

Stanton dropped off the call.

Okay. Is the – the man that asked the question still on the phone?

Yes.

I can answer some of the volume issues and you can kind of take it from there.

Okay.

When we started in January or February of 2012, they were doing about 90, 95 procedures a month and this past month October, excuse me, in July we did 773 surgical procedures. We've been over 700 procedures a month over the last six months. Our collections are running at $4 million a month. When we took over – they were doing about 1,100 imaging studies a month. Now we're doing in excess of 3,000 a month. So as we grew the volumes, the EBITDA and net income will follow, but we were in a big hole. We dug out of it. And the next six months of the year, the last two quarters will produce positive EBITDA and positive net income. The extent of that I'm not sure yet.

All right. Do you guys qualify to grow under the Affordable Care Act?

Actually the way the Affordable Care Act works, everything is based on March 23, 2010. Whatever you had in place there is what you have and what we had at that time was we had a 40 bed – this I'm talking about El Paso and I'm talking about Sherman. But let's just specifically [indiscernible] (20:35)

But what about the – I mean, so the combined entity, that doesn't qualify? I mean, it's what you had as of three years ago then?

As of March 23, 2010, whatever the ownership was at that time, it remains that way. In other words, doctors owned 80% of the El Paso hospital as an example. They can never own more than that. They can own less and then go back up to that number. They can't own any more than 80%. Also we're restricted in that we had 40 beds, six ORs, and three procedure rooms, which is a total of 49 countable entity type things and we can never exceed that number. So if I want to add an OR, I have to decommission one of my medical – med/surg beds, but there is no limit on observation beds. And so we could put a wing on there with 100 observation beds and they don't count against us, and 80% of our cases are observation cases. In other words, they stay less than 23 hours and 59 minutes.

All right. Okay. And do you guys have an idea yet as to specific numbers basically quantifying the initial synergies you guys or savings you guys can expect to benefit as a combined entity from the transaction?

Yeah. I apologize. This is Stanton again. Tom, I got disconnected. Of all things, I was on a landline and still I don't know how that happened, but I apologize. But I'm back now. Let me speak to that. So mainly it's going to be back office. I can't put a hard number on that. But obviously, with – there's synergies included in billing and collecting, in the accounting division. Obviously, the finance piece of that will be centralized into Foundation, so there will be a financial pickup. But as to hold me to a number yet, I just don't want to be quoted on a hard number at this point.

Okay. Okay. Well, that's all I had, and that was plenty I'm sure for everybody. But all right. Well, thank you very much. I appreciate it.

Thank you, [ph] Bryan (22:51).

Good luck going forward. I appreciate it. Take care.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

Next question is from Andy Carothers of Bagley Securities. Your line is open.

Hi, Stanton. How are you?

Good, Andy. How are you doing?

Good. So the $18 million of debt, $18.7 million, has been reduced by $14 million. Is that right?

That's correct. Yeah.

So you have roughly $4.7 million now. And what's the term of that? Is it with Arvest Bank?

It is in – now we're in a position where we'll just refinance that debt or divest some of our existing sleep labs to satisfy that obligation.

Oh, okay. And when will you file your 8-K?

We're required, Andy, to file it by the – the 8-K, as far as this 8-K that – we'll do this by – I think we're required, Mark, to do it by tomorrow, correct?

Are you talking about the 8-K for the transaction or the 8-K...?

For the June 30.

Okay. So we will file our 10-Q for the June 30 numbers tomorrow.

Tomorrow. Okay.

Yes. And then we're required to file by October 7 audited financials.

Audited numbers.

That's correct.

For Foundation.

Okay. And where will the consolidated company be based?

Here in Oklahoma City. That's...

Foundation Health offices?

Yes. And that's one thing and again I apologize, I don't know if this was talked about while I was disconnected. But culture was a big thing for both companies, and putting these two companies together the way that we did both based in Oklahoma City obviously gave us an opportunity to kind of date until – for a long period of time before we actually got married. And that was a good thing, because both companies now know each other very well, and the transition has gone very smoothly as far as the integration process. So we will be based here in Oklahoma City.

So with all these shares that have been issued, total outstanding shares, what's the count on that? 162 million or something?

It's just over 163 million shares.

Okay.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] I'm showing no further questions at this time. I'd like to turn the call over to Mr. Nelson for any closing remarks.

Well, thank you again for joining the call. Look forward to our next call, which will be obviously at the end of the third quarter to talk about Foundation's results as a combined company. That will be the first quarter in which we'll be able to do that. So look forward to having you all back when we're able to speak about third quarter financials. Thank you.

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your participation in today's conference. This concludes the program. You may now disconnect. Have a wonderful day.