Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Stanton Nelson — CEO, Director & Head-Investor Relations, GrayMark Healthcare, Inc.
Mark R. Kidd — Chief Financial Officer & Secretary, GrayMark Healthcare, Inc.
Anderson Brown Carothers — Analyst, Bullish Bob Bagley Secrities, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for participating in today's conference call to discuss Graymark Healthcare's Financial Results for the Third Quarter Ended September 30, 2013. This marks the first quarter of results since the acquisition of Foundation Surgical Hospital Affiliates, FSHA, and Foundation Surgical (sic) [Surgery] (00:27) Affiliates, FSA.

Joining us on the call today are Graymark Healthcare's CEO, Mr. Stanton Nelson; along with Tom Michaud, Chairman of Graymark's Healthcare; as well as Graymark's CFO, Mark Kidd. Following the prepared remarks, we will open the call for question. Before we begin the conference today, I would like to take a moment to read the company's Safe Harbor statement.

Statements made during the call today including forward-looking statements that are based on the company's current expectations, forecasts and assumptions. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from the company's expectations, forecasts and assumptions.

These risks and uncertainties include risks that the company's actual results materially differ from its expected results, the company is unable to raise additional debt or equity to continue normal operations, that the company is unable to continue as an ongoing concern; risks and uncertainties not in control of the company, including without limitation the current economic climate and other risks and uncertainties enumerated and described in the company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2012, the other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which filings are available on the SEC website at www.sec.gov.

And with that, I would like to turn the call over to Stanton Nelson, Graymark Healthcare CEO. Please proceed.

Thank you, operator, and good afternoon, and thank you for joining. Today, we will discuss our results for the third quarter 2013. This marks the first full quarter since our acquisition of Foundation Healthcare.

Before we get into the details of the quarter, there are a few key items that the company accomplished in the third quarter. Total revenues for the third quarter were $25 million, and adjusted EBITDA was approximately $2.8 million.

In addition, we closed or sold many of our unprofitable sleep location. We now expect the ongoing legacy sleep business to be accretive to the combined company during the fourth quarter.

Let me spend a few minutes discussing the business model. Our model is straightforward and allows us to continue to expand in markets we currently serve. Typically, we will own at least 51% of each hospital, and the balance of the ownership goes to our physician partners. Under the Foundation ecosystem, everyone benefits: the patient, the insurance payer and the physician.

As a patient, you enjoy an outstanding nursing staff, convenience of our locations, predictable scheduling and a hotel-like environment that truly gives our patients the best possible experience. From the insurance payers' perspective, we are the most cost-efficient option. More importantly, our hospitals have little or no infection rates and very, very low readmissions.

As to the physician who performs surgeries at one of our hospitals, we can nearly guarantee increased production through predictable scheduling and very low staff turnover. The macro healthcare environment supports our business model as well. As healthcare spending continues to outpace GDP by nearly 3 times and baby boomers reaching the age of 65, we believe our model is one that is poised for growth over the next 15 to 20 years.

As we continue to move forward and look towards 2014, we plan to focus on surgery and ancillary opportunities in existing markets, as well as other markets inside the U.S. In addition to identifying other outpatient surgery centers in our hospital markets, there are many ancillary opportunities, which could include imaging, oncology, sleep diagnostic, physical therapy, and wound care, expanding our scope of services in new and existing geographies with these additional specialties will allow us to have a fully integrated health system which ultimately will become more convenient to the people we serve, our patients.

Let me spend a few minutes discussing the financial audits of the Foundation we recently filed in November 13, 2013. The 8-K that was filed about a week ago related to the financial results of Foundation for the years 2011, 2012 and year-to-date results through June 30, 2013. In 2011, Foundation achieved approximately $41 million of revenue and about $7.4 million of EBITDA. In 2012, revenues increased to $53 million and $7.6 million of EBITDA.

As we look at the first six months of 2013, Foundation had already generated approximately $42 million of revenue and about $3.1 million of EBITDA. The first six months of 2013 were not indicative of the company's current run rate, and we believe the third quarter results better reflect the company's current run rate.

As I've previously mentioned, Foundation acquired El Paso Physicians Medical Center about a year ago. When it was acquired, there were significant operating losses, and it was a need of a complete re-syndication of physicians. Now, with 66 physician partners, a new CEO Kane Dawson and a dedicated loyal hospital staff, the future is bright in El Paso.

I will now turn the call over to Mark Kidd to discuss our financials for the third quarter. Mark?

Thank you, Stanton, and good afternoon, everyone. For the quarter ended September 30, 2013, net revenues were $25 million, an increase of 103% from $12.3 million in the third quarter of 2012. Our net revenues are composed primarily of our patient services revenue at our hospitals in San Antonio and El Paso, management fees from ASCs and hospitals that we manage and our equity and the earnings of affiliated ASCs and hospitals.

Revenues from our patient services increased 148% to $21.7 million compared to $8.7 million in the year ago quarter, which was primarily due to $11.5 million of patient services revenue at our hospital in El Paso and an increase in average reimbursement rates at our hospital in San Antonio.

Operating expenses for the third quarter of 2013 increased 320% to $44.4 million compared to $10.6 million in the year ago quarter. The increase was primarily due to the onetime impairment charge of $20.8 million related to the goodwill attributable to the reverse acquisition accounting for the Foundation acquisition. In addition, operating expenses at our hospital in El Paso were $12 million.

In August 2013, we closed a real estate transaction related to our hospital in El Paso. As part of the transaction, certain debt and other obligations of the El Paso Hospital were forgiven. In addition, we received certain medical equipment and a tract of raw land that is adjacent to the hospital. As a result of this transaction, we recorded an extraordinary gain, net of tax, of approximately $7 million.

Our loss from continuing operations net of taxes in the third quarter of 2013 was $14.1 million compared to income from continuing operations of $1.5 million in the year ago quarter. Net loss attributable to Graymark was $16.5 million or $0.10 per share in the third quarter of 2013, compared to net income of $1.2 million or $0.01 per share in the year ago quarter.

Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations in the third quarter of 2013 was $2.8 million compared to $2.4 million in the year-ago quarter.

Moving to the balance sheet, on September 30, 2013, cash and cash equivalents totaled $8.3 million compared to $2.5 million on December 31, 2012. As of September 30, 2013, our total debt was $26.6 million compared to $19.5 million at December 31, 2012. The increase in outstanding debt is primarily due to the debt attributable to legacy Graymark offset by payments on debt during the quarter.

The primary sources of operating cash flow during the quarter included the net loss from continuing operations adjusted for non-cash items such as the goodwill impairment and depreciation and amortization, as well as increases and accrued and other liabilities.

During the third quarter of 2013, we raised $7.9 million from an offering of preferred non-controlling interest. We used the proceeds of the offering along with debt proceeds of $5.1 million to repurchase preferred non-controlling interest at FSA and FSHA of approximately $13.5 million.

I will now turn the call back over to Stanton who will make some final remarks before we take questions. Stanton?

Thank you, Mark. Operator, we're ready to take our questions in – questions from the group. [Operator Instructions]

Our first question comes from Andy Carothers with Bagley Securities. Please proceed.

Well, hello, Stanton.

Andy, how are you?

Good. Well, could you tell me what the line item is of other revenues? I guess it was $2.8 million in the six months and $1 million – a little over $1 million in the third quarter.

Yes, that is – so, you have, basically, our patient services management fees from our affiliates and then income from our affiliates which are basically our distributions from our surgery centers that we have a minority interest from.

And it looks like you have about [ph] $15.5 million (12:23) in short-term debt. Can you tell me what you plan to do on getting that extended?

Well, we're currently working with – that's one of the top priorities, obviously, as we move into 2014 is replacing not only our – some of our current debt but also our long-term debt into a different facility. And given our run rate in terms of EBITDA, compared to our leverage, we certainly believe that that's going to be achievable sometime in the first part of 2014.

Can you give me some idea of the improvement that's taking place in El Paso? On the last call, you talked about a number of procedures and what increase El Paso was generating.

Yeah, Andy, there's a couple of things. And obviously, from the last call, I expressed, when we took it over, it was losing about $800,000 a month and had negative EBITDA of about $800,000 a month. And Tom, our Chairman, has put a tremendous amount of work into developing relationships by bringing new physicians in and increase really our case load from doing about 100 procedures to nearly 700 in the summer months.

So, now it's about – it's all about rightsizing our labor as well as negotiating better rates for medical supplies. And that's currently taking place, as I mentioned on the previous call. We expect the hospital to produce accretive results in the fourth quarter to increase our EBITDA for the fourth quarter.

Okay. So, it still got a negative EBITDA right now?

It's about a breakeven right now.

Okay. And in negotiating new lines, are you going to be able to have some additional capital to make these other acquisitions you were talking about in the areas – in your existing – where you have existing hospitals?

Yeah. I think having some leverage opportunities on the debt side and through some other opportunities that we have, we'll continue to look for the opportunities like I mentioned, whether that be oncology or imaging in specific markets like San Antonio or El Paso. And given what we believe we can pick those acquisitions up for, I don't believe it's – there's a desire to go out and raise capital especially at these prices.

And how many sleep centers are you left with?

We have about – so, all of our sleep centers now are through hospital contracts. So, we don't have any freestanding sleep labs. And we currently have about 57 of those throughout the Midwest. So, we've gone from about 105 down to about 57. And as I mentioned, the great thing about this is even though we shrunk our portfolio here, we expect that the fourth quarter results will be accretive on the sleep business.

Okay. Okay. Great. Well, good job. I'm glad you got it finally – got everything pulled together. It's been a long road.

It has. I appreciate you hanging with us, Andy.

All right. Thanks. [Operator Instructions]

At this time, we have no further questions. I would now like to turn the call back over to management. Please proceed.

Thank you, operator, and thank you to everyone for taking the time today to listen to our results. As management, we look forward to our next call to discuss not only our fourth quarter results but our full year-end sometime in 2014 or earlier part of 2014. So, I really appreciate you taking time today. And, operator, that will end our call.

This concludes today's conference. You may now disconnect. Have a great day.