Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Kim Rogers-Carreté — Partner, Genesis Select Corp.
Stanton Nelson — CEO, Director & Head-Investor Relations, GrayMark Healthcare, Inc.
Daryl Royer — Chief Operating Officer, GrayMark Healthcare, Inc.
Mark R. Kidd — Chief Financial Officer & Secretary, GrayMark Healthcare, Inc.
Anderson B. Carothers — Vice President, Bagley Securities

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to your Graymark Healthcare, Incorporated's Q3 2012 Earnings Conference Call. At this time all participants will be in a listen-only mode, but later we will conduct a question-and-answer session which instructions will be given at that time. [Operator Instructions] And as a reminder today's conference is being recorded.

And now, I would like to introduce your first host for today, Kim Rogers.

Good afternoon everyone and thank you for participating in today's conference call to discuss Graymark Healthcare's financial results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2012 as well as the announcement made this morning regarding the investment in Graymark by a third party. I am Kim Rogers; I am with Genesis Select, the IR firm for Graymark Healthcare.

We'd like to apologize if you have not been able view this afternoon's press release with the third quarter financial results due to some formatting issues with GlobeNewswire, there was a delay in getting the press release to the wire, but it should be hitting the Newswire shortly, should be able to view that during the call. Again, we do apologize for that delay.

Joining us on the call today are Graymark Healthcare's CEO, Mr. Stanton Nelson, along with Daryl Royer, the COO of SDC, our principal operating subsidiary, as well as Graymark's CFO, Mark Kidd. Following the prepared remarks we'll open the call for questions.

Before we begin the conference today I'd like to take a moment to read the company's Safe Harbor statement. Statements made during the call today include forward-looking statements that are based on the company's current expectations, forecasts and assumptions. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from the company's expectations, forecasts and assumptions.

These risks and uncertainties include risks that the company's actual results materially differ from its expected results, that the company is unable to raise additional debt or equity to continue normal operation, that the company is unable to continue as an ongoing concern, that the company is – pardon me that the announced investment by OHP is not completed in a timely manner or at all, that the company is unable to complete a transaction with foundation in any manner, risks and uncertainties not in control of the company including without limitation, the current economic climate and other risks and uncertainties and other risks and uncertainties enumerated and described in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, the other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission which filings are available on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov.

Unless otherwise required by law the company, disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. I would like to remind everyone that the webcast of this call will be available for replay via the Investor Relations section of Graymark's website at www.graymarkhealthcare.com.

Now I'd like to turn the call over to the company's CEO, Mr. Stanton Nelson. Stanton?

Thank you, Kim and thank you for joining us today to discuss our third quarter 2012 results. Before I discuss the third quarter results, I would like to update you on some company news.

Earlier today, we announced an equity investment from Oklahoma Health Partners, OHP, into Graymark Healthcare and also stated that our company has embarked on cost cutting measures that will save the company $2 million in 2013.

The funds from the investment will be used for general purposes and ongoing operations. As Daryl will discuss later, our focus currently is to right size the company and to become EBITDA positive in 2013. Recently we embarked on a number of initiatives to move our company towards this goal.

As I've mentioned on our last call, we instituted a cost cutting plan to save the company about $1.2 million in 2012 that was fully in place as of October 1. As we look towards 2013 our management team and Board felt it was necessary to reduce costs further in order to achieve our goal to become an EBITDA positive.

As you may have read in the press release this morning announcing the investment by OHP we are implementing a new cost reduction plan that will save our company an additional $2 million during 2013 by further reducing labor costs, corporate expenses and bad debt. Lastly I wanted to address the status of Foundation Transaction.

We did not meet the necessary deadline to close the transaction by October 31, 2012. As stated in the 8-K released on November 2 we were unable to obtain the necessary third-party consents to consummate the transaction. As a result, we are unable to meet all the conditions in our plan of NASDAQ compliance and on November 6 we were de-listed from NASDAQ.

Following the de-listing our securities now trade on the OTCQB market under the same symbol GRMH. We intend to continue to file periodic reports with the SEC pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 as amended. While we still have ongoing discussions with Foundation there are no guarantees the transaction will be completed. I continue to believe a merger of the two companies would be very beneficial for both parties.

However, our team remains focused on achieving profitability as a standalone company as soon as possible. I would now like to turn the call over to Daryl to discuss third quarter results and expand on the savings initiatives, I mentioned earlier.

Daryl?

Thanks you, Stan and good afternoon everyone. Since becoming the Chief Operating Officer of SDC in July, one of the first items I needed to address would be streamlining costs to improve efficiencies and enhance processes. In the third quarter, we executed several initiatives towards these goals. Our first was a process change in our sleep study scoring process saving the company in average $25,000 per month. This change took place in September with realization of these savings in October.

In our Durable Medical Equipment division or DME, we made significant strides in improving verification of benefits and pre-authorizations having an impact on our bad debt expense by reducing denied claims.

Also on our DME Division, we have centralized portion of our resupply program with October results showing an almost 8% growth in volume over our year-to-date run rate. We are continuing initiatives in Q4 with additional reductions in SG&A costs by looking at processes and the capacities in all areas of the business.

With the combined co-operation of all departments, we will make reductions in force in the beginning of November, which will total approximately $80,000 in additional monthly SG&A savings. We are also aggressively working on reductions in bad debt including more aggressive upfront collection programs to bring a significantly higher percentage of our patient co-pays and deductibles in the door before we perform services and utilizing extended back office opportunities to expand our collection capacity, again working to reduce our outstanding aging AR.

As part of a right-sizing initiative, we're also reviewing all non-profitable locations with the potential to close locations that are drawing on cash today, allowing us to put greater focus on profitable locations. We are combining all of these initiatives with improved accountabilities in all areas of spending, including everything from clinical supplies used in our labs to office supplies and travel expenses.

Addressing some specific details of the third quarter, we continued our efforts to drive business to existing labs. Sleep study volume was up 2% in Q3 over Q2, even though we continue to look for ways to ramp up our newer operations. Even though our DME volume in Q3 was down somewhat over Q2, we are able to minimize the impact to revenue. We achieved this by making significant strides in clearing our health claims, reducing the total number of health claims by 56%.

With our billing and DME teams working closely together, we improved our processes, allowing us to immediately identify claims needing additional billing, documentation and support, reducing the overall time to get our claims processed to our payers.

Our revenue from resupply shipments continued to perform well throughout the quarter. Although our third quarter results were below our expectations, given the changes I've outlined above, we should better the results in the fourth quarter. My senior staff and I are currently preparing our budget for 2013 and understand the diligence required to right-size our organization. My team and I are committed to this goal and look forward to making our road to profitability a success.

I will now turn the call over to Mark Kidd to discuss financial results.

Thank you, Daryl, and good afternoon everyone. For the quarter ended September 30, 2012 net revenues were $4.3 million, a decrease of 4% from $4.5 million in the third quarter of 2011. Our net revenues are comprised of both our services revenues, which include sleep diagnostic studies performed, and sleep therapy and product sales, which include the sale of CPAP equipment and the sale of disposable supplies related to the use of CPAP equipment.

Net revenues from our Sleep Diagnostics business decreased 4% to $3.2 million compared to $3.3 million in the year-ago quarter, which was primarily due to the continued shift of patients to hospital outreach facilities, which have lower average revenue per sleep study, but higher net earnings due to lower facility and other fixed overhead costs.

During the third quarter of 2012, we continued to focus on increasing patient sleep study volumes by increasing both referral levels and conversion rates, maximizing the use of available capacity and compressing the elapsed time from when a referral is received and when we render the service.

As a result, sleep study volume increased 2% to 4247 studies from 4185 in the second quarter of this year. Sleep study volume was flat year-over-year, with 4247 studies in the third quarter of 2012 compared to 4245 studies in the third quarter of 2011. Net revenues from our sleep therapy product sales decreased 6% to $1.1 million compared to $1.2 million in the year-ago quarter. The decrease was due to a reduction in CPAP set-ups and patient mix fluctuations that resulted in lower reimbursement levels for both CPAP set-ups and re-supply shipments.

In addition to our customary quarterly shipments during the third quarter of 2011, we initiated monthly shipments, where permitted by payers, resulting in lower average revenues per shipment, as monthly shipments are significantly smaller in dollar amount. However re-supply volume increased 11% to 3443 packages shipped compared to 3110 packages shipped in the year-ago quarter.

SG&A expenses for the third quarter of 2012 increased 6% to $3.5 million compared to $3.3 million in the year-ago quarter. The increase was primarily due to increased legal and professional fees and other expenses related to the Foundation Transaction of $0.3 million.

Our bad debt expense for the third quarter of 2012 decreased 4% to $372,000 compared to $387,000 in the year-ago quarter. Bad debt expense as a percent of net revenues continues to be a focus point and, as Daryl stated, we are implementing improvements in our collection processes that we expect will significantly reduce our bad debt expense in 2013.

Our loss from continuing operations net of taxes in the third quarter of 2012 was $2.0 million compared to a loss of $1.6 million in the year-ago quarter. Net loss attributable to Graymark was $2.2 million, or $0.15 per share, in the third quarter of 2012 compared to a net loss of $1.6 million, or $0.10 per share, in the year-ago quarter. EBITDA from continuing operations in the third quarter of 2012 was a loss of $1.4 million compared to a loss of $1.0 million in the year-ago quarter.

Moving to the balance sheet, on September 30, 2012 cash and cash equivalents totaled $0.1 million compared to $4.9 million on December 31, 2011. The primary usages of cash flow during the quarter included cash required to fund losses from continuing operations, increases in accounts receivable and repayment of debt. As of September 30, 2012 our total debt was $18.6 million compared to $19.3 million at December 31, 2011.

The reduction in outstanding debt is primarily due to principal payments made relating to our main credit facility with Arvest Bank. On October 30, 2012 Eide Bailly LLP, our independent accountant, informed us that effective on the earlier of November 19, 2012 or the date on which we file our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2012, Eide Bailly is resigning as the independent registered public accounting firm of the company. Eide Bailly communicated to the company that their decision to resign is a reflection of their evaluation of available resources to continue to serve as the company's auditor in the current and future direction of its SEC and PCAOB practice.

Our audit committee is in the process of engaging a new independent registered public accounting firm for the year ending December 31, 2012.

I will now turn the call back over to Stanton.

Thank you, Mark. And now I'd like to turn the call back to the operator for questions from the group.

Okay. [Operator Instructions] And we'll take our question from Andy Carothers from Bagley Securities. So, please go ahead Andy.

Can you tell us what were some of the problems with not being able to close the Foundation Health deal?

Yes. Hi, Andy. Yes, as I mentioned earlier in my statements, we did not receive the necessary consents to consummate – the third-party consents to consummate the transaction. Andy, I'll tell you that both parties continue to discuss options, but as I also mentioned in my statements, there are no guarantees the transaction will close. But we continue to work closely with Foundation looking for options to do so.

So both of the boards agreed to the transaction, but it was some of the lenders and – that were – couldn't get to go along with it?

No. There were numerous third-party consents that were required. I can't speak for their board, but obviously our board did approve the transaction. But it was more related to third-party consents than getting their consents to approve the transaction.

And with the current financing that you did, with the negative EBITDA that you're running, how far do you think that will enable you to get down the road?

Yes. And I'll let Mark take the question in terms of cash. Mark, do you want to take that?

Sure. Thanks, Stanton. After the receipt of the $650,000 that Stanton discussed, we estimate that we have enough cash to operate into the first quarter of 2013. During that time, we will be constantly evaluating our cash needs, including analyzing the benefits from the cost savings that Stanton and Daryl discussed in their comments. During that time, we may or may not need to raise additional cash in 2013.

Okay.

Okay, thank you. [Operator Instructions] And at the moment I'm showing no further questions.

Okay. Well, thank you for joining us today and we look forward to having you on our fourth quarter call in early 2013. We appreciate all the support our investors have shown through the challenges we have faced lately, but are dedicated to right-sizing our company and delivering much better results in the future. Thank you again for your time.

Okay, ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude your conference. You may now disconnect and have a great day.

Thank you.