raw transcript


Fraser Papers, Inc.
 
FPS.CA
 
Q1 2007 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 26, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Welcome to the Fraser Papers First Quarter Conference Call and webcast. [Operator


Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded Thursday April 26, 2007. I would now like to


turn the conference over to Peter Gordon, President and Chief Executive Officer. Please go ahead


sir.


Peter Gordon, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you operator. Good morning and thank you for joining our call. With me this morning are


Glen McMillan, our Chief Financial Officer, Bill Manzer, our Senior Vice President of Operations


and Brian McAlary, Vice President, Sales and Marketing. Before we start the call, I should remind


you that in responding to questions and talking about our financial and operating performance we


may make forward-looking statements, these statements are subject to known and unknown risks


and future results may differ materially.


For further information on known and risk factors, you should review our annual information form,


our annual report and our annual MD&A for the year ended December 31st 2006. All of this


information is available on our website or on Sedar. Yesterday we released our first quarter results


and held our annual meeting. As many of you will have received the press release and reviewed it


and other materials, we will provide you with some highlights and go over some details on our key


business initiatives and then conclude with our outlook for the second quarter and then we will open


it up for questions.


During the quarter we continued to make gains in our pulp and paper operations and generated


$4.2 million of EBITDA for the quarter, this was offset by continuing losses of $6.8 million in a very


difficult market for our lumber operations. Combined, this resulted in an EBITDA loss of $2.6 million


for the first quarter of the year. This was comparable to results in the fourth quarter if we exclude


non-operating items from Q4. These non-operating items included the benefit of duty refunds and


costs associated with maintenance downtime.


The net loss for the first quarter was $10.1 million at $0.34 per share on sales of $174 million. If we


exclude the impact of the one-time charges related to asset repositioning initiatives and other


financing transactions from Q1 last year, we would have recorded a loss of $4.1 million or $0.14 per


share. The weaker results this year are due to lower earnings from our sawmills.


Our paper operations recorded sales of $142 million on 149,000 tons of paper compared with $158


million on shipments of 172,000 tons last quarter. Sales volumes declined by 23,000 tons over last


period primarily due to timing of financial – of the financial printing season this year and continued


efforts to exit less profitable commodity freesheet grades. This focus to exit on profitable grades


and our previously discussed price increase did have a positive impact on our weighted average


revenue realized which increased $35 per ton over the pervious quarter to $938 per ton. EBITDA


from our paper business was $2.6 million or $17 a ton an improvement over the $12 per ton


reported last quarter. Increases in our uncoated freesheet prices and a weaker Canadian dollar


partially offset higher fiber cost and lower coated groundwood pricing and this helped to generate


improved results in the quarter. Average cost per paper were 2% higher than in the fourth quarter at


906 per ton, which stems primarily from higher fiber costs in the quarter. Results from our Thurso


pulp mill have much improved over last quarter as our operating team did a good job and recovered


well from a very difficult period.


Higher pulp prices help to generate EBITDA of $1.6 million in the quarter, an improvement of $8.4


million from the fourth quarter and this when it – we have included a pulp hedge loss of $1.1 million


and the impact of $7.2 million from their annual maintenance shut. Thurso shipped 55,000 metric


tons of pulp with a cash cost of $496 per metric ton.
raw transcript


Fraser Papers, Inc.
 
FPS.CA
 
Q1 2007 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 26, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Benchmark pricing for hardwood pulp moved up $5 per ton during the quarter and is currently listed


at $690 per ton. More importantly, our realized prices increased by $14 per ton as compared to Q4.


Market conditions for our domestic lumber business continued to be poor with housing starts


annualized at about two-thirds of what we saw in 2005. Resulting depressed lumber prices were


consistent with the previous quarter but much lower than the first quarter of 2006.


Our four lumber mills sell product into the New England market against the Boston benchmark and


this reference price fell from $400 per 1000 board feet in Q1 2006 to an average of $329 this past


quarter. After considering our wood chip requirements we took two weeks downtime at each of our


two Canadian mills and three weeks at one of our U.S mills and one week at the other.


EBITDA losses at the sawmills during the quarter were $6.8 million on shipments of 71 million


board feet as compared with $6.2 million in the fourth quarter after backing out $11 million in


refunded antidumping duties. Chip supplies in New Brunswick continued to be very tight and as


such we need to run our saw mills in order to assure a secure supply of chips for our pulp mill in


Edmundston, New Brunswick. Our results in the quarter have shown some positive signs from our


initiatives to-date, but they are still not where we want them to be. As you know, over two-thirds of


our paper production comes out of our East Papers operation. So let me expand on what is


underway at this operation in particular. Improved price mix and higher prices led to average


realized price improvements of $50 per ton at the operation. Despite the drag from pricing in the –


sorry in the quoted groundwood markets.


We captured additional market share in the packaging segments and this should bear fruit over the


balance of the year. Our financial print business, while slower than we expected to start this year


was extremely active by quarter-end and continues strong into this quarter. Productivity increased


40 tons per day or 3% in the quarter over Q4 as we improved overall efficiencies on six of eight


paper machines.


Our focus on maintenance planning and execution improved uptime or reliability on our paper


machines to 89% during the quarter up from 88% in Q4. Just a brief comment on Katahdin prior to


the annual shareholders meeting yesterday, we did withdraw our proposal to acquire Katahdin and


announced our intention to make an offer to all holders of our 8.75% senior notes. We intend to


make an offer to repurchase the remaining $84 million of the notes outstanding including the $16


million that we currently hold at a price of 100% of the principal amount plus accrued interest to the


settlement date.


Following a similar process for last year, written notices will be mailed on or before May 31st to


each holder. The settlement date for the repurchase will be between 30 and 60 days after notices


are mailed. While we have noted the decline in demand for printing and writing during the first


quarter, these commodity grades represent a smaller portion of our business than before.


We have reduced our shipments of commodity freesheet by 25% since the first quarter of last year


and not withstanding our lower first quarter of shipments. All of the paper we made during the


quarter was produced based on orders from customers. And we currently have a strong order book


for all products except coated groundwood.


Earlier in the year, we took one week of market downtime on one machine in Gorham, New


Hampshire that produces trade book. The trade book segment also rebounded in the second


quarter. World pulp markets are healthy and prices appear tight. We are cautiously optimistic about


hardwood craft pricing as additional hardwood capacity that has been forecast to ramp up over the


year has not yet had an impact.


Our core markets in the North-East U.S remain very firm. Lumber markets are expected to remain


soft. Accordingly, our lumber activity will continue to be focused on ensuring us supply of chips to