corrected transcript


Fraser Papers, Inc.
 
FPS.CA
 
Q2 2008 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 1, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to Fraser Papers, Inc. 2008 Second


Quarter Results Conference Call. I’d now like to turn the meeting over to Mr. Peter Gordon,


President and CEO of Fraser Papers, Inc. Please go ahead, Mr. Gordon.


Peter Gordon, President and Chief Executive Officer


Good morning and thank you for joining our call. With me this morning is Glen McMillan, our Chief


Financial Officer.


And before we start the call, I should remind you that in responding to questions and talking about


our financial and operating performance, we may make forward-looking statements. These


statements are subject to known and unknown risks, and future results may differ materially. For


further information on known risk factors, I direct you to our AIF, our Annual Report, and our MD&A,


all of which are available on our website or on SEDAR.


Yesterday, we released our second quarter results. As many of you will have reviewed the press


release and related materials, we will provide you with some highlights, go over some details on our


key business initiatives, and conclude with our outlook for the second half of the year. Then, I’ll


open it up for questions.


Our results in 2008 reflect some of the progress we’ve made in repositioning our operations. During


the first six months of 2008, we have demonstrated increased throughput at our pulp and paper


operations, improved operating efficiencies, reduced fixed costs, lowered consumption of high cost


oil, and achieved a richer product mix.


The impact of these achievements has only partially offset, however, the significant cost inflation


we’ve incurred. In addition, we face weak lumber markets experienced by most Canadian forest


products companies.


The net loss for the quarter was $15.6 million, or $0.31 per share, from sales of $180.3 million. This


was an improvement of $22 million compared to the second quarter of 2007, which included a $10


million pre-tax charge related to a planned maintenance outage and $12.8 million restructuring


charge at our East Papers facility.


Our EBITDA in the second quarter was negative $6.2 million. This represents a marked


improvement, however, from the $11.9 million loss of the first quarter and the negative


$17.5 million in the second quarter of last year. We were able to generate year-over-year


improvements in our operations and implement increases in selling prices sufficient to more than


offset $13 million in cost inflation, relative to the second quarter of last year.


Our paper operations recorded sales of $148 million compared with $149 million last quarter. Sales


volumes were substantially unchanged from the last period, at 149,000 tons. Market conditions


from many of our specialty packaging, specialty printing and high-bright groundwood grades


remained steady, and we saw a $10 per ton increase in average revenue realized.


EBITDA in our paper business was negative $4 million in the quarter, a $2.8 million improvement


versus the first. Selling prices announced in the first quarter became fully realized, and improved


energy usage, high paper throughput and higher internal pulp production contributed to the


improved results. These benefits were partially offset by increased fiber, energy and transportation


costs.
corrected transcript


Fraser Papers, Inc.
 
FPS.CA
 
Q2 2008 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 1, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Our Thurso pulp mill continues to benefit from strong pulp markets, as benchmark pricing for


hardwood kraft pulp increased $19 a ton during the quarter. Thurso shipped 59,000 metric tons


compared to 62,000 metric tons in the first quarter.


EBITDA from the pulp operations improved to $1 million, up from a loss of $0.9 million in Q1. The


benefit of an improved selling prices and lower oil consumption was partially offset by higher oil and


fiber prices.


Our lumber business continues to suffer from weak demand. However, we did see a very modest


increase in the selling price compared to the first quarter as the average price for [inaudible]


delivered lumber improved $14 per 1,000 board feet. As a result, our mill nets improved 8% over


the first quarter. Shipments of lumber were flat, at 40 million board feet, as we took significant


downtimes during the quarter.


EBITDA losses at the lumber mills during the second quarter were $3.2 million compared with a


$4.2 million loss in Q1. And we’ll continue to assess the relative costs of purchasing wood chips


versus operating our lumber mills and are currently evaluating possible operating scenarios for our


lumber mills for the second half of this year.


Many of the operating initiatives we outlined in prior quarters generated measurable results during


the first six months of the year. The benefits of these initiatives have served to offset much of the


$32 million of cost inflation compared with the six – compared with the first six months of last year.


In the face of high oil costs and to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, we have made oil reduction a


priority across the company. As a result, we’ve permanently closed one oil-fired boiler at our East


Papers operation and installed a thermal heat recovery unit at our pulp mill in Thurso, Quebec.


These and other actions have allowed us to reduce our annualized oil consumption by


approximately 30%, to 500,000 barrels per year. And we believe there are additional opportunities


to reduce our oil usage further, including the investment in Plaster Rock that we announced


yesterday.


Our focus on specialty packaging and printing grades and the high-bright groundwood papers has


allowed us to reduce our exposure to more cyclical commodity grades. In the third quarter of 2007,


we permanently closed two paper machines at our East Papers operations and temporarily closed


two machines at our Gorham paper mill in New Hampshire.


These closures represent approximately 140,000 tons of annualized production, or about 25% of


our nameplate capacity, and it allowed us to reduce our overall fixed costs. In conjunction with


these closures, we have also focused on optimizing our existing papermaking asset base. As a


result, we’ve able to keep our production levels to within 4% of last year, due in part to improved


operating efficiencies and speeding up our paper machines.


Now, yesterday, we announced a significant investment in our Plaster Rock lumber mill. We will


invest $17.5 million, and the key elements of this project include the installation of a biomass boiler


to replace the existing oil-fired units, two new kiln units to efficiently dry the lumber, and several


new pieces of equipment for the sawline to improve throughput and recovery.


We continue to believe that the most economic source of wood chips to support our paper


operations comes from our nearby lumber mills, but only if they can operate profitably during the all


points of the lumber price cycle. This project will result in lower costs that are needed for this


lumber mill to meet that objective.


On the financing side, we increased our available liquidity by securing the term loans facility for


CAD$40 million in the Province of New Brunswick. This facility is available to us through 2014 and