raw transcript


Fraser Papers, Inc.
 
FPS.CA
 
Q4 2005 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 8, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the Fraser Papers Q4 Results


Earnings Call and webcast. I would now like to turn the meeting over Mr. Dominic Gammiero.


Please go ahead Mr. Gammiero.


Dominic Gammiero, President, Chief Executive Officer, and Director


Thank you. Good morning and welcome to our conference call. Joining me today are Peter


Gordon, our newly appointed Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and Glen McMillan,


our Chief Administrative Officer.


Last night we released our fourth quarter and full year results. After discussing our results, I would


like to provide you with an update on the progress that we are making on our strategic initiatives


before concluding with our view of the current business environment and our priorities for 2006. At


the conclusion of my remarks, we’ll open things up for questions. I will now discuss our results for


the fourth quarter of 2005 and for the full year.


Clearly, the fourth quarter was challenging for Fraser Papers. We generated an EBITDA loss of 7


million compared to an EBITDA loss of 1 million in the third quarter. The fourth quarter is generally


speaking our weakest quarter in terms of seasonality. In the fourth quarter of 2005, our results


were the same as in 2004.


For the full year 2005, Fraser Papers generated EBITDA of 4 million compared to 20 million in


2004. The results of our paper segment were down in the fourth quarter compared to the third


quarter. In the fourth quarter, we experienced strong volumes and stable pricing for paper, but we


were negatively impacted by lower selling prices and market downtime at our Canadian lumber


operations.


On a year-over-year basis, EBITDA for our paper segment decreased by 17 million from positive 9


million in 2004 to a loss of 8 million in 2005. In both 2004 and 2005, we've generated positive


EBITDA results in our paper and lumber operation, which were offset by losses at our market pulp


operations. The $17 million decrease in EBITDA on a year-over-year basis is made up of a 13


million decrease in EBITDA from our paper operations, a 12 million improvement in EBITDA from


our pulp operations but still a loss and $16 million decrease in EBITDA from our lumber operations.


For the full year in 2005, the paper operations within our paper segment generated EBITDA of $1


million. The decrease in profitability from paper is the result of pricing for paper not keeping pace


with rising costs. For the full year, mill net pricing across our paper grades rose by 4% while our


cash cost per ton increased by 8%. The cost increases were largely the result of increasing energy


cost and the impact of the rising Canadian dollar. During the fourth quarter the paper operations


generated an EBITDA loss of a million essentially flat with the results from the fourth quarter of


2004. We did not take any downturn at paper operations in the fourth quarter.


Our pulp operations had an EBITDA loss of 15 million during 2005, better by 12 million compared to


the loss of 27 million in 2004. These losses include approximately 5 million in pulp hedge losses in


each of 2004 and 2005. Our pulp hedge losses will continue in 2006 and followup the table at the


end of this year. Prices for pulp were stronger in 2005 and we took no pulp-related market


downtime in 2005. The improvement in the EBITDA year-over-year is a result of the 16% increase


in shipments combined with a 9% increase in pricing. The pulp operations generated an EBITDA


loss of 7 million in the fourth quarter of 2005 compared to 13 million in 2004. While the


performance of the pulp operations improved over last year, the business is not cash flow positive.
raw transcript


Fraser Papers, Inc.
 
FPS.CA
 
Q4 2005 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 8, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


As part of our asset repositioning, we are evaluating this business and our alternatives to shed


these losses


In lumber, the market cooled from their highs of 2004. Our lumber operations generated EBITDA of


6 million in 2005 compared to 22 million in 2004. During 2005, we experienced an 8% decrease in


overall lumber mill nets and our volumes declined by 4%. On the cost side, the impact of the


Canadian dollar on our two Canadian mills resulted in an 8% increase in cash cost. During the


fourth quarter of 2005, we generated an EBITDA loss of $1 million in lumber and took four weeks of


market-related downtime at our two Canadian sawmills.


Our timber segment generated consistent results in 2005 compared to 2004 on both the year-over-


year and a quarter-over-quarter basis, where the full year in 2005 timber generated 12 million of


EBITDA. In January, we announced the sale of our freehold timberlands in New Brunswick to the


Acadian Timber Income Fund. This transaction completes our strategy initiative to monetize our


timberland’s assets. And I will discuss bit more on this in a few minutes.


In terms of our margin improvement efforts, we set a target of 50 million for 2005. We fell short of


this goal. We were able to deliver to 15 million in margin improvements in 2005. And these were


largely the result of lower labor cost and fixed cost resulting from our restructuring initiatives. The


shortfall to plan was related primarily to slower than anticipated progress on operating initiatives


that are East Papers complex including a lengthy maintenance shutdown on our recovery boiler


and our cogen facility at Edmonston.


Our lumber and other pulp and paper operations delivered on their margin improvement targets.


As in prior quarters, the margin improvements only served to partially offset the impact of rising


energy and fiber cost and the impact of the strengthening Canadian dollar. On a year-over-year


basis in 2005, our cost increased by 50 million, as a result of these pressures. In 2004, we


experienced an additional 57 million of cost increases resulting in over a $107 million of cost


inflation since 2003. To put this in perspective from a profitability point of view, we are eventually in


the same position that we were at the end of 2003. Over the past two years we’ve offset about half


of the 107 million of inflation with our asset repositioning and margin improvement activities, and


the other half with price increases for paper, pulp and lumber.


One of the critical components of our margin improvement strategy is to continue to migrate our


product mix towards higher value, technical specialty grades. While we achieved 50% increase in


our shipments of technical specialty papers in 2005, the impact of this benefit did not result in


improved earnings as a result of the cost pressures that we are currently facing. We do believe


however, that over time we will experience better pricing in these higher value grades. Continuing


to improve our product mix, will provide a long-term benefit for our shareholders.


In terms of asset repositioning, we concluded our timberland’s monetization strategy early in the


first quarter of 2006, with the formation of Acadian Timber Income Fund, we received net proceeds


from this transaction of approximately 125 million including cash of 94 million and 31 million of fund


units. As a result of our retained ownership of the units, we own approximately 22% of the fund.


The transaction to create Acadian met our three objectives which were to maximize shareholder


value, retain a favorable long-term fiber supply contract, and retain an ownership position in the


timberlands so we can surface additional capital as required. As part of this transaction, we


entered into a long-term fiber supply agreement with Acadian, where we retain the right to purchase


all of the fiber that we use from the land prior to the transaction at market prices. With the


timberlands monetization complete we have an extremely strong balance sheet with no net debt.


Our balance sheet provides us with the flexibility to continue with our repositioning on Fraser


Papers in this challenging operating environment.


Given the challenges that we are – that are currently impacting both Fraser Papers and the rest of


the industry, I wanted to make some comments about our 2006 business plans and why we are