raw transcript


Fraser Papers, Inc.
 
FPS.CA
 
Q1 2006 Earnings Call
 
May 4, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon and welcome to the Fraser Papers Q1 Results Earnings Call and


webcast conference call for May 4th 2006. Your host for today will be Mr. Dominic Gammiero. Mr.


Gammiero, please go ahead.


Dominic Gammiero, President, Chief Executive Officer


Thank you operator. Good afternoon and welcome to Fraser Papers conference call for the first


quarter of 2006. Joining me today are Peter Gordon, our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial


Officer; Bill Manzer, Senior Vice President, Pulp and Paper; Brian McAlary, Vice President of Sales;


and Wayne Johnson [ph], our Group financial Controller.


As this call follows our presentation at the annual general meeting held this morning and the


release of our first quarter results last night, we intend to keep our comments brief and then open


up the call for your questions, particularly for those who would not have had the opportunity to ask


questions at the AGM.


I am going to now turn the meeting over to Peter Gordon and he will give you the highlights for the


quarter and at the end we’ll open it up for questions. Right Peter?


Peter Gordon, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you Dominic. Clearly this was a challenging first quarter for Fraser Papers. We generated


EBITDA of $2 million, an improvement of $9 million over Q4 of 2005. While we booked a number


of significant one-time events including a $71 million gain on the sale of our new Brunswick timber


lands, a $107 million charge against our interests in Smart Papers as that company works to


reorganize itself under Chapter 11 proceedings, and finally a $50 million charge in relation to the


quarter of our Berlin pulp mill.


Further details relating to these issues can be found in the notes and in our MD&A filed yesterday.


During the quarter our Paper segment which includes our pulp and paper mills and our lumber


operations broken even on an EBITDA basis and the timberlands contributed $2 million prior to


their sale on January 31st. During the quarter as a whole and excluding these one time items the


net loss was $4 million or $0.14 a share. But it was a loss of $78 million or $2.64 per share when


this items were added back in.


Markets for our paper products are beginning to turn and price increases while still very modest


provided the opportunity for this paper side of our business to generate $3 million of EBIDA in Q1.


Total shipments during the quarter were 169,000 tones unchanged from the fourth quarter.


Realized prices improved however by 2.5% over the fourth quarter. Our pulp operations posted a


EBITDA loss of $4 million in the quarter results which prompted us to take the decision to close


Berlin Pulp Mill in early March.


Our objective here is to at a minimum eliminate our operating losses from this pulp side of our


business. The closure of Berlin provides the opportunity to eliminate money losing export sales


from both Berlin and Warsaw [ph] and direct the pulp surplus to our internal requirements towards


Madawaska. The Gorham paper mill located adjacent to Berlin will operate using Fraser pulp. Our


lumber operations generated $1 million of EBITDA in the first quarter. Lumber production was a


108 million-board feet up from 87 million in Q4 when we talk market related down time.
raw transcript


Fraser Papers, Inc.
 
FPS.CA
 
Q1 2006 Earnings Call
 
May 4, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Prices average $335 up 5% over Q4. During the quarter we also repurchase $29 million of our


senior unsecured notes and recorded a net gain of $3 million after adjusting for differed financing


cost. We announced yesterday that we would be initiating the formal lock for 12 new holders to


repurchase $65 million of note at 100% face value plus accrued interest. This offer is pursuance of


the terms of our note debenture and uses proceeds from the May 2005 sale of our main


timberlands less applicable capital expenditures. We intend to mail the offer order before May 26.


We will tender all the bonds that we own to this offer.


The recent softwood lumbar agreement is a net positive for Fraser Papers, under the current deal


we would expect to receive back 80% of the $15 million in duties that we have paid to-date. Our 2


mills in New Brunswick do not face any further export restrictions in the markets to which they ship.


In terms of operational initiatives over the coming quarters we will be focused our efforts on the


following issues. Implementing announced price increases, passing it to the marketplace, input


price increases that have eroded our operating margins. We will continue to make progress on our


bottom slicing programs to eliminate the poorest 10% of our product portfolio on a margin basis.


We’ll be working towards doing more business on a direct basis with customers and away from the


traditional model of using merchants and brokers where they don’t provide adequate value to the


customer or to us. We’ll seek out cheaper sources of fibre both logs, chips and pulp to lower our


costs of production.


In terms of operational initiatives, we know that we can do better with what we have, our margin


improvement initiatives in the first quarter only resulted in $1 million of identifiable improvement.


There are number of projects underway that should bring us back on tract to achieve our $30


million goal for the year. We will be investing $3 million of capital, at our Juniper sawmill that has a


low risk but extremely high returns and repositions this Canadian mill to better compete in the high


Canadian dollar environment. With respect to Katahdin we have a formed a special committee of


the Board to review the transaction should we be able to reach an agreement with Brookfield. We


continue to work towards an agreement, but at this time, we have nothing further to report.


In terms of our outlook for the second quarter of 2006, we have momentum in our favor in the paper


and hardwood pulp markets and lumber pricing should receive support from seasonal factors. We


are, however, taking a maintenance charge at our Edmonton pulp mill in May that will impact our


Q2 results. And further on the cost side, oil costs continue to rise and the Canadian dollar is up


about another $0.03 from the first quarter to average over $0.90. Given the input cost pressures,


we are positioning Fraser Papers for positive earnings in an environment where the Canadian


dollar is at $0.90 and oil stays about $65 a barrel.


This concludes our comments and we will now open up the line for questions.