corrected transcript


Frozen Food Express


Industries, Inc.
 
FFEX
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 5, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Frozen Food Express


Industries Fourth Quarter 2008 Earning Conference Call. My name is [inaudible] and I’ll be you


coordinator today. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. We will be conducting a


question-and-answer session towards the end of today’s conference.


Before we start our call let me remind you that today’s press release and presentation made by the


FFE executives includes forward-looking statements as defined by the Private Securities Litigation


Reform Act of 1995. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties. These risks and


uncertainties include but are not limited to those factors identified in the press release and in our


filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. For your information you may also listen to


the earning release on FFE’s website which is www.ffex.net.


I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Stoney Mit Stubbs, Chairman and Chief Executive


Officer. Please proceed sir.


Stoney M. (Mit) Stubbs, Jr., President and Chairman of the Board


Thank you, [inaudible], and good morning. I would like to thank everyone for joining us this morning


as we review our fourth quarter results for 2008. Joining me today is Russell Stubbs, our Chief


Operating Office, Ron Knutson, our Chief Financial Officer and John Hickerson, our Chief


Marketing Officer.


First let me congratulate John on his recent appointment to our Board of Directors. We are excited


to have John take on an expanded role within our organization. Additionally, let me formerly


welcome Ron Knutson as our newest executive team member joining our organization in mid


January as our Chief Financial Officer. Russell and Ron will provide more details shortly, but first let


me make a couple of comments on our overall performance in the fourth quarter and the year.


2008 was a truly turnaround year for FFE, and while the fourth quarter was solid given the current


economic conditions, the full year ended on positive results. Although revenues for the fourth


quarter declined 4.7%, revenues increased 4.5% for the full year. This increase along with cost


controls drove a full year pre-tax earnings to 3.2 million or a $13.2 million improvement over 2007


levels. I’m proud of, and want to thank the entire FFE team for their efforts throughout 2008 to


sustain this level of turnaround in one of the most if not the most challenging years I think in my


history with the company, which is a long history.


I’d now like to turn the call over to Russell, our Chief Operating Officer. Russell?


Stoney Russell Stubbs, Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer


Thanks, Mit. I echo your comments regarding challenging industry. Despite the economic downturn,


the tight credit markets and the extremely challenging [inaudible] 2008 we were able to have a


positive year. 2008 was a year like we’ve never seen before. At beginning of the year capacity


limited and demand was strong allowing yield and utility to remain strong. However, as we entered


the fourth quarter, we as well as the entire industry saw excess capacity develop which drove down


pricing and resulted in an increase in available drivers.


Excluding fuel surcharges, 81% of our revenue was generated by moving temperature controlled


products for our customers, and while some think that food products will be more recession
corrected transcript


Frozen Food Express


Industries, Inc.
 
FFEX
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 5, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


resistant, we were impacted by the downturn in the restaurant business and consumers [inaudible]


back spending on pre-packaged food and confectionary products. While we cannot control the


economy we certainly can control our internal costs as exhibited in 2008 and our strategy to


improve customers -- or service to our customers.


Let me name just a few of our accomplishments during 2008. We improved our operating ratio


about 270 basis points to 99.6% in 2008, versus 102.3% in 2007. This is not where we want to be


but it is a significant improvement given the economic conditions we have faced. We continued our


investment in technology allowing us to better understand our profitability by lane. We implemented


a global positioning system on our drive end fleet allowing a reduction of nearly 200 trailers in that


fleet. We also enhanced our fuel and route software that directs our drivers where and when to


purchase fuel inside our network and we increased the compliance percentage for our drivers.


A year ago, we said we were going to focus on intermodal opportunities. For the quarter, we


increased our intermodal moves on more than 800 or nearly 27%. For the year, intermodal moves


totaled 17,200, an increase of 137%, which was a contributing factor to the increase in our


revenues, with fewer trucks in service.


We improved our moves within our preferred freight network to nearly 80% which means that our


equipment is better utilized, our drivers get home more often, and our customers realized increased


service levels. We increased our revenue per truck per week to 3,426 from 2,233 in 2007, nearly a


6% improvement. We also raised our average fuel miles per gallon for the year to 6.09 miles per


gallon from 5.90 in 2007, a 3.2% improvement. These accomplishments along with many others,


and the efforts of our team members, drove our 2008 earnings improvement.


I would now like to turn the call over to Ron Knutson, our Chief Financial Officer.


Ronald J. Knutson, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Russell. Let me first say that it’s great to be part of the FF team. It’s been an exciting


first six weeks and I look forward to working with the team, our customers, our shareholders and


our vendor partners going forward. Let me provide you with an overview of our fourth quarter and


annual results.


Revenues for the full year were up 38.3 million or 8.5%, to 490.5 million. Revenues for the quarter


decreased 4.7% or 5.6 million, to 112.3 million. Excluding fuel surcharges, which are included in


our revenue base, revenues for the quarter decreased 2.9% or 2.7 million. Our truckload revenues,


which comprise nearly half of our total revenues, decreased 727,000 or 1.2%. However, for the full


year, our truckload revenue increased 8.7 million or 3.8%. Our Less-than-truckload, or LTL


revenues were flat for the quarter. Our freight [inaudible] and dedicated fleet revenue decreased


1.3 million, or 13.5% for the quarter, however, were up 4.3 million or 12.9% for the full year.


Intense competition and heavier excess capacity impacted our dry business more severely than our


temperature control business. Our dry business, which operates under the American Eagle Lines


brand, saw a decrease in volume and yield, resulting in a revenue decline of 2.2 million, or 52 – 5. -


- 15.7 million for the quarter. On the positive side during the quarter we were able to improve our


equipment utilization.


Our average trucks in service decreased to 2,020 to 2,079, resulting in a nearly 2% improvement in


revenue per truck per week. Truck load loaded miles decreased 654,000 to 36 million. However our


empty mile ratio improved 50 basis points to 8.9%. We continue to realize improvements in our


empty mile ratio due to our focused efforts by keeping our equipment within our preferred lanes.


For the year, nearly 80% of our truckload moves were within our preferred networks.