raw transcript


Frozen Food Express


Industries, Inc.
 
FFEX
 
Q3 2006 Earnings Call
 
Nov 01, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com • 6 4 6. 44 2 .0 2 70 •
 
C o p yr i gh t © 2 00 1- 2 00 6 C a ll Str e et


(ed i te d)
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day ladies and gentleman and welcome to the Third Quarter 2006 Frozen Food


Express Industries Earnings Conference Call. My name is Tolanda and I will your coordinator for


today. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. We will conduct a question and answer


session toward the end of the conference. [Operator Instructions].


I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Stoney M. Stubbs, Chairman and Chief Executive


Officer. Please proceed sir.


Stoney M. Stubbs ,President and Chairman of the Board


[Indiscernible] very much. Good morning and welcome to our third quarter conference call. This is


Mit Stubbs, and I have got the new crew here with me today, Russell Stubbs, our Chief Operating


Officer, Tom Yetter, our Chief Financial Officer, and Bill Webb, Senior VP for Marketing Operations


and Stakeholder Value.


I will start it off in giving the short hand of the quarter and then let the guys who are doing the work


fill in the blanks. Those of you who follow our company know we’ve been saying that this year it will


not compare favorably with the last year. Last year we had the life insurance sale and all the work


we did to support disaster relief on the Gulf Coast. All of these things made our 2005 year unique.


We’ve got new management of this company. So, we are going to spend the brief time we have


here today letting you know what they are doing to improve the way this company operates. Even


though, they’ve only been on the job for a few months, we will throw out some numbers so you can


decide if you see any signs that these fellows are doing their jobs and we will try to answer your


questions.


I will start off by saying the obvious. Anyone who follows trucking knows that demand has been


softer lately than it was during 2005. But on the other hand, we are optimistic demand will pick up


next year as long as the economy stays healthy. Our new management team is dealing fairly well


with the softer market. With these guys being in the driver’s seat, our operating ratio has improved


and our net income stood in spite of the fact that revenue has been fairly flat. Quite frankly it’s been


sometime since I’ve seen flat revenue accompanied by rising profits.


Our focus now is really two fold, to manage our costs and to expand our revenue. Although we just


got started with reducing costs, we’ve already gotten a small amount that really proved that we are


serious about it. This will happen throughout our company and no operation or function will take


[indiscernible].


Not much happens overnight. So don’t expect these guys to perform miracles within a couple of


months. They are working on a number of efforts, not only to merely increase our revenue but to


make each revenue dollar more profitable. These efforts will take time, but I expect results to


become evident over the next few quarters.


That’s a general overview and now I will turn it over to Tom here who will drill down into the current


numbers a bit. Tom?
raw transcript


Frozen Food Express


Industries, Inc.
 
FFEX
 
Q3 2006 Earnings Call
 
Nov 01, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Cal l St re et .co m • 64 6. 4 4 2. 02 7 0 •
 
Co p yr ig ht © 2 00 1- 20 0 6 C a ll S tr ee t ( e d it ed)2


Thomas G. Yetter, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thanks Mit. As Mit said, our 2006 revenue has been nearly flat, 126.1 million in the first quarter,


126.8 million in the second and 127 million in the third quarter. But, our operating ratio has


improved, from 97.2% in the first half of 2006 to 95.7% in Q3 of this year. For the nine months,


operating ratio is 96.7.


In addition, net income has improved each quarter, from $1.9 million in the first quarter to 2.1


million in the second, to almost 2.9 million in the third. As Mit said, we are looking at our


organization from one end into the other to try to drive home every efficiency possible. Our early


numbers show we are going in the right direction, but we still have plenty to do.


Despite the softening demand late in the third quarter, our freight rates have held up fairly well. The


average full truck load per loaded mile revenue, the best indicator of our rates was $1.46 in the first


quarter. The number rose to $1.49 in our second and third quarters of this year.


On the LTL side, we billed from $15.43 per hundred weight in the first quarter to $15.03 in the


second, but then rebounded to $15.65 in the third.


Asset productivity for all fleets measured by revenue per truck per week declined slightly. It billed


from $3404 in the first quarter to $3379 in the third quarter. Best less than 1%, inline with our


average truck load unlike the fall, which declined from 964 miles to 944 miles about a 2% decline.


Russell and Bill will be talking about the steps we are taking to improve these numbers.


Our balance sheet still looks good. As of September 30, our long-term debt was $1 million and our


day sales outstanding in the measurement of our accounts receivables management has


decreased from 44 days at the end of 2005 to 42 days as of September 30.


As we previously stated in the press release, we closed on a new line of credit that’s more


favorable, which is a positive reflection of our overall financial pressure. The interest rate is lower.


We have more flexibility in our capital expenditures and restrictions on buying back our common


stock and paying the cash dividends have been eased.


We also mentioned in the press release that we repurchased 1.1 million shares of our stock during


the third quarter of 2006. Our goal is to execute on things we’ve all been talking to you about over


the past few months and all in all, we are making substantive a progress.


And I will let Russell tell you about the civic operational issues. Russell?


Russell S. Stubbs, Senior Vice President, Chief Operating Officer and Director


Thanks Tom. We have a number of initiatives underway in making the operational culture of this


company more result oriented and more profit oriented. We’ve told you about some of them before


and I am going to mention a few here. We have a sign challenger of our own lanes and our industry


has and that’s finding drivers to internally grow our fleet. So we got to have strategies for growing


our revenue without adding trucks.


We talked about our LTL operation and about the fact that it’s almost scheduled off a bus line. So


our shippers can guarantee our customers, their customer that they’ll receive the products they


need in a certain time. This business model has been very successful for us. We have to focus on


line density, what I mean by line density is low tractors and basically the – if a truck leaves a dock