raw transcript


Frozen Food Express


Industries Inc
 
FFEX
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 25, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Third Quarter 2005 Frozen Food


Express Industries Earnings Conference Call, my name is Jacky and I will your coordinator for


today. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. We will be facilitating a question-and-


answer session towards the end of this conference. [Operator Instructions]. I would now like to turn


the presentation over to your host for today’s call, Mr. Stoney Stubbs, Chairman and CEO, you may


go ahead sir.


Stoney M. Stubbs Jr., Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, very much and good morning. This is Mit Stubbs and I want to welcome you to our third


quarter teleconference. With me today are Charles Robertson, our Chief Operating Officer and


Dixon McElwee our Chief Financial Officer. We will start our conference with the summary of third


quarter financial results and Dixon will speak to these numbers. Charles will then follow with the


recap of operational performance, and I will conclude with closing comment before Q&A. I will now


want to turn this over to Dixon to get it started.


Dixon F. McElwee Jr., Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you Mit, let me began by first reminding listeners that any forward-looking comments made


at this mornings conference call are based on managements current beliefs and assumptions,


which reflect information currently available. These statements and beliefs are subject to


uncertainty and change; I want to encourage all listeners to read the entire edition of this section of


the press release, which addresses forward-looking statements.


Now for comments on the third quarter, I think the press release is pretty clear that the Company


delivered a strong quarter, and most of that happened without much benefit from the hurricane


relief efforts. So, let me open with some thoughts on revenue and revenue growth. All my


comments on revenue will be net of fuel surcharges. Third quarter revenue growth accelerated past


our year-to-date performance. Truckload linehaul services and dedicated fleet revenue increased


by 7% compared to the same quarter of the prior year. Higher margin dedicated services revenue


as compared to the third quarter of 2004 was up 26%. LTL sequential revenue growth increased


from 4.3% in the second quarter to 6.7% in third quarter 2005. Third quarter's LTL growth was


attributable to a 3% increase in 100 weight volume and 3.5% in rate increases. Thus total freight


revenue growth was close to 7% in the third quarter. Combining on trends in expenses, expense


ratios in our freight operating ratio, salaries and wages increased by $2.6 million compared to third


quarter of 2004 however as a percentage of freight revenue salaries and wages declined by 1%.


Purchase transportation as a percentage of freight revenue declined by about 1.5% from 25.5% to


23.8% of freight revenue. This reflects a change in driver mix from Owner Operator towards more


company drivers this year.


Fuel as a percent of freight revenue, increased 3.4% from 13.3 in Q3 of 2004, to 16.9% in the third


quarter of this year. However, our fuel surcharge programs with our customers were largely


successful in recovering that increase. Supplies and expenses as a percentage of freight revenue


decreased from 13.5% Q3, '04 to 12.6% in Q3, '05. The costs of equipment rental and depreciation


expense increased modestly from $12.6 to $13 million for the comparable quarters.


We continue to run a safe operation and as a percentage of freight revenue, claims and insurance


expense was only 3.2% in excellent performance. Gains on equipment disposition showed a


$500,000 increase over Q3, '04 driven by the improved demand for used equipment. The remaining
raw transcript


Frozen Food Express


Industries Inc
 
FFEX
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 25, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


costs of miscellaneous expenses, communications, utility costs and operating tax and license


expenses increased by about $400,000 quarter-over-quarter. In some of our freight operating ratio


improved from 96.1% third quarter year ago to 93.7% in this third quarter, a 240 basis points


improvement. So, grew 150 basis points from the second quarter's 95.2.


Operating income from freight operations improved 80% from 4.7 million in Q3, '04 to 8.5 million in


Q3, '05. Interest and other non-operating expenses increased by $1 million from Q3, '04 to Q3, '05


and this was attributable to two items, one reduced income from our life insurance investments and


two, a near non-operating expense category related to the 80% majority interest in the non-freight


business that we sold in the second quarter. GAAP requires that we continue to include this non-


freight operating results in our financial statements.


Our effective tax rate increased from 34.3% in Q3, '04 to 40.5% in Q3, '05. This is caused by the


non-deductibility of certain expenses the largest of which are driver for DMP [ph], 30% of which are


not deductible for federal tax purposes and accordingly increased our tax rate. While for DMP


increased our effective tax rate, it also serves to equip more after tax dollars into the drivers packet


and management believes our balance of the Company benefits from this pay structure.


In the aggregate FFEX reported for the third quarter of 2005 as compared to the third quarter of


2004, one, an 83% increase in operating income, two a 56% increase in pre tax income and three,


a 41% in net income. Net income per diluted share for the third quarter of 2005 increased 30% from


the third quarter of '04 to $0.26 per share on a 5% increase in our diluted share base. Our balance


sheet remains strong with $112 million in shareholders equity and no debt in a cash position of $7


million.


For cash flow calculations our operating income before depreciation and amortization expenses


commonly referred to EBITDA was 15.0 million in the third quarter and 40.3 million for the nine


months. The Company classifies approximately $1.2 million per quarter at amortization in supplies


and expense. Year-to-date capital expenditures were $30.1 million proceeds from the sales of


equipment or 12.5 million in net capital expenditures or 17.6 million for the nine months of 2005, as


compared to about 20 million there as of first nine months of last year.


With respect to our share repurchase program, the Company purchased 318,000 shares late in the


third quarter. Our remaining authorization from the Board of Directors; is to purchase an additional


$275,000 shares. Looking now at over the balance of the year, we expect refrigerated freight


demand to remain at the current strong levels and a continuation of favorable pricing conditions.


While we are delivering on improved driver retention metrics, we are concerned about the impact of


the hurricane related reconstruction efforts on the availability of drivers. With those factors in mind,


we expect to deliver as stated on the second quarter call continued mid-single digit growth in freight


revenue again excluding fuel surcharges. We are focused on the key operating metrics that


characterize the type freight network and Charles has some comments on those, Charles?


Charles G. Robertson, Executive Vice President


Thank you, Dixon. I want to thank [indiscernible].


Operator: Well, okay Mr. Stubbs you may proceed.