corrected transcript


Geokinetics, Inc.
 
GOK
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 10, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


PARTICIPANTS


Corporate Participants


Scott M. Zuehlke
 
– Director-Investor Relations


Richard F. Miles
 
– President, Chief Executive Officer & Director


Scott A. McCurdy
 
– CFO, Secretary, Treasurer & Vice President-Finance, Grant Geophysical, Inc.


Other Participants


Collin Gerry
 
– Research Associate, Raymond James & Associates


Luke M. Lemoine
 
– Associate, Capital One Southcoast, Inc.


Veny Aleksandrov
 
– Research Analyst, Pritchard Capital Partners LLC


Bo McKenzie
 
– Managing Director, Investment Banking, Global Hunter Securities


K. Adam Leight
 
– Research Analyst, RBC Capital Markets Equity Research


Maryana Kushnir
 
– Analyst, Nomura Asset Management U.S.A., Inc.


Mark Afrasiabi
 
– Principal, Silver Rock Financial LLC


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for standing by. Welcome to the


Geokinetics Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]


I would now like to turn the conference over to Scott Zuehlke, the company’s new Director of


Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.


Scott M. Zuehlke, Director-Investor Relations


Thank you, Brandy. Good morning, and welcome to Geokinetics second quarter 2010 conference


call. With me on the call today are Dick Miles, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Scott


McCurdy, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.


Before I turn the call over to Dick, I have a few items to cover. If you’d like to be added to the


company’s e-mail distribution list, please contact DRG&E, 713-529-6600 and relay that information


to them. If you’d like to listen to a replay of today’s call, it is available via webcast by going to the


Investor Relations section of the company’s website at geokinetics.com or via recorded instant


replay until August 24. Information on how to access the replay was provided in our earnings


release issued yesterday.


Let me remind you that certain statements made by us during this call may constitute forward-


looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All


statements regarding the company’s future performance are forward-looking statements. These


forward-looking statements are based on management’s current expectations, and include known


and unknown risks and uncertainties and other factors, many of which the company is unable to


predict or control that may cause the company’s actual future results or performance to materially


differ from any future results or performance expressed or implied by those statements.


A discussion of these and other factors including risks and uncertainties set forth in the company’s


Form 10-K and 10-Q filed with the SEC. Any forward-looking statements speak only as of the date


on which such statement is made and Geokinetics undertakes no obligation to correct or update


any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
corrected transcript


Geokinetics, Inc.
 
GOK
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 10, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


During this conference call, Geokinetics will make references to EBITDA, which is a non-GAAP


financial measure. The definition and reconciliation of this non-GAAP measure to the applicable


GAAP measure can be found in the Geokinetics current earnings release, a copy of which is


located on our website at geokinetics.com.


I would now like to turn the call over to Dick Miles, the company’s President and Chief Executive


Officer.


Richard F. Miles, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director


Thank you, Scott. Good morning and welcome to Geokinetics second quarter 2010 conference call.


I will begin by briefly summarizing our second-quarter results. I would also like to remind everyone


that, as usual, we will not be providing earnings guidance.


As anticipated, our second-quarter results continued to be negatively impacted by weak activity


levels and competitive pricing, especially in the international markets, as well as delays in contract


awards. However, we are clearly seeing signs of improvement and expect results in the second half


of the year to improve sequentially in each quarter.


We reported revenues of $119.5 million in the second quarter, which was a decrease of 17.5% from


the same period a year ago, but an increase of 13% when compared to last quarter. The sequential


improvement was driven by our OBC crew returning to work in the second quarter, increased Multi-


Client work in the U.S., and the first full quarter of contribution from the legacy PGS Onshore


business.


Second quarter EBITDA was negative $3.8 million, which includes $3.5 million of integration costs


related to the PGS Onshore acquisition, compared to $29.8 million in the comparable quarter a


year ago, and $1.8 million in this year’s first quarter. Gross margin was 14%, compared to 29% a


year ago and 21% in this year’s first quarter.


In North America, we experienced some improvement during the second quarter and began to win


more work at better margins. We are also seeing positive impact from PGS Onshore acquisition as


we were able to book $5.5 million in late sales during the quarter related to PGS Onshore Multi-


Client data library.


Our focus in North America, specifically in the U.S., continues to be on Multi-Client work because


that is where the best opportunities are at this time.


Furthermore, pricing in North America is improving as activity increases. We submitted 95 bids in


the U.S. during the second quarter, which was flat sequentially, but the total bid amount increased


35% quarter-over-quarter to approximately $414 million. We expect the second half of the year in


the U.S. to be better than the first.


Our international revenues in the second quarter declined year-over-year, primarily due to reduced


activity, pricing pressure, delays in project awards, and less ocean bottom cable and transition zone


work. During 2009, we expanded into new markets and had higher activity in shallow water marine


and transition zone work. While so far in 2010, we have seen more land acquisition work.


Also negatively impacting our international revenues during the quarter was the completion of some


large long-term projects in certain regions. From a worldwide crew standpoint, we have one ocean


bottom cable crew working in the second quarter, and currently we have one ocean bottom cable


crew working in the Canadian Arctic and one that is mobilizing to the Far East and is expected to