corrected transcript


Geokinetics, Inc.
 
GOK
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 6, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


PARTICIPANTS


Corporate Participants


Scott M. Zuehlke
 
– Director-Investor Relations


Richard F. Miles
 
– President, Chief Executive Officer & Director


Gary M. Pittman
 
– Chief Financial Officer, Director & EVP


Other Participants


K. Adam Leight
 
– Analyst, RBC Capital Markets Equity Research


Collin Gerry
 
– Analyst, Raymond James & Associates


Luke M. Lemoine
 
– Analyst, Capital One Southcoast, Inc.


Todd Cranston Morgan
 
– Head of High Yield Research, Oppenheimer Securities


Michael Marino
 
– Research Analyst, Stephens


Jeff L. Gates
 
– President, Portfolio Manager & Founding Partner, Gates Capital Management, Inc.


Veny Aleksandrov
 
– Analyst, Pritchard Capital Partners LLC


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2010 and Full Year


2010 Geokinetics Inc. Earnings Conference Call. My name is Marisa and I’ll be your coordinator for


today. At this time, all participants are on listen-only mode. We will conduct a question-and-answer


session towards the end of this conference. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference


is being recorded for replay purposes.


I will now like to turn the conference over to the host for today’s call, Mr. Scott Zuehlke, the Director


of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.


Scott M. Zuehlke, Director-Investor Relations


Thank you, Marisa. Good morning and welcome to Geokinetics’ fourth quarter and full year 2010


conference call. With me on the call today are Dick Miles, President and Chief Executive Officer;


Gary Pittman, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Diana Moore, Vice


President and Chief Accounting Officer.


Before I turn the call over to Dick, I have a few items to cover. If you’d like to listen to a replay of


today’s call, it is available via webcast by going to the Investor Relations section of the company’s


website at geokinetics.com or via a recorded instant replay until April 13. Information on how to


access the replay was provided in the earnings release issued last Friday.


Let me remind you that certain statements made by us during this call may constitute forward-


looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All


statements regarding the company’s future performance are forward-looking statements. These


forward-looking statements are based on management’s current expectations and include known


and unknown risks and uncertainties and other factors, many of which the company is unable to


predict or control that may cause the company’s actual future results or performance to materially


differ from any future results or performance expressed or implied by those statements.


A discussion of these and other factors including risks and uncertainties is set forth in the


company’s Form 10-Ks and 10-Qs filed with the SEC. Any forward-looking statements speak only
corrected transcript


Geokinetics, Inc.
 
GOK
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 6, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


as of the date on which such statement is made and Geokinetics undertakes no obligation to


correct or update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future


events, or otherwise.


During this conference call, Geokinetics will make references to EBITDA, which is a non-GAAP


financial measure. The definition and reconciliation of this non-GAAP measure to the applicable


GAAP measure can be found in Geokinetics’ current earnings release, a copy of which is located


on our website at geokinetics.com.


I would now like to turn the call over to Dick Miles, the Company’s President and Chief Executive


Officer.


Richard F. Miles, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director


Thank you, Scott. Good morning, and welcome to Geokinetics’ fourth quarter and full year 2010


conference call. I will now briefly summarize our fourth quarter and full year results for 2010 and


provide commentary on our current outlook. Gary will then follow with a discussion of our financial


results, and after that we’ll be ready to take your questions. I would also like to remind everyone


that, as usual, we will not be providing earnings guidance.


Without a doubt, 2010 was a challenging year for Geokinetics and the seismic industry in general.


Many of the jobs we expected to be awarded were either cancelled or delayed due to various


reasons, most of which were the result of budgeting constraints. Still, we as a company were not


without our faults and we continually kept crews in ready-mode waiting for jobs to materialize rather


than our normal previous practice of shutting them down and demobilizing from the area in an effort


to control costs.


As a result, we have since revised our strategy and returned to our tried and trusted method of


immediately shutting down the crews and returning the equipment to a strategic base when no


immediate work is scheduled. Furthermore, as we integrated the PGS Onshore entities and


personnel into our operations, we also decentralized the decision making functions which we have


now realized wasn’t the optimal structure.


We are currently in the process of reviewing and reducing the overhead costs in regions where


there is not sufficient work amount at acceptable margins. We expected to realize roughly 30% of


our then existing backlog during the fourth quarter and we were able to achieve this target despite


weather downtime in Australia and various operational issues in Algeria and Indonesia. However,


we were very disappointed with the overall execution on the ocean-bottom-cable job in Indonesia.


For a better understanding, we booked a loss of approximately $14 million on this job in the fourth


quarter of 2010. The mobilization time on this ocean-bottom-cable job was originally scheduled to


take 30 days, but ended up taking 50 days primarily due to dead time between projects.


Furthermore, the recording portion of the job was expected to last 80 days, but ended up lasting


over 150 days due to various unforeseen issues such as equipment shortages, a lightning strike,


source vessel issues, and high sea currents. Overall, the lessons learned and the technical


advances we were able to make over the course of this job should serve us well in the future.


Moving along, our processing group was very busy in the fourth quarter making sure we were able


to deliver a significant amount of processed multi-client data to our joint venture partner, so that we


could recognize the associated revenue. As such, the multi-client business contributed


meaningfully to the results for North America data acquisition segment. We have $5.9 million in late


sales during the fourth quarter and based on the amount of processed data we’ve delivered, we are


hopeful for incremental late sales in the first half of this year.