Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Scott M. Zuehlke — Director-Investor Relations, Geokinetics, Inc.
Richard F. Miles — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Geokinetics, Inc.
Gary M. Pittman — Chief Financial Officer, Director & EVP, Geokinetics, Inc.
Collin Gerry — Research Associate, Raymond James & Associates
K. Adam Leight — Managing Director, RBC Capital Markets
Steven Hurwitz — Analyst, The PrinceRidge Group LLC
Matt H. Beeby — Vice President & Senior Analyst, Global Hunter Securities LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Second Quarter 2011 Geokinetics, Inc. Earnings Conference Call. My name is Nicole, and I will be your coordinator for today. At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. We will conduct a question-and-answer session at the end of today's conference. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. I will now turn the call over to Mr. Scott Zuehlke, Director of Investor Relations. Please proceed, Mr. Zuehlke.

Thank you, Nicole. Good morning, and welcome to Geokinetics Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call. With me on the call today are Dick Miles, President and Chief Executive Officer; Gary Pittman, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Diana Moore, Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer.

Before I turn the call over to Dick, I have a few items to cover. If you like to be added to the company's e-mail distribution list, please navigate to the e-mail alerts link found in the Investor Relations section of our recently redesigned website at www.geokinetics.com. If you like to listen to a replay of today's call, it is available via webcast by going to the Investor Relations section of the company's website at www.geokinetics.com or via a recorded instant replay until August 23. Information on how to access the replay was provided in the earnings release issued yesterday.

Let me remind you that certain statements made by us during this call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements regarding the company's future performance are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and include known and unknown risks and uncertainties and other factors, many of which the company is unable to predict or control, that may cause the company's actual future results or performance to materially differ from any future results or performance expressed or implied by the statement.

A discussion of these and other factors including risks and uncertainties is set forth in the company's Form 10-Ks and 10-Qs filed with the SEC. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which such statement is made and Geokinetics undertakes no obligation to correct or update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.

During this conference call, Geokinetics will make references to EBITDA, which is a non-GAAP financial measure. The definition and reconciliation of this non-GAAP measure to the applicable GAAP measure can be found in Geokinetics' current earnings release, a copy of which is located on our website at geokinetics.com.

I would now like to turn the call over to Dick Miles, the company's President and Chief Executive Officer.

Thank you, Scott. Good morning, and welcome to Geokinetics second quarter 2011 conference call. I will now briefly summarize our second quarter and provide commentary on our current outlook. Gary will then follow this with a discussion of our financial results, and after that, we will take your questions. I would also like to remind everyone that, as usual, we will not be providing earnings guidance.

The second quarter was a transitory period in which we prepared and positioned crews for the second half of this year. Still, second quarter results were softer than anticipated due to weather downtime in the United States, Mexico, and Brazil, combined with land access and environmental permitting delays in the United States and Australia. However, we are optimistic that results in the second half of the year will improve compared to the first half of the year, primarily due to the expected increase in asset utilization internationally and additional contribution from the multi-client business.

North America, specifically the United States, continues to be a supply constrained market and pricing has responded accordingly. We have relocated idle equipment from various places around the world to the United States and moved a crew from Canada, which has since merged with one of our existing crews to help execute on the current backlog. Each one of the eight crews working in the United States has an average backlog of over 230 days. We will continue to deploy a mix of proprietary and multi-client crews as we are constantly adjusting the crew schedule to maximize utilization and minimize downtime.

In addition, bidding activity remains solid and we currently have over 470 million in bids outstanding in the United States data acquisition market alone, 86% of which are from multi-client work. It is important to note that bids for multi-client work have a longer lifecycle than bids for proprietary work in the United States. For instance, the lifecycle for propriety bid, meaning from the time we received the request for the bid until the time of award, is typically only a few weeks whereas the lifecycle for a multi-client bid usually expands the course of several months as it takes a fair amount of time to build the program.

It is also worth noting that it's not unusual for any given multi-client survey to be over 100% free funded. So when this occurs, the late sales expectations for that survey are reduced due to the nature of how we define late sales revenue versus pre-funding revenues. We define pre-funding revenues as all license agreements entered into on a multi-client project prior to the completion of that project, including the completion of the data processing, and we define late sale revenues as all agreements entered into on a multi-client project after completion of the project, which is after the final dataset has been delivered to all pre-funders.

For reference, we had $3 million in late sales during the second quarter, compared to $2.5 million in late sales during the first quarter of this year.

Market dynamics have started to improve internationally, and we expect to be able to realize improved margins in the second half of this year as utilization increases and idle time is minimized by longer-term contracts and continuous work. We also expect to have a larger percentage of our shallow water transition zone and ocean bottom cable equipment utilized for the remainder of 2011, which should also positively impact margins. The ocean bottom cable project in Mexico is performing above expectations. In fact, we received an extension for this project that should keep that crew busy well into the second half of 2012. We also currently have transition zone crews working on projects in Australia, Malaysia, and Brunei.

Furthermore, we continue to focus on the overall cost structure, and we remain steadfast in our quest to improve contract terms in a way that reduces our exposure to risks and improves our liquidity.

International data acquisition bidding activity remained strong, and as of August 10, 2011, we have approximately $983 million in bids outstanding, which can be broken down by region as well as: Latin America, $172 million; Europe, Africa, the Middle East, $621 million; Far East, $146 million; and Australia, $44 million.

From a worldwide crew standpoint during the second quarter, we had an average of 17 crews operating compared to an average of 22 crews operating in the first quarter, and we expect to utilize an average of 20 crews in the third quarter, which can be broken down by job type as follows: One ocean bottom cable crew; 2.5 TZ land crew -- shallow water crews; 7.5 international land crews; 4.5 North American proprietary land crews; and 4.5 North American land motor client crews.

We were able to add approximately $251 million to our backlog during the second quarter, which includes awards for new projects and extensions to existing projects in the Latin America, Asia Pacific, EAME and North America regions. We managed to grow our backlog 16% to $741 million as of June 30, 2011, from $636 million as of March 31, 2011.

I would like to point out that the $741 million of backlog at June 30 is the highest level of backlog in the company's history. We anticipate that approximately 58% of this backlog will be completed in 2011 and 29% will be completed in 2012, with the remaining amount to be completed in 2013 and 2014.

Moreover, we expect to realize approximately 30% of our backlog at June 30 during the third quarter. Of the total backlog, 82% is for international projects, which includes Mexico, and the remaining 18% is for North American projects. Approximately [ph] 57% million (10:22) of the North American backlog is attributable to the multi-client business in the U.S. and roughly 67% of this U.S. multi-client backlog is expected to be realized during the third quarter.

Furthermore, approximately 69% of our international backlog is with national oil companies, or partnerships including national oil companies. Also, approximately 45% of the international backlog is for shallow water transition zone and ocean bottom cable projects, which have historically been our highest margin business.

With that, I would like to turn the call over to Gary who will recap financial results for the second quarter 2011 in more detail.

Thank you, Dick. I will now briefly review the second quarter 2011 results compared to the first quarter 2011. Consolidated revenues for the three months ended June 30, 2011 totaled $145.5 million, compared to $187.6 million in the preceding quarter, a decrease of 22%. The decrease in revenues is primarily attributable to a decrease in activity or changes in the specification of surveys performed in Canada, Peru, Trinidad, Australia, Angola and Libya, combined with less contributions from the multi-client business in the United States.

Consolidated direct operating costs for the three months ended June 30, 2011 totaled $120.8 million compared to $150.2 million in the preceding quarter, a decrease of 20%. The decrease was primarily attributable to lower international activities due to the completion of projects in Peru, Trinidad, Australia, Indonesia, Angola, and Libya.

G&A expenses decreased 14% quarter-over-quarter to $15.6 million compared to $18.2 million in the first quarter. The decrease is primarily due to true up in subsequent adjustments of certain G&A accruals. G&A expenses should range between $16 million to $18 million per quarter for the remaining of the year.

EBITDA for the second quarter of 2011 was $9.2 million compared to $19.2 million for the first quarter. Depreciation and amortization expense for the three months ended June 30, 2011 totaled $36.8 million as compared to $40.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2011. Amortization of multi-client data for the three months ended June 30, 2011 and March 31, 2011 was $17.7 million and $21.7 million, respectively.

Despite the second quarter loss before tax, we paid tax in some foreign jurisdictions where we were profitable and recorded a $2.2 million tax expense for the quarter. We reported a loss applicable to common shareholders of $41.7 million or $2.34 per basic and diluted share compared to loss applicable to common shareholders of $31 million or $1.74 per basic and diluted share in the first quarter of 2011.

We invested $13.2 million in capital expenditures during the first half of this year, which includes 3.8 million for capital leases. And we continue to estimate our capital expenditures for 2011 to be approximately $40 million. In addition, we invested $40.3 million in our multi-client business in the first half of this year, and we currently anticipate multi-client investments in 2011 to be approximately $79 million, subject to certain pre-funding levels.

Cash, cash equivalent and restricted cash totaled $65.8 million as of June 30, 2011, of which $4 million was restricted cash and approximately $24.1 million is designated for multi-client purposes.

As previously disclosed, on May 16, we received a commitment from a group of new lenders for a $50 million senior secured revolving credit facility. On May 24, 2011, we consented to the assignment of the rights and obligations under the RBC Revolving Credit Facility to the new lenders and entered into a Forbearance Agreement and Amendment No. 5 with the new lenders. An amended and restated credit agreement was executed among the company and the new lenders on August 12, 2011.

This concludes our formal remarks, and we will now take your questions.

[Operator Instructions] . Your first question comes from the line of Collin Gerry of Raymond James. Please proceed.

Hey, good morning. I think you walked through a couple of different moving parts as it relates to the second half of the year versus the first half of the year. I guess -- and as you outlined in the kind of backlog burn-off, that you're expecting it, it implies a pretty healthy-style jump in revenue, especially on international side. And then, you kind of walk through the crews that you're expected in the third quarter. I guess, could we just reconcile that, where specifically or what's the roadmap to getting that revenue bump? And I guess in the same sense, in the same line of thought, what kind of margins should we expect or improvement margin should we expect?

Okay. Good morning, Collin. As normal, you asked six questions in one. I'm trying to get it straight. Let's start with the reason we're going to see an increased revenue is because the crews that were down in the second quarter have got themselves into position. Some of the crews we had hope would start at the end of Q2 slid into the third quarter, and some of those that we expect to start at the beginning of the third quarter have actually slid a little bit as well. But the point we're at now, all of our crews that we expect to work are in position and have started work. And as you know, margins internationally rely very heavily on utilization rate. So we have got them in position to where they're working. The biggest problems we have at the startups and shutdowns, all of these jobs we're on, particularly the higher revenue, higher margin shallow water crews, they're all in production. They've got their teething troubles behind them, and they're just moving as we would expect. So, we've got a crew in Brunei that's going to run through November. We got a crew in Malaysia that should run through November. We have a crew in Australia that has started and should now run through November. So, margins in Q3 will move up into the – somewhere into the low-to-mid teens and should improve from there, again, in Q4 as we continue to keep working.

And really, the only area is, we still have to start crews up as we got a crew – a job in Algeria. We've been down there for a while. We have a crew that will start up in the next 30 to 45 days. There's probably a crew in Peru that will finish earlier than that, but there are opportunities, but we look at the crews in Mexico, look at the crews in Bolivia, and as I mentioned, all of the nine crews in North America have got backlog taking them well into next year. So that's the reason for our buoyancy and positive outlook, it's because all our crews are in position and working. We spent the money to get them in place, and they are all generating revenue.

Your next question comes from the line [ph] John Donald (19:58) with Howard Weil. Please proceed.

Good morning. I had a question regarding the factoring of some of your accounts receivable during the quarter. I wonder if you'd give us a little more detail about that, particularly, was a certain customer base or was there a certain level of days outstanding that were associated with those accounts receivable that you sold during the quarter?

This is Gary. Yeah, it is, I think, as we indicated, it's in our Latin American region, that it is a particular customer base. If you look at the cost associated with it, it's very minimal dollars that we did spend in the first six months. And as Dick alluded to, we wanted to pull the receivables forward. We were able to associate it with some of the costs associated with deploying and getting a lot of the crews [ph] in – out (21:06) going again.

Okay. So, it did sound like that's going to be more or less one-time in nature. Of course, that's something that we should be looking for as you go forward, it's just a way to...

It's an option for us...

Okay.

Now, whether it becomes a standard protocol, just depends on the timing of starting that and deploying crews and incurring the mobilization cost on the front end. So it maybe something we do, we'll just have to take that one month-to-month. I mean, that – so we'll really know what we'll be doing.

Okay.

I could add to that. 45% of our international works with national oil companies and they are sometimes notorious in paying slowly. But we have developed really good relationships with just about all of the national oil companies we're working for to the point where they are paying us in 30 days or less, and we have tried to put that in our bids and in their contracts. Of course, putting it in new contract, that you get paid in 30 days, doesn't necessarily mean you do. But as Gary said, in the areas where there is some risk, we have that ability – we have that facility set up and the ability to factor if require, but it's not our plan that we would do that very often. So I don't think that would be a significant cost going forward.

Okay. And then regarding, just maybe a first look at CapEx for 2012. You're obviously chasing quite a large number of projects here. Now we learned, if you just kind of maybe give a first look at what you're thinking that will look like maybe relative 2011, if you've got the existing assets in place to be able to execute on the number of bids that you have outstanding right now that will presumably go into backlog and work its way out to the next year. So...

Okay. Whatever I say here now will probably change, but the way we look at 2012, I don't see that there's a need to add much of anything. We have the number of channels, we have the equipment, we have addresses what we see in the future, so in a way of ramping up our revenue significantly in the back half of the year, I imagine, that will continue in 2012 and we have enough equipment to be able to do that. The area where we may spend some more capital is, there are lot of opportunities in the shallow water, ocean bottom cable area, and we're reviewing how we would approach being able to have an increase in that area so that – I would say, if we're just looking at things all being equal, I wouldn't expect that capital spend to be more than it is this year as far as equipment is concerned, but there's always a big job that comes along that just is too good to pass up, in which case, we may increase our capital spend to take on one of those jobs. But it would be a big ocean bottom cable job with a revenue probably in an excess of $100 million to get our attention, but there are some of those out there. On the multi-client side, we'll probably have a similar number, possibly a little bit larger because of the number of opportunities, but we have been extremely successful in getting 100% pre-funding on all of the jobs we've done this year and they basically range from 100% to 120% pre-funded. So I think that, that trend will continue and so, we won't actually have any cost outlay for our multi-client in 2012 either.

Okay great. Thanks a lot. I appreciate the color on those answers.

Your next question comes from the line of Adam Leight with RBC Capital. Please proceed.

Good morning, guys.

Good morning.

I just want to clarify a couple of things that you said. On the margins that you're expecting, was that just international, that low-to-mid teens for the second half or was that all proprietary?

That was multi-client. Sorry, that was international. The multi-client overall will be better than that whenever we get the late sales in and the margins in the U.S. have definitely moved up higher than that. So the thing that's been dragging us down for the last six to nine months has been the international operational, the on-again, off-again nature. I now see continuous streams of work in the areas where our equipment is, so in my mind they can do nothing but continuing to increase as we go through the year.

Okay, and then also to clarify, you mentioned the contracts for the three transitions on crews through November. Do they have work in December or is that to be determined?

One of the crews has follow-on work. We -- yes, there's two out of the four – well, there's one that goes till next -- at least till next June and there are two that we are in the process of signing contracts which just leaves one and we've got enough opportunities out there that we could probably field an extra crew. So I'm confident that those crews will continue. We may have a little – we may have a down period of a month, but then they would continue again in Q1 of 2012.

Okay, and then -- so of the $270 million of shallow water backlog, can you split that 2011-'12?

We haven't disclosed that level of detail. What I can say...

There's probably about $50 million that goes into 2012, just a rough number.

Yes, so then only shallow water backlog that will go into next year is the OBC crew in Mexico.

Okay. And then...

Actually, a TD – backlog for a TD crew in Australia as well.

So there's about $120 million of backlog for shallow water already in next year, and we're in negotiation of somewhat more than that.

Great. Okay. And then on the multi-client backlog, the 2/3 gets earned in third quarter. Does the remainder, other than timing, you'd earn in the fourth quarter or just some of that leak into 2012?

Yeah. The remainder will be in the fourth quarter and then, with the amount of multi-client bids we currently have outstanding, we're currently building programs for next year.

Okay. And then lastly, I may have missed this, but current cash and amount drawn on the new credit facility?

We've drawn the entire $50 million, because we had to pay for it. So we just took it off.

So, cash level in August?

I don't think we've disclosed the August, but let me make a couple of comments, kind of lead into the revolver. We did close it on August 12, and one of the primary reasons of putting the type of revolver that we currently have is to remove us from the maintenance covenants, which even in our 2012 forecast, if you look at the existing credit facility, I think the company is still confident in the level of EBITDA that we had forecasted. The issue that we were having, as far as the timing, of when that was going to be realized. And so, we're still confident at that level of the EBITDA and the one of the things that the revolver does, as I indicated, that being restated, is it's removed any maintenance covenants. So, I think that will – that's the type of facility that we'll be able to work under much better – and as Dick indicated, we're fully funded on the revolver currently.

Great, thanks.

[Operator Instructions] . Your next question comes from the line of Steven Hurwitz, PrinceRidge Group. Please proceed.

Hi. Good morning, guys, how are you? I was trying to spend a little time on the actual cash flow for the next, let's say 6 months to 12 months. And I guess, just sort of putting together your comments, CapEx would be $30 million for the rest of the year. The interest carries probably $18 million or somewhere between $17 million and $18 million. The multi-client spend is $24 million. Is that -- have you already received the cash for that or is that still to come?

This is Gary. If I look at your CapEx, that may be a little -- your capital expenditure is a little high.

Okay.

I think we're estimating about $40 million, and in round numbers, I think we spend about closer to $20 million in the first quarter. Then on the multi-client, some of that has been – some of that cash we have actually received on the multi-client, but it's also in cash and we've also got it as deferred revenue. And so there -- it's difficult to see the transparency and it has more to do with the accounting in multi-client, the transparency, as far as the matching of the revenue and the cost [indiscernible] (32:25) that. So there's – to answer the question, we've got some that's been pre-funded and we've got some that we just need to deliver the product, incur the cost, and so it's kind of a hybrid of both items.

Okay. But I guess what I'm trying to do is take the $62 million or $63.5 million that's on balance sheet, is the sole source of liquidity at this point because the revolver is fully drawn. So you've got $63.5 million there and I'm trying to figure out between now and year-end whether you're cash flow positive, cash flow neutral or you burn some. And then sort of make a guess at what EBITDA is to determine if that's covered? So based on what you just said, I guess CapEx is $20 million, interest would be $18 million, I think that's right or so, the multi-client is somewhere between, I don't know, $12 million and $24 million, you probably have some cash taxes and then, we have to talk a little bit about working capital and how that works, I guess, as you ramp up to satisfy the backlog.

Right. And from a 30,000 foot, I would think that as far as net cash increase, decrease, there will be a small increase in cash or breakeven between now and the end of the year.

Okay, that's very helpful. And I guess then just one other question, on the revolver, I guess I'm trying to understand why it's a revolver, not a term loan if you pay for it whether you draw it or you don't draw it. I guess I'm just trying to understand the dynamics of that – of that particular agreement. It looks to me more like a term loan than a revolver, is that accurate?

Not completely, and there are certain conditions where we can repay that and there are certain conditions which we have to go through that, we do have to repay. And so, there is a possibility of that being reduced. We've got different buckets that we have caps as you're probably aware of. So it is -- there are mechanisms and avenues which that revolver could potentially go down.

Okay, okay. And I guess that is all my questions. Thank you very much.

Your next question comes from the line of [ph] Eric See of Karen Capital (35:12). Please proceed.

Hi, guys. Thanks. Just two quick questions. I know it's a bit of a long way out, but what are your thoughts about your refinancing ability of the 2014 bond and what are your views of like the debt market in general and now your access to finance?

We had this conversation with various bank groups, so we are thinking about it. But as you said, the repayment of the bonds is December 2014. Our focus is still on execution. And I think it's important that we do well in Q3, deliver what we know we can in Q4 and keep that same momentum going into 2012. We've got – the backlog is already beginning to build for 2012, particularly in North America and Canada. So I think that's a question that – it's something we look at, it's something we'll take a lot more seriously when we've got a couple of good quarters behind us.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Matt Beeby of Global Hunter Securities. Please proceed.

Thanks. Good morning, guys.

Good morning.

A couple of questions about the group now. Looking at international guidance in bidding, pushing $1 billion and about 2/3 of that comes from the EAME region, guidance for the current quarter is about $1 billion. Should we expect that that might trend higher 4Q in 2012 with more like 2010 levels?

Yeah. I think -- well, first of all, what's really important about just the increase from $17 million to $20 million this quarter is the nature of what type of crews they are. You'll see that the transition zones crew count jumped up to about 2.5, it's what we expect this quarter. And obviously those are higher revenue, higher margin crews. In the fourth quarter, I think we could probably expect a slight increase from the $20 in the third quarter and then, similar levels in first quarter as Canada comes back on.

Okay. Do you expect further growth from the Canada moving higher but U.S. also, do you anticipate further crew count growth there as well?

I would – I'm more focused on continued price increases than showing more crews at it. I said the price – the increase in price has certainly got back to where 2008 is, but in 2008, our average crew had 6,000 channels on it and now we look at that crews today and they've got 12,000 or even 15,000 channels. So we're still not getting the return that we should get for the amount of equipment that we're deploying in the field. So my view on that is that I would hope that prices continue to increase. It's certainly our bidding philosophy. And we've got the full back of the multi-client and we get a proprietary job, we put a higher price on it, and then we figure out a way to get it done soon so that they'll pay the higher price. So I'm focused more on getting more out of what we've got rather than adding more crews at this time.

Okay, thanks.

Your next question comes from the line of [ph] Gurab Vubar (39:14) of Nomura Securities. Please proceed.

All right. Thank you. Good morning. I just had a quick follow-up on the discussion for the credit facility, the revolver. Is there any prepayment penalties or what is your ability to prepay if you aren't able to get a kind of better financing agreement from some other counterparty?

There are – there is a fee associated that writes just down, that you can repay it. But a lot of it depends on -- for example, if you were to do equity raise, you can pay it off in full with a much – a minimum fee, I want to say, it's 1%. So there's various mechanisms to address that issue in the credit facility.

Is there just a simple prepayment, if you got just another credit facility?

Yes, there is.

Okay. And what's the fee for that?

I think it's 3%.

Okay, thank you.

This concludes the Q&A portion of the call. I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Dick Miles for closing remarks.

Thank you, everybody, for your interest in Geokinetics. We look forward to reporting Q3 numbers to you in early November. Thank you, bye.

Thank you for your participation in today's conference. This concludes the presentation. You may now disconnect. Have a great day.