corrected transcript


Geokinetics, Inc.
 
GOK
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
May 7, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


PARTICIPANTS


Corporate Participants


Scott A. McCurdy
 
– Member, Texas Society of Certified Public Accountants


Richard F. Miles
 
– President, Chief Executive Officer & Director


Other Participants


Collin Gerry
 
– Research Associate, Raymond James & Associates


Veny Aleksandrov
 
– Research Analyst, Pritchard Capital Partners LLC


Pierre E. Conner
 
– President & Chief Executive Officer, Capital One Southcoast, Inc.


Maryana Kushnir
 
– Analyst, Nomura Asset Management U.S.A., Inc.


K. Adam Leight
 
– Research Analyst, RBC Capital Markets Equity Research


Alan Strasser
 
– Junior Analyst, Cooper Creek Partners Management LLC


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for standing by. Welcome to the


Geokinetics’ First Quarter 2010 Earnings Conference Call. During today’s presentation, all parties


will be in a listen-only mode. Following the presentation, the conference will be open for questions.


[Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded today, Friday, May 7, 2010.


I would now like to turn the conference over to Senior Vice President, Mr. Scott McCurdy. Please


go ahead, sir.


Scott A. McCurdy, Member, Texas Society of Certified Public Accountants


Thank you, Operator. Good morning and welcome to Geokinetics’ First Quarter 2010 conference


call. With me today is Dick Miles, President and Chief Executive Officer. Before I turn the call over


to Dick, I have a few items to cover.


If you would like to be added to the company’s email distribution list, please contact, DRG&E at


713-529-6600 and relay that information to them. If you would like to listen to a replay of today’s


call, it’s available via webcast by going to the Investor Relations section of the company’s website


at geokinetics.com or via recorded instant replay until May 21. Information on how to access the


replay was provided in our previous earnings release.


Let me remind you that certain statements made by us during this call may constitute forward-


looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All


statements regarding the Company’s future performance are forward-looking statements. These


forward-looking statements are based on management’s current expectations and include known


and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which the Company is unable to


predict or control, that may cause the Company’s actual future results or performance to materially


differ from any future results or performance expressed or implied by those statements.


A discussion of these and other factors including risks and uncertainties is set forth in the


Company’s Form 10-Ks and 10-Qs filed with the SEC. Any forward-looking statements speak only


as of the date on which such statement is made and Geokinetics undertakes no obligation to


correct or update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future


events, or otherwise. During this conference call, Geokinetics will make references to EBITDA,
corrected transcript


Geokinetics, Inc.
 
GOK
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
May 7, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


which is a non-GAAP financial measure. A definition and reconciliation of this non-GAAP measure


to the applicable GAAP measure can be found in Geokinetics’ current earnings release. A copy of


which is located on our website, geokinetics.com. I would now like to turn the call over to Dick


Miles, the company’s President and Chief Executive Officer.


Richard F. Miles, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director


Thank you, Scott. Good morning and welcome to Geokinetics’ First Quarter 2010 Conference Call.


This morning I will begin by briefly recapping our first quarter results. Scott will then follow with a


detailed discussion of our financial results and operating activities. I will end the call by providing


you a preliminary outlook for the remainder of 2010, and after that, we will be happy to answer your


questions. I would also like to remind everyone that as usual, we will not be providing earnings


guidance.


We were clearly disappointed with our financial results in the first quarter, as we are still navigating


through tough times. Following a difficult second half of 2009, this year was getting off to a slow


start and we continue to get hit by weakness in both the international and domestic seismic


markets. We continue to be affected by the weakness in both data acquisition and processing


activity levels in North America and the international markets, along with a very competitive pricing


environment for seismic work worldwide.


We experienced very low utilization in most of our markets and we have performed minimal


transition work so far this year. Also, for most of the first quarter, the ocean-bottom cable crew was


not utilized. As a result, we had a greater reliance on lower-margin land contracts, many of which


were wrapping up existing contracts during the quarter.


With the acquisition of PGS Onshore, we added crews in Mexico, Libya and the U.S. While our first


quarter results were negatively impacted by continued delays in contract awards, we have recently


won three shallow water projects totaling approximately $80 million, one of which was started early


in the second quarter.


The other two will start in the third quarter and we expect to have our ocean-bottom-cable crew and


one large transition zone crew operating during the third quarter on these projects. Two of the


projects have a very high likelihood of being extended after the first phase is completed.


Additionally, we expect further awards that will require the deployment of the second ocean-bottom-


cable crew sometime in the second half of the year. Still, the timing and uncertainty of new project


awards is unpredictable, and we expect our second quarter to be difficult as well. However, we are


optimistic about opportunities for our services later this year, both in North America and in


international markets. I will have some additional remarks regarding these prospects following


Scott’s discussion of the financials.


Moving on to a summary of the quarter, we reported $105 million in revenues with 28% decline


from the first quarter of 2009, and our gross margin decreased to 21% in 2010 first quarter from


26% in last year’s first quarter.


The EBITDA was $1.8 million compared to $25.4 million in the same period last year. The recent


quarter included $1.5 million of one-time transaction costs associated with the acquisition of PGS


Onshore. As of March 31, 2010 we had a total channel count of 201,100 channels, slightly down


from last quarter on a pro-forma basis as a result of lost and retired equipment. We will continue to


invest in assets and technologies that will allow us to more effectively and profitably utilize our


recording channels. Backlog increased by almost $50 million during the first quarter to


approximately $428 million, and includes backlog contributed from the PGS Onshore acquisition.