corrected transcript


Geokinetics, Inc.
 
GOK
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
May 17, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


PARTICIPANTS


Corporate Participants


Scott M. Zuehlke
 
– Director-Investor Relations


Richard F. Miles
 
– President, Chief Executive Officer & Director


Gary L. Pittman
 
– Chief Financial Officer, Director & EVP


Other Participants


J. Marshall Adkins
 
– Director of Energy Research, Raymond James & Associates


Veny Aleksandrov
 
– Research Analyst, Pritchard Capital Partners LLC


K. Adam Leight
 
– Research Analyst, RBC Capital Markets Equity Research


Kevin Bartholomew Goldstein
 
– Director of Research, Great Gable Partners LP


Maryana Kushnir
 
– Analyst, Nomura Asset Management U.S.A., Inc.


Michael Marino
 
– Analyst, Stephens, Inc.


Todd Cranston Morgan
 
– Head of High Yield Research, Oppenheimer Securities


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2011 Geokinetics


Incorporated Earnings Conference Call. My name is Jasmine and I’ll be your operator for today. At


this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer


session. [Operator instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded for replay


purposes.


And now, I’d like to turn the conference over to your host for today to Mr. Scott Zuehlke, Director of


Investor Relations. You may proceed.


Scott M. Zuehlke, Director-Investor Relations


Thank you, Jasmine. Good morning and welcome to Geokinetics First Quarter 2011 Conference


Call. With me on the call today are Dick Miles, President and Chief Executive Officer; Gary Pittman,


Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Diana Moore, Vice President and Chief


Accounting Officer.


Before I turn the call over to Dick, I have a few items to cover. If you’d like to listen to a replay of


today’s call, it’s available via webcast by going to the Investor Relations section of the company’s


website at geokinetics.com or via a recorded instant replay until May 13th. Information on how to


access the replay was provided in the earnings release issued yesterday.


Let me remind you that certain statements made by us during this call may constitute forward-


looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All


statements regarding the company’s future performance are forward-looking statements. These


forward-looking statements are based on management’s current expectations and include known


and unknown risks and uncertainties and other factors, many of which the company is unable to


predict or control and may cause the company’s actual future results or performance to materially


differ from any future results or performance expressed or implied by those statements.


A discussion of these and other factors including risks and uncertainties is set forth in the


company’s Form 10-K’s and 10-Q’s filed with the SEC. Any forward-looking statements speak only
corrected transcript


Geokinetics, Inc.
 
GOK
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
May 17, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


as of the date on which such statement is made and Geokinetics undertakes no obligation to


correct or update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future


events, or otherwise.


During this conference call, Geokinetics will make references to EBITDA, which is a non-GAAP


financial measure. The definition and reconciliation of this non-GAAP measure to the applicable


GAAP measure can be found in the Geokinetics’ current earnings release, a copy of which is


located on our website at geokinetics.com.


I would now like to turn the call over to Dick Miles, the company’s President and Chief Executive


Officer.


Richard F. Miles, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director


Thank you, Scott. Good morning and welcome to Geokinetics First Quarter 2011 Conference Call. I


will now briefly summarize our first quarter and provide commentary on our current outlook. Gary


will then follow with a discussion of our financial results, and after that, we will take your questions. I


would also like to remind everyone that, as usual, we’ll not be providing earnings guidance.


The first quarter was negatively impacted by inclement weather in the United States, Brazil, Mexico,


and Australia. The results were further hindered by startup costs and startup delays on the ocean


bottom cable project in Mexico, which was primarily due to the fact that the ocean bottom cable


project in Indonesia lasted longer than expected and the ocean bottom cable equipment being used


in Indonesia was needed in Mexico.


We commenced the ocean bottom cable project in Mexico without a full complement of equipment


and, thus, production rates did not reach their full potential until the latter part of this quarter. There


is always a fair amount of weather downtime expected during the first quarter of every year, but this


year was especially harsh and wet. Despite the inclement weather in the United States, we were


able to recognize $29.1 million in revenue related to our multi-client business in the first quarter.


As a reminder, multi-client revenue is recognized in two different ways depending on whether we


conduct a survey with our joint venture partner, Geophysical Pursuit, or we acquire the data


ourselves. If we shoot the survey as a joint venture, we cannot recognize the revenue until the data


has been processed and delivered to our partner, which they in turn then have to deliver to our


customers. For this reason, multi-client results may be lumpy from quarter to quarter. When we


acquire the multi-clients survey alone, we recognize that revenue much like we do our propriety


work, which is recognized at specific milestones as the projects progress. Furthermore, multi-client


late sales cannot be predicted, but are recognized in the period in which they occur. For reference,


we had $2.4 million in late sales during the first quarter and we are hopeful for incremental late


sales as the year continues.


Visibility in the North American markets, specifically in the United States, is good. Projects we are


bidding on now will not be started for several months. During the first quarter, we received bid


requests for approximately $455 million of work in the United States, which was up 48%


sequentially, and we currently have roughly $565 million of bids outstanding, of which $441 million


is for multi-client work. Demand is outstripping supply in the United States, as all of our recording


equipment in this market is being fully utilized. In an effort to alleviate the current supply constraint


in the U.S., we are leasing approximately 13,000 channels and have moved additional recording


equipment to the U.S. from Trinidad, Australia, Colombia, and Canada, all of which will allow us to


execute on our existing backlog.