corrected transcript


Geokinetics, Inc.
 
GOK
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 10, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


PARTICIPANTS


Corporate Participants


Scott M. Zuehlke
 
– Director-Investor Relations


Richard F. Miles
 
– President, Chief Executive Officer & Director


Gary L. Pittman
 
– Chief Financial Officer & EVP


Other Participants


Chris Butschek
 
– Senior Research Associate, Raymond James


Veny Aleksandrov
 
– Research Analyst, Pritchard Capital Partners LLC


K. Adam Leight
 
– Managing Director and Head, High Yield Research, RBC Capital Markets


Jonathan Donnel
 
– Research Associate, Howard Weil, Inc.


Michael Prouting
 
– Owner & Portfolio Manager, 10K Capital LLC


Mariano Perez
 
– Event Driven / Special Siutations Analyst, Care Capital Group


Alan Strasser
 
– Junior Analyst, Cooper Creek Partners Management LLC


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to Geokinetics’ 2010 Earnings


Conference Call. My name is Carma and I’ll be your coordinator for today. At this time, all


participants are in a listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions]


I would now like to turn the call over to your host for today, Mr. Scott Zuehlke, Director of Investor


Relations. Please proceed.


Scott M. Zuehlke, Director-Investor Relations


Thank you, Carma. Good morning and welcome to Geokinetics’ Third Quarter 2010 Conference


Call. With me on the call today are Dick Miles, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Gary


Pittman, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Before I turn the call over to Dick, I


have a few items to cover.


If you would like to be added to the company’s email distribution list, please contact DRGNL at 713-


529-6600 and relay that information to them. If you’d like to listen to a replay of today’s call, it is


available via webcast by going to the Investor Relations section of the company’s website at


geokinetics.com or via recorded instant replay until November 17. Information on how to access the


replay was provided in the earnings release issued yesterday.


Let me remind you that certain statements made by us during this call may constitute forward-


looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All


statements regarding the company’s future performance are forward-looking statements. These


forward-looking statements are based on management’s current expectations and include known


and unknown risks and uncertainties and other factors, many of which the company is unable to


predict or control that may cause the company’s actual future results or performance to materially


differ from any future results or performance expressed or implied by those statements.


A discussion of these and other factors including risks and uncertainties is set forth in the


company’s Form 10-Ks and 10-Qs filed with the SEC. Any forward-looking statements speak only


as of the date on which such statement is made, and Geokinetics undertakes no obligation to
corrected transcript


Geokinetics, Inc.
 
GOK
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 10, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


correct or update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future


events or otherwise.


During this conference call, Geokinetics will make references to EBITDA, which is a non-GAAP


financial measure. Definition and reconciliation of this non-GAAP measure to the applicable GAAP


measure can be found in Geokinetics’ current earnings release, a copy of which is located on our


website at geokinetics.com.


I would now like to turn the call over to Dick Miles, the company’s President and Chief Executive


Officer.


Richard F. Miles, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director


Thank you, Scott.


Good morning, and welcome to Geokinetics’ Third-Quarter 2010 Conference Call.


Before I begin, I’d like to officially welcome Gary Pittman to the company as our Executive Vice


President and Chief Financial Officer. We are excited to have Gary on board and we look forward


to his contribution and leadership. I will now briefly summarize our third quarter results and provide


commentary on our current outlook. I would also like to remind everyone that as usual, we will not


be providing earnings guidance.


As previously discussed on the second quarter call, we expected third quarter results to be only


slightly better than the second quarter results due to continued weak activity levels, competitive


pricing and delays in contract awards. However, the third quarter was also negatively impacted by


the following: weak late sales related to our Multi-Client data library, as we booked $2.9 million in


late sales during the quarter compared to $9.8 million in the second quarter of this year; startup


delays on our ocean bottom cable crew in Canada and the ocean bottom cable crew in Indonesia;


weather downtime in Australia, approximately 3 weeks due to massive flooding in a desert area.


The last time it rained that hard in that area was 125 years ago; and a two-week delay due to


hurricane Carl in Mexico. The good news is that majority of the cruise we expect to be generating


revenue in the fourth quarter started working towards the end of September or early October. We


also expect significant contribution from our Multi-Client business giving us confidence that the


results for the fourth quarter should show meaningful sequential improvement.


We reported revenues of $134 million in the third quarter which was a sequential improvement of


12%. The quarter-over-quarter improvement was driven by increased contribution from our Multi-


Client business and higher crew utilization in North America, both in the U.S. and in Canada where


we utilized the world’s first air transportable four-component ocean bottom cable crew for most of


the quarter.


Third quarter EBITDA was $1.5 million, an increase of $5.2 million when compared to the preceding


quarter. Gross margin improved by approximately 2% quarter-over-quarter to 16% and can be


attributed to an increase contribution from the Multi-Client business in the U.S.


Utilization has recovered nicely in North America, and hence, overcapacity issues have abated and


pricing has improved marginally. In fact, we recently leased approximately 6,800 channels of


equipment in Texas due to the fact that the rest of our recording equipment is being fully utilized in


the U.S.


We currently have four Multi-Client crews working in the Marcellus Shale and one Multi-Client crew


working in the Haynesville Shale and 3 proprietary line crews working in other areas of the U.S. We


expect to have all five of these Multi-Client crews to remain working throughout the fourth quarter.