corrected transcript


GeoPharma, Inc.
 
GORX
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 17, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, and welcome to the GeoPharma Incorporated First Quarter 2010 Earnings


Conference Call. Today’s conference is being recorded.


This conference call may contain statements, which constitute forward-looking statements within


the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including those regarding the


company and its subsidiaries’ expectations, intentions, strategies and beliefs pertaining to future


performance. All statements contained herein are based upon information available to the


company’s management as of the date hereof, and actual results may vary based upon future


events, both within and without management’s control. Important factors that could cause such


differences are described in the company’s periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange


Commission.


At this time, I’d like to turn the conference over to Mr. Mihir Taneja. Please go ahead, sir.


Mihir K. Taneja, Chief Executive Officer


Thank you. Thank you, everyone for being on our first quarter conference call. This quarter was


really a – we believe a turning point for our business, which I’ll get into discussing further in the call.


A few exciting things have occurred. One primary thing that I’d like to touch on is, people will see an


increase in our gross margins, which is very encouraging to show that our core businesses are


really getting more confident and we’re picking up a better type of business.


During the first quarter, we did few strategic cuts. These cuts allowed us to really – they allowed us


to really curtail our SG&A and really allow us to really focus on our core business. Despite our


lower revenues, people will notice a higher increase in margins. That’s really once again very


exciting for us, because that does focus on our two core components and our two operating units,


which is our Pharmaceutical and our Nutritional Manufacturing businesses. What people will notice


is a significant increase in our Pharma side, which we’ll get into discussing shortly as well as an


increase in margins in our Contract Manufacturing unit.


We were – revenues were down. Despite that, we are fairly confident that we’ll be gaining some


new business. This quarter is historically a lower quarter for us. Manufacturing, in general, is


normally down. It has been historically due to the peaks and valleys in the industry we are in. But


we are entering the season for the next two quarters that should allow us to see a spike in revenue.


This is from our core customer base as well as the pick-up of new customers that we have just


recently brought on-board.


We are very encouraged by that because these new customers are adding a new dynamic to our


business. They are larger-sized customers, we’ve already begun manufacturing some and we’re


beginning to manufacture some others, which should be reflective in the up and coming quarters.


The Carprofen, which is our pharmaceutical drug, which is the generic of Rimadyl, Pfizer’s NSAID


for animals is going quite well. We’ve seen a spike in revenues from previous quarters and previous


years. We ended the quarter at about $582,000 in revenue, which is very nice from the respect that


it’s being received well, distributors are getting it out there, and the product is being well accepted.


We do expect that that should only continue to grow and allow us to gain greater margins and help


offset some of the losses.


What people will notice is that our gross margins did go up considerably on the 66% to $1.3 million


versus 784,000 from the previous quarter or the first quarter of previous year. That’s once again


really exciting, because we did have less revenues. We’ve just now picked up better types of
corrected transcript


GeoPharma, Inc.
 
GORX
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 17, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


business that will allow us to really exert less energy, less SG&A to increase more gross profits. So


we’re very pleased with that.


We – in addition to that, our SG&A, we did decrease that to approximately 12.5%. Carol will discuss


that later on. We’re hoping to see further decreases in SG&A, as we move forward.


R&D; this is pretty interesting part of our business. Our R&D was considerably less than previous


quarters as well as the first quarter of 2009. That’s really due to the fact that much of what we’ve


done in the past year is now finally going into a state where we don’t require too much R&D. Until


we receive approvals and we gain some fruits of our labor, we’re trying to keep that R&D expense


fairly low.


Once again, we’ve invested considerable amount that R&D is really attributable to the Pharma


segment and we’re waiting for additional approvals. And that we’ve spoken about a Cephalexin and


an Amoxicillin approval imminently. We do expect that to be the case. Once that happens, the


money generated from those items will allow us to further increase R&D and continue to grow that


side of the business.


So we did – as everyone knows or may not know, we have discontinued the operation of BOSS.


That was really due to us wanting to focus on our core business. We feel that the margins that


we’re able to gain from manufacturing and distributing of pharmaceuticals is much greater and


much of our time should be focused on those types of business models versus low margin items.


Our revenue has obviously gone down due to discontinuing those operations, but our margins have


gone up. And we do expect that margins will continue to go up as we pick up better types of


business and we increase our drug platform.


Having said all that, I will turn the call over to Carol, who’ll discuss more in-depth details of


financials.


Carol Dore-Falcone, Senior Vice-President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you. Good morning, everyone. My name is Carol Dore-Falcone. I am the Senior Vice


President and Chief Financial Officer of GeoPharma. I do intend to go over the financial results of


the company more thoroughly, as well as I will hit what I think are some high points of interest and


then I’ll open the call for detailed questions, which will guide the balance of our conference call.


As Mr. Taneja highlighted, our revenues did decrease approximately $1.2 million to 5.2 million


versus 6.4 million for the three months ended June 30, 2008. Comprised in that decrease will be a


comparison of Manufacturing revenues of 4.6 million for the current quarter as compared to


approximately 6.2 for the previous period in June 2008 and increasing within that was our


Pharmaceutical revenue, which was approximately 582,000 for the June ‘09 quarter as compared


to 124,000 for the June ‘08 quarter.


As Mr. Taneja referenced, gross profit increased approximately $515,000 or approximately 55% to


approximately $1.3 million for the three months ended June ‘09 as compared to $785,000 for the


three-month period June ‘08.


Total gross margins also increased to approximately a blended rate of 25.2% for the three months


ended June 30, ‘09, and that would be as compared to 12.2% for the three months ended June ‘08.


Manufacturing gross profits remained constant at approximately 1.6 million even though revenues


declined with the margin increasing for Manufacturing to 34.5% for June ‘09 and that’s in


comparison to 25% for the three months ended June ‘08.