corrected transcript


GeoPharma, Inc.
 
GORX
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
Jun. 30, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day and welcome to the GeoPharma Fiscal Year 2009 Conference Call. Today’s


conference is being recorded.


This conference call may contain statements which constitute forward-looking statements within the


meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including those regarding the


company and its subsidiaries’ expectations, intentions, strategies and beliefs pertaining to future


performance. All statements contained herein are based upon the information available to the


company’s management as of the date hereof, and actual results may vary based upon future


events both within the Exchange management’s control. Important factors that could cause such


differences are described in the company’s periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange


Commission.


At this time, I’d like to turn the conference over to Mihir Taneja. Please go ahead.


Mihir K. Taneja, Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, everyone, for being on the call. We’d like to discuss the fiscal year 2000 (sic) [2009]


results of GeoPharma. GeoPharma, we ended up at about 63 million approximately in revenue for


the year, which was an increase of almost 15% over the same period the previous year. Revenues


for the fourth quarter were approximately $14 million, which did represent an increase of almost 6%


of the revenues compared to the previous year third quarter.


2009 was a challenging year for GeoPharma. We really began to understand our business, we


suffered some losses in the business, we’ve realized where our core competencies lie, and we’ve


really decided to move forward focusing on our core businesses. We experienced losses in most of


our segments really due to a variety of reasons. I’m not going to go ahead and tell you that the


economy really hurt our business. We were affected by a variety of different, other different things.


For example, our Manufacturing, we did experience losses. We did lose some clients over the year.


However, we are very encouraged by the fact that our Manufacturing is growing considerably. We


have picked up some new business on a go-forward basis, which we feel that our Manufacturing


will be stronger than ever. In this previous year, we did face some of our clients who were affected


by the economy, which in turn did affect us. But for the most part, when we’re slow it’s due to the


fact that we’re not getting enough business.


We have really started to focus on our Manufacturing and focus on our core aspect of our business.


As a result, we’ve been fairly successful over the past several months in acquiring new business,


new business that is considerably sizable. So that has been a great focus of ours is really trying to


operate our business very efficiently, effectively and really focus on our Manufacturing. We had


decided to discontinue a few operations, which Carol will discuss as we continue on this call.


Our Pharmaceutical business, although we are still losing money from that segment, we have


achieved the greatest results in the history of our business with respect to that Pharmaceutical side.


We had almost $2 million in revenue and we continue to see that business increase. And that’s


really due to the selling of our Carprofen. We have gained acceptance in the market, we continue to


grow that brand and we’re continuing to acquire new relationships and other potential customers.


We are in the process of discussions with additional marketers and distributors of that product and


we are hoping to see considerable results from that product in the next coming year.


One thing that we’ve repeatedly discussed over the quarters is really lack there of approvals. We’ve


been waiting for our Cephalexin approval. We’ve seen that market grow considerably while we’ve


been waiting. There’s been dramatic increases in prices for Cephalexin. We are hopeful that we are
corrected transcript


GeoPharma, Inc.
 
GORX
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
Jun. 30, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


seeking and will receive an approval in the near-term. We’ve received some feedback from the


FDA and now we’re just waiting for finalization so we can actually launch and get that product


approved. We do feel that once that product is launched, we will see a considerable increase in


revenues from our Pharma side, which will then hopefully help to offset some of these losses.


Going back to our Manufacturing segment, we do see that the next coming quarters will be some of


our largest in Manufacturing in the history of GeoPharma. Those margins are fairly sizable that will


help to contribute against offsetting this loss on a go-forward basis. We’ve really looked and refined


our business. We’ve decided, we’ve cut costs from a variety of different places. Myself, Carol, Dr.


Kotha, J. [Jugal] Taneja, we’ve all taken salary cuts to show that we are very committed to this


business. We’re trying to cut costs and trim the fat from every section of the business that we can.


We look at reducing head count in our core businesses only to help refine our operation.


So as it stands, we are looking forward to the future years because we really realize that our core


business, our Pharmaceutical and our Manufacturing, is really what we understand and what we


know best. With that, we’re able to eventually get to profitability.


So right now, I will pass the call on to Carol, and she’ll discuss the financials as well as the


discontinued operations as some people may be confused on the way the results are reporting.


Carol?


Carol Dore-Falcone, Senior Vice-President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Mr. Taneja. To all I would like to just welcome you to the call today. And what I’d like to


do as far as an agenda to set peoples’ expectations is I will go over the year-end results


highlighting certain high points as it relates to differences than what people may expect and how


things are presented on the financials. Also as a clarification point, the processor of our press


release omitted $1.7 million of top line revenue related to Pharmaceuticals. So we will be putting


out a correcting press release immediately after this call from that standpoint and I will go over that


further.


Overall revenues on a continuing basis was approximately $22 million, which again includes


approximately $20.2 million of Manufacturing and approximately $1.7 million of Pharmaceutical. Of


that there was a total gross profit of $2.9 million. Of that $2.9 million of gross profit, $4.9 million


related to gross profits from Manufacturing and approximately a $2 million gross profit deficit related


to Pharmaceutical.


Moving forward, continuing operations as it relates to SG&A was approximately $13.6 million.


Depreciation was approximately $2 million. Stock-compensation expense was approximately $1.5


million.


Some unique things that occurred towards the fourth quarter and within the fourth quarter was the


gain on the sale of Acellis. The gross gain on the sale of Acellis was approximately $3.8 million.


Based on the future pay-off of the various sale and the intricacies surrounding the sale, there was


an allowance taken. So the net gain on the sale was approximately $2.3 million as reported full


accrual basis.


Interest expense net was approximately $1.7 million. Keep in mind that all of that interest expense


net of the 1.7 is non-cash basis because interest is paid primarily in common stock based on our


convertible debt. So that gives total other income and expense net effect positive income, other


income of 2.3 million. So that is a loss from continuing operations before income taxes and minority


interest of 11.8 million.