corrected transcript


GeoPharma, Inc.
 
GORX
 
Q3 2008 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 14, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Third Quarter 2008 GeoPharma


Incorporated Earnings Conference Call. My name is Tim, and I will be your operator for today. At


this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. We will conduct a question-and-answer session


towards the end of this conference. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being


recorded for replay purposes.


I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Mihir Taneja, CEO. Please proceed, sir.


Carol Dore-Falcone, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Good morning. Mr. Taneja will commence the call as announced in a moment. I just, for formality


purposes, wanted to discuss the concept of forward-looking statements.


This press release and this conference call may contain statements which constitute forward-


looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995,


including those regarding the Company and its subsidiaries, its expectations, its intentions, its


strategies and its believes pertaining to future performance. All statements discussed here as well


is published here and in the conference and press release are based upon information available to


the Company’s management as of the date hereof, and actual results may vary based upon future


events, both within and without management’ s control. Important factors that could cause such


differences are described more fully in our periodic filing 10-Q filing and 10-K filings with the


Securities and Exchange Commission.


To that, I’ll turn the call over to Mr. Taneja.


Mihir K. Taneja, Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, everyone, for being on our call. We would like to let everyone know how excited we are


with the progress that GeoPharma has made over this past quarter. As everyone can see, we


ended up the quarter, with about $18.2 million in revenue, which was a vast increase over our


previous quarter, as well as being one of the -- being the highest quarter of revenue that we’ve ever


achieved. So we’re very pleased about our growth.


What we have -- we’ve noticed a lot of very positive things that have occurred for us this quarter.


That will help lay the foundation for future quarters. Our manufacturing business is going quite well.


We’ve picked up some new contracts. It’s allowed us to grow that business; it’s allowed us to


increase our margins, and really increase our revenues.


We do expect that we do have additional contracts that will be coming in, in the next quarters. Last


quarter, I did announce that we did pick up a very sizable contract, where we were waiting for some


custom componentry which had not arrived as of last quarter, but has arrived now. So we will


commence the manufacturing of that. It’s a very sizable piece of our business that will keep one of


our -- our liquid production busy for about 16 hours a day. So we’re very pleased about that, to


actually start that production.


In addition to that, we have picked up some additional new manufacturing. So we are looking


forward for that to aid in our pursuit of profitability in the next -- short term. We -- our branded


products division is going quite well. We have launched our new product; we have launched our


new advertising. The product seems to be received well amongst the retailers. We do anticipate a


fair amount of television, as well as print advertising to occur in the next -- this quarter as well as
corrected transcript


GeoPharma, Inc.
 
GORX
 
Q3 2008 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 14, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


the up-and-coming quarters. We do expect that that will -- that brand will regain its footing from


where it was once in the past, along with the addition of our new line item, which is the DEX-C20.


We’re most pleased about the acquisition with Dynamic. Dynamic has really contributed quite well


to our revenue base. It seems that we have digested the acquisition fairly well, and we are looking


forward to receiving much incremental benefits from the Dynamic acquisition.


The pharmaceutical segment, which is really what I’d like to spend some time talking about, as


everyone will see, we did about $18.2 million for the quarter. We lost about $1.67 million, which is


an improvement over the $1.9 million loss from the previous quarter. What I can tell you is that $1.6


million loss is pretty much solely attributable -- attributed to the pharmaceutical segment. If we were


to back out that segment, we would be a profitable business.


So having said that we are most pleased to be launching our drugs. We have a very nice pipeline.


We have -- we did receive an approval. We do have a couple of other items that we’ll be launching


this quarter as well that will -- or, I’m sorry -- either late this quarter or early the following quarter


that will attribute to the increase in our revenues as well as potentially get that facility to a


breakeven level or a profitable level in the short term.


We do have several desi items that will be launching. We’ve already picked up purchase orders for


-- we are sitting on almost $0.5 million in purchase orders that we’re looking at shipping out in the


first part of April, so we’re very pleased about that. We do have a couple additional other desi


items that are coming down very shortly, that will increase probably another $300,000 potentially a


month in revenue.


And on top of that, we have our Carprofen. Our Carprofen looks like it’s coming to a really good


start. We do have a list of orders and time lines to ship for our clients. So we do feel that once our


facilities from that respect, generate revenue, that will only get us to where we expect to be, which


is at a profitable level. We have received word that the FDA will be reviewing our Cephalosporin or


cephalexin application in March, April. We are very excited to be able to start producing cephalexin


because of what we feel we have a strong footing in the market. We believe currently that we will


be able to sell more than we can produce. And once again, that will only add to our profitability or


getting us to profitability.


Right now, our manufacturing and distribution business has been supporting our pharmaceutical


segment. When we would like to have it quite the opposite way; we’d like to have our


pharmaceutical supporting our manufacturing. If we can get both pieces of business, working at the


same time, it will be quite a profitable venture. But I’d like to also expand upon the licensing of our


medical device. We had previously announced that we have licensed technology for the detection


or potentially a monitoring device for ovarian cancer. That is progressing quite well. We’ve put


together a very nice plan that we expect to be meeting with the FDA on, and we expect that that


plan will be able to come to fruition in the next short term. We expect that we’ll have to do some


clinicals. We do expect that our methodology of how we are approaching the FDA will prove to be


successful.


And having said that, I will pass the call over to Carol Dore-Falcone to further expand on the


financials.


Carol Dore-Falcone, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Mr. Taneja. Hi, good morning. This is Carol Dore-Falcone, and I’m Vice President and


Chief Financial Officer of GeoPharma. What I’d like to do is give an overview of our results for the


quarter, get into a little bit of the segment performance, and then probably open the floor to


questions, so that we can fill in any of the gaps that anyone may have today.