corrected transcript


GeoPharma, Inc.
 
GORX
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 13, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon and welcome to the GeoPharma, Inc. Second Quarter 2009 Earnings


Conference. This call is being recorded. This conference call may contain statements, which


constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform


Act of 1995, including those regarding the Company and its subsidiaries’ expectations, intentions,


strategies and beliefs pertaining to future performance. All statements contained herein are based


upon information available to the Company’s management as of the date hereof and actual results


may vary based upon future events both within and without management’s control.


Important factors that could cause such differences are described in the Company’s periodic filings


with the Securities and Exchange Commission. At this time, I would like to turn the conference over


to Mihir Taneja, CEO of GeoPharma. Please go ahead.


Mihir K. Taneja, Chief Executive Officer


Thank you. Thank you everyone for being on our second quarter 2009 conference call. As


everyone has seen our revenues have increased for the six months ended 2009. The company


continues to grow revenue throughout a variety of our segments. However, we have still been


experiencing a loss, which we are going to discuss today and we’re going show you guys how we


expect to see the business turnaround in the near-term.


As for this quarter, revenues were based off of our manufacturing, our distribution and partly of our


pharmaceutical division. We’re very pleased that our Pharma division is finally generating revenue.


We’re expecting to see more and more revenue coming out of that division, which will reduce the


burden derived from that segment of our business. Our core manufacturing business has continued


to hold steady despite the climate. We have seen a level of our business decrease slightly due to


the overall climate in the economy. In speaking with a variety of our customers, they have


experienced slight slowdowns in business, they have experienced due to the election. They’ve


experienced a higher increase in media cost, which related into reduced acquisition of customers,


as well as a higher acquisition cost, which reduced overall revenues for them, which in turn reduced


revenues for us. Now that the elections are over, we do expect and anticipate to see the revenues


from the manufacturing division grow slightly.


We’re also very pleased that we have procured some new contracts that we’ve been working for


quite some time. It looks like they have now come aboard and we’re beginning the manufacturing


process that should help our bottom line as well. That’s a piece of business where it’s tolling work


which will allow us to generate profits generated from labor, so which is a very high margin for us


due the fact that there is no or little – very little cost of goods.


Through our Distribution segment we’ve notice our business is growing, and we have really two


facets of that division. There is the distribution of branded products for other companies to a variety


of independent gyms and health food stores, as well as our branded division, which where we sell


products into major retailers. We have done some new product introductions and we have launched


some new products. They have hit the shelves. They are being received at this time decent, and we


expect that our advertising will be able to continue to make them pull through. However, once again


advertising has been slightly challenging in the past three months due to the elections, so we have


experienced a lull in sales due to the fact that the cost of advertising was somewhat prohibitive for


us. We have – however, we are encouraged by our distribution network of where our products are


sold and we expect that the next quarter should be a significant quarter for us.


The Drug division, going back to that, our one drug that we’ve been producing and selling has been


Carprofen. Carprofen we’ve been shipping and receiving orders quite well. Once again due to


certain irregularities in shipping the product from overseas, we’ve been experiencing some delays.
corrected transcript


GeoPharma, Inc.
 
GORX
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 13, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


However, we have tried to compensate for that, so we have not been able to receive materials in as


fast as we would like. Unfortunately, we have orders waiting to produce these products, however


the materials haven’t been coming in fast enough. We do expect that to improve due to the fact of


getting better logistics methods of transporting that product, the raw material from abroad. We’re


very encouraged by that, because that product is moving fast and quickly, and the sales and


revenue thus far generated has been exciting for us.


As everyone knows, for the past years we’ve been waiting to get our Cephalosporin and our Beta-


Lactam facility up and running. Those facilities have been inspected and we are just waiting for the


FDA to come back and really allow us to produce product. We’ve spoken with the FDA, we are


encouraged and we believe that the FDA will clear our Cephalosporin facility very shortly. We’ve


complied with everything they have requested, we’ve provided everything, and now we’re just in a


little holding pattern. We’ve begun to coordinate the material and begin – ready to begin production.


So we’re very excited about that. We would like to see that happen as we know that as a company


we’ve been looking forward to that and as shareholders many people have been looking forward to


that becoming or coming to fruition.


As some of you may or may not know, much of our burden does come from our Pharmaceutical


division. We are heavily staffed. We have built a wonderful infrastructure to allow us to facilitate


growth as well as new product development and we’re just waiting right now to be able to cover


those costs. We are hopeful and expecting to receive some of these approvals very shortly to be


able to reduce this loss that we’ve experienced. As of this quarter, it was $3.8 million. We do expect


that with these new introductions of some of these new drugs, we will be able to reduce this.


Thirdly, we are, as a company, as many other companies have looked at doing, we are looking at


trying to trim some of the fat, and Carol will go into further discussion about that. But as a company,


we are currently employing upwards of 300 people and we are trying to dramatically reduce that


head count to manage for our current business, as well as trying to become more efficient and run


our business with less people and gain further economies. So, the next two quarters we do expect


vast improvements because of some of the cost-cutting measures, some of the new business that


we’ve acquired and the continued manufacturing in our Carprofen as well as the expectation of


some at least a drug – one more drug approval. Having said that, I will pass the call over to Carol,


who will discuss the financials.


Carol Dore-Falcone, Senior Vice-President, Chief Financial Officer


Good afternoon. This is Carol Dore-Falcone, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and


I welcome you to our second quarter fiscal 2009 September 30 call. As you can see, overall I’ll go


over the financials for the quarter. I’ll discuss some of the details that are important, and then we’ll


talk about some of the effects of not only our cost-cutting measures that we’ve already employed,


but what I see coming as far as cost cutting over the next two quarters, as Mr. Taneja referenced.


For the three months ended September 30, 2008, revenues for the company were approximately


$16 million. That is comprised of 10.9 million for Distribution, 4.5 million for Manufacturing and


534,000 for Pharmaceutical. That should be compared to the three months ended September 30,


2007, of approximately $6 million of revenues, of which 1.4 million was distribution, 4.7 was


manufacturing and there were no pharmaceutical revenues for the three month period, September


30 ‘07.


With that comes gross profit for the three months ended September 30, 2008, of 2.7 million. The


2.7 million of gross profit is comprised of approximately 1.7 million for distribution, 1.6 million for


manufacturing, and a gross profit deficit of approximately $643,000. That should be compared to for


the three months ended September 30, 2007, distribution gross profits of 639,000, 1.3 million for


manufacturing, and a gross profit deficit of approximately 741,000 for pharmaceutical.