corrected transcript


GeoPharma, Inc.
 
GORX
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 24, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day everyone, and welcome to today’s Second Quarter 2010 Earnings conference


call. As a reminder, today’s call is being recorded.


This conference call may contain statements which constitute forward-looking statements within the


meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including those regarding the


Company and its subsidiaries, expectations, intentions, strategies, and beliefs pertaining to the


future performance.


All statements contained herein are based upon information available to the Company’s


management as of the date hereof, and actual results may vary based upon future events both


within and without management’s control. Important factors that could cause such differences are


described in the Company’s periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


At this time, it is my pleasure to turn the call over to GeoPharma’s CEO, Mihir Taneja. Please go


ahead, sir.


Mihir K. Taneja, Chief Executive Officer, Secretary and Director


Thank you. Thank you everyone for being on our second quarter 2010 conference call. This


quarter was a very unique quarter for us. There was a fair amount of rebuilding as well as


restructuring for our business.


Let’s talk about some of the highlights. This quarter, what we had been able to accomplish is we’ve


been able to reduce a significant amount of our workforce. With keeping up with the economic


times in our business, we’ve been looking at trying to streamline a lot of our operations, get more


efficient, and what we’ve able to do is eliminate 20% of our workforce across the board. This


elimination of head count will realize almost $850,000 on an annualized basis.


That’s pretty exciting for us due to the fact that we have been able to eliminate some heads and still


be able to maintain efficiency and growth for productivity. We’ve just decided that we can work a


lot more efficient and smarter with less people, and we’ve been able to, we believe, accomplish


that.


In addition to that, we’ve been able to finalize our agreement with Whitebox. That’s an exciting


thing for us because we’ve been able to pay down $3.5 million in debt with a $1 million cash


payment. So that’s reduced our debt with Whitebox. That’s a very significant thing for us because


it will allow that interest to no longer be accrued.


In addition to that, we’ve been able to finalize and reach a settlement with the American Antibiotic


facility in Baltimore, which is our Beta-Lactam facility. We’re in the midst of getting that in line.


We’ve been – we’re pending some approvals with the FDA, and we’ve been just waiting, and being


that that’s very near term, we realized that it made sense to finally resolve this matter. We’ve been


able to realize $1 million in accrued rents and what not that we’ve been accruing since the inception


of this facility based on this legal matter that we’ve been dealing with. So that’s encouraging for us.


We’ve been doing a lot rebuilding, restructuring once again this quarter. We have finally


commenced or completed the sale of the BOSS asset. That’s good because that business was not


profitable for us, and really now it’s allowed us to get focused on our core competencies and our


core business of manufacturing.


Positively as well is that we see our December quarter orders are starting to be pretty more sizable


than we anticipated which is very good. We do feel that with these orders coming in, our reduced
corrected transcript


GeoPharma, Inc.
 
GORX
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 24, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


workforce should be able to and will be able to complete all of these orders, which will only be a


testament to the realization of lower head count. We’re very encouraged by that.


Our manufacturing is picking up. We look at picking up more and more customers on a daily basis.


There is quite a bit of good business out there. We’ve also changed, really, our model of operating


our manufacturing from the respect that our revenues were down. However, we’re looking at more


of tolling business, business that doesn’t require us to exhaust a tremendous amount of money and


working capital on inventory, whereby many of our suppliers or our customers are providing us


some of their componentry required to complete the orders.


So we are seeing reduced revenue, but we do feel that we’ll see increased margin based on really


providing more of a labor service. So once again the SG&A is decreased, and we expect it to


continue to decrease. We’ve been cherry picking really good jobs out there, jobs that we know are


profitable that can be done quickly. So overall we’ve lost money this quarter. We are obviously


close to last year previous quarter; we are obviously $0.23 versus $0.25. So that’s a little bit


encouraging.


But overall, where this is a quarter of rebuilding, last quarter was rebuilding and restructuring, and


we expect that as soon as we can expect some of these approvals to come in line from Baltimore,


as well as from our facilities here, we’ll be able to show a favorable development for our


shareholders in the balance of 2010. But we do expect some key developments to occur prior to


the end of our fiscal year.


And having said, that I’ll turn the call over to Carol Dore-Falcone, who will further speak about the


financials.


Carol Dore-Falcone, Senior Vice-President, Chief Financial Officer and Director


Thank you, Mr. Taneja. Good morning. This is Carol Dore-Falcone, Senior Vice President and


Chief Financial Officer. I will discuss with you the results of operations, highlights for three months


as well as the six months, then I will go over some of the enhancements and more details of what


Mr. Taneja did mention, and then I will look for more pointed questions from the audience.


Prior to beginning, the one comment Mr. Taneja made that I do want to clarify is in regards to


Whitebox. The opportunity for us to satisfy $3.5 million of the $15 million outstanding with a $1


million cash payment will take place during the month of December. And that already has been


publicly filed in an 8-K during the month of October, but I did just want to clarify that for the


audience.


Moving on, generally speaking overall, as Mr. Taneja discussed, this has been a quarter for


rebuilding, as was the previous quarter. We did feel that it was necessary to reduce our workforce


to achieve some of the benchmarks that were as planned, and we were able to execute that plan


successfully. So as Mr. Taneja discussed, SG&A will benefit from that.


But having said that, revenues for the quarter ended September 30, 2009 were approximately $3.4


million with a gross profit of approximately $600,000. Now what is enclosed in details in that is that


you had Manufacturing revenues of approximately $3 million and Pharmaceutical revenues of


approximately $400,000. You’ve had Manufacturing gross profits on that of approximately


$785,000, and you had a gross profit deficit on the $400,000 of Pharmaceutical revenue of only


approximately $185,000.


Great strides over the past quarter have been made with the Pharmaceutical end of the SG&A and


the cost of goods sold in that the plants are using less of the pre-gross profit that comes from our