corrected transcript


GeoPharma, Inc.
 
GORX
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 2, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by and welcome to the


GeoPharma Incorporated Third Quarter 2010 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all


participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we’ll conduct a question-and-answer session and


instructions for audio questions will be given at that time. [Operator Instructions].


As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. Before we begin it is necessary to read the


following forward-looking statements. This conference call may contain statements which constitute


forward-looking statements within the meanings of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of


1995, including those regarding the company and its subsidiaries, expectations, intentions,


strategies, beliefs pertaining to the future performances.


All statements contained herein are based upon information available to the company’s


management as of the date hereof, and actual results may vary based upon future events both


within and without management’s control. Important factors that could cause such differences are


described in the company’s periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


I would now like to turn the conference over to our speakers GeoPharma’s CEO, Mihir Taneja and


GeoPharma CFO Carol Dore-Falcone. You may begin.


Mihir K. Taneja, Chief Executive Officer


Thank you everyone for being on the call. We’d like to discuss the third quarter results as well as


what GeoPharma is doing going forward and our future developments. I think in the third quarter,


our revenues were slightly lower at about almost $2.8 million of previous quarters and our losses at


a net loss of about 19 versus $0.26 from the previous period year prior. That is an improvement for


us actually pleased to see that some of the things that we put into effect are working, you know


we’ve worked diligently at doing cost containment, refining our operations, improving our margins


and looking at different avenues of business to better serve our model.


We have been focusing on our core business which has been manufacturing as well as our –


manufacturing of over-the-counters pharmaceuticals (2.20) as well as our drug facilities. And we’re


going to be speaking about both of them very shortly here.


From the manufacturing side, due to certain cash restrictions that we face at GeoPharma we’ve


been opting for doing different types of work that is proving to be more profitable and yielding


higher margin and that is a lot of following work (2.40) work that a lot of our customers provide us


some of the essential components. This allow us to just do strict manufacturing, allows us to not


really outlay too much cash however, allows us to pickup share margin. That model has been doing


well, that model also results in lower revenues for us. We do feel that our cash position is slightly


improving as we go forward by continuing to do the profitable job with higher margin allows us to


continue to satisfy our customers in a fashion that they are used to dealing with. We have gone out,


we’ve picked up some really good business [inaudible] it looks like it’s a long-term business,


business that allowing us to continue operating in a positive fashion.


In respect to the drug facilities, we’re very – we’re very pleased that that’s occurring right now, we


just received not necessarily the proof of that in, okay with our Cephalosporin facility from the FDA


they come in and they reviewed it and they seen no issues with the facility and its comfortable for


manufacturing we are now just waiting for our FDA approval and our first time item is pending in


that facility which is Cephalexin and we do feel that [inaudible] facility is approved and we are very


excited for that to happen in the near term. So we can begin manufacturing and shipping our


customers the Cephalexin-based products.
corrected transcript


GeoPharma, Inc.
 
GORX
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 2, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Additionally, our one drug that we currently manufacture [inaudible] that is very well received in the


market. We do expect substantial revenues to come in this coming quarter as well as the following


quarter and we expect that agreement to go ahead and manufacture and produce a significant


amount of product sooner than later, which is very exciting for us because we can now fill in that


pipeline much more quickly.


So for the most part, the business is, it is seeing lower revenues but we are seeing higher margins.


We are reducing the losses going forward. We expect some new addition of business to come into


play this will allow us to further grow the business.


Having said that, I will pass the call over to Carol Dore-Falcone, who will take you through, the


financial aspect of the business.


Carol Dore-Falcone, Senior Vice-President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Mr. Taneja. Good morning everyone. This is Carol Dore-Falcone; I am Senior Vice


President and Chief Financial Officer. And to follow-up Mr. Taneja’s comments I’ll briefly go over


the quarter’s results some more of the in-depth detail that support the numbers. And I will at that


time look for preliminary questions that may lead the balance of the discussions and then we can


finalize anything else regarding upcoming events and other types of things that the shareholders


can look to as far as published press releases and other types of things in the near term.


All right, to kick it off, total revenues from continuing operations decreased approximately $1.8


million or approximately 39% to $2.8 million for the three months ended December 31, 2009, from


approximately 4.6 million and as Mr. Taneja discussed there was some softness in revenues this


quarter due to cash constraints. However, we do have a backlog of orders that are out there. We


also were able to produce more cost containments for the December quarter, which in turn


improves our margins considerably not only for the three months but for the six months. So we are


happy to report that those cost containment issues are resulting in higher margins.


We also are making sure that we are very strict in issuing any type of credit on any business,


certainly not to new customers to more longstanding customers and as Mr. Taneja discussed we


are looking more towards tolling jobs, which in on itself release the obligation from the company


having to outlay cash, so that we are more so meeting all the amounts that are coming in from


customers are able to continue to expand our business in a positive way.


So we are very happy to report that those, those planed events are reaping the benefits and we are


seeing that. I do anticipate based on the backlog of orders that the March quarter should be a little


stronger than the December quarter. We should see a little more improvement in the margins, as


well as I would expect that not only manufacturing, but pharmaceutical revenues to improve.


We are looking at, right now a backlog of five or $600,000 of pharmaceutical revenues, which will


be reported for the – not only the March quarter, but probably the first month of April from that cut-


off standpoint. We’re very happy to report that the carprofen supply to Vétoquinol is moving along


quite nicely.


To continue, as I said gross profit of the dollar amount decreased approximately $90,000 from – to


approximately 700,000 from 800,000 for the quarter, but again margin did increase to 25.6% for the


three months ended December ‘09 from 18% the year prior.


Basically, what I also have to report is that selling, general and administrative expenses are


reflecting, although looking flat they are being contained as well, we are being very selective with


our research and development cash outlays from that standpoint. And one of the main reasons why


there was a slight increase in selling and general administrative expenses again it’s fairly flat from