corrected transcript


GeoPharma, Inc.
 
GORX
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 11, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day. And welcome to the GeoPharma Incorporated Third Quarter 2009 Earnings


Conference Call. Today’s conference is being recorded.


This conference call may contain statements which constitute forward-looking statements within the


meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including those regarding the


company and its subsidiaries, expectations, intentions, strategies and beliefs pertaining to future


performance. All statements contained herein are based upon information available to the


company’s management as of the date hereof, and actual results may vary based on future events,


both within and without management’s control. Important factors that could cause such differences


are described in the company’s periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Mihir Taneja. Please go ahead, sir.


Mihir K. Taneja, Chief Executive Officer


Thank you very much. Thank you, everyone, for being on our third quarter conference call. We’d


like to talk about a lot of things today regarding our business and our future outlook. As everyone


knows, we ended the third quarter with nine months revenue of about $50 million, which was an


increase over our previous nine months, and as revenue is growing steadily we have been faced


with a loss this quarter.


And we’ve done a lot of things I think to help mitigate those losses in the future and we’re pretty


excited about some of things we’ve done. We’ve really focused on our core business. We’ve looked


at a lot of restructuring, which we’ll discuss today, and we think we found a variety of things that


we’re able to do in order to hopefully get us to breakeven and then profitability in the near-term.


As everyone knows, we had sent a press release out several months back talking about our cost


cutting initiatives, and with respect to those we’ve done a variety of things some of which have


been cutting the hubs for our distribution business spots, we’ve -- since we’ve cut the Dallas hub,


as well as the Rhode Island hub and we focused on operating more so from our Florida and our


Nevada, as well as, our Scranton hub. What we’ve been able to do is focus on getting good UPS


and FedEx contracts, which will allow us to better, serve our customers and allow us not to require


those hubs to get next day shipping at a desired rate.


As everyone knows we were -- we created those hubs really to satisfy and service our customers in


a better fashion and that cost we’ve realized is cost that we can do without by in turn by focusing on


shipping rates.


What we’ve also seen this quarter end we expect to see future quarters is the reduction in transport


cost. Oil has dropped considerably, which affected our margins with our distribution business, as


well as our manufacturing business. Much of the freight that goes in and out of our manufacturing,


as well as, all our freight going to our customers from the distribution are borne by us as the


company. So, we have seen a decrease in that cost which has also helped slightly.


What we’ve also done is we’ve settled our Schering lawsuit from our pharmaceutical segment. That


lawsuit was costing us a substantial amount of money; that lawsuit was regarding our Clarinex


Paragraph IV filing. We’ve now settled with that lawsuit and we’ve cut that legal expenses


associated with it. On another note, what we’ve done is we’ve reduced our advertising expenditure


with our own branded products, which will reduce our SG&A and really help us manage that sales


expense.
corrected transcript


GeoPharma, Inc.
 
GORX
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 11, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Lastly, what some of the officers have done, including myself, have taken a pay cut in order to help


us get a breakeven in profitability. So, I think, we’ve done a variety of things. There are a lot more


things that will be occurring in the near term. We’ve also cut some heads from our manufacturing.


Our head count as a company, I believe, is close to 300 versus almost 380 from previous quarter.


But, going to our business, our manufacturing business was slightly down. However, they are


encouraged because I think our manufacturing in the next near quarters is going to probably be the


highest we’ve ever had. We’ve really buckled down and we’ve picked up some new customers,


customers that are driving heavy volume to us. We’re very excited about that. We are currently


running at about 16 hours a day, and we are looking at running 24 hours a day within the next


couple of weeks to satisfy some of the demands of our customers.


In addition to that, we’ve also instituted our fulfillment business where we fulfill individual packages


for a lot of our clients. Currently, we fulfill in excess of 10,000 packages a day, and it looks like


within the next 60 to 90 days we’ll probably be doubling the size of that fulfillment. It’s a very


profitable business for us, and it’s been a great service, and it has allowed us to pick up some


additional manufacturing. So, we have picked up some three really new customers now, which are


really helping drive revenue and drive income. What we’ve also done, despite some of our cash


flow issues, is we’ve had our customers provide all the componentry, so we could just provide labor


services; that’s gone well. In addition to that, being that money is tight for not only us but the banks,


we’ve really clamped down on our terms and conditions.


Our terms now are strictly 50% pay us deposit with the order and 50% on completion. And, you


know, customers have accepted that and despite that we’re still picking up some new clients that


are giving us substantial amount of money regardless of the way pay terms are. I think everyone


realizes today that it’s a must to pay people and the terms are not really being offered. So that’s


really helped us well.


Our pharmaceutical divisions, we’ve heard back on our Cephalexin from the FDA. We had a minor


deficiency, a minor deficiency that is normally supposed to be responded in 30 days. So that’s


pretty encouraging. That 30 days was up about a week ago. So we followed up with the FDA


recently and they told us that it’s in the hand of somebody else and they should be hopefully


sending us something very shortly. Being that that deficiency was so minor and it was a facts-only,


we’re encouraged that we’ll see something from the FDA regarding Cephalosporin in the next


couple of weeks, hopefully within the next 30 days worst-case scenario.


In addition to that, our Urogesic-Blue is still slated to launch, I think either prior to March or in


March. We’ve already ramped up, things are looking exciting there. That drug does not need an


approval, we’ve just had to go through the -- all the product development associated with a DESI


drug. And we’ve done that, it’s taken us over a year, but we have orders already in-house for that.


And it looks like we’re on target for that.


Lastly, what we’ve done in order to cut further costs is we had a diagnostic division focused on


ovarian cancer, diagnostics we’ve since sold off 60% of that business. We’ve -- the shareholders


have retained 40% sold it to a group that has the funding to further pursue, hopefully completion of


that or further development of that diagnostic. So we’ll see what the outcome is in the near term for


that. But what’s that done is that’s allowed us to reduce further monthly expenditures associated


with the development of that item.


So all in all, we’re very encouraged at our future outlook. We’ve done a lot of cost cutting


measures. We’ve done – picked up a lot of new customers, we’ve cut a lot of staff. And I think this


is, really are on a road to breakeven. We’ve really started focusing on our core competency, which


is the manufacturing. We’ve been able to attract a lot of great customers. And we’re looking forward


to the next coming quarters. We have run into some road blocks, but I think -- I think the worst is


behind us, and I am very excited at the way the business is moving right now.