corrected transcript


Guaranty Financial Group, Inc.
 
GFG
 
Q2 2008 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 31, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Second Quarter 2008 Guaranty


Financial Group Earnings Conference Call and Webcast. My name is Lacy and I’ll be your


coordinator for today. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded for


replay purposes. I would now like to turn your presentation over to your host for today’s call, Mr.


Rusty LaForge, Director of Investor Relations. Please proceed.


Rusty LaForge, Director of Investor Relations


Thank you and good afternoon everyone. Welcome to Guaranty Financial Group’s Second Quarter


2008 Conference Call. Before we get started, please note that the presentations and commentary


that you’re about to hear contain forward-looking statements. They are subject to numerous risks


and uncertainties as described in our Forms 10-K, 10-Q and other reports filed with the SEC. You


should not place undue reliance on any of these forward-looking statements; actual outcomes could


differ materially from the views expressed today. We may elect to update forward-looking


statements at some future point; however, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so.


Here with me today are Ken Dubuque, President and CEO; and Ron Murff, Chief Financial Officer.


I want to call your attention to the slide deck, which we’ve posted on our website


GuarantyGroup.com and we will be referring to this over the course of the call. With that, I’ll turn


the call over to Ken.


Kenneth R. Dubuque, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Rusty. Good afternoon. Welcome to our Second Quarter Conference Call to discuss


financial results. Thank you for joining us. We are disappointed in our financial results for the


quarter. The results that we issued this morning show that for the quarter we had a net loss totaling


$85 million or $2.24 per share, which included a provision for credit losses of $99 million and a $46


million charge to income tax expense to establish a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets.


Unfortunately, those two charges far exceeded otherwise strong increases in both net interest


income and non-interest income. In a moment, Ron will discuss all of those results in much greater


detail. However, before I turn it over to Ron, I want to provide an update on our progress in


accomplishing the short-term goals we set earlier this year.


In light of the continued decline in housing market conditions and the lack of liquidity in the


mortgage securities markets, we turned to a short-term strategy focused on what we call the three


Cs: credit, cost and capital. First, with respect to credit, we saw another substantial increase, both


in non-performing loans and loan loss provisions during the second quarter, primarily in the home


builder and single-family mortgage portfolios. While we had very few charge offs in recent quarters,


we acknowledged last quarter that charge offs typically lag a rise in NPA and we are now seeing


those charge offs increase. However, you should again keep in mind that the makeup of our non-


performing loans is primarily secured loans, in particular home builder loans and single-family


mortgage loans, collateralized by land, lots and houses, unless the reserve levels have been set


based in large part among the value of the underlying property. Collateral values in these loan


types, especially in California, have dropped significantly and newly obtained appraisals are lower


than prior evaluations.


However, while past performance does not necessarily equate to the future, our charge-off rate


from 2001 to 2007 was less than 10 basis points per year on average, excluding asset-based


lending, which we exited in 2006. That charge-off rate was less than half our peer average. This


low charge-off history in our lending areas is a testament to our strong underwriting standards, our


relationships, our experience and our understanding of our products and markets. The team of
corrected transcript


Guaranty Financial Group, Inc.
 
GFG
 
Q2 2008 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 31, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


lenders and credit staff that we moved into a group to focus solely on loans that need special


attention have worked hard for the past several months. This team is aggressively identified


emerging problem loans; internally classifying them where appropriate and taking action where


appropriate to mitigate risk.


In addition, we launched a major effort to review our lending standards on a go-forward basis


examining every line of business and tightening standards where appropriate. We continue to


require higher equity levels, demand greater levels of personal recourse with higher pricing,


including interest rate floors and we’ve also tightened covenant structures. We have not extended


any new credit in the home building line of business. Finally, we are reviewing concentrations and


hold positions.


As to cost, we are now seeing the benefits of our expense reduction efforts. Our compensation


expense is down and overall, we have put in place efficiencies that will achieve annual cost savings


of more than $22 million. We are also continuing to limit new hires, including not filling open


positions. And we expect to identify, utilizing an internal task force and outside consultants,


additional ways in which we can operate more efficiently. For example we are evaluating all our


operating units in lines of business through peer comparisons. We are reducing travel expenses.


We are re-evaluating our non-essential marketing expenses. We are evaluating our real estate and


other non-earning assets. We are reducing planned capital expenditures, and finally we are


rationalizing our branch system and de novo expansion plans.


Now our third important area of short-term focus is capital. We said last quarter that we intended to


manage our capital position appropriately by taking the actions necessary to maintain capital ratios


above the minimum levels required to be deemed well-capitalized by regulatory standards. As of


March 31st, all our capital ratios exceeded these minimum standards, but we had an effort under


way at the time to reinforce our capital position. Soon after our last conference call, we were able


to announce in greater detail what efforts were under way. Then in late May we completed a sale


of shares of common stock that raised approximately $38 million in new capital, and last week we


announced the closing and funding of private placements in preferred stock and subordinated debt


to bring the total amount of capital raised to approximately $600 million.


While we’re reporting on June 30th numbers today, and our capital ratios continue to exceed


regulatory standards to be well capitalized, this additional cash raised after June 30 takes us well


beyond those standards. Moreover, the new capital also reinforced our strong liquidity position.


Today, excess borrowing capacity is more than $4.5 billion. We also announced today that in light


of the recently closed private placement transaction, we terminated our previously announced


rights offering. Accordingly, we will make the necessary filings with the Securities and Exchange


Commission to withdraw the registration statement covering the rights offering. Without the rights


offering, we feel that we’ve taken the actions necessary to remain capital ratios above the minimum


levels required to be well capitalized in the current economic environment.


In addition to the strong focus on these three Cs, we have also kept in mind another C, our


customers. We continue to achieve remarkable results in customer service. Earlier this year,


Guaranty Bank ranked significantly above the American Customer Satisfaction Index industry


average as well as large banks. We have a number of other examples of distinctive customer


service, including our success in handling of CD bubble in previous quarter. We have also recently


launched a progressive checking product with free usage of any ATM without requiring


documentation. That has been well received. Prior to May of this year, we opened an average of


around 2500 checking accounts per month throughout our extensive branch network. In the months


since the launch of this product we are opening nearly double that amount. Also our effort, follow-


up efforts, with new retail deposit customers called on boarding is receiving excellent reviews.


Moreover on the commercial side we are enhancing our capital markets and asset management


capabilities to provide more complete service to our customers. Providing cost effect distinctive


customer service is still one of our core strategies.