corrected transcript


Guaranty Financial Group, Inc.
 
GFG
 
Q4 2007 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 6, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2007 Guaranty


Financial Group Earnings Conference Call. My name is Eric, I’ll be your coordinator for today. At


this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. We will facilitate the question-and-answer


session at the end of the conference. [Operator Instructions].


I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today’s call, Mr. Rusty LaForge,


Director of Investor Relations. Please proceed.


Rusty LaForge, Senior Vice President and Director of Investor Relations


Thank you, and good afternoon, everyone. Welcome to Guaranty Financial Group’s fourth quarter


and year 2007 earnings conference call.


Before we get started, please note that the presentations and commentary that you are about to


hear contain forward-looking statements. In making these statements, we base them on presently


available information and current expectations. We believe the statements to be reasonable. They


are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties as described in the information statement included


in our registration statement on Form 10 filed with the SEC and in other filings with the SEC. As a


consequence, actual outcomes could differ materially from the views expressed today. We may like


to update forward-looking statements at some future point; however, we specifically disclaim any


obligation to do so.


Here with me this morning are Ken Dubuque, President and CEO, and Ron Murff, Chief Financial


Officer. I want to call your attention to the slide deck which we’ve posted on our website,


guarantygroup.com, and we will be referring to this over the course of the call.


With that, I’ll turn the call over to Ken.


Kenneth R. Dubuque, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Rusty, good afternoon. Thank you for joining us on our first conference call to report the


results of Guaranty Financial Group. This has been an exciting period of time for all of us and I am


pleased to conduct this call. I imagine that we met many of you when we traveled around the


country in late November and December conducting meetings in conjunction with the spin-off from


Temple-Inland. It was a pleasure to have had the opportunity to tell Guaranty’s story and we look


forward to this and other occasions to speak with you in the future.


The Guaranty Bank story as we told it while on the road show has not changed significantly as our


spin-off from Temple-Inland was only completed about a month ago. Nonetheless, one of our goals


here today is to ensure that our audience understands who we are, where we came from, and what


we see from the company going forward. After doing that, I will briefly cover our financial results as


Ron will be discussing them in greater detail. After Ron’s comments, I will close with some


additional forward looking thoughts.


Before I begin, I also want thank all of the employees of Guaranty who worked so diligently this


past year preparing for our spin-off. It was a monumental effort, and I know that many of our


employees completed their normal tasks while also working on details of the spin-off. It is a


tremendous compliment to our employees that the spin was completed so efficiently and


professionally. In addition, all of our employees were able to maintain their focus on the day-to-day


business of taking care of our customers. I believe this is a testimony to the great team at Guaranty


and their capacity to do even greater things as we go forward.
corrected transcript


Guaranty Financial Group, Inc.
 
GFG
 
Q4 2007 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 6, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Turning to our history, for those of you who are not familiar with it, the original Guaranty banking


operation was formed in the late 1930s in Galveston, Texas. From 1988 until the end of 2007,


Guaranty was part of the publicly traded Temple-Inland, which today, is based in Austin, Texas. As


a subsidiary of Temple-Inland, we operated in a manner intended to provide a stable source of


income and cash flow to offset Temple-Inland’s other more cyclical businesses. While owned by


Temple-Inland, we acquired more than 30 banking and insurance institutions, which allowed us to


build a distribution system in two of the most attractive markets in the country, Texas and


California. With over 150 branches, Guaranty now has more than $16 billion in assets. We are the


second largest publicly-traded financial institution headquartered in Texas ranked by asset size.


Further, our insurance agency is the ninth largest bank-owned agency in the country, and the


largest based in Texas with offices that follow our retail footprint and has been conducting this


business for over 50 year. On December 28, 2007, our spin off from Temple-Inland was


successfully completed, and on December 31st, Guaranty Financial Group began trading on the


New York Stock Exchange. I must admit we found it to be an interesting experience conducting a


road show with an audience, many of whom received shares of a company that they did not make a


specific decision to purchase, but rather received shares in not only a new company, but also one


of the few industries -- a new industry in the midst of a stress period for financial stocks with


volatility in the economy and the stock market.


Today Guaranty is well positioned in the two largest and fastest growing states in the country by


population, Texas and California. In California, our retail banking centers are located in the Central


Valley and the Inland Empire, and we rank 31st in deposit market share in the entire state. In


Texas, we are in the top ten deposit market share in three of the four major markets: Dallas, Austin


and St. Antonio, and the 11th largest market share in the fourth major market, Houston. We’re an


overall ranking of 8th largest share in the entire state.


Currently, we serve approximately 270,000 retail customers. We’ve grown and will continue to grow


our transaction account and not attract brokered or non-traditional relational jumbo CDs in order to


continue to build larger and longer term relationships. These customers not only rely on us for


deposit and lending products, but we have one of the most successful mutual fund and annuity


programs in the country. These relationships are the foundation upon which we continue to build a


strong consumer client base. And our recent creation of an expanded retail lending platform, which


I will discuss more later, is expected to increase our product cross selling, particularly CD related.


Our insurance agency is one of the largest independent agencies nationally and has a full service


insurance agency emphasizing property and casualty insurance. The insurance agency operates


through 17 offices that track the footprint of our bank branches. Commercial banking operates


primarily out of Dallas, Texas, with satellite production offices in Houston, Austin, St. Antonio in


Texas and Los Angeles, Sacramento and San Diego in California. We offer banking services to


business and commercial customers, including financing for commercial real estate and home


builder construction, mortgage warehouse financing, senior housing, middle market businesses and


companies engaged in the energy industry.


The commercial loans we provide are versified by product, industry and geography. We lend to


nationally known corporations as well as regional companies. We are keenly aware of the


importance of good credit discipline and effective risk management, in good times and in difficult


times. We have processes in place to analyze and evaluate on a regular basis our exposure to


industries, products, markets and economics trends. In all states, we monitor pertinent factors such


as industry, geographic and market conditions for concentrations of credit risk. We focus on niche


industries and specialties in which we have expertise.


We are disciplined in our approach to credit and interest rate risk. Later when I discuss our financial


results, I will provide more detail regarding the asset side of our balance sheet. But overall, we are