corrected transcript


Guaranty Financial Group, Inc.
 
GFG
 
Q3 2008 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 5, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Third quarter 2008 Guaranty


Financial Group Incorporated Earnings Conference Call and Webcast. My name is Dan and I will


be your coordinator for today. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. We will conduct


a question-and-answer session towards the end of this conference. [Operator instructions]. As a


reminder, this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.


I would now like to turn the call over to your host for today’s call, Mr. Rusty LaForge, Director of


Investor Relations. Please proceed, sir.


Rusty LaForge, Senior Vice President, Director of Investor Relations


Thank you and good afternoon everyone. Welcome to Guaranty Financial Group’s Third quarter


2008 conference call. Before we get started, please note that the presentations and commentary


that you are about to hear contain forward-looking statements that are subject to numerous risks


and uncertainties as described in our Forms 10-K, 10-Q, and other reports filed with the SEC. You


should not place undue reliance on any of these forward-looking statements. Actual outcomes


could differ materially from the views expressed today. We may elect to update forward-looking


statements at some future point; however, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so.


Here with me today are Ken Dubuque, Chairmen, President and CEO, and Ron Murff, Chief


Financial Officer. I want to call your attention to the slide deck, which we posted on our website at


guarantygroup.com and we will be referring to this over the course of the call.


With that, I’ll turn the call over to Ken.


Kenneth R. Dubuque, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Rusty. Good afternoon. Welcome to our third quarter conference call to discuss financial


results. Thank you for joining us. The results that we issued this morning show that for the quarter


we had a net loss totaling $162 million, which included three non-cash charges totaling $152


million, consisting of $53 million charge for an other-than-temporary impairment of our mortgage-


backed securities and $85 million charge to income tax expense to establish our valuation


allowance on deferred tax assets and $14 million charge to reduce the carrying amount of the


goodwill and other intangible assets related to our insurance agencies that we had determined was


impaired.


The results also included provision for credit losses of $78 million. Clearly, these several items


exceeded otherwise healthy amounts of net interest income and non-interest income. Although


both were at lower levels then the prior quarter due to further stresses in the banking market. In a


moment, Ron will discuss all of these results in much greater detail.


Before Ron addresses these details I want to provide an other update on our progress in


accomplishing short-term goals we set earlier this year. In light of the continued decline in housing


market conditions and a lack of liquidity in the mortgage securities markets, we mentioned before


that we turned to a short-term strategy focused on what we called the three Cs – Credit, Cost, and


Capital.


First, with respect to credit, we saw another increase in non-performing loans and we had


additional loan loss provisions during the third quarter principally, in the homebuilder and single-


family mortgage portfolios. We are also seeing some softening in certain commercial real estate


markets and our reserves levels in those areas have decreased somewhat.
corrected transcript


Guaranty Financial Group, Inc.
 
GFG
 
Q3 2008 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 5, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


However, corporate and middle market lending are still performing well, which we believe is the


result of our conservative underwriting standards.


Our energy lending is a good example of the conservative nature of our underwriting, energy


banks, energy-lending group it’s been able to manage through significant volatility as a result of


conservative lending parameters. Each quarter, we look in our energy underwriting and we


consider adjustments.


When the price of oil spiked to nearly a $150 per barrel, we never exceed $75 in our near-term


forward commodity price assumptions commonly referred to as our price deck. In our long-term


price assumptions, we are also below that level, furthermore we generally limit our energy loans to


65% of that estimated value of the oil and gas reserve collateral and our average advance rate is


between 50 to 60%.


We stated last quarter, that we anticipated an increase in charge-offs particularly in homebuilder


finance. This quarter we took $100 million in charge-offs. As I mentioned, we made an additional


provision of $78 million for credit losses resulting in an end of period allowance or loan loss of $231


million. Our team of lenders and credit staff focus solely on loans that need special attentions and


aggressively identified emerging problem loans, internally classifying the more appropriate and


taking action where appropriate to mitigate risks.


Second, with respect to cost, we are continuing to see the benefits of our expense reduction efforts.


As Ron will discuss in greater detail non-interest expense for the quarter totaled $105 million, about


14 million of that amount was for a charge to reduce the carrying amounts of the goodwill and other


intangible assets related to our insurance agency, which we had mentioned before we’re impaired.


Remaining non-interest expenses for the quarter were only $91 million, which is down from $99


million in the prior quarter or 96 million net of severance cost. One driver of the decrease excluding


the goodwill impairment was our decrease in our compensation expense, which was down another


$2 million for the quarter following last quarter’s $2 million quarter drop to $46 million per quarter.


We completed a benchmark study recently and we are finishing up that analysis but we expect to


be able to take and make continued progress in cost reduction.


On October 31, the company committed to work force reduction plans that will involve


approximately 4% for the company’s employees. Approximately doubling amount of the reduction


made earlier in the year, which will further reduce costs and maximize operational efficiency. The


plans were commuted to effect these employees in the last several days and are expected to be


completed by January 9, 2009, which as previously stated will reduce compensated benefits


expenses even further.


We are also continuing to limit new hires, including not filling opening positions, as well as


evaluating all our operating units and lines of business through peer comparisons, reducing travel


expenses, revaluating our non-essential marketing expenses, evaluating our real estate in other


non-earning assets, reducing planned capital expenditures, and rationalizing our branch system


and de novo expansion plans.


And now, our third important short-term focus is capital. During the quarter we closed and funded


private placements of preferred stock and subordinated debt to bring the total amount of capital


raised during this year to approximately $600 million. Our capital ratios now significantly exceed


regulatory standards to be well capitalized. The new capital also reinforced our strong liquidity


position. Today, excess borrowing capacity is more than $5.7 billion.


But we are well capitalized particularly so in light of our recent capital rates, we are also looking


closely at the availability of capital through the treasuries capital purchase program also called