corrected transcript


Augme Technologies, Inc.
 
AUGT
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
Jun. 2, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


PARTICIPANTS


Corporate Participants


Mark D. Severini
 
– Co-Founder


James A. Lawson
 
– General Counsel, Interactions Corp.


Shelly J. Meyers
 
– Director, Ecologic Transportation, Inc.


Anthony Iacovone
 
– Chief Innovation Officer


Other Participants


John Rummo
 
– Analyst, World Market Media


Michael J. Condron
 
– Chief Executive Officer, CareGuide, Inc.


Robert M. Wasserman
 
– Analyst, Dawson James Securities, Inc.


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Greetings, and welcome to the Augme Technologies, Inc. Fourth Quarter 2010 Earnings


Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A brief question-and-answer


session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is


being recorded.


It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Mark Severini, CEO of Augme Technologies. Thank


you. Mr. Severini, you may begin.


Mark D. Severini, Co-Founder


Thank you. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to today’s call. We issued the earnings release


last night, and we will be referring to a slide presentation during today’s call. If you do not yet have


a copy of the press release or the investor presentation, these files are available on our website at


www.augme.com/corporate.


Turning to slide number 2 in the presentation, joining me today for our prepared remarks are Shelly


Meyers, our Board Chairwoman; and Jim Lawson, our General Counsel. Scott Russo, our Chief


Operating Officer, and John Devlin, our consulting Chief Financial Officer, will also be available for


the Q&A portion of today’s call.


Before we get started, I’d like to ask Jim Lawson to make the necessary legal disclaimers. Jim?


James A. Lawson, General Counsel, Interactions Corp.


Yes, thanks, Mark.


Turning to slide 3 in the presentation, I would like to remind you that on this call, we’ll be making


forward-looking statements and actual results may differ materially. We encourage you to review


the disclaimer dealing with forward-looking information in the press release that we issued after the


market closed on Tuesday, June 1, and the risk factors that we included in our fiscal year 2010


Form 10-K filing. The Safe Harbor language applies equally to remarks made in this call.
corrected transcript


Augme Technologies, Inc.
 
AUGT
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
Jun. 2, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


We will limit the length of this call to one hour, which will include time for you to ask questions.


During the Q&A section, we ask you to limit your questions to one primary and one follow-up


question to enable other participants to ask questions.


I’ll now turn the call back over to Mark Severini. Mark?


Mark D. Severini, Co-Founder


Thank you, Jim. The agenda for today’s call was on slide 4. Shelly will begin with a brief


introductory statement. I will provide a high-level recap of our financial results and an overview of


the state of the business and then, Jim will provide an update regarding our IP enforcement. I will


now turn the call over to Shelly. Shelly?


Shelly J. Meyers, Director, Ecologic Transportation, Inc.


Thanks, Mark. Since our last update back in February, we’ve completed our rebranding of the


Augme Technologies name and the new ticker is A-U-G-T, apple, unicorn, George, Thomas.


I’d like to now go to slide 6. Having been part of this transformation from Modavox to Augme


completed earlier this year, I can personally speak to the tremendous amount of work that everyone


here at Augme has done to prioritize the needs of our customers while also compete – completing


key initiatives such as our rebranding. I’d like to thank each and every one of our employees, your


works ensure that every customer’s marketing experience went as smooth as possible, which is


clearly important for our long-term success, and that positions us well to expand our services to


include more branded products with our existing customer base. I applaud all the employees’


efforts and recognize that each one of the employees has played a significant role in this success.


I think it is appropriate for all of us to recognize how far we’ve come since the July 2009 acquisition


that set all of this energy into motion. Having recently completed the divestiture of I Radio in late


December and the transformation to our new identity and strategy. Our focus now is on protecting


and ultimately monetizing the company’s intellectual property and growing sales for Augme’s


marketing-driven technology platforms.


If you could now turn to slide 7, which is – has the strategic partners for the firm, please. The


analyzed sales strategy emphasizes indirect sales channel partnerships heightened by our working


relationships to top media purveyors in the U.S., including Graphic Packaging, Shorewood


Packaging, which is a unit of International Paper. Graphic Packaging by the way is one, if not the


biggest packaging provider to consumer goods companies in the country. For those of you who


don’t know, it’s a major account. News America Marketing, which is a division of News Corp., and


VeriFone, formerly Clear Channel.


These large, more established firms create immediate credibility and build brand awareness and


lead generation for Augme due to strong, existing client relationships. Augme has also expanded


the scope of the indirect sales channel to include advertising agencies of all sizes, including a


division of major advertising company, Omnicom. We are currently finalizing the channel


partnership with one of the largest digital development production companies in the U.S. that


accounts for over $50 million in traditional web development sales, whereby Augme would build


their mobile discipline.


Our client focus is concentrated on the largest brand portfolios managed by Fortune 500


multinational companies. We have historically referred to these initial sales as proof-of-concept


whereby we demonstrate our ability to seamlessly and effectively execute a mobile component