Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Stephanie Prince — Investor Relations, Augme Technologies
Paul R. Arena — Chief Executive Officer, CFO, Secretary & Director, Augme Technologies, Inc.
Tom Virgin — Chief Financial Officer, Augme Technologies
Eric Harber — Chief Operating Officer, Augme Technologies
Ivan Braiker — President & Director, Augme Technologies
Ken C. Nagy — Analyst, Zacks Investment Research, Inc.
Robert Goldberg — Analyst, ThinkEquity
Todd Travis Mitchell — Analyst, Brean, Murray, Carret & Co. LLC
Darren Aftahi — Analyst, Northland Securities, Inc.
Art Assad — Analyst, Agrisel USA

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to the Augme Technologies Third Quarter Fiscal 2012 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Following management's prepared remarks, we'll hold a Q&A session. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded, January 9, 2012.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Stephanie Prince. Please go ahead.

Thank you, Christie, and welcome, everyone, to the Augme Technologies' third quarter fiscal 2012 earnings conference call for the third quarter ended November 30, 2011. With me today are Paul Arena, Chief Executive Officer; Ivan Braiker, President; Eric Harber, Chief Operating Officer; and Tom Virgin, Chief Financial Officer. After Paul's opening remarks and Tom's financial review, we will open the call up to your questions.

In order to allow everyone the opportunity to ask a question, we are asking that you limit yourself to one question and one follow-up. To access the webcast, please visit our website at www.augme.com. Please note that the information presented and discussed today includes forward-looking statements, which are made under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results in future periods may differ materially and you should not attribute uncertainty to our forward-looking statements.

Risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements include those set forth in the Risk Factors section of the Annual Report on Form 10-K that we filed on May 13, 2011. In addition, our comments may contain certain non-GAAP financial measures, including non-GAAP operating loss per share for additional information, including the reconciliation from GAAP results to non-GAAP measures have the non-GAAP measures provide useful information and why we use non-GAAP measures, please see the reconciliation statement section of our press release which appears on our website at www.augme.com.

I'd now like to turn the call over to Paul Arena. Paul?

Thank you, Stephanie. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us on today's call. This morning, I'll open the call with comments about our third quarter performance and give you an update on our patent litigation cases and then turn the call over to Tom Virgin, Augme's CFO, for a financial review of the quarterly results. We'll then open up the call for questions. I will ask Ivan, Eric and Tom to address questions with me.

This has been a very exciting quarter for Augme with a combination of Augme, Hipcricket and Jagtag – has resulted in a very strong company and high recognition in the mobile marketplace. We have a great team in place, and that experience is drawing business to us from brands, retailers and agencies. We have completed our combined industry-leading 150,000 mobile campaign since 2004. Approximately one-third of these were done during calendar 2011 alone.

We signed a record $6.4 million in new contracts during November and December, over $3.7 million in December alone. We currently signed a backlog of over $15 million. That momentum has continued in the new calendar year. We began this year servicing more than 50 brands and have increased to approximately 300 brands as of last quarter. We currently service 15 industry verticals.

Our gross margin has increased from 58% in the third quarter of 2011 with 68% in the third quarter of 2012. Our revenue per client was approximately $110,000 on an annualized basis in the third quarter versus approximately $50,000 annualized in the beginning of this fiscal year. This is over 100% increase in the last nine months.

We powered nearly 16,000 campaigns in the quarter. During the quarter, we executed 136 new contracts which breaks down as follows: 22% for 30 new customers, 57% or 78 upsells to existing customers, 21% or 28 license renewals through existing customers. Our customer retention rate is approximately 95%, one of the highest in the mobile marketing space.

Our recurring revenues are approximately 60%. We are really excited about the Augme court date coming up in the next year. We are very pleased that we picked up the best IP team with Goodwin Procter. We've never deviated that our IP is very valuable. Looking forward, we have a lot of momentum generating bigger revenues from our clients.

We are really excited to have completed a successful integration with Hipcricket and Jagtag, and now have a fully integrated sales team selling exclusively under the Hipcricket brand in the marketplace. We are the premier end-to-end mobile marketing and advertising company in the United States. We have done more mobile marketing campaigns than any of our competitors. We have a higher eCPM, effective cost per thousand, and produced a more robust post-click engagement with higher margins to it.

In the past 18 months, we've grown from 15 employees to now over 140 employees in eight locations across the United States, nearly a 10-fold increase. We're excited about our business, and we've never been in a stronger position. We've accomplished a lot in a short period.

The $20 million capital raise that we recently completed fully funds us to execute our growth plans and reach profitability. Today, the company is buzzing with activity and energy. We are one company selling under the Hipcricket brand name. We are growing our business and hitting our goals.

We completed the combination of the sales force and client service organizations under Doug Stovall, who held the same position at Hipcricket where he led the company's 225% revenue growth over an 18-month period. We've combined the customer-facing functionality of the Augme and Hipcricket Software-as-a-Service technology platform into a unified horizontal platform named Hipcricket AD LIFE.

This best-of-breed platform currently serves 15 verticals, including CPG, pharma health, retail, automotive, quick-service restaurants, financial, broadcast, media and entertainment to name a few. The combination of the two platforms has resulted in a clearly differentiated offering, and it provides our clients with best practices in the industry. This has created efficiencies for them by the platform's ability to step – fill with their needs and speed their time to market. Our platform is powered by a proprietary patent technology. Together with our portfolio of IP assets, it creates significant barriers to entry.

Hipcricket has received much industry recognition lately. Frost & Sullivan named Hipcricket the preferred provider of high impact mobile marketing solutions in the United States as part of its Customer Value Enhancement Award in 2011. Frost & Sullivan went on to say that the combination of Augme caused us an industry powerhouse. Recently, Mobile Marketer named Hipcricket the Mobile Service Provider of the Year. These awards are recognition for our unmatched service offerings in domain expertise.

I want to take a moment to explain to you how our business model has changed and the result of these acquisitions. Both Augme and Hipcricket sold services under SaaS licenses. Now approximately 60% of our revenue is derived from recurring payments under contracts with a term of one year or more. Augme with its expertise in the mobile health and mobilized web assets tended to have more project-based revenue and paid close attention to revenue per campaign.

Hipcricket's revenue was more heavily weighted toward long-term recurring revenue and monitored revenue per customer. The way we are set up today, some customers create manager campaigns autonomously often by integrating Hipcricket AD LIFE platform into its CRM system. We also provide managed services along with a SaaS license for those customers who ask our client services to collaborate with them. These services could include the creation, design, execution and measurement of the results of their mobile campaigns.

As customers become more comfortable with mobile marketing and the ability to create and manage their campaigns on their own AD LIFE platform, we expect the self-service models to account for the increasing portion of the license revenue. Today's self-service is approaching 10% of revenue. With the addition of Hipcricket, we now have a larger mix of longer term contracts ranging from one to three years. Our strategy is to drive longer term contracts for all of our products and services.

Going forward, our focus will be on acquiring new customers as well as growing revenues per customer. The expectation is that we will penetrate deeper into the brand portfolios of our existing customers as they use more and more of our products and services. We expect this to result in an increase in size and duration of the contracts.

I'll now turn into an overview of our quarterly performance. Revenue for the third quarter was $4.4 million, an increase of 244% sequentially. Gross margin was 68% compared to last year's third quarter of 58%. New order bookings or dollar value of contracts signed during the quarter totaled $5.3 million. Backlog or the dollar value of signed contracts was $13.1 million as of November 30, 2011. Backlog is over $15 million today. Tom will give you more details in a few minutes.

Our customer base continues to grow with customer retention around 95%. In the third quarter, we had 30 new customers and large relationships with 78 existing customers. We have over 50 of the Fortune 500 companies and work with approximately 300 brands. For competitive reasons, many of our customers do not want us to disclose what we do for them. We do, however, count as customers, 10 of the world's top 20 pharmaceutical companies, six of the largest media companies in the world, four largest advertising companies in the world, three of the leading quick service restaurant companies in the world and one of those largest food companies in the world. We're very pleased that our customer Macy's was awarded Mobile Marketer of the Year by Mobile Marketer.

We have succeeded in cross-selling products and services to Augme and its client. Our revenue guidance for fiscal 2012 which ends February 29, 2012, is approximately $13 million. We are confident that we are on the cusp of rapidly scaling revenue, and we'll achieve positive cash flow during fiscal 2013. Our pro forma trailing 12 months revenues alone was over $12 million at November 30.

We intend to invest a portion of the capital we raised in enhancing our capabilities, balancing near term and longer term opportunities to drive revenue growth. We're bringing on additional sales people, and we'll continue to invest in our technology platform. Another priority is to build out our enterprise OEM channel to ensure that we are properly staffed in this important area. These partnerships, I'll give you one example, will expand our sales reach and facilitate high margin revenue generation, and we will continue to invest in our intellectual property portfolio.

We view our intellectual property portfolio as a critical component of Augme's overall business model. Our IP is foundational in the areas of mobile and Internet marketing technology, including content targeting, device detection and advanced analytics systems. We intend to continue to vigorously defend our portfolio. We are making good progress with our partners at Goodwin Procter and litigation front in ipCapital on the licensing strategies.

In conjunction with ipCapital Group, we developed a data-driven strategy for further targeted invention and accelerated IP development in calendar 2012. This includes a codified database of hundreds of new Augme invention concepts. Augme's internal IP developments, the activities of which are complemented by ongoing external patent acquisitions like those we acquired with Jagtag. The Jagtag acquisition expanded our patent portfolio to 7 patents with over 150 issued claims and 21 pending applications with over 1,500 patent pending claims. This includes three additional patents that have been filed in the last two weeks.

Some of the recent developments on the IP front include, last Friday, Judge Spero set the Augme case to proceed to trial on January 7, 2013. This was an event that we've been long-awaiting. The U.S. district court of New York reactivated Augme's Patent and Trademark Infringement Case against AOL, Time Warner and Platform-A in December. The pre-trial conference has been rescheduled for February 1. We are now waiting for the judge's response to Opposition Brief regarding the AOL/Tacoda case.

Last week, the U.S. Patent Office granted Augme's request for reexamination of Yahoo!'s patent in question. This is meaningful because we believe that our patent predates Yahoo!'s. We believe that our IP portfolio, which is available for licensing is key to commercial protection of our proprietary technology into solidifying our market position.

I'd now like to turn the call over to Tom Virgin for a review of the third quarter financial results.

Thank you, Paul. Hi, everyone. I'll start by discussing the results for the third quarter of fiscal 2012. For the third quarter which ended November 30, 2011, we reported revenue of $4.4 million, an increase of approximately 418%, compared to revenue of $854,000 for the third fiscal quarter last year and an increase of 244%, compared to revenue of $1.3 million for the second fiscal quarter this year which ended August 31, 2011.

The increase in overall revenue resulted primarily from the combined revenues of Augme, Hipcricket and Jagtag. These acquisitions closed during second quarter; Hipcricket on August 25, right at the end of the quarter and Jagtag on July 22. Also contributing to revenue growth was increased spending by existing customers and from adding new customers.

To give investors and analysts insight into our revenue mix, starting this quarter, we will give you a breakdown of revenue into three components. These three are: Software-as-a-Service revenue, mobile advertising solution's revenue, and the third category is other licensed mobile products.

This third category includes non-recurring revenues such as development work for marketing campaign and shorter term licenses. For the third quarter, 60% of our revenue came from SaaS licenses, followed by 20% from mobile advertising solutions and 20% in the other category.

Bookings, including new order and renewals, for the quarter totaled $5.3 million. We define bookings as the dollar value of contracts signed. For the quarter, approximately 22% of our bookings were to new customers, 57% were new sales to existing customers and 21% were license renewals.

We ended the quarter with a backlog of signed contracts of $13.2 million. $2.7 million of this $13.2 million represents revenues that we expect to recognize in fourth quarter and $7 million that we expect to recognize in our fiscal 2013.

Cost of sales were $1.4 million for the quarter, compared to $361,000 for the same period last year and $412,000 for the second quarter fiscal year. The increase in cost of sales reflects the higher volume of revenues. Gross profit, which is revenue minus cost of sales, increased 515% to $3 million. Gross margin is 68% of revenue for the third quarter of our fiscal 2012 versus gross profit of $492,000 or 58% of revenue for the third quarter November 30, 2010.

Now this compares with $875,000 or 68% of revenue for the second quarter of fiscal 2012. The increased margin over third quarter last year reflects the current mix of business and cost efficiencies. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 299% to $11.3 million for the third quarter versus SG&A expenses of $2.8 million for third quarter of fiscal 2011 when compared to an increase of 68% from $6.8 million for the second quarter fiscal 2012. SG&A includes expenses for payroll, accounting, professional services, consulting fees, patent research costs and the non-cash costs of stock options and warrants.

During the third quarter, we incurred some one-time expenses related to the acquisitions. These included non-recurring transaction expenses, primarily professional fees and transition and consolidation expenses. As part of the integration of the three companies into one, we moved and consolidated operations in both Seattle and New York where we recorded some severance expenses. We expect these integration expenses to taper off during the current fourth fiscal quarter, after which we expect normalized SG&A including non-cash charges to run around $7.5 million per quarter based on current staffing levels. Having said that, we expect to continue to invest selectively in sales, OEM channel management and engineering to enhance our products and services during fiscal 2013.

Before turning to non-cash stock expense, I want to touch on the 8-K we filed on December 29 pertaining to restating financial statements from prior periods. Plus, we are in the process of filing these restatements – the issues which relates to accounting for stock options and warrant, the incorrectly recognized warrant expense using the contractual term of the warrant rather than the vesting or service period. A substantial number of warrants issued were fully vested upon issuance. Also for warrants issued in connection with equity financings or issued in connection with the issuance of common stock, the company incorrectly recognized warrant expense during the period instead of classifying the amount as an adjustment to paid in capital.

Our stock options, we used an expected life that was inconsistent with historical experience and expectations, and did not adjust the related expense for expected forfeitures. As a result, we are restating fiscal years for 2011, 2010 or is it this year? The result of the restatement overall would be a reduction of non-cash SG&A expense.

We're also correcting the accounting for the acquisitions of Hipcricket and Jagtag. The primary result to the restatement was an increase to goodwill and an increase to contingent liabilities to reflect the fair value of the contingent consideration related to the potential earnout for Hipcricket shareholders and employees. This resulted in a $23.3 million increase to assets and the same increase to liabilities.

We also capitalized acquisition-related transaction costs for the Hipcricket and Jagtag business acquisitions. It should have been expensed as incurred. These changes resulted in an additional transaction expense of approximately $700,000.

Turning back to the third quarter. Income statement, non-cash stock option and warrant expense, which is included in SG&A totaled $2.7 million for the quarter, compared with $615,000 in the same period last year. Last quarter, these non-cash expenses totaled $2 million.

We recorded a net loss of $10.5 million or $0.12 per share for the quarter compared to a net loss of $2.6 million or $0.04 per share for the same period last year, and net loss was $6.2 million or $0.09 per share for the second quarter. Besides the non-cash charges for warrants and stock options of $2.7 million for the quarter, we had approximately $1 million of non-cash expense related to the contingent consideration and approximately $1 million in one-time cost related to the integration of the companies.

As of November 30, 2011, the company's cash balance was $16.9 million. We brought in $19.5 million from the secondary offering and from proceeds from the exercise of stock options. We invested approximately $800,000 in patent defense cost. We used $1 million to pay off the note to Hipcricket and spent $4.2 million on operations. All these factors resulted in an increase in cash of approximately $14 million.

I'll now turn the call back over to Paul.

Thanks, Tom. In closing, mobile marketing is moving up the adoption curve as evidenced by the fact that the companies are now dedicating a separate line item in the marketing and advertising budgets to mobile. More customers like MillerCoors, for one example, are spending on and committing to multi-year, multi-million dollar contracts.

We believe that with our superior patented technology, industry recognition, reputation for quality, reliability and mobile marketing and advertising expertise, we're ideally suited to take full advantage of the rapid growth of mobile marketing and advertising industry.

I'd now like to open up the call for questions. Operator, please?

[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Ken Nagy of Zacks Investment.

Hi, thanks for taking my call. Just curious what the goal for self-service is eventually, will it be 50% of revenues? Did you say it was 10% now? Will it eventually be 100%, just if you could speak on that?

Yeah, thanks, Ken, for joining us. I think it's going to continue to grow as we scale the business and we open up larger multi-channel forms of distribution with some of the ERP companies, for example, and others that we're discussing with.

Great. So is the idea for just to be completely self-service at some point in the future?

I don't think we'll ever be completely self-service, no.

Okay.

We're going to continue to build the business the way we have it today. But to the extent we can shift some of our SG&A away from the business and revenue share with others, that's certainly a great business model.

Great, thanks.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Robert Goldberg of ThinkEquity.

Hey, good morning. Just wanted to ask a couple of quick questions. Thank you for all the segment detail that you provided. Just wondering if you might be able to address growth by segment given that we didn't have the reporting previously. And in line with that, just wondering if you could maybe give some thoughts on which parts of the business are growing more rapidly, which parts of the business are relatively more profitable from a gross margin perspective, and what, if any, movement that would imply in terms of gross margin going up or staying the same over the next few quarters? Then also just want to make sure I heard correctly, the normalized expense levels for SG&A going forward, did you say $7.5 million per quarter? Thank you.

All right. Thanks, Rob. I'm going to turn that over to Tom Virgin. If you would, Tom?

Yeah, Thanks for the question, Rob. The margins vary a little bit by business at the gross level. It's a little more in sync when you get down the net margin, I think. We've experienced -- if you look kind of back on the Hipcricket and Augme combined, this mobile advertising network business is growing pretty rapidly for us, and so we're investing in that. The gross margin on that's a little bit lower. Although Paul mentioned the eCPM on that being higher for us than some of the competitors because of some of the back-end things we do with mobile marketing – mobile advertising and post-click engagement. So a little bit margin on that, but it's not as good as the margins on the rest of the business. But at the bottom line, it's pretty cost-effective business. So, that we expect to grow a little bit more rapidly. The margins for the rest of the business are pretty similar on this.

Okay, so just wondering maybe if you could – just a quick follow-up in terms of how many – what percentage of the customer base do you think have you really sort of gone around to selling the new mobile ad network solution or the relatively new mobile ad network solution? How far along do you think you are in terms of sort of the cross-sell opportunity there?

Eric, you want to address that? I think that's under you.

Sure. I can do that. Thanks for the question. So, we're in the early stages now. We see good demand by customers across the different verticals for that particular product, but we're just getting started as it relates to growing that penetration through our product base.

Great. Thank you very much.

Your next question comes from the line of Todd Mitchell of Brean, Murray, Carret.

Previously, do those targets change now that with the Hipcricket also being part of the SaaS model? And if I look at the – have you gotten any traction, I guess, on the AD LIFE side? And is any of your backlog included in that business?

Hey, Todd, thanks for joining us. You kind of cut out there in...

Sorry.

... in the beginning of your question, I'm not sure why. Do you mind repeating that? I'm sorry.

Yeah, sure. I just – I also want to ask about the new segmentation. In terms of the SaaS licensing, it looks like you're re-segmenting because Hipcricket, an element of their businesses is SaaS licensing. And I wanted to know, at this point, are you -- do you have any – you have not made any announcement in terms of licensing the AD LIFE platform. Are the targets for that still on track, and do they change now that the merger has occurred? And also, do you -- would you put that business in your backlog? And is there anything in your backlog related to that?

Okay. So, yeah. I would answer that. Hipcricket was further along on some of the self-service type SaaS revenues than what Augme has been previously. However, we're in the process of discussions with a number of large companies right now for distribution, in fact, I happen to be at an Oracle Conference out in Scottsdale as we speak. We're going to continue to build our initiatives in that area, and we think it's a very scalable profitable piece of the business in the future. But right -- for now we're making investment in hiring additional sales in additional client services personnel because we're seeing a dramatic growth. We did $3.7 million in new contract business just in the last month alone, which I think is indicative of the strength of the revenues that are starting to come in. Ivan, would you have anything to add to that?

Well, I think basically that we're – mobile is in such a state of growth all fronts, and our ability to penetrate that is really better than it has ever been. So, I think you're going to see, as Tom and Paul have outlined already, every one of these categories is going to grow and they're going to grow rapidly. And we see what's going on in the mobile ad space and our ability to gain traction there. We're very optimistic on the kind of percentages that, that's going to get. The SaaS model itself is growing. And I don't know that you mentioned, Paul, that we literally just hired a stellar guy that's helping to lead the charge on the enterprise level of what we're doing. And we feel very confident that, that's going to start gaining some good traction. I mean, it's a brand new vertical for us. With what he brings to the table along with Paul driving that, we're very optimistic at the numbers we're going to hit.

Okay. Great. Thank you.

Thanks, Todd.

Your next question comes from the line of Darren Aftahi of Northland Capital Management.

Hi, guys. Thanks for taking my question. Just two quick ones. Based on your OpEx number of $7.5 million kind of going forward, is there going to be any variation to gross margin? Or if I do kind of back of the envelope math, does that assume an $11 million quarterly run rate in revenue to get to breakeven? I guess, is my math right on that? Then my second question would be on your Yahoo! trial date, I know Yahoo! had counterclaimed against you. Are these two cases consolidated, or is there a separate date for that case as well as has anything been moved along in that secondary part of the case? Thanks.

All right. Thanks, Darren. I'm going to address the cash burn and then sort of back into the first part of your question because and I know that the net loss $10.5 million is a big number for last quarter. However, I want to point out that $2.7 million of that was non-cash option warrant expense related, approximately $1.3 million from professional fees, and about $1 million of restructure charges related to the transactions from prior quarters did – really about – if you back out that $5 million of non-recurring expense, approximately $5.5 million is operational net loss. We're starting to see that dissipate. We're currently at about $3.54 million burn as we speak. The revenues are increasing faster than the expenses however, and I would say our quarterly breakeven is probably closer to $8.5 million, $9 million at the moment.

The Yahoo! counterclaims that, that is going to be tried separately. There has not yet been a scheduling order set forth that's going back through review with the USPTO, Patent Trademark Office at the moment. And so, whereas the USPTO had granted Yahoo!'s request to review their claims, they also granted our request to review their claims. They had questioned one of our patents; I think we've questioned four of theirs. So, that's something that is not going to stay the case if that's the question.

No, that's helpful. So, just to be clear the day of the 7th next year is effectively Augme versus Yahoo!, if you will?

Correct, and that's a solid date.

Got you. Okay, thank you.

Thanks, Darren.

[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Art Assad of Agrisel USA.

Yes, this question backs up a little on that last person's question on the Yahoo! countersuit. That was the first time I had heard that. And I was just wondering from Augme's perspective, is there any merit in that Yahoo! countersuit against Augme?

No, we don't believe so, Art, at this call. We looked at it very carefully. And in fact, we believe that we have claims that predate Yahoo!'s claims in insufficient grounds that would negate those claims altogether. We'll see how it shakes out eventually, but we feel very confident that those are not going to be a problem for us.

When I read that, Paul, it came to me as kind of a childish play that all of a sudden Yahoo! is getting the realization that we've set a court date and that's coming to a realization that we're going to strengthen our position on the patents with them, but what I...

That's exactly right, Art. In fact, we looked at it the same way is that they're going to strengthen our position. So we welcomed it.

Okay. Well, that's all I wanted. Keep doing a great job, Paul. You're running the company very well, and I'm personally very pleased to see that. And Jason and I have talked about it, we're really proud that you're at the helm of the company.

I appreciate it, Art, and thank you for all your patience and support and confidence. We've made a lot of progress and we're going to continue to make progress and we're very excited about the prospects of the business going forward. And if there's no further questions at this time, I'm going to go ahead and conclude the call. Thank you, everyone, for joining us, and we look forward to a future success together. Thank you.

Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes your conference call for today. We thank you for your participation and ask that you please disconnect your lines.