corrected transcript


Augme Technologies, Inc.
 
AUGT
 
Q4 2011 Earnings Call
 
May 16, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


PARTICIPANTS


Corporate Participants


Stephanie Prince
 
– Investor Relations


Paul R. Arena
 
– Chief Executive Officer, CFO, Secretary & Director


Ted O’Donnell
 
– Vice President - Finance


Other Participants


Darren Aftahi
 
– Senior Analyst, Northland Securities, Inc.


Ian T. Gilson
 
– Senior Analyst, Zacks Investment Research, Inc.


Patrick J. Retzer
 
– Principal, Retzer Capital Management LLC


Brian Novelline
 
– Investment Analyst, DRW Investments, LLC


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Welcome to the Augme Technologies Fourth Quarter and Year-end Fiscal 2011


Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Following the


management’s prepared remarks, we’ll hold a Q&A session. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder,


this conference is being recorded, Monday, May 16, 2011.


I would now like to turn the conference over to Stephanie Prince. Please go ahead, ma’am.


Stephanie Prince, Investor Relations


Thank you, Michael, and welcome everyone to Augme Technologies’ fourth quarter and year-end


earnings conference call for the fiscal year-ended February 28, 2011. With me today are Paul


Arena, Chief Executive Officer; and Ted O’Donnell, Vice President of Finance. After Paul’s opening


remarks and Ted’s financial review, we’ll open the call up to questions.


To access the webcast, please visit the Corporate Section of Augme’s website at www.augme.com.


Please note that the information presented and discussed today includes forward-looking


statements, which are made under the Safe Harbor provision of the Private Securities Litigation


Reform Act of 1995. Our actual results in future periods may differ materially and you should not


attribute undue certainty to our forward-looking statements. Risks and uncertainties that could


cause our actual results to differ from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements


include those set forth in the Risk Factors section of the Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on May


13, 2011.


In addition, our comments may contain non-GAAP financial measures, including non-GAAP


operating loss per share. For additional information, including a reconciliation from GAAP results to


non-GAAP measures, again, you can find that in the 10-K and in the reconciliation section of the


press release, which appears on our website at www.augme.com.


I’d now like to turn the call over to Paul Arena. Paul?
corrected transcript


Augme Technologies, Inc.
 
AUGT
 
Q4 2011 Earnings Call
 
May 16, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


Paul R. Arena, Chief Executive Officer, CFO, Secretary & Director


Thanks, Stephanie. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us on our fiscal fourth


quarter and year-end 2011 earnings conference call. This morning isn’t just the first for Augme, it’s


the first call that we’ve had since I’ve become CEO in June. Since taking it home, we have returned


the business, proved out our business model and seen meaningful adoption of our AD LIFE mobile


marketing platform. We’ve also decided to resume the practice for holding quarterly earnings calls


at this juncture nearly one year after I’ve joined the company. When we could look back at the


accomplishments of fiscal 2011 and forward growth trajectory that lies ahead given our market


leadership and rapidly growing mobile media market.


We’re going to open the call with a brief overview of market opportunities and services for those of


you who may be new to the company, and then recap our accomplishments in fiscal 2011. After


that, I’ll turn the call over to Ted who will take you through the financial results. And then I’ll come


back and talk about our plans for fiscal 2012, and the outlook for the year. Then we’ll open up the


call for questions.


First, a brief overview of the company. We are a technology and services leader in the interactive


media marketing, offering only patented and innovative end-to-end software as a service or SaaS


mobile marketing platform. Our AD LIFE mobile marketing technology platform allows marketers,


brands and agencies the ability to plan, create, test, deploy and track mobile marketing programs


through the use of our consumer response tags such as 2D codes, UPC codes, text SMS and


image recognition. AD LIFE facilitates consumer brand interaction, and the ability to track and


analyze campaign results using our own patented device-detection, proprietary mobile content


adaptation software. AD LIFE solves the mobile marketing industry problem of disparate operating


systems, device types, and on-screen mobile content rendering. We also provide services,


including national mobile couponing solutions, strategic mobile healthcare tools, custom mobile


application development, and consumer data tracking and analytics.


We own the Method and System for Adding Function to a Web Page portfolio of patents, which


cover technical processes and methods that are believed to be a foundational component of


behavioral targeting. The automatic provision of customized content to individuals based on


information such as past web activity, personal preferences, geography or demographic data. We


believe this patent portfolio, which could generate additional revenue for the company.


Mobile phones are a way of life. There are 240 cell phone subscribers in the United States out of a


total population over 300 million. Each cell phone is a user – a mobile consumer exposed to an


average of over 80,000 ad impressions annually that could be augmented by interactive mobile


marketing messages. Meanwhile, over $150 billion is spent in the U.S. on traditional print marketing


media across six major channels of magazine, point-of-purchase, newspaper, free-standing inserts,


out-of-home, and direct mail. Packaging also becomes a recognized marketing medium, as


consumer packaged good companies are increasingly leveraging their package as a means to


communicate with consumers.


Despite the proliferation of sophisticated mobile devices and enormous marketing value promised


by interacting directly with mobile consumers, marketers continue to struggle to find an easy,


affordable, and effective way to fully integrate mobile into existing marketing and advertising


campaigns. We saw this mobile marketing puzzle through a comprehensive platform that fully


integrates all the tools and technologies required for traditional media channels to deliver digital


interactive marketing content on demand to the mobile consumer.


For clients, including major consumer brands, and their advertising agencies, AD LIFE augments


advertising media with mobile interactive enhancement and extended communication,


persuasiveness, and effectiveness of existing campaigns. For mobile consumers, AD LIFE is an


engine allowing them to respond to advertising by easily connecting to an on-demand content and