raw transcript


Medical Staffing Network


Holdings, Inc.
 
MRN
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 4, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Welcome to the Medical Staffing Network Holdings Second Quarter 2005 Earnings


Release Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to


Jeff [indiscernible], Director of Financial Reporting for Medical Staffing Network Holdings. Please


go ahead, sir.


Company Representative


Good afternoon and welcome to the Medical Staffing Network Holdings Conference Call to review


the financial results for the quarter ended June 26, 2005. The results were announced yesterday in


press releases and covered by the financial media. As we thought, let me express that some


statements made in this call will be forward-looking in nature. Forward-looking statements are


predictive, depend upon, or refer to future events or conditions or are identified by words such


expect, anticipate, plan, believe, estimate, may, and other similar expressions. These statements


involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the company's


actual results and performance to be materially different from any future results or performance


expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These statements reflect the company's


current beliefs and are based on the information currently available to us. Developments


subsequent to this call may cause these statements to become outdated.
 
Information concerning


these and other important factors can be found within the company's filings with the Securities and


Exchange Commission.


With me today are Robert Adamson, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer; Kevin Little, President;


Gary Peck, Chief Financial Officer; and Larry McPherson, Chief Financial Officer. I will now turn


the call over to Mr. Adamson.


Robert Adamson, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Jeff. Good afternoon and welcome to our earnings conference call for the second


quarter year-to-date results for 2005. Revenue for the second quarter was $101.9 million, a 1.3%


increase from last year's $100.6 million reported for the first quarter of 2005 and a decrease of


3.9% from $106 million reported for the second quarter of 2004. Revenue for the first 6 months of


2005 was $202.4 million, a 4.7% decrease from revenue of $212.4 million reported for the same


period of 2004. The company had net income of 1 cent per diluted share in the second quarter of


2005 as compared to a net loss of 3 cents per share for both the first quarter of 2005 and the


second quarter of 2004. They also had net loss of 2 cents per share in the first 6 months of 2005


as compared to 5 cents per share in the same period of 2004.


And the firm experienced continued stabilization in the market this quarter from a revenue


perspective and were left with another modest increase in sequential revenues and a substantial


increase in our gross margins. Our recent hospital admissions appear to be mixed and sampled for


and medical services continues to noticeably improve. We have had 2 quarters of sequential


revenue growth and the year-over-year revenue decline of 3.9% was our smallest decline in the


area of 2 years. The prudent ability of the orders we receive continues to build nature's challenge


[ph]. [indiscernible] is primarily due to the flexibility that the job provides. The recruitment of the


natural incremental [ph] nurse to MSN is usually a function of our ability to provide the specific shift


the nurse wants at the specific facility of his or her choice. Though demands have increased over


the past years, it is still well below the peak point of a few years ago and much of the increase in
raw transcript


Medical Staffing Network


Holdings, Inc.
 
MRN
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 4, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


demand that we are seeing is for specialties that due to the nursing shortage, are far more difficult


to fill.


We are very pleased with the continued improvement in gross margin this year. Our gross margin


improved 60 basis points in the first quarter of this year compared to the prior year and for the


second quarter of this year, our margin improved 100 basis points compared to the prior year. We


have reduced our operating expenses and our balance sheet management has allowed us to


reduce interest expense by more than 34% from the prior-year quarter. Kevin Little, our President,


will now provide an operational review for the second quarter.


Kevin Little, Chief Operating Officer


Thank you, Robert. I'm very pleased to begin with an update on our progress towards certification


under the Joint Commission, calculated by the certification program. The Joint Commission


recently completed their review of appropriate offers in our national bank network. We have been


strong supporters of the new certification program that the Joint Commission created, and the


quality standards it requires. We have been actively working towards encouraging professional


standards for the Health Cert Documenting industry, 2001, when it launched an advisory standards


board comprised of leaders in the noted fields. MSN has been able to successfully operate at a


high level of quality and consistency because we are unique in that our operations management


team has a significant number of senior and executive managers with clinical experience.


Obtaining certification will provide an objective confirmation of the excellent service that we have


been providing to our clients for many years. Other national privy and nurse staffing companies


have indicated that they will not undergo the Joint Commission certification process. We believe


that to further align MSN as a partner to our clients, it is appropriate and important to participate in


the certification program administered by the respective institutions that credit healthcare facilities.


We believe that certification will provide us with a competitive advantage over healthcare staffing


firms who are either unwilling or unable to obtain certification. We should repeat the results of the


Joint Commission's review in the next 30 to 45 days.


We are pleased to report at the end of the quarter that the sequential revenue growth in our return


to profitability, and we have taken additional measures to better position the company for


continuation of these trends. We have completed several substantial expense reduction initiatives


at the end of the second quarter. These initiatives have nominal costs associated to implement,


and are expected to result in approximately 4 million of annualized cost savings, while not reducing


the overall quality of our service offerings. We continue to effectively manage our risk management


program, which has resulted in a decline in the amount it costs us per revenue dollar to provide


malpractice and worker's compensation insurance. This positive trend has resulted in the


expansion of our growth margin percentage.


Lastly, I'd like to comment on our continued success in reducing our optimum debt balance with the


free cash flow we generate. At the end of the second quarter of 2005, our premium debt totaled


30.3 million compared with 42.2 million at this time last year, and our DSO at 52 days is a number


we believe to be an industry leading number. Through July 2005, our outstanding debt has been


further reduced to under 27 million. We see the second half of 2005 as an opportunity to build


upon the success that we achieved in the second quarter. Gary Peck, our Chief Operating Officer


will now provide an outline of some of our key second half initiatives. Gary?