raw transcript


Medical Staffing Network


Holdings, Inc.
 
MRN
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 4, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Medical Staffing


Network Holdings Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] I would now


like to turn the call over to Jamie West [ph], Corporate Communications, for opening remarks and


to introduce the speakers. Please go ahead.


Company Representative


Good afternoon, and welcome to the Medical Staffing Network Holdings Conference Call to review


the financial results for the quarter ended September 25, 2005. The results were announced


yesterday in a press release that has been covered by the financial media. As we start, let me


express that some statements made in this call will be forward-looking in nature. Forward-looking


statements are predicted, depend upon and refer to future events or conditions or are identified by


words such as expect, anticipate, plan, believe, estimate, may and other similar expressions.


These statements involve known and unknown risk, uncertainties and other factors that may cause


the Company's actual results and performance to be materially different from any future results or


performance express or implied by these forward-looking statements. These statements reflect the


Company's current beliefs and are based on the information currently available. Developments


subsequent to this call may cause these statements to become outdated. Information concerning


these and other important factors can be found within the Company's filings with the Securities and


Exchange Commission. With me today are Robert Adamson, Chairman and Chief Executive


Officer; Kevin Little, President; Gary Peck, Chief Operating Officer; and Larry McPherson, Chief


Financial Officer. I'll now turn the call over to Mr. Adamson.


Robert J. Adamson, Chairman and CEO


Thank you, Jamie. Good afternoon and welcome to our Earnings Conference Call for the third


quarter and year-to-date results for 2005. Revenue for the third quarter was 102.4 million, a


modest increase from revenue of 101.9 million reported for the second quarter of 2005 and a small


decrease of 3.6%, and revenue of 106.2 million for the third quarter of 2004. Revenue for the first


nine months of 2005 was 304.9 million, a 4.3% decrease from revenue of 318.6 million reported for


the same period of 2004.


The company had a net income of 1 cent per diluted share in the third quarter of 2005, as well as


for both the second quarter of 2004 and the third quarter of – excuse me, the second quarter of


2005 and the third quarter of 2004. The net income this quarter includes an after-tax charge of 1


cent per share associated with the right off of due diligence costs related to a potence [ph]


acquisition that was ultimately not completed. The company had a net loss of 2 cents per share in


the first nine months of 2005, as compared to a net loss of 4 cents per share in the same period of


2004. This quarter marks a third consecutive quarter of sequentially, quarterly revenue growth,


further indication of a stabilization in the industry that we have discussed in our previous calls this


year.


While we continue to believe that soft [ph] admission data and other challenges faced by the


healthcare facilities, make for a challenging operating environment, we are encouraged by the


steady increase in demand for our services. Demand is at the highest levels we have seen in the


past few years. As a result, focus on market share growth will be our highest priority. Gary Peck,
raw transcript


Medical Staffing Network


Holdings, Inc.
 
MRN
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 4, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


our chief operating officer will give you a broad overview of our growth initiatives later in this call. I


will now ask Kevin to cover our current initiatives and recent successes.


Kevin S. Little, President


Thank you Robert. On October 15, excuse me, on August 15, we issued a press release


announcing that the Joint Commission on a accreditation of healthcare organizations awarded its


new healthcare staffing services certification in Medical Staffing Network, and this end was the first


national provider of purduing [ph] and nursing services to achieve current commission healthcare


staffing services certification. Our allied health staffing and travel nursing services also received


certification. We believe that the Joint Commission will pull seals [ph] approval, not only sets up


apart as an industry leader, but also demonstrates our continuous commitment to quality. Since


our inception in 1998, we are proud of ourselves on providing high quality staffing services to our


clients at a reasonable market rate. Since our standards were always high, going through the


process of becoming certified does not result in an increase of the cost of providing staffing


services, but is a tangible, value added proposition to our clients.


On September 8, we issued a press release announcing that MSN is one of two companies


selected to be primary providers, or multi year contract to provide healthcare professionals to the


United States Department of Health and Human Services. The contracts allows to be over 2400


DHHS facilities nationwide, to take order of wide variety of staff including, nurses, physicians and


allied specialists. DHHS estimates, but does not guarantee that the annual volume of purchases


under the contract will be a $55 million, or 275 million during its 5 year term. In order to supply the


expected demand for healthcare professionals, MSN will call upon our extensive database of


healthcare professionals, as well as utilize high specialty staffing companies on a teaming-partner


basis. We went through one key review process and believe that our proven track record of high


quality, diversified staffing services as well as our advanced IP platforms are important


differentiating factors in the decision-making process. Gary will now discuss some of our current


strategic initiatives. Gary?


Gary Peck, President of Commercial and Professional Staffing


Thanks, Kevin. We have a number of key initiatives that are either planned or already underway


that support our strategic growth priorities. As we mentioned last quarter, our focus in the per diem


business is market-share growth, while in our Allied and Travel business we are preparing for


significant expansion. We had begun a focus on market penetration that we believe will ultimately


lead to increased market share in our per diem markets. At the heart of this approach is a clearly


defined account-by-account penetration plan that is very granular. Accordingly, we have


established new hiring criteria for branch managers, our key selling position, and plan to do so for


all remaining positions in the company. There is clear consistent expectation of the skills and


background required for a new manager joining the company that aligns with our intended


objective. To improve the organization's delivery of increased market share will require a different


set of planning and selling skills than in the past, and we've begun a comprehensive redesign effort


of all training programs.


Account planning, territory management, and a full range of selling skills training will all be


addressed. We also plan to introduce new compensation plans for 2006 in concert with this


business development plan. As you can see we are focusing on the critical elements of success in


who we hire, and how we train and compensate them to ensure improved market-by-market growth


in the per diem business. You can also expect us to expand in some of our nurse-per-diem


markets where we currently do very little business in long-term care facilities. We will make this