raw transcript


Medical Staffing Network


Holdings, Inc.
 
MRN
 
Q1 2006 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 27, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Medical Staffing


Network Holdings first quarter conference call. During the presentation, all participants will be in a


listen-only mode. Afterwards, you will be invited to participate in the question-and-answer session.


At that time, if you have a question, please press the one followed by the four on your phone. As a


reminder, this call is being recorded Thursday, April 27, 2006.


I would now like to turn the call over to Jamie Webb [ph], Corporate Communications, for opening


remarks and to introduce the speakers. Please go ahead.


Jamie West, Corporate Communications


Good morning and welcome to the Medical Staffing Network Holdings conference call to review the


financial results for the first quarter ended March 25th, 2006. The results were announced


yesterday in a press release that has been covered by the financial media. As we start, let me


express that some statements made in this call will be forward-looking in nature. Forward-looking


statements are predictive, depend upon or refer to future events or conditions, and are identified by


words such as expect, anticipate, plan, believe, estimate, may, and other similar expressions.


These statements involve known and unknown risk, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause


the company's actual results and performance to be materially different from any future results or


performance expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These statements reflect


the company's current beliefs and are based on the information currently available. Development


subsequent to this call may cause these statements to become outdated. Information concerning


these and other important factors can be found within the company's filings with the Securities and


Exchange Commission. With me today are Robert Adamson, Chairman and Chief Executive


Officer; Kevin Little, President; and Larry McPherson, Chief Financial Officer. I'll now turn the call


over to Mr. Adamson.


Robert Adamson, Chairman & CEO


Thank you Jamie. Good morning and welcome to our earnings conference call for the first quarter


of 2006. Revenue for the first quarter was $95 million, a decrease of 5.5% from revenue of 100.5


million for the first quarter of 2005, and a sequential decline of 2.8% from revenue of 97.7 million


reported in the fourth quarter of 2005. Most of the sequential and the year-over-year decline was


centered in those under performing branches, which were closed during our recent restructuring.


Net loss for the first quarter of 2006 was $0.15 per share compared to a net loss of $0.01 per share


in the fourth quarter of 2005 and a net loss $0.03 per share in the first quarter of 2005.


Excluding the 6.3 million in restructuring charges recorded in the first quarter of 2006, the net loss


for the first quarter would have been $0.02 per share. The previously announced restructuring


activities were efficiently completed and I am pleased to report that we experienced no reduction in


weekly revenues in the period after the closure of what amounted to approximately 10% of our


branch network. We believe that we have successfully achieved the objectives of the restructuring,


which included $6 million reduction in annualized operating expenses. And we believe that the most


difficult period over our industry is behind us, we still face a challenging marketplace. We believe


that as the industry continues to show modest overall improvement, the best near-term objectives


for growth are in the allied and travel nurse segments of our business, which appear to be


recovering at a faster rate thus far in 2006. As per the per diem segment, we believe that 2006 will


be a period of continued stability, but with growth, opportunities lagging behind those of the travel
raw transcript


Medical Staffing Network


Holdings, Inc.
 
MRN
 
Q1 2006 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 27, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


and allied segments. With the actions we have taken coupled with our organic growth initiatives, we


are confident that our objectives to improve near-term earnings will be accomplished in 2006. Kevin


will now provide us some additional information regarding our recent restructuring.


Kevin Little, President


Thank you Robert. Majority of our restructuring plan was implemented in February, when we closed


13 per diem branch locations and made other corporate and operation staff, personnel reductions.


The total charge for the restructuring was approximately 6.3 million, which is consistent with our


initial estimate. 6.3 million is broken down into two sub categories; 3.1 million is the cash


component, primarily for severance cost, and lease and contract terminations; and $3.2 million non-


cash charge for goodwill impairment related to the closed per diem locations. Going through a


restructuring is a challenging effort. I am pleased with the efficiency and professionalism in which


the plan was implemented. As can be seen from the $1 million sequential quarter revenue


reduction in SG&A expenses, we were able to begin to recognize some of the fringe benefits in the


first quarter. And management is so confident that the expense reduction target of $6 million will be


achieved. But as we discussed last quarter, achieving cost setting measures to improve profitability


was just one objective of the plan. This is just important with the fact the closing under performing


branch location enables management to focus on stronger performing marketplaces and product


line in effort to spur organic growth.


We are pleased to report that on a year-over-year basis, our travel nurse division increased by


approximately 5.5% and our core allied businesses was up 2% as compared to last year. We are


encouraged by the fact that we are finally seeing order flow from the Department of Health and


Human Services contract we are awarded in the third quarter of 2005. We had growth


[indiscernible] in this quarter was approximately $2 million, but as originally contemplated and


disclosed, significant portion of the demand under the contract is for physician, with our staff bio-


team partners that provide that service offering. We continue to work closely with DHHS to


communicate with the various agencies and hundreds of facilities about our services and the new


blanket purchase agreement vehicle that now have efficiently secured their healthcare staffing


needs. Larry will now provide a financial overview.


Larry McPherson, CFO


Thanks Jim. As Robert mentioned revenue for the first quarter of 2006 was 95 million, which was a


decrease of 2.86% [ph] from the fourth quarter of 2005 revenue of 97.7 million and a decrease of


5.5% from first quarter of 2005 revenue of 100.6 million. The year-over-year decline in revenue was


due to the decline in the number of hours worked which is primarily attributable to the


underperforming branches, which were closed in the restructuring. The number of billable hours


worked by our professionals was 2.3 million for the first quarter of 2006. As compared to 2.4 million


for the fourth quarter of 2005 and 2.5 million for the first quarter of 2005. The average bill rate in our


healthcare staffing units has remained relatively consistent.


On year-over-year basis, per diem nursing, another branch-based revenue was down 6.9%,


primarily due to the underperforming branches that were closed. We are encouraged by the fact


that our revenue from our travel second unit was up 5.4% and the revenue from the allied staffing


unit was up 2% on year-over-year. As Jim had mentioned we had approximately 2 million of billings


under the DHHS contract, has contemplated a significant portion of the billing as for physician and


this subcontract revenue was reported on a net basis in our income statement with only a small


administrative the pass-through been recorded as revenue.