raw transcript


Medical Staffing Network
 
MRN
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 10, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


<Operator:> Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the Medical Staffing


Network Holdings Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call. During the presentation all


participants will be in a listen only mode. Afterwards we will conduct and answer session. At that


time if you have a question, please press the 1 followed by the 4 on your telephone. As a reminder


this conference is being recorded Thursday, March 10, 2005. It is now my pleasure to turn the


conference over to Jeff Gesner, [ph] Director of Financial Reporting. Please go ahead sir.


Jeff Gesner, [ph] Director of Financial Reporting


Good morning and welcome to the Medical Staffing Network Holdings conference call to review the


financial results for the fourth quarter and year ended December 26, 2004. The results announced


yesterday in a press release that has been covered by the financial media. As we start, let me


express that some statements made in this call will be forward looking in nature. Forward looking


statements are predictive, depend upon or refer to future events or conditions or identified by words


such as expect, anticipate, intend, plan, believe, estimate, will, may and other similar expressions.


These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may


cause the company's actual results and performance to be materially different from any future


results or performance, expressed or implied by these forward looking statements. These


statements reflect the company's current beliefs and are based on the information currently


available to us. Developments subsequent to this call may cause these statements to become


outdated. Information concerning these and other important factors can be found within the


company's filings with the Securities & Exchange Commission. With me today are Robert


Adamson, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Kevin Little, President and Chief Operating


Officer and Larry McPherson, Chief Financial Officer. I will now turn the call over to Mr. Adamson.


Robert Adamson, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you Jeff. Good morning and welcome to our Earnings Conference Call for the Fourth


Quarter Annual Results for Fiscal 2004. Revenue for the fourth quarter was $98.5 million, a 7.3%


decrease from revenues of $106.2 million reported for the third quarter of 2004 and a decrease of


8.7% from revenue of $107.8 million for the same quarter of 2003. The company essentially broke


even for the quarter with a loss of less than 1 cent per share as compared to net income of 1 cent


per diluted share in the third quarter of this year and a net loss of 7 cents per diluted share in the


same quarter of 2003. The results for the fourth quarter of this year includes a non-recurring legal


expense associated with the defense of the previously disclosed class-action law suits of


approximately 1 cent per share after tax. The loss in the fourth quarter of 2003 included at after tax


charge or 7 cents per share associated with replacing our previous debt facility.


The health care staffing market continues to be unpredictable and difficult. Health care facilities are


facing a number of negative factors including lower than expected patient volumes, pricing pressure


and reimbursement challenges. These factors continue to cause many facilities to reduce the use


of supplemental staffing services. And to rely more heavily on their internal staff, a strategy that we


do not believe is neither cost effective nor appropriate for meeting nurse-to-patient ratios. Absent


any sustained improvement in hospital admission, 2005 will be another challenging year for the


healthcare staffing industry. We continue to believe the long-term drivers of our industry will cause


these trends to reverse, but we cannot accurate predict when they will occur. Our strategy of


building a well diversified range of staffing product lines, from nursing, to pharmacists, to clinical lab


technicians will allow us to grow the business on a long-term basis. While we are not satisfied with


the revenue reduction from the third to the fourth quarter, we believe our results are better than our
raw transcript


Medical Staffing Network
 
MRN
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 10, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


peers in the healthcare per diem industry. In addition, I'm excited about the upside potential of non-


healthcare staffing lines. Our activity in this area has been modest to date, however the


opportunities for growth are significant. Kevin Little, our President and Chief Operating Officer, will


now provide an operations review.


Kevin Little, Chief Operating Officer


Thank you Robert. As Robert said, MSN and the entire healthcare staffing industry face a


continuing difficult operating environment in the fourth quarter of 2004, with a significant decline in


demand as facilities dealt with softer than expected admissions, and other financial challenges.


However, we are encouraged by what appears to be growing momentum at the state level, to


legislate staffing ratios in a manner similar to the much-publicized California legislation. Illinois,


Kansas, and other states have recently proposed, or intend to propose, such legislation soon.


Additionally, a bill has been introduced in the House of Representatives that would ban hospitals


from requiring nurses to work beyond their agreed to regularly scheduled shift, and when at work,


do more than 12 hours in a 24 hour period or no more than 80 hours in a 2 week period. We


believe that further adoption of nurse to patient ratio legislation and the elimination of mandatory


overtime would have a significant positive impact on the demand for our services. Our pricing


remains stable in the fourth quarter of 2004, and the spread between our bill and pay rate has


remained relatively consistent throughout the year, after we experienced significant margin


compression in 2003.


We believe the trend towards center consolidation that we have discussed on previous calls is


continuing to gain traction in the larger more sophisticated staffing companies will benefit from this


trend. We are pleased to be working with the joint commission on the accreditation of healthcare


organizations to develop the multi-site healthcare staffing company, certification program. We


served as a pilot company for this new joint commission program, and expect to undergo the


certification process in the second quarter of 2005. Based on discussions with some of our


healthcare facility clients, we believe the certification will be an important differentiated in marketing


our services going forward. We are encouraged by the early stage results from our non-healthcare


staffing business. While this unit is still very small, less than 1% of revenue, we believe the staffing


segment has great potential for growth, and look forward to building this business. I'll now turn the


call over to Larry, who will provide the financial review for our fourth quarter and full year 2004.


Larry McPherson, Chief Financial Officer


Thanks Kevin. Revenue for the fourth quarter of 2004 was $98.5 million, which was a decrease of


7.3% from the $106.2 million we reported for the third quarter of 2004, and a year-over-year decline


of 8.7% from the revenue of $107.8 million for the comparable and prior year quarter. On a


sequential quarter basis, the number of billable hours worked by our professionals was $2.3 million,


as compared to $2.5 million for the third quarter of 2004, and the fourth quarter of 2003. The year


over year decline in revenue was due to a decrease in the number of hours worked by


professionals, caused by the weakness in demand for supplemental healthcare staffing as


previously discussed. The year over year decrease in revenue was comprised of a 9.1% decrease


in per diem nursing revenue, from $80.6 million in the fourth quarter of 2003, to $73.3 million in the


fourth quarter of 2004. And a 7.4% decrease in revenue from our other staffing units, from $27.2


million in the fourth quarter of 2003, to $25.2 million in the fourth quarter of 2004.


Our gross margins for the fourth quarter of 2004 was 22.4%, which was an increase from our gross


margin of 21.7% for the third quarter of 2003, and consistent with our gross margin of 22.4% for the


fourth quarter of 2003. As Kevin mentioned, the average bill to base spread rate – rate spread, has


remained relatively constant. The increase in gross margins on a sequential basis is primarily due


to a more favorable professional liability and worker's compensation claims experience in the