Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Henry E. Dubois — Chief Executive Officer & Director, Hooper Holmes, Inc.
Steven Balthazor — Chief Financial Officer, Hooper Holmes, Inc.
Bill Sutherland — Analyst, The Benchmark Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, everyone, and welcome to the Hooper Holmes' 2017 First Quarter Financial Results Conference Call. Today's conference is being recorded.

At this time, I would now like to turn the conference over to [ph] Andy Berger (00:00:10). Please go ahead.

Thanks, Lisa. This presentation contains forward-looking statements as such term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 concerning the company's plans, objectives, goals, strategies, future events or performances which are not statements of historical fact and can be identified by words such as; except, continue, should, may, will, project, anticipate, believe, plan, goal and similar references to future periods. The forward-looking statements contained in this presentation reflect our current beliefs and expectations. Actual results or performance may differ materially from what is expressed in the forward-looking statements.

Among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in this presentation are our ability to realize the expected synergies and other benefits from our merger with Provant Health Solutions; our ability to realize the expected benefits from the acquisition of Accountable Health Solutions, and our strategic alliance with Clinical Reference Laboratory; our ability to successfully implement our business strategy and integrate Accountable Health Solutions and Provant's Health Solutions business with ours; our ability to retain and grow our customer base; our ability to recognize operational efficiencies and reduce costs; uncertainty as to our working capital requirements over the next 12 months to 24 months; our ability to maintain compliance with the financial covenants contained in our credit facilities; the rate of growth in the health and wellness market; and such other factors as discussed in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors and Part II, Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of financial conditions and results of operations of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016.

The company undertakes no obligation to update or release any revisions to those forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events after the date of this presentation, except as required by law.

This presentation contains information from third-party sources, including data from studies conducted by others, and market, data and industry forecasts obtained from industry publications. Although the company believes that such information is reliable, the company has not independently verified any of this information and the company does not guarantee the accuracy or completeness of this information. Any references to documents not included in this presentation itself are qualified by the full text and content of those documents.

During our prepared comments or responses to your questions, we may offer incremental metrics to provide greater insight into the dynamics of our business or our quarterly results such as references to EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA and other measures of financial performance. Please be advised that these additional details may be one-time in nature, and we may or may not provide an update in the future. These and other financial measures may also have been prepared on a non-GAAP basis.

Also in the call today are Henry Dubois, Hooper Holmes the CEO; and Steven Balthazor, the company's CFO.

At this time I'll turn the call over to Henry. Henry?

Thank you, [ph] Andy (00:03:17), and thank you, everyone, for joining us today as we mark the successful closing of the merger between Hooper Holmes and Provant. As a combined organization, we comprise one of the largest pure-play Health & Wellness companies and are traded on the OTCQX marketplace.

Please turn to slide 3 in the deck Andy mentioned. Full integration mode has begun as we begin to execute and capitalize on synergies, improve our financial position, expand our product and service offerings, and extend our national reach.

Let's begin by restating the guidance we provided 10 weeks ago. We expect combined pro forma revenues of $54-plus million for the last 9 months of the year. This increased scale is expected to deliver improved financial performance by generating at least $3 million in adjusted EBITDA for the last nine months of 2017 and an estimated $5 million plus or more in adjusted EBITDA for the full year of 2018.

Annualized synergies of $7 million are actively being worked on and, as you will see shortly, we've made progress towards that goal in advance of day one. We're starting the new organization off from a stronger position.

The fundamentals of Hooper Holmes' business continued to improve in Q1. As we will review in greater detail, we delivered revenue growth and improved adjusted EBITDA in the traditionally slow first quarter.

Now, let me turn it over to Steven to review Hooper Holmes' first quarter performance on a standalone basis.

Thank you, Henry. Please turn to slide 4. Revenue grew by 5% compared to the first quarter of 2016. This growth was driven by revenue increases from channel partners and clinical research organizations compared to the prior year period. Revenues from channel partners and clinical research organizations increased 44% compared to the first quarter of 2016. This reflects some of the new sales wins we reported in Q4 2016, as we discussed in prior calls.

Gross margins improved 16% compared to the first quarter of 2016. This standalone revenue growth and gross margin improvement show our focus on new sales and expense reductions are working. In particular, we are encouraged by channel partner revenue growth.

The merger will benefit our important channel partner customers by expanding our national network of health professionals and by enabling the delivery of more complex blood panels and vaccinations. The merger also strengthens our on-site health coaching services. As a result, we expect to see continued revenue growth and gross margin improvements as we work through integrations.

Please turn to slide 5. On a standalone basis, Hooper's adjusted EBITDA for Q1 2017 improved 28% compared to the same period in 2016. For the quarter, the company's net loss, excluding transaction costs was $2.4 million, a 26% improvement compared to the first quarter of 2016. We also continue to drive to reduce SG&A expenses in 2017 which declined 9% compared to Q1 in 2016. We believe this sets the stage for improved financial performance as we integrate operations, strengthen our product offerings and recognize synergies. Integrating our operations will bring a more balanced book of business across direct customers, channel partners, clinical research organizations and health plans. With this larger, more diversified base, we expect to see a continued shift to higher margin revenues.

And now let me turn it back to Henry.

Thank you, Steven. Now let's chase to the forward-looking perspective. Please turn to slide 6. We will see that our company had approximately 25.9 million shares outstanding after the close of the merger. As the slide shows, we have raised $3.220 million in equity from various investors and are rounding out the final $280,000. All of this equity has been raised at $0.80 per share. Our capital structure and liquidity provide us the platform from which to grow. As previously discussed, our company has access to a credit facility provided by our existing credit lender of $10 million with an accordion of $15 million during the busy season.

As we mentioned in the merger announcement, financing to support working capital was arranged from SWK Holdings, a specialized finance company focused on the healthcare sector through a $6.5 million term facility at LIBOR plus 12.5%. This financing includes a principal payment holiday of 18 months

Looking ahead, we expect our increased scale and cost synergies to further enhance our financial model.

Now, please turn to slide 7. I'm pleased to report that our integration work has produced benefits in advance of day one. We have already taken actions that will yield efficiencies of $1.4 million on an annual run rate basis. That means we have already achieved about 20% of our annualized cost efficiency goals.

Looking ahead, we are therefore confident about achieving $7 million of synergies on annualized basis from three main areas. The first is from operational synergies realized from unifying the management of biometric screenings, clinical support services, and coaching. The second area is achieved by optimizing our technology platform and IT infrastructure. And the third is from eliminating duplicative SG&A.

In addition, we expect to generate economies by optimizing facilities and combining our purchasing power. These synergies will add to our value proposition by reducing our borrowing costs and improving liquidity. We remain committed to achieving additional operational efficiencies beyond our formal synergy work and expect integration to drive significant customer benefits.

We are also encouraged by new sales growth in the first quarter. On a combined basis, we won new sales with an annualized value of $5.5 million. This includes $3.9 million from existing and new channel partners and $1.6 million from new direct customers. As this timeline suggests, one of our top priorities is integrating and expanding our national health professional network. This is of great interest to our channel partners and clients as we prepare for a very active busy season in the last few months of the year. The integration team is working to ensure our customers will be able to draw upon a combined network of over 20,000 local health professionals.

We'll also be enhancing the value of our coaching capabilities and technology platform and expanding our product offering, which will benefit clients and participants alike. As we integrate, we will improve the efficiency and speed of our data reporting, which will support our continued growth in clinical support.

Now, let's move to slide 8. To recap, we believe the merger is transformational and starts us from a strengthened position. The fundamentals of our business continue to improve in Q1 on a stand-alone basis, delivering 5% overall revenue growth and a 28% improvement in adjusted EBITDA in what has been a traditionally slow time period.

On a combined basis, we have attained annual new sales growth of $5.5 million in the first quarter. We are driving towards $7 million of synergies on an annualized run rate basis and have already achieved approximately 20% of that goal before day one by taking some actions.

With increased scale from $54 million in revenue for the last 9 months of 2017, we expect to generate an estimated $3-plus million in adjusted EBITDA and are targeting $5-plus million in adjusted EBITDA and positive net income for the full year 2018.

Looking to the future, continued growth in the health coaching, portal services, and screening segments of the $7 billion corporate wellness market will benefit our combined organization.

And now, Steven and I will be pleased to take your questions. [Operator Instructions]

And we'll take out first question from Bill Sutherland from The Benchmark Company. Please go ahead, sir.

Hi. Thank you. Great. And congrats on getting this closed so smoothly. Henry, what is the exact closing date?

The exact closing date was yesterday.

Okay. [indiscernible]

(00:12:19) we're done and we're excited about getting moving.

I imagine you are. I'm really sorry, I've got this ridiculous cold. So, you made that progress on the identified cost synergies and I know it's head down and to just get everything going. But just when you mapped all this out, were you thinking, there could be additional cost synergies that you just didn't want to grab [indiscernible] (00:12:53) not really circle quite yet because you don't want to set too high a bar?

Well, Bill, thanks for the question and, as you know, we've been working together – the two teams have been working together since we started the conversations back in October about how the two teams would come together. So as we were going through that, we were identifying cost savings and how we are going to be able to operate more efficiently across all of our book of business, whether it's screening or portal or coaching.

And as we're going through, we identified about $7 million of savings upfront. Obviously, internally, you might imagine that we're looking to generate more than that. We're quite encouraged by the fact that as we approach the close, we're able to start working some things already together. For example, starting in April, prior to the close, on a kind of arm's length type basis, we started moving some of the coaching from – that Hooper was doing and combining that with the coaching that Provant was doing. So we already were working some – sort of those synergies upfront. Those are approximate numbers that you see. So, is there a possibility for more than $7 million? We are working hard to get there. We want to hit that – our target first and then we'll report after that.

Great. Maybe a little color on the nice strength you guys are seeing in your channel partner business.

Well, as you may recall, back in the fourth quarter of last year we talked about some of our large channel partners, couple of health plans that we had signed up that we are hoping to get some revenue from in 2016. Unfortunately, during the length of the contracting phase and those – with those clients, took us longer and they – we weren't able to get those done so we got people working in 2016. However, as we said at that time and as is confirmed here, the growth was coming and that's what we see. You also saw our press release that we put out in the first quarter on Paradigm Health where we've got a health plan in the New England area that we're working with. So it's customers like that, that we've kind of signaled in the past that are coming to fruition.

And thinking about cross-selling a lot for you guys, and so in that case, is there – I know it's not a given, but bringing in Provant's – I mean you're all together now, so when you go out and win a channel partner, you're winning it both. But I guess you'll go back to some of these prior channel partners just with greater capabilities? I'm trying to think how this might work.

As we approach our channel partners, we sit down with them to offer them whatever services we have on a combined organization and we may be able to do some cross-sellings. What we also want to make sure is that they understand that we are their partner and that we will be working with them to grow their business as well because they are an important part of our business.

Okay. And then I guess last for me, when you look into this approaching selling season, do you sense a lot of opportunities, some – I don't know how you guys kind of assess available market. It must be – I don't know if these things come up with the annual contracts or whether they're up for bid every year, but I'm guessing there's a lot of opportunity for you this year.

Well, we've been sitting down as a – on a combined company basis, we both look at our pipelines and we both have robust prospects out there, so we are excited about that. As we did report here, in the fourth quarter of this year, the combined companies closed what we expect to be about $5.5 million of annualized business; about $3.6 million with channel partners and $1.9 million with...

Right.

...direct customers. Now, let's keep in mind...

Right.

...that's a 12-month run rate. So we're not going to recognize all that in a – in this calendar year.

Sure. [ph]

Some may start this year, (00:17:15)...

Right.

...but we think it's a good pipeline to be setting up.

Okay. Thanks, Henry.

Great. Thanks, Bill. [Operator Instructions]

It appears there are no further questions at this time. Mr. Dubois, I'd like to turn the conference back to you for any additional or closing remarks.

Thank you, Lisa, and thank you, everyone, for joining us today. We appreciate your time and support and we need to get back to work as we integrate these companies and look forward to reporting again shortly. Thank you.

This concludes today's presentation. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.