Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Andrew M. Berger — Vice President, SM Berger & Co., Inc.
Henry E. Dubois — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Hooper Holmes, Inc.
Tom Collins — Chief Financial Officer & Senior Vice President, Hooper Holmes, Inc.
Brooks Gregory O'Neil — Analyst, Dougherty & Co. LLC
Matt Patrick Reiner — Chief Investment Officer & Portfolio Manager, Adirondack Research & Management, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to the Hooper Holmes' 2013 Fourth Quarter Financial Results Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Following the presentation, we will conduct a question-and-answer session with instructions provided at that time. [Operator Instructions]

At this time, I would now like to turn the conference over to Andrew Berger of SM Berger. Please go ahead.

Thanks, Luke. On behalf of the management of Hooper Holmes, we are extremely pleased that you have taken the time to participate in our conference call, and thank you for joining us to discuss the company's 2013 and fourth quarter financial results and business outlook.

Before I introduce management, I would like to remind everyone that certain statements made during the course of this conference call, especially those that state management's intentions, hopes, beliefs, expectations or predictions for the future are forward-looking statements. It is important to remember that the company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements. Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements is contained in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K; copies of which may be obtained by contacting either the company or the SEC.

By now, you should have received a copy of the news release, which was issued earlier this morning and is available on our website. You should also have received a copy of the slides, the company management's presentation this morning, which is also available on the Events Section of the website at investor.hooperholmes.com/events.cfm or in an 8-K that was filed this morning with the SEC.

Participating in the call today are Henry Dubois, Hooper Holmes' President and Chief Executive Officer, and Tom Collins, Chief Financial Officer.

At this time, I will turn the call over to Henry. Henry?

Thanks, Andy. Good morning, everyone, and thanks for joining us. For this quarter, we will change the format of our call by referring to a slide presentation. As Andy mentioned, it is available on our website.

2013 was a transformational year for Hooper Holmes. We sold the Portamedic business unit, finished up the year in Basking Ridge, New Jersey, started our transition to Olathe, Kansas and turned the focus of the company to our growing Health & Wellness business.

As you can see on slide number three, this morning we are introducing the new Hooper Holmes, as we call it internally the new Hooper. On today's call, we will focus mostly on the future, on where we're going and covering three things, our Health & Wellness business and leading capabilities, the dynamics of our markets and what we have already accomplished to take advantage of growth opportunities, and our high level strategies to deepen our customer partnerships and grow rapidly.

Before we turn our attention to the future, we announced our 2013 financial results this morning and I'd like to turn the call over to Tom to review the numbers. Tom?

Thanks, Henry. As Henry mentioned, there was a lot of change in 2013. We sold the Portamedic business unit, strengthening our working capital position. We began the move out of our Basking Ridge headquarters, which will allow us to reduce our cost structure and the transition to a leaner management team and corporate structure in Olathe is well underway. Once we file the 10-K, our operations will be based in Olathe. As a result of these major organization changes, financial results from 2013 may not easily compare to our future in 2014 and beyond.

As per our press release for the full year 2013, the company's consolidated revenues were $49.2 million, representing a 3.5% decline from $51 million in 2012. The company recorded a net loss of $11.3 million or $0.16 per share in 2013, compared to $17.6 million or $0.25 per share loss in 2012. The net loss for 2013 includes approximately $0.8 million of restructuring charges and a net loss from discontinued operations of approximately $1 million.

The net loss for 2012 included $0.6 million of restructuring charges and the net loss of $10.5 million from discontinued operations. In terms of our balance sheet, our year-end cash balance was $4 million with no debt and working capital of $8.6 million. I'll discuss more details on operating income and some other financial themes momentarily.

In the fourth quarter of 2013, consolidated revenues totaled $15 million, representing a 1% decline from $15.2 million in the fourth quarter of 2012, essentially flat between the two periods. The company reported a net loss of $2 million or $0.03 per share for the fourth quarter of 2013, compared to a net loss of $6.7 million or $0.10 per share for the fourth quarter of 2012.

As you see on slide four, the revenue story for 2013 has two primary themes. The first is that our Health & Wellness business revenue totaled $23.1 million for the full year of 2013, an increase of approximately 8% compared to $21.3 million of revenue for 2012. As previously discussed with you, this occurred principally from lower volume from one customer that we understand made changes in their business systems, which reduced demand.

We see that orders from this customer are rebounding in 2014. Growth across all other Health & Wellness customers during the same period increased approximately 35%. 2013 also saw a year-over-year decline in both our Heritage Labs and Hooper Holmes Services lines of business.

This decrease is primarily attributable to declines in demand for services associated with the life insurance market. We are exploring all options to mitigate the effects of the decline in our life insurance businesses and are evaluating these initiatives with our investment banking advisors. I also want to point out a few key financial themes of 2013, you can see on the lower right.

The company recorded an operating loss for continuing operations in 2013 of $9.8 million, compared to a $7 million loss in 2012. This increased operating loss was driven by margin pressure in our life insurance business segment, increases in restructuring charges, and selling, general and administrative costs associated with the sale of Portamedic in our transition to Olathe.

Additionally, Health & Wellness gross margins were affected by higher material and examiner travel costs in 2013. In 2014, we expect to improve margins by continuing to expand our health professional network, increasing supply efficiency, and driving productivity increases through expansion and scale of our operating platform. As we have said, our legacy cost structure and SG&A were set up for a much different business.

Given the size and scope of our transition out of Portamedic and out of Basking Ridge into Olathe, our SG&A costs will not be easily comparable across the year. As previously mentioned, our net loss improved for both the full year and fourth quarter 2013 when compared to 2012. This was driven by the sale of Portamedic and a solid fourth quarter in our Health & Wellness business, which because of seasonality in October-November is historically the largest volume of the year.

2013 also ended with a solid working capital position and no debt on the balance sheet. Our three-year loan and security agreement with Keltic Financial Partners remains in effect and provides flexible financial support if needed.

I'll now turn the call back to Henry.

Thanks, Tom. The 2013 fourth quarter market transition for Hooper Holmes will continue through Q1 2014. In the past, Hooper had been focused on a declining competitive market for life insurance applications. That legacy continues to affect lab testing and services results and as Tom mentioned, we're exploring all aspects to address those impacts.

We consider Health & Wellness to be our core business and growth engine. This morning, I will briefly describe our business and then discuss the growth opportunities we see and our strategies for the new Hooper.

As you can see on slide five, we are a health information company. We have a network of local health professionals in cities and towns across the United States. We mobilize that network to screen thousands of people every day from employer wellness programs. Last year, we performed 420,000 wellness screenings. We served more than 65 health management companies and through them more than 2,500 employers. We also achieved the participant satisfaction rate of approximately 99%, a key measure of service quality.

Slide six suggests delivering coverage, consistency and compliance across the country for the complicated business. There are three keys to understanding our business. First is people. Our network of health professionals include nurses, phlebotomists and doctors. We have the skills and talent needed to collect personal health information accurately and professionally.

The second is profit. We train health professionals in our screening process, so the screenings we performed in Honolulu are the same as the ones we performed in Hartford.

And the third is technology. We have a secure proprietary technology platform that delivers fast, accurate data to our customers typically within 48 hours of the screening event. In fact, we believe speed and accuracy in data reporting is one of our competitive advantages.

The map on the lower right shows the scale and scope of our operations. We present the complete range of capabilities needed to conduct biometric screening anywhere in the country. And to this point, we conducted screenings in every state last year as well as the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and Guam. Each of the blue dots on the map represents the location of screening events performed in 2013. We are now poised to make the most of our Health & Wellness strengths.

As you can see on slide 7, in the past, the company had been focused on turning around its life insurance Portamedic business. Those characteristics are described on the left under legacy. This turnaround consumed years of management's attention and the company's capital.

The sale of Portamedic in the third quarter of 2013 now permits us to focus on Health & Wellness. It also marked the end of a higher cost structure. We now have a new leaner management team in place in Olathe. We have flattened the organization and increased the breadth and responsibility of our business leaders. Our job now is to leverage our new team for growth in healthcare services and to build shareholder value. We believe that will require expanding our capabilities in areas such as data capture and delivery. We are excited about the opportunities that Health & Wellness market presents for 2014 and beyond.

Turning to slide eight, we are focused on growing our employer wellness business. Wellness programs offered today usually focus on exercise, smoking cessation and weight loss. Participants who enroll in one of these programs typically need a biometric screening such as those performed by Hooper. We collect the basic measurements and test results at baseline employee populations. Employers opt for wellness programs because more than 75% of the costs of healthcare in the United States can be traced to chronic conditions that hurt employee productivity and performance.

A Harvard study shows that employers realize almost $2 to $3 of savings from every $1 spent on employee wellness. Today, large employers lead in utilization of wellness programs. Small employers can't match large employers' economies of scale on their own, but small companies can band together and through aggregation achieve similar benefits. We believe we have a role in helping small and medium-sized platform – I'm sorry, we believe we have a role in helping small and medium-sized employers gain access to affordable economic wellness programs. While more employers are offering wellness programs, the market for biometric screening and wellness lab testing is still in its infancy.

Slide nine illustrates that the total market for biometric screening is not nearly fully penetrated. Reading from largest to smallest, the red area on the slide represents the potential market for the total U.S. workforce. The dark blue area represents that about half of U.S. employers are offering wellness programs. The light blue area represents employers that today are offering wellness programs with biometric screenings. And the small blue circle on the left represents Hooper. We are a market leader, but the market is far from penetrated. There is no dominant player. The adoption rate for biometric screening is still growing. With the drive for measurable results, more corporate wellness programs are likely to use biometric screenings.

We also have the advantage of good relationships with 65 health management companies as customers. These companies are leaders in employer wellness programs and many are growing rapidly. However, these companies typically do not have biometric screening capabilities and rely on us to fulfill their services on their behalf. As one of the largest providers with a national footprint and as we continue to demonstrate the value and reliability of our services, we expect them to continue to choose Hooper to serve their clients.

We understand our customers' workflows and priorities. Our health professionals play a critical role in collecting health information and reporting results to participants. Our people are the face of the wellness program participants.

At a very high level, slide 10 shows two areas which we believe could present products and service development opportunities for Hooper. Leveraging the time we spend with participants is a primary area of focus. The most important moment in employee wellness is when participants engage in data collection and information sharing. It is an engageable moment. Some people have a unique chance to take control of their health. Hooper plays a key role in this process.

In 2013, we delivered coaching to participants about 30% of the time. We believe we have untapped opportunities to provide greater support to our wellness customers, expanding the range of our coaching services to be very attractive to our customers and their clients. We also have additional opportunities in data gathering and reporting. For example, many wellness companies still rely on paper to capture and process participant information. We believe we can help our customers improve the efficiency of their processes through faster data entry, paperless reporting and improved analytical capabilities. We have begun to develop action plans in this area, but we are still in early stages. We have more to do.

The slide 11 indicates we are pleased with the progress we have seen in the first quarter of 2014. We are on track with our budget for the year, which we have indicated as a Health & Wellness growth oriented and cash flow positive budget. We are pleased with the direction of screening volumes in the first quarter, which are tracking towards expected goals. Our strategic plan is focused on expanding operational efficiencies in our core business, improving technology around data collection and exploring opportunities in new products, services and technologies.

Our move to Olathe is on track. Our team is doing things in new ways such as outsourcing certain operations and support functions for best-in-class performance rather than building costly internal capabilities. We've built a solid plan for 2014, and we are tracking our progress. Right now we are focused on building an internal track record for delivering against our plan. We believe our results for the first quarter 2014 and beyond will set the baseline for our performance going forward and so far we are pleased with this performance.

While we have more to accomplish, we're confident about the direction we're heading. The slide 12 makes clear our goal is to be cash flow positive for the full year and to deliver Health & Wellness growth. Our near-term strategy is built around providing customers with the highest service quality, continue to develop our health professional network and partner with our customers to diversify our service offerings and profitably grow revenues.

Turning to slide 13, we are focusing on our quality and our partnerships which will be the foundation for our growth. While we take your questions, I'd like to make a brief statement regarding guidance.

Due to the evolution of our business over the past 12 months and the transition to a new offering model, we are not yet able to provide specific financial guidance at this time. However, to give you a measure of our confidence, what I can say is that a year ago, in the first quarter of 2013, we performed 93,000 screenings. This year in Q1, we are on track to perform 125,000 screenings, or roughly a 33% increase.

With that, I'd be happy to take your questions.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Brooks O'Neil of Dougherty and Company. Please go ahead.

Good morning, Henry. I have a number of questions. I was just curious if you could elaborate a little bit on sort of what was going on with your large Health & Wellness customer, and what seems to be changing as it might impact your 2014 results with them?

Good morning, Brooks. Thanks, I'd be happy to elaborate a little bit. The large customer, they changed some of their operating systems as they related to their ongoing customers, and as they implemented that in 2013, it had an impact on the number of screenings that they performed. They're going through that process and it's now working and actually we have seen orders that should put them back on track to where they were in 2014.

Great. Could you just speak at all about the level of investment you think might be required to help continue the transformation of the company?

Sure.

And what some of the areas might be that you plan to invest capital in this year?

Sure. I'd be happy to elaborate a little bit, Brooks. To start with, we've got – for the most part, the investment is more in transitioning ourselves out into Olathe. So it's more kind of closing things down here in Basking Ridge and transferring all operations. We're pretty much done that by the end of the first quarter, so we're in good shape there. Additional small capital expenditures might be on the data side, but we are not a capital intensive company.

Okay. Could you just talk a little bit about, obviously you have scale to what I might call legacy businesses, although strikes me that given your move to Kansas, the lab business probably is central of – to the Health & Wellness opportunity, but can you talk a little bit about how you see sort of the future with the non-core or businesses outside of Health & Wellness?

Sure, Brooks. We're looking at those businesses right now and evaluating them to figure out what is the best opportunity for the company. We're looking at how do we either, A, turn them around or what do we do with them, and that's pretty much all I can say at the moment.

Sure. Okay. Just two more quick ones. One, you mentioned some of the expanded opportunities you see in Health & Wellness. I'm just curious how you evaluate whether you will ultimately compete with your 65 Health & Wellness customers or whether you see opportunities to do things that they're not doing today?

Well, obviously, we need to make sure that we don't compete directly with the customers that we have good partnerships and relationships with, and we want to look at how we can expand our offerings to them and through them. I mean, if you look at the slide nine, where we talk about the significant market potential, just getting into the overall size of the screening market gives us substantial growth. Then as we're talking about kind of the engageable moment or as we're calling it internally the eyeball time between the screener and the participant, that's a good time for us to be able to say, is there more additional coaching that we can provide, additional service that we can provide at that time. So it's creating more value so that we and our partners can grow together.

That's good. And then just one last one. I don't think you've mentioned specific opportunities going direct to some of the larger health insurance companies in the United States. Obviously, historically you did a good job with the life insurance customers. Where – do you see any opportunity to go direct and work with some of the large health insurers in today's marketplace?

We work some with health insurers now and in many respects, as we go into kind of a small or mid-tier market, that maybe more of a way to find aggregators that can help us. So whether it is either directly through and to the medical insurance companies or it's through brokers, those are things that we're exploring and actively pursuing.

Great. Thank you very much. [Operator Instructions]

Your next question will come from the line of Matt Reiner of Adirondack. Please go ahead.

Hi, guys.

Hey, Matt. How are you doing?

Good. Can you – the facility that you have up for sale in Basking Ridge, can you give us a ballpark of what the range is that you might expect to get out of that?

Facility, sure, it's a 53,000 square foot facility on 8.3 acres sitting here in Basking Ridge, New Jersey right off of I-287 actively listed. If anyone is interested, please talk to [ph] Gamboli (22:58) Brothers. We've got it listed for around $4 million. We don't know the real estate market here. [ph] Gamboli (23:03) knows it and we are actively pursuing opportunities there.

Okay. And also I hadn't got a chance to look at your press release yet. I've been driving this morning, but did you mention how many screenings you did in the fourth quarter?

For the full year, we did roughly 420,000 screenings. For the fourth quarter, we've done about 250,000 screenings if I recall at the end of third quarter, so that we've got 170,000 screenings roughly for the fourth quarter.

Okay.

I'm sorry.

How about 160,000 screenings in fourth quarter?

About 160,000? Okay.

Correct.

And is there some seasonality to the screenings as far as they try during the year?

Yeah. There is seasonality. The fourth quarter tends to be the largest volume screening, particularly in the month of October and November.

And then what would be the weakest quarter?

Usually the summer time, Q3 tends to be our lowest volume quarter.

Okay. All right. Great. Thanks. [Operator Instructions]

And as there are no further questions at this time, I will now turn it back to management just for any closing.

Great. Well, thank you all for joining us this morning. We look forward to continue to report our progress in the months ahead. We are now signing off from here in Basking Ridge, and we will speak with you next time from Olathe, Kansas. Have a good day.

And thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude the conference call for today. Again, we thank you for your participation, and you may now disconnect your lines.