corrected transcript


Hooper Holmes, Inc.
 
HH
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 5, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


PARTICIPANTS


Corporate Participants


Andy Berger
 
– Vice President-Operations, Ocean Properties Ltd.


Ransom J. Parker
 
– President, Chief Executive Officer & Director


Michael J. Shea
 
– Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer, CAO & SVP


Other Participants


Nicholas Halen
 
– Equity Analyst, Sidoti & Company, LLC


Al Shams
 
– Director of Research, MidSouth Capital, Inc.


Brad Alan Evans
 
– Vice President & Portfolio Manager, Heartland Advisors, Inc.


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for standing by. Welcome to Hooper


Holmes 2010 Third Quarter Financial Results Conference Call. During today’s presentation, all


participants will be in a listen-only mode. Following the presentation, the conference will be opened


for questions. [Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded today, November 5, Friday,


2010.


At this time, I’d like to turn the conference over to Mr. Andrew Berger. Please go ahead, sir.


Andy Berger, Vice President-Operations


Thanks, Paula. On behalf of the management of Hooper Holmes, we’re extremely pleased that you


have taken the time to participate in our conference call and thank you for joining us to discuss the


Company’s 2010 third quarter financial results and business outlook.


Before I introduce management, I would like to remind everyone that certain statements made


during the call, especially those that state management’s intentions, hopes, beliefs, expectations or


predictions for the future are forward-looking statements. It is important to remember that the


Company’s actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking


statements. Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ


materially from those in the forward-looking statements is contained in the Company’s annual


report on Form 10-K, copies of which may be obtained by contacting either the company or the


SEC.


By now you should have received a copy of the news release, which was issued this morning


before the market opened. If you have not received a copy, please contact me, Andrew Berger, at


216-464-6400 and I will send a copy to you.


Participating in today’s conference call are Ransom Parker, Hooper Holmes’ President and Chief


Executive Officer, and Michael Shea, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer.


At this time, I will turn the call over to Ransom Parker. Ransom?
corrected transcript


Hooper Holmes, Inc.
 
HH
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 5, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


Ransom J. Parker, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director


Thanks very much, Andy, and good morning, everyone. I’m pleased to join you as the new CEO of


Hooper Holmes. I believe I’ve met many of you on the phone or in person. If I haven’t met you, I


look forward to doing so in the very near future.


As you may know, I’ve been on the job for around seven weeks or so. So as you’d expect, I don’t


have a complete plan to present to you. But I want to talk to you about what I’ve done since I’ve


been with the Company. I’d like to talk about some of the observations that I’ve made and about


some of the actions that we’re going to take.


But before I do that, let’s review the results for the third quarter. For that, I’ll turn it over to our CFO,


Mike Shea.


Michael J. Shea, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer, CAO & SVP


Thank you, Randy, and good morning, everyone. For the third quarter 2010, our consolidated


revenues decreased 8% to $40.3 million compared to $43.8 million in the third quarter of 2009. Our


net loss for the quarter was $1.2 million, or $0.02 per share, compared to a net loss of $0.7 million


or $0.01 per share in the prior year period. Our third quarter net loss includes $0.7 million of


restructuring charges, while the prior year loss includes $0.3 million related to restructuring


charges.


As for revenues in the third quarter, our Portamedic revenues decreased approximately 13% to


$28.1 million. The revenue decline was a result of a reduction in paramedical exams completed of


approximately 14% in comparison to the prior year, partially offset by a 0.3% increase in revenue


per exam.


Heritage Labs revenues totaled $2.8 million in the third quarter, a decline of 4% from the prior year,


primarily due to reduced demand for our lab testing services and specimen collection kits.


Revenues for our Health & Wellness business were up in comparison to the prior year, increasing


approximately 48% to $3.7 million in the third quarter of 2010, while our Hooper Holmes Services


revenues decreased 4% to $5.7 million, primarily resulting from reduced orders for our tele-


interviewing services.


Our consolidated gross margin for the third quarter of 2010 was 25.5% compared to 26.3% in the


prior year, while SG&A expense totaled $10.6 million in the third quarter, a decrease of


approximately $1.3 million or 11% from the prior year period. This reduction in SG&A is primarily a


result of cost-reduction actions implemented during the past several quarters along with reduced


accelerated depreciation expense pertaining to our current IT customer ordering system.


Regarding the balance sheet, working capital at September 30, 2010 was $30.6 million, including


$18.2 million in cash and cash equivalents, and no debt outstanding. Accounts receivable totaled


$21.5 million with day sales outstanding of 48 days.


Regarding cash flows, cash provided by operations approximated $0.1 million in the third quarter of


2010, and capital expenditures for the quarter were approximately $1.3 million.


And with that, I’ll turn the call back to Randy.