corrected transcript


Hooper Holmes, Inc.
 
HH
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 6, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


PARTICIPANTS


Corporate Participants


Andy Berger
 
– Vice President


Roy H. Bubbs
 
– President and Chief Executive Officer (Former)


Michael J. Shea
 
– Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer, CAO & SVP


Other Participants


Dennis Van Zelfden
 
– Analyst, Brazos Research


Walter Schenker
 
– Sole Member and Manager, MAZ Partners


Brad Alan Evans
 
– Vice President & Portfolio Manager, Heartland Advisors, Inc.


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the Hooper Holmes


2010 Second Quarter Financial Results Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]


I would now like to turn the conference over to Andrew Berger of S.M. Berger & Company. Please


go ahead, sir.


Andy Berger, Vice President


Thanks. On behalf of the management of Hooper Holmes, we are extremely pleased that you have


taken the time to participate in our conference call and thank you for joining us to discuss the


Company’s 2010 second quarter financial results and business outlook. Before I introduce


management, I would like to remind everyone that certain statements made during the course of


this conference call, especially those that state management’s intentions, hopes, beliefs,


expectations or predictions for the future, are forward-looking statements.


It is important to remember that the Company’s actual results could differ materially from those


projected in such forward-looking statements. Additional information concerning factors that could


cause actual results to differ materially from those forward-looking statements is contained in the


Company’s annual report on Form 10-K, copies of which may be obtained by contacting either the


Company or the SEC.


By now you should have received a copy of the news release, which was issued this morning


before the market opened. If you have not received a copy, please call me, Andrew Berger, at 216-


464-6400 and I will send a copy to you. Participating on the call today are Roy Bubbs, Hooper


Holmes’ President and Chief Executive Officer; and Michael Shea, Senior Vice President, Chief


Financial Officer and Treasurer. At this time I will turn the call over to Roy Bubbs. Roy.


Roy H. Bubbs, President and Chief Executive Officer (Former)


Thank you, Andrew, and good morning, everybody, and thank you for joining us today. As you saw


in our press release this morning, the economy continues to challenge the insurance industry.


However, we were able to generate cash in this environment.
corrected transcript


Hooper Holmes, Inc.
 
HH
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 6, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


During the quarter, cash from operations totaled $2.8 million and for the first half of 2010, cash from


operations totaled $4.7 million. Our capital expenditures in the first half were $1.7 million.


As a result, we generated $3 million of free cash flow in the first half of 2010. That is a considerable


improvement over prior year period.


Three of our divisions, Portamedic, Heritage Labs and Hooper Holmes Health & Wellness were


profitable during the quarter with costs controlled. However, the Hooper Holmes Services division


lost $900,000, which is unacceptable. Management is taking further action to eliminate that loss,


including reducing positions in management and operations, expanding outsourced activities to


reduce costs, renegotiating the vendor contracts and consolidating leased office space.


Without those losses in our Services business, the Company would have made nearly an additional


$1 million or approximately a 2% operating profit. Efforts are still underway to drive us towards our


5% goal of profitability, which we may achieve as early as Q4. Revenue growth continues to be a


top priority. We have implemented a number of target plans and I will share some of those


elements of these plans later.


Now, Michael will discuss our financial performance and I will return with additional comments.


Michael?


Michael J. Shea, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer, CAO & SVP


Thank you, Roy, and good morning, everyone. For the second quarter 2010, our consolidated


revenues decreased 12% to $40.7 million compared to $46.2 million in the second quarter of 2009.


Our net income for the quarter was $1.2 million, or $0.02 per share, compared to a net loss of $0.5


million, or $0.01 per share, in the prior year period.


Our second quarter 2010 net income includes a $1.6 million reduction in a previously established


reserve for interest and penalties pertaining to unclaimed property. Our second quarter net income


also includes $0.1 million of restructuring charges while the prior year loss includes $0.7 million


related to restructuring and other charges.


As for revenues in the second quarter, our Portamedic revenues decreased approximately 13% to


$30.1 million. This revenue decline is a result of a reduction in paramedical exams completed of


approximately 15% in comparison to the prior year period, partially offset by a 0.4% increase in


revenue per exam.


Heritage Labs revenues totaled $2.8 million in the second quarter, a decline of 10% from the prior


year, primarily due to reduced demand for our lab testing services and specimen collection kits.


Revenues for our Health & Wellness business were up in comparison to the prior year increasing


approximately 18% to $2.3 million in the second quarter of 2010, while our Hooper Holmes


Services revenues decreased 15% to $5.5 million primarily resulting from reduced demand for our


medical records collection services.


Our consolidated gross margin for the second quarter of 2010 was 26.5% compared to 28% in the


prior year while SG&A expense totaled $11 million in the second quarter, a decrease of


approximately $1.7 million or 13% from the prior year period. This reduction in SG&A is primarily a


result of cost reduction actions implemented during the past several quarters along with reduced


accelerated depreciation expense pertaining to our current IT customer ordering system.


Regarding our balance sheet, working capital at June 30, 2010 was $31.9 million including $19.5


million in cash and cash equivalents and no debt outstanding. Accounts Receivable totaled $20.1


million with days sales outstanding of 44 days. Regarding cash flows, cash provided by operations