raw transcript


Hooper Holmes Inc
 
HH
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 1, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Welcome to the Hooper Holmes Third Quarter 2005 Conference Call. At this time all


participants are in a listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions]. Today's conference is being recorded


If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.


Now I will turn the meeting over to, Mr. John Capodanno, of Financial Dynamics. Sir, you may


begin.


John Capodanno, Financial Dynamics


Thank you. Good morning everyone and welcome to the Hooper Holmes third quarter 2005


conference call. If anyone has not received a copy of the release issued this morning, please call


Financial Dynamics at 212-850-5600 and a copy will be sent to you immediately.


Before management begins their formal remarks, I would like to remind you that to the extent of the


Company's statements or comments represent forward-looking statements, I refer you to the risk


factors and other cautionary factors in yesterday’s press release as well as the Company's most


recent SEC filings.


In addition, this call is being recorded on behalf of Hooper Holmes and is copyrighted material. It


cannot be re-recorded or re-broadcast without the Company's expressed permission. As you know


participation implies consent to our taping.


Once management has concluded their formal remarks, we will open the call for questions. With us


today from management are Benjamin Currier, Chairman, Interim Chief Executive Officer, and Joe


Marone, Vice President and acting Chief Financial Officer. With that I'd now like to turn the call over


to Ben. Ben, please go ahead.


Benjamin A. Currier, Chairman and Interim Chief Executive Officer


Good morning Joe and I are glad to have a chance to visit with you. as this is the time when lots of


things are happening here in Hooper Holmes. Before we talk about financial performance, it may be


useful for us to talk a little bit about Joe and me. I've been on the Board for nine years served on


governance nominating, compensation and audit committees and was redirected before I became


Chairman. My career was in the insurance business. Most recently a Senior Vice President


Operations for NIG [ph] subsidiary and before that held similar responsibilities at all states. I’ve


been involved in all aspects of the industry including acquisitions and is specialized and new


development insurance.


Joe has been with Hooper Holmes with 15 years has been Controller since 1992, and after since


1999 was very much involved with our acquisitions brought us successfully through our first


experience with Sarbanes-Oxley and is highly regarded by our independent accounting firm


because of it – we use experience working with them. I feel good about the relationship Joe and I


have.


of necessity we are reevaluating our initiatives, business priorities, and our reviewing recent


actions. We are making in media improvements in some places and getting ready to make


improvements in others. While the search for a new permanent CEO is progressing well, we are


actively initiating necessary changes to prepare the company and position that person for improved


quality, greater time service and greater efficiency as we further develop to market our products.
raw transcript


Hooper Holmes Inc
 
HH
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 1, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Some of these activities are pretty basic. We have initiated Hooper's first enterprise wide strategic


planning process with a professional assistance of an expert, Genar Arina [ph]. A person that I


worked with on many prior occasions. We have engaged the leading firm to help develop incentive


programs. We are thoroughly analyzing all of our benefits, resource management, assistance,


personal development programs. We are looking at all of our processes and procedures, adding


new ones where appropriate and improving existing practices when necessary. We are looking at


better efficiencies in all areas with primary attention to customer service, quality, deliver time and


cost benefit.


Our many recent acquisitions require a substantial upgrade of our accounting system, and that is


underway. Our field branch management system, our branch management organization is envied


by our competitors. We are enhancing a system, and that will be served by a new Internet base that


is intended to be a leader within the industry. Virtually every week I check the status of that with our


Chief Operating Officer, John Spenser; and our CIO, Verne Davinson [ph], and they are always


assuring me that is on schedule. Adjusting is going well and it will be in place on January 1. That


system will be an advantage to us, because it will make us more attractive to our insurance


company customers, the individual agents and brokers, and the independent examiners, who


provide our services.


Our core markets our customers in the life insurance don't grow. There aren't any new insurance


companies. But we have good opportunities to increase our market share and are demonstrating


that we are successful in developing and promoting additional outsourcing services. As we reported


before, we lost a major customer, but that has been more than offset with new accounts, many of


them sizable. All of this relates to our traditional risk assessment business, but will also through


other initiatives.


Clinical trials are of interest to us, and the Board and the company management are committed to


that initiative. We remain receptive to opportunities and continue our study. But at this time we are


of necessity concentrating primarily upon our existing businesses. Dan Ross and I are very


encouraged by our success in our Claims Evaluation division as we enter new states. That's going


very well; we are running ahead of our schedule. Regulatory changes in our base geographical


market makes that diversification in the new areas a major priority.


I will entertain your questions later. But now I will let Joe tell you the hard facts about where we are


and why our recent actions has been necessary.


Joseph A. Marone, Jr., Vice President and Acting Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Ben, and good morning all. Regarding the third quarter 2005 financial results, revenues,


our consolidated revenues decreased $4.9 million or approximately 6% from the quarter of the prior


year, contributing to the net revenue decrease was our core Portamedic business, which saw


revenues decrease by $0.4 million or 12%. On the positive side the decrease in Portamedic


revenues was offset by increases in all of the other businesses within the Health Information


division.


MAAS provided $1 million in growth period-over-period. Infolink contributed $8 million period-over-


period, followed by Heritage Labs and Medicals Direct, each providing increases of $0.6 million and


$0.3 million respectively. Our core paramedical business continues to experience revenue softness


due to pricing pressures and reduced application activity in the life insurance industry. The MIB


reported a decline in application activity quarter-over-quarter of 3.3% and year-to-date of 3.4%.


These statistics suggest a loss of market share partly due to a major customer loss reported in the


second quarter. Our marketing department indicates that we have signed up new clients to more


than cover this loss. We expect to see these gains in future quarters.