Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Andrew M. Berger — Vice President, SM Berger & Co., Inc.
Henry E. Dubois — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Hooper Holmes, Inc.
Tom Collins — Chief Financial Officer & Senior Vice President, Hooper Holmes, Inc.
Matt Patrick Reiner — Chief Investment Officer & Portfolio Manager, Adirondack Research & Management, Inc.
Joe David France — Analyst, Cantor Fitzgerald Securities

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Please standby. Good day, and welcome to the Hooper Holmes' 2015 First Quarter Conference Call. Today's conference is being recorded.

At this time, I'd like to turn the conference over to Andrew Berger of SM Berger.

Please go ahead, sir.

Thanks, Jim. On behalf of the management of Hooper Holmes, we are extremely pleased that you have taken the time to participate in our conference call, and thank you for joining us to discuss the company's financial results for the fiscal quarter of 2015.

Before I introduce management, I would like to remind everyone that this presentation contains forward-looking statements as such term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Concerning the company's plans, objectives, goals, strategies, future events or performances which are not statements of historical fact and can be identified by words such as: except, continue, should, may, will, project, anticipate, believe, plan, goal and similar references to future periods. The forward-looking statements contained in this presentation reflect our current beliefs and expectations. Actual results or performance may differ materially from what is expressed in such forward-looking statements.

Among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, the forward-looking statements contained in this presentation or our ability to realize the expected benefits from the acquisition of Accountable Health Solutions, and our strategic alliance with Clinical Reference Laboratory.

Our ability to successfully implement our business strategy and integrate Accountable Health Solutions business with ours. Our ability to retain and grow our business base of our customer base. Our ability to recognize operational efficiencies and reduce costs uncertainty as to our working capital requirements over the next 12 months to 24 months, our ability to maintain compliance with the financial covenants contained in our credit facilities, the rate of growth in the health and wellness market, and such other factors as discussed in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors and Part II, Item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial conditions and results of operations of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014.

The company undertakes no obligation to update or release any revisions to these forward-looking statements. To reflect events or circumstance or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events after the date of this presentation except as required by law.

This presentation contains information from third party sources, including data from studies conducted by others and market data and industry forecasts obtained from industry publications. Although the company believes that such information is reliable, the company has not independently verified any of this information, and the company does not guarantee the accuracy or completeness of this information.

By now, you should have received a copy of the news release, which was issued this morning and is available on our website. You should also have received a copy of the slides, accompanying management's presentation this morning, which is also available on the website.

Participating in the call today are Henry Dubois, Hooper Holmes' President and Chief Executive Officer and Tom Collins, Chief Financial Officer.

With that, at this time, I'll turn the call over to Henry. Henry?

Thanks, Andy. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. If you turn to slide three in the slide deck, you will see the same summary of our 2015 objectives and direction that we shared with you earlier in March and April. When we last spoke, we announced the acquisition of Accountable Health Solutions, a strategic transaction supporting all three of these goals.

Today, we'll review our first quarter 2015 financial results in the context of these strategic imperatives. These imperatives include generating positive operating cash flow for the full year of 2015, a strong sales pipeline and profitable growth. This is our direction, and we remain on track for the full year. We'll also describe the additional wellness services brought to us by Accountable Health Solutions.

Another thing that will be evident in our discussion today is the value of the work we completed last year to reduce our SG&A costs by 38%. Our scalable cost structure expands the potential returns from the Accountable Health Solutions transaction and make this a more efficient and stronger company.

Turning to the next slide. Here is the stronger company at a glance. While slide four says building our future, we expect to show returns from this work in our results this year. Our ongoing strategy has been to leverage our biometric screening business to deliver high value services.

At the upper left of this chart, is our biometric screening business. We believe our national health professional network, logistics capability and track record are platform capable of meeting our more sophisticated high margin, high healthcare needs. This is the reason why Accountable Health Solutions is a good match for Hooper.

On the lower left, we show our clinical research services, these support services are a good example of our ability to meet more sophisticated clinical program requirements.

Clinical research contracts usually extend over several years and typically require special protocols that can generate higher margins. We have a strong track record of supporting clinical research. Hooper has collected samples for Westat in support of the largest government tobacco study ever done in the United States.

We are awarded a multi-year contract to support the U.S. Department Of Veterans Affairs. Also, we have just been engaged to support a tobacco study in New York State and are starting collections this month.

On the right hand side of the slide, we show the new capabilities and assets brought to Hooper by Accountable Health. These new portal and coaching capabilities also bring increased margin opportunity. This morning, we'll discuss how these higher value services improve health outcome for participants.

But first, I'd like to turn it over to Tom to review the numbers.

Thanks, Henry, and good morning, everyone. As you can see on slide five, for the three months period ended March 31, 2015, consolidated revenues were $5.7 million, representing a decrease compared to $7.3 million during the same period in 2014. The decrease reflects fewer screenings due to the winding down of a long-term clinical study contract which we discussed in our conference call on March 31, and one large customer's decision not to screen in 2015.

For the three months period ended March 31, 2015, we performed approximately 108,000 health screenings compared to approximately 125,000 health screenings in the prior year period. Adjusting for the clinical study and customer decision, our unit volume increased 15% in the first quarter of 2015 compared to unit volumes in the first quarter of 2014.

Turning to slide six, selling, general and administrative expense for the three months period ended March 31, 2015, decreased $1.8 million to $2.7 million, representing a decrease of approximately 38% compared to the prior year period as the results of efficiencies achieved in connection with the relocation of the corporate headquarters to Olathe, Kansas.

Income from continuing operations improved 26% compared to the prior year period, reflecting a reduced loss to $2.1 million during the three months period ended March 31, 2015. In terms of our balance sheet, our cash balance on March 31, 2015 was $1.4 million with no borrowings outstanding against the revolving credit facility. The seasonality of our screening business and supplier payments typically decreased Q1 cash due to the timing between operating expense and the associated revenue collection.

With the acquisition of Accountable Health Solutions, the restructuring of our financing with Celtic and the additional investment from SWK, we feel we are positioned to strengthen the company's financial position in the coming quarters.

Turning to slide 7, we expect Accountable Health Solutions to accelerate growth in 2015. In 2014, Accountable Health delivered over $15 million in revenue, reflecting a potential annual increase of approximately 50% on Hooper's 2014 top line revenues. As you can see in the chart on the left, Accountable Health revenues are fairly evenly distributed in three areas. The biometric screening side of the business is represented by the dark blue area. These screenings had historically been outsourced to a third-party. A relationship that is now winding down as we begin to ramp up to serve Accountable Health clients on our biometric screening platform.

Portal and coaching revenues were approximately $5 million each in 2014 and Henry will describe these new services in more detail shortly. All three of these product areas represent margin opportunities for Hooper. We gained scale on the screening volume pickup and the coaching and portal revenue streams have attractive growth margins relative to our historical screening business. Additionally, with the existing corporate structure, we solidified in 2014 can aptly support this business without any material investment. As such, we think this business will not be accretive to Hooper in 2015, but will continue to generate positive operating cash flow.

And now, I'll turn the call back to Henry.

Thanks, Tom. Let me sum up. For the first quarter of 2015 revenues declined as we discussed in March due to the winding down of the clinical research project and the decision by one large customer who chose not to screen 2015. Even on reduced revenues, income from continuing operations improved by 26%. On a standalone basis, without new revenue from Accountable Health Solutions, we expect growth in our biometric screening business during the back half of the year, and for the full year 2015.

Turning to slide eight, our portal services have been designed to meet the needs of our target mid-market customers, and may be attractive to certain Hooper channel partners as well. Helping people improve their health is a complex task. People need to receive the right indication, challenges and rewards to stay engaged. That's what our portal services do. The Accountable Health Portal is a platform with education and activity modules that can be easily personalized to meet client and participant needs.

It is a platform that becomes more powerful, coupled with Hooper's biometric screening capabilities. For example, Hooper's biometric data enables Accountable Health to stratify in employers' population and identify specific health risk categories. Customers may then set goals to reduce risk from conditions such as smoking, diabetes or obesity. The portal and our new health coaching programs deliver the right education, challenges and rewards to help our customers meet those goals.

On the upper left of this slide, we show a participant's personal wellness report. A proprietary dashboard that illustrates results and risks. Below that on the left is a resource center with educational and campaign materials available to client health coordinators. The upper right shows how we can personalize messaging for participants to deepen engagement, and the lower right shows our biometric screening results widget, powered by a data and activity tracking platform which allows participants to see where they are tracking relative to their plans and requirements.

For example, if the targeted risk is to improve the overall Body Mass Indicator Index of the employers' population. The portal will encourage individuals to lose weight through a healthy diet and exercise. Members can use the portals to enroll in company sponsored team challenges, particularly in the areas of physical activity and nutrition and access targeted health coaching for weight loss.

Unlike biometric screenings which typically happen once a year, portal service fees are monthly generating consistent revenue and are available to all participants. All Accountable Health clients are offered the full suite of services and no sign up for the complete package.

Turning to slide nine, a powerful option to help improve the health of an individual is one-on-one coaching. Getting your biometric screening results can be a wake-up call. Our process is engineered to make the most of this engageable moment. But people don't always know what to do next to improve their health. That's where health coaching comes in. All of our health coaches are trained professionals with a minimum four year degree in a health-related field.

Accountable Health has developed a variety of different tracks focused on healthy eating and exercise, reducing stress, managing diabetes and more. Enrollment in the program is easy. The process begins with a 20-minute session by phone; our counselors help participants set short-term goals; guidance and resources are provided; participants work towards their goals for several weeks and our coaches support engagement through text messages and e-mails and checking on progress.

While we're excited about the power of the AHS platforms, we continue to advance our biometric screening business as well. Slide 10 features our newest biometric screening upgrade, featuring tablet technology to improve the timeliness and accuracy of data collection. We're just kicking off a few tests pilot this month and expect to gain broad acceptance.

Down the road, we expect future technology and analytical – analytics enhancements to further differentiate our services. Our new tablet technology is engineered for security, data is not stored on the devices. And it deepens our relationships with our customers and channel partners. It will be customizable to their needs and deliver a better participant experience. This new upgrade will also reduce the amount of the paper utilized in the process, making it more efficient.

Much of the information a person typically needs to complete prior to a screening can be pre-populated from client eligibility files. With more tablets and devices being used at the point-of-sale, people are beginning to expect technology driven data collection. In the future, our mobile application backed by our smart engagement and analytics engine could enable and increase member enrollment and engagement and wellness programs. We could also leverage tablet technology to deliver virtually instant results and from instant results reporting and provide other value-added solutions for our clients.

Turning to slide 11, we could just as easily substitute right now for this title rather than what's next. The Accountable Health Solutions' acquisition provides us entry into markets we could not previously serve. It diversifies our revenue streams, and it creates new opportunities for us. Right now, our focus is on integrating Hooper and Accountable Health. This integration will provide us with three strong pillars from which to grow; biometric screening, wellness portal services and health coaching. Each pillar on its own creates opportunity, as they help mid-market companies, reduce costs by improving employees' health. Combined, these three pillars provide an end-to-end solution building a powerful business model. The one we believe will yield strong results once integration is complete.

Today, we are continuing to execute against our goal of being operating cash flow positive for the full year, and delivering growth. And we are committed to serving all of our customers, Hooper's traditional channel partners and Accountable Health clients, as we ramp up for full volume.

And now, Tom and I will be pleased to answer your questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Matt Reiner from Adirondack Funds.

Hi, guys.

Good morning, Matt.

Good morning. Can you tell me a little bit about what is the – can you explain how a customer rolls out in the screening. I mean, when you show – you show that units were up 15%, ex the large study conclusion and the one customer. When a customer engages, do they engage all at once or is it – is that 15% growth, existing customers adding or is it all new customers that drives that?

The 15% growth on the – our units is a combination of increased participation with some existing customers, we've had some customers, where we were screening them last year, and we had more participation this year than we did prior years. But it also does include growth in additional customers, which we're pleased with because that's what's going to help drive our business overall.

Okay. Can you describe like what a typical customer size is for your programs?

Sure. And then, yes – happy to. If you take a look at our programs, they can vary quite significantly in size. When you take a look at the customers that we support through our channel partners, those are typically larger customers. Customers who have 10,000 or more employees. When we take a look at our customer base that we serve directly or through our new accountable health clients, those customers are typically closer to the 2,000 to 4,000 and that's where with this acquisition, it provides us access to a market that we really didn't penetrate it as much as we had before.

Okay. And if we can just flush out a little more about how that works with these customers like, when they come on – like how do you educate that, especially a large workforce like 10,000 people about the screening opportunity or who is, is it you that has to drive that participation or is that at the company level that they encourage it or how does that work?

Kind of all of the above. I mean, to start with, the company is the one that is [ph] are answering (18:38) the program that they are ones working to drive the employee participation through some forms of encouragement, potentially incentive programs et cetera, because what they are looking to do is to drive down their medical benefit costs to – a healthier population as you go out for medical benefit – premium renewals typically will yield a better premium results than one that doesn't have a wellness program. So the first person to go out be encouraging, this is obviously the company but then that's supported by working through our channels partners – by the channel partners and by us. If we're working directly we are out there as well, there are communication emails, there are sign-on capabilities, people will understand how to go about scheduling their screening, we will advertise within the company the days of the screenings, the locations of the screenings what you need to do to participate, what the benefits of participating are, et cetera. So in many respects there's an internal marketing program that goes on to make sure that the employee base is aware of the program coming up and the benefits of participating.

Okay. And just to beat that a little bit further, is there a typical like percentage amount of employees that will – like in a normal situation that will try it right from the get-go, like early adopters. And then, what does the follow-on look like. I would assume there is people that do it, and like it, and maybe they tell their co – whatever fellow employees about it, and then maybe there is a second wave people that do it, is that accurate or...

That's a good way to look at it. Just like anything, there are always the early adopters and typically the early adopters are the healthy ones. What you'll typically find is that across our book of business, we get about a 50% to 60% participation of those eligibles participate. And what we're always looking to do is to drive that. As you get in, and through the marketing campaign to drive the benefit of it, the incentives behind it, you get corporate sponsorship. And by that I mean, the higher up in the organization that you have the champion drive that, the better the participation rate. So, you want to be moving from those early adopters to the general populous because quite honestly, getting into the general populous is where you can really yield the benefits, both on an individual basis as well as globally for the company.

Okay, good. And I just have two more questions, and I'll get back in queue. But the one on the – the one large customer who choose not to screen this year, is it a temporary thing or do you have any more color as to why they didn't screen this year?

That customer was one that we were working through a channel partner. So we don't have direct access to their decision on that. They do have a wellness program so it's one of those, if they could come back, and do it every other year. We're obviously working to work through on how we get there. But that's also a benefit of our – another benefit of having Accountable Health Solutions now and our hope is that in the event that a person doesn't screen, we'd still have a access to the other revenue streams from coaching, portal services et cetera.

Okay. And then my last one is on, you mentioned the strong sales pipeline and health and wellness screenings are expected to be up 36% or something industry wide next year. Is there any kind of metric you can disclose to us as far as – I don't know leads versus a year ago or how you are feeling about your pipeline. I mean, you say it's strong, but what kind of color can you give us as to describe that strength?

Sure, I mean, we aren't providing guidance at the moment, but we are comfortable with the pipeline that we have out there. We have grown it from where we were last year, and as we said we're looking at generating operating cash flow positive this year and delivering – somewhat top line growth.

Okay. Thanks. [Operator Instructions]

Moving on, we'll now take our next question from [indiscernible] (22:52).

Hi, thanks, everybody. I have a question, just again concerning the financing for the acquisition, of course that you spent a great deal of time and you've been very successful in repairing the balance sheet, rationalizing the assets and getting the company to where it's today. I guess, I'd like more color on why the acquisition makes sense as you take into account the very expensive financing that it took to acquire this asset and what other financing alternatives if any were available and just why this money has become such an expensive price? [ph]

Joshua (23:35), thanks for your question and believe me that was one that we wrestled with internally as well. We looked at all our options, we looked at the opportunity ahead of us, and as we did the analysis even with the cost of the financing, we felt that the acquisition will be accretive, and will provide a good rounding on of our offering, so we now have a complete package.

In terms of where we look at this going, we believe that – the combined pillars that we're calling them, the biometric screening, the coaching and the wellness portal provide us the offerings that we couldn't use to help really drive our business and really transform this company. Again going back to the cost of the financing, we do acknowledge that it's expensive, but when you take a look at the totality of the cost of the acquisition, when you take a look at the purchase price of roughly $7 million, when you take a look at the cost – the upfront cost of the financing and transaction fees, we'll pay in the neighborhood of about – the total cost invested there is about $9 million to $10 million versus the revenue stream of about $15 million. So when we look at it from that perspective, and dug into the financial analysis that we did to, look at the transaction where we felt that the investment of $0.50 to $0.66 on the dollar, in terms of the revenue was well justified.

Appreciate that. On the portal side, is there some thought that this could become a very big recurring revenue sort of say SaaS model type business, where we're getting $1 or $1.25 [ph] per seat (25:21), per employee in recurring revenues somewhat like a software type business?

This does provide us a model that is very scalable, and it starts working toward as it is already a per employee per month type revenue model. That's one of the things we really like about this solution or this opportunity, is the fact that we'll get this people in we'll provide the content, we'll provide the information across the platform for which we can generate some very significant, we believe significant margins and deliver good value at the same time.

Thank you very much. We're very excited about that piece in particular. Thank you.

Thank you. [ph] Josh (26:03). Always

[Open Instructions] We'll take our next question from Joe France with Cantor Fitzgerald.

Thank you. Good morning. I just have two quick questions, one is with respect to the screening that AHS currently farms out, could you talk about the economics, how that changes with you doing it yourself? And the second question relates to the pro formas, will that be in the Q when you file it?

Sure, Joe. This is Henry, I'll take the first question, then I'll pass the second one to Tom. Regarding the screenings that AHS has been currently performing or have performed for them, they were outsourcing that. They were doing about $5 million worth of revenue on the screening side and it was marginally good if you will. They were outsourcing that the other person was making the margins that we'd be making on screening businesses. So we're looking at that as – on that $5 million, we should be able to bring that in-house and make our typical screening margins which can be a significant improvement, that in and of itself helps generate a significant improvement to the bottom line of the combined companies.

And as for the question on the pro formas, Joe, we hope to file the 10-Q today and we hope to file the pro formas shortly thereafter, but they will not be filed with the Q today.

That will be a separate 8-K?

Correct.

Yes. It will be a separate 8-K.

That's awesome. Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

. And at this time that will conclude today's question-and-answer session. At this time, I'd like to turn the conference back over to our host for any additional or closing remarks.

Great. Thank you, Jim. And thank you all for attending this morning's conference call. We look forward to continuing to deliver on our objectives, and we'll talk with everyone again soon. Thank you very much.

Thank you. That will conclude today's conference. We thank you for your participation.