raw transcript


Hooper Holmes Inc
 
HH
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 29, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Welcome to the Hooper Holmes Second Quarter 2005 Conference Call. All participants


will be on a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer session. I would also like to remind


participants that the call is being recorded. If you have any objections you may disconnect at this


time. Now I would like to introduce your first speaker for today's call, Mr. Jonathan Burt of Financial


Dynamics. Sir, you may begin.


Jonathan Burt, Investor Relations, Financial Dynamics


Good morning everyone. Welcome to the Hooper Holmes 2005 second quarter conference call. If


anyone has not received a copy of the release issued this morning, please call Financial Dynamics


212-850-5600 and a copy will be sent to you immediately. Before management begins their formal


remarks, I would like to remind you that to the extent the company's statements or comments


represent forward-looking statements, I refer you to the risk factors and other cautionary factors in


today's press release as well as the company's most recent SEC filings.


In addition, this call is being recorded on behalf of Hooper Holmes and is copyrighted material. It


cannot be re-recorded or re-broadcast without the company's expressed permission. As you know


participation implies consent to our taping. Once management has completed their formal remarks,


we will open up the call for questions.


With us today from management are James McNamee, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer;


Fred Lash, Chief Financial Officer; Dan Ross, Executive Vice President and General Manager of


the Claims Evaluation Division; and John Spenser, Executive Vice President and COO of U.S.


Operations. With that, I would now like to turn the call over to Jim McNamee. Jim please go ahead.


James McNamee, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Okay. Good morning, thank you very much, Jonathan. Thanks for joining us and we're going to try


something a little different today, in the sense that I've asked Dan Ross and John Spenser to join


us. And we are going to discuss our second quarter 2005 operating results and overall financial


performance which was in line with our expectations, which we're particularly pleased about giving


the company’s ongoing re-organizational activities. Despite the ongoing softness in the life


insurance industry and given what we know of the current time, we continue to expect to see some


stabilization of our core examination business later this year.


As we will discuss throughout the call, the softness in our core business had been offset by our


other operating units highlighting the success of the acquisitions we’ve made over the past several


years and the aggressive strategies that we have implemented last year. Total revenues for the


quarter increased approximately 2% to 84.9 million from 82.8 million in the second quarter of 2004,


reflecting the performance of Medicals Direct, Infolink, and Heritage Labs as well as 8.4 million


revenues from the company’s 2004 acquisition of MAAS, Allegiance Health and MEG. Second


quarter net income was 3.4 million or $0.05 per diluted share compared with the same results in


2004 second quarter.


Our operating margins during the second quarter benefited from continuing prudent cost control


initiatives that were offset by softness in our core Portamedic examination business, again due to


continued industry challenges.
raw transcript


Hooper Holmes Inc
 
HH
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 29, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Cost and expense reduction initiatives will continue in an effort to drive net income improvements


throughout the remainder of the year. Our financial performance this quarter reflects the particularly


strong performance of our call center, laboratory, and outsourced underwriting businesses and a


continued success of the expense reduction initiatives we implemented last year. Again, offset by


compromise margins to some degree to lower revenues in our core paramedical business.


Our health information division has generated solid operating results and cited as continued


revenue softness due to the insurance debt, the industry’s application activity and pricing pressure.


During the quarter, the MIB reported a decline of roughly 4% and application activity during the


quarter. Yet our unit count was down less than 1%, which is a positive trend in our perspective. And


we also processed about 99% of last year's business during the second quarter versus 96% of last


year's business during the first quarter.


Now I’d like to go on to the performance of our business divisions. Revenues for health information


division grew 4% to 74.5% million. This growth reflects strength of Medicals Direct, Infolink, and


Heritage Labs. In addition we are pleased to see 13% increase in Mid-America Agency Services


revenues for the second quarter 2005 compared to the first quarter, with a 36% improvement in


operating income. Again as a reminder, MAAS was acquired in May 2004. The success of our call


center in Kansas City continues to drive the performance of our Infolink business. It’s generated


11% revenue growth in the second quarter over the comparable 2004 period.


Additionally market shares driven by a business model build on superior service continues to fuel in


performance of our Heritage Labs business which had revenue growth of 29% for the second


quarter. We expect these business units to continue to perform well as they execute their


respective business plan and grow their franchises. Additionally, currently we have no less than 8


to 10 major potential customers now looking at and studying the benefits of utilizing Heritage,


Infolink, or both. And on the clinical research front we continue to have discussions, which are now


obviously governed by confidentiality agreements, but I can tell you that we are slated to begin a


small but very important study with a highly regarded specialty CRO in a world renowned pharma


client in October of this year.


Now I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Lash, who will review our financials in more detail. And


after which you will then hear from Dan Ross, John Spencer, I will follow-up with some closing


comments, and then we will open the call up to questions-and-answers. Thank you very much.


Fred?


Fred Lash, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Good morning everyone and thank you, Jim. We have posted results for the second quarter that


are consistent with our guidance, as Jim said. And with the Street expectation, we did not book any


one-time reorganization or restructuring charges. In several financial areas we have shown


improvement as we had outlined in our press release. In most areas we have improved from the


first quarter of this year to the current quarter. Regarding the core revenues, on a consolidated


basis, as Jim said, they are up $2 million or approximately 2.5% from the last year's second


quarter. Again, the newly acquired MAAS, our outsourced underwriting unit, provide a $3 million


period-over-period increase, while the consolidated total was 2 million increase.


Heritage Labs and Medicals Direct both contributed $1 million increases and employing nearly 1


million. And as Jim indicated, the core Portamedic revenues were off by about 6.6% or $3 million


decline varied over period. Cost of sales for the quarter improved on a consolidated basis by 67


basis points from the second quarter last year to the quarter just completed. This improvement is


out of both HID and our Claim and Evaluation Division and as a direct result of our cost control


effort initiated earlier this year and towards the end of last year. MAAS and Heritage Labs are the