Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Andrew Berger — Vice President, SM Berger & Company
Ransom J. Parker — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Hooper Holmes, Inc.
Michael J. Shea — Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer & Executive VP, Mac-Gray Corp.
Nick Halen — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC
Gregg Thomas Abella — Portfolio Manager, Investment Partners Asset Management, Inc.
Matt Patrick Reiner — Chief Investment Officer & Portfolio Manager, Adirondack Research & Management, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Hooper Holmes' 2012 Second Quarter Financial Results Conference Call. During today's presentation, all parties will be in a listen-only mode. Following the presentation, the conference will be opened for questions. [Operator Instructions] Today's conference is being recorded today, Friday, August 10, 2012.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Andrew Berger of SM Berger & Company. Please go ahead, sir.

Thanks, Alicia. On behalf of the management of Hooper Holmes, we are extremely pleased that you've taken the time to participate in our conference call. And thank you for joining us to discuss the company's 2012 second quarter financial results and business outlook.

Before I introduce management, I would like to remind everyone that certain statements made during the course of this conference call, especially those that state management's intentions, hopes, beliefs, expectations or predictions for the future are forward-looking statements. It is important to remember that the company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements. Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements is contained in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K; copies of which may be obtained by contacting either the company or the SEC.

By now, you should have received a copy of the news release, which was issued this morning before the market opened. If you've not received a copy, please call me, Andrew Berger, at 216-464-6400, I will send a copy to you.

Participating on the call today are, Ransom Parker, Hooper Holmes' President and Chief Executive Officer; and Michael Shea, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer.

At this time, I will turn the call over to Ransom Parker. Randy?

Thanks, Andy, and good morning, everyone. When I talk with investors, I usually start with the context for the decisions we've made and the actions that we've taken and I'd like to begin that way this morning. The context is relatively simple, while the life insurance market changed rapidly during these last several years, Hooper Holmes was slower to react. While our company's revenues from Health & Wellness continue to grow at double-digit rates, they've not offset the decline in life insurance revenues. That decline was caused in part by significant gaps in the content, quality and consistency of our services and inefficiencies in our operating structure and systems.

We had three options, number one was to do nothing; number two was to make margin repairs; and number three was to actually transform the business. We chose to fundamentally transform the business. While we firmly believe this to be in the best interest of our company and our shareholders, we also realize that the careful and comprehensive approach we've adopted would take longer and cost more to complete than either of the first two choices.

This business transformation began in January of 2011 when we started investing $5 million in new systems and technology that will require it as the foundation for our new delivery model.

We're now completing the second phase of this transformation with the deployment of a new Portamedic service delivery model, which we began rolling out in June of 2012. The service model is a new optimized approach for ordering, scheduling and delivering paramedical exams in homes or in office at anytime, anywhere in the country.

Over 100 local administrative offices have been replaced by 60 integrated customer service centers, the service centers leverage our existing call center capabilities and IT investments to drive better service levels, reduce facilities footprint and reduce manual labor. We expect that on an annual basis, we have reduced Portamedic's cost structure by approximately $8 million.

Before we discuss the results of the transformation, I'd like to give you the second-quarter highlights about our use of cash, gross margins and pricing in Portamedic. Then, I'll turn it over to Mark – excuse me, to Mike for the details.

We used $2 million in cash in the second quarter of 2012. That was in line with our expectations with no borrowings. Primary uses of cash were in Portamedic operations and in Hooper Holmes services, as well as in budgeted capital expenditures. In Portamedic, a continuing revenue decline without offsetting cost reductions led to reduced gross margin in the second quarter. To address this margin decline, we implemented a new Portamedic service delivery model, which we expect will reduce costs significantly while improving service quality.

Deploying Portamedic's new service delivery model resulted in approximately $1.6 million of restructuring charges in the second quarter, consisting primarily of severance and lease obligation costs. Additional restructuring charges are possible in the third and fourth quarters of 2012, but we believe the bulk of this work has been completed. Here is why the new delivery model and these restructuring charges are important.

The new model has been designed to improve our service, which we believe will result in increased revenue in Portamedic, while reducing our cost structure by approximately $4 million in the second half of 2012. As I mentioned before, on an annual basis, we've reduced Portamedic's cost structure by approximately $8 million.

I want to specifically acknowledge and thank the members of our sales, operations and IT teams for their substantial efforts over the past 18 months in planning and implementing the new model.

In the second quarter of 2012, we were quite encouraged to see paramed pricing remain relatively stable. Greater pricing stability, significantly reduced costs and continued Health & Wellness growth, and expected increases in Portamedic sales volumes are essential for achieving our 2013 profitability objectives.

Now at this point, let me turn it over to Mike for the numbers.

Thank you, Randy, and good morning, everyone. For the second quarter of 2012, our consolidated revenues decreased 7% to $35.4 million, compared to $37.9 million in the second quarter of 2011. Our net loss for the second quarter was $5.5 million, or $0.08 per share and included $1.6 million of restructuring charges.

As for revenues in the second quarter, our Portamedic revenues decreased approximately 9% to $24.3 million. The revenue decline was a result of a reduction in paramedical exams of approximately 8% along with a 1.9% decline in revenue per exam.

The revenue decline was in part attributable to the conversion to our new case management system PartnerLink and to the conversion to our new Portamedic service delivery model, both of which occurred in the second quarter. Additionally, in the second quarter, we incurred one-time costs related to our IT systems and delivery model convergence.

Revenues for our Health & Wellness business were up 51% in comparison to the prior year to $3.8 million, primarily due to an increase in health screenings completed during the quarter. This increase was primarily attributable to volume increases under existing contracts, as well as new contracts.

Heritage Labs' revenues totaled $2.8 million in the second quarter, a decrease of approximately 10% from the prior year, primarily attributable to a decrease in revenue from our lab kit assembly services, while our Hooper Holmes Services revenues of $4.4 million declined 20%, primarily due to a reduced demand for our medical record collection services.

Our consolidated gross margin for the second quarter of 2012 was 20%, compared to 23.9% in the prior year, while SG&A expense totaled $11 million in the second quarter, an increase of approximately 5% from the prior year. The reduction in gross margin and increase in SG&A is primarily the result of new capital and operating investments made in 2011 and 2012 to position us for growth and profitability, partially offset by a reduction in our baseline expenses. Our gross margin is expected to improve significantly in the second half of 2012 as a result of our new Portamedic service delivery model.

Regarding the balance sheet, working capital at June 30 was $20.2 million, including $11.4 million of cash and cash equivalents, and no debt outstanding.

Accounts receivable totaled $17 million, with days sales outstanding of 43 days. As for cash flows, cash used in operations approximated $0.9 million in the second quarter, primarily due to our operating loss, offset by a decrease in accounts receivable. Lastly, capital expenditures totaled $1 million for the second quarter of 2012.

And with that, I'll turn the call back to Randy.

Thanks, Mike. I'd like to describe the specific steps that we've taken to improve Portamedic's competitive position. Then, I'd like to review our growth outlook in Health & Wellness and finally, take your questions.

We took a three-pronged approach to transforming Portamedic service delivery. First, we increased efficiency and service quality by moving and centralizing administrative work. Second, we deployed the new PartnerLink workflow system, which automates many manual activities and reduces our technology costs. And third, we began dramatically strengthening our network of local health professionals.

To sum it up in a sentence, we believe the power of new systems plus new talent gives Portamedic a measurable advantage in service quality that should increase our life insurance revenues.

Let me tell you a little bit more about the talent that we've added. During the second quarter, we deployed a new team of local health professional managers to recruit, mentor, and train local health professionals, and we added new talent to build our national network.

John Bond, our new Vice President of Provider Relations, comes to us most recently from Tufts Health Plan in Boston. Prior to that John worked with Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Vermont and Harvard Pilgrim Healthcare.

John is an expert in developing healthcare networks and building collaborative relationships. We believe John and our health professional management team will bring something unique to paramedical services in the industry, and that this new focus on recruiting, credentialing, and mentoring local health professionals should give us advantages in local coverage and service quality, which we expect to leverage to improve results in the remainder of 2012 and beyond.

Having the right health professional available at the right place and at the right time is a big part realizing our goal to grow life insurance revenues. We also believe this focus on local healthcare talent will make us even more effective as a provider of wellness screenings and other healthcare services to our Health & Wellness business.

As we've said, improving our competitive position, we acquired a new technology platform. The $5 million of capital investments we've made are now paying off, and we believe that they will result in reduced cost and faster, more accurate service for both agents and health professionals. As a result, we were able to take a major step we've been talking about for some time, that being shutting down our old rented software, which we turned off just in June.

Portamedic's operating and maintenance costs have been reduced as a result. The old system costs approximately $1.7 million a year to maintain. We've now reduced those costs by 30%, and we expect further cost reductions by the end of the year. All told, our goal is to reduce Portamedic's total systems' maintenance expenses by approximately $1 million annually.

As we've reduced costs, we haven't missed the beat in rolling out our new technology to benefit customers. In April, we received an Insurance Industry Leadership Award from iPipeline, which is a leader in insurance application technology. The award recognized our groundbreaking work to provide data acquisition and processing solutions to Highland Capital Brokerage. We're now extending that technology to more customers.

In April, we also introduced new website functions to help insurance agents order the right Portamedic services and check the status on any smartphone or tablet. We also introduced the new version of our iParamed e-Exam software, which now helps local health professions complete electronic exams even when there is little or no cellular signal. We believe that is another industry first.

It's safe to say that our information technology team has never been busier. Our IT expenses increased during the second quarter as we began adding five new major life insurance companies to the iParamed platform. This was somewhat offset by optimizing our communications network during the quarter to use fewer circuits and reduce data costs.

Last, but not least, our Portamedic transformation has allowed us to greatly streamline and simplify our organization, moving from over 100 standalone local branches to a network of around 60 centralized customer service centers This will not only reduce costs as it is expected to drive great increases in efficiency and quality. Straightforward, but time-consuming administrative task that used to be performed in each of the 100 local branches can now be performed centrally, freeing up our local resource to focus on what is most important, that being local customer service.

Because of this process, for example, we've centralized recruiting, credentialing and managing of local health professionals, streamlined the delivery of lab kits and other supplies to our examiners and deployed new technology and management practices to help us answer customer calls on the first ring all across the country.

As a result, we believe we've doubled the productivity of our customer service reps, and we expect to deliver continued cost and quality improvements in the future.

During the second quarter, we made major progress in signing up new carriers for our iParamed e-Exam software. By the end of this year, we believe iParamed will be the most widely adopted electronic exam platform in the industry. We expect to have 15 major carriers on our platform by the end of this year. At the same time, Health & Wellness growth is the top priority for the management team.

The second quarter saw continued strong Health & Wellness growth primarily from increased revenue and volume from both existing and new customers. During the quarter, we completed approximately 70,000 health screenings; that's about a 50% increase over second quarter of 2011. Our pipeline for the second half of 2012 is as strong as we've seen it. We're pursuing new types of prospects that present large multi-year opportunities with major employers and government programs. This past April, we added four new sales and operations executives to the Health & Wellness team to take advantage of new opportunities.

Our goals are to expand business from current customers, target larger opportunities and pursue new government contracts. We made progress on all of these areas during the second quarter. We added several new wellness customers that began billing in the second quarter. We've been working to sign more new wellness customers and support their state government screening commitments.

We've been exploring new ways to leverage our fulfillment and logistics capabilities. We also invested in and upgraded our Health & Wellness technology capabilities in the second quarter. We began to convert the iParamed platform to meet wellness customers' screening needs. We developed new services to more economically screen remote workers.

Looking farther ahead, we remain very encouraged and excited about continued growth in the size and the scope of our Health & Wellness business. We're expanding our presence in government contracting opportunities, both directly and as a subcontractor. We believe we're well-positioned to continue to grow in our traditional screening services and to take advantage of new opportunities made possible by changes in healthcare laws.

Going forward, we believe it will be increasingly important for health plans, employers and government healthcare programs to clearly understand the health status of each covered person and to monitor it consistently over time. We believe that we're well-positioned to collect process and report the health information required to meet this critical need.

Getting back to the company as a whole, looking to the remainder of this year, we expect improved results in Q3 and year-over-year growth in Q4 along with profitability, and we expect to end 2012 positioned for sustained profitability in 2013. We expect to end the year with adequate cash on hand and no borrowings.

When we initially brought the business transformation plan for the board, we did so very mindful of its cost, effort, time and near-term operational implications. We made a decision to proceed, because we believe that the transformation was both necessary and in the best interest of our company, our shareholders and our customers. We appreciate your continued support and believe that in the next few quarters, we will all look back on this effort thus having been the best cost course for all of our constituents.

As we knew at the outset, the turnaround has taken longer and cost more than have we decided to do nothing or make marginal improvements. But we've achieved a significant technology in business transformation, which we believe will lead to profitability and revenue growth.

And now, I'd be happy to take your questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question is from the line of Nick Halen with Sidoti & Company. Please go ahead.

Good morning, guys.

Good morning, Nick.

Good morning, Nick

So the $4 million of cost savings, I think, you mentioned in the second half of 2012, is it safe to assume that that – that savings will be spread pretty evenly over the next two quarters? I guess how should we look at the timing of that?

It is a little heavier in the fourth quarter. So, approximately $1.8 million in Q3, $2.2 million or so in Q4 is our current forecast, Nick.

Okay, all right, perfect, thanks. And now, I guess, in your view, what is the margin potential with this new delivery model in place? I know you guys are expecting a significant margin improvement. I was trying to get a sense, I guess assuming – even assuming a little – little to no topline growth, I guess, realistically, what is the margin potential in your eyes?

Well, we're looking at, I mean, most of it – the savings, 90% will be in the cost of operations, a reduction there. So, we're looking at approximately $4 million in the second half, $8 million on an annual basis, Nick, and again, most of that all going to cost of operations. So, whatever revenue levels you're going to assume in that model, that's how you should be adjusting for margin.

Okay. Okay. So, it seems like there's a good amount of leverage to be had there?

Yeah, oh, absolutely. And there also is, as I mentioned, some costs in SG&A, which occurred in the first half of the year as we were converting to the new system, which we'll not – those costs will not be there in the second half. So, in SG&A, approximately $400,000 to $500,000 of license fees, maintenance, training costs for the new PartnerLink conversion, things of that nature, which will also go away into the second half of the year. So, SG&A decreased – we're at $11 million this quarter, that's down from $11.4 million in the first quarter. So, we decreased this quarter. We're expecting to decrease again in Q3 and Q4 as these costs that I just mentioned are eliminated.

Okay. And now, I think I may have missed it, but I think you said, right, iParamed you're expecting 15 customers to be utilizing that by year-end. Is that correct?

That's correct, Nick.

And, I guess, how many customers as of right now are utilizing that? And I guess – just going forward, I guess, how quickly do you think some of your customers are going to decide to adopt to that platform?

Yeah, we currently have eight major life insurance companies, who are users and adopters of iParamed, okay.

Okay.

And there their rate of adoption varies, because it's an important function of the data, which the carrier originally went on, and so they've come on over time. So, we currently have eight, and we anticipate that, as we said before, we'll have another seven on board by the end of this year. And I don't have the exact initiation dates, but they're going to come in probably ratably over the second – excuse me over the third and fourth quarter in terms of schedule.

Okay. And then, just lastly, I guess with the transformation and new delivery model that you guys are implementing -

Yeah.

Can you talk a little bit about, I guess, just industry-wide, what – I guess, how it matches up to some of your competitors and are you saying anything similar on their end? And, I guess, what makes your system and your opinion better and will allow you guys gain share?

Yeah. Well, I guess, for a kind of perspective on the whole delivering model, like I mean, as we've talked before, there are a lot moving parts to the model. And there is the IT systems involved as we've talked, training process, people change management and all kinds of things. Kind of the overarching goal of the model from our business standpoint is very simply to increase the volume of paramedical exams on a nationwide basis. So, one of the two key drivers of achieving that goal, right, the first is – it sounds very simple, but its superior customer service for carriers, agents, brokerages and producers, number one.

And second is a broader and deeper working relationship with the health professionals, who actually perform the exam. So, we're just out of our 30 days into the launch. So, it's too early to tell, but there are some fairly positive initial indicators. We know from communication with ordering agents at the local level that they have noticed palpable performance improvements in our response time to their incoming calls with questions.

The health professional network, the examiner network that we have, a lot of incoming calls and communication more so than we had before with regarding what the new delivery model is and their statements of interest quite frankly, one of the things that we're talking to them about, which are things like continuing education, career development, getting them larger exam volume than they had before, better support in the scheduling and delivering of their services on their behalf.

So, those are a couple of key early indicators. We've also seen in one geographic region related to health professionals, in a three-week period, we effectively doubled the number of health professionals that are in and certified in our network, and that's in a three-year – excuse me, a three-week period. So, I mean, the leading indicators are that we've made the right decision, we're very optimistic about the impact that it can have, but there's still a lot of work to be done.

The other comment that I'd make, Nick, on your point, what's unique about it, as we've talked, this transformation we knew it was going to cost more and take longer and have more near-term operational impact than the other two options that we talked about. The other aspect of the – other two options we talked about either doing nothing, right, or making marginal repairs, in our minds, may have painted a better picture for the company in the near-term, but the reality is that approach – either one of those two approaches in our minds would have masked the true opportunities to really improve performance of Portamedic in the long-term.

And it also would have missed the opportunity, those two options, to truly differentiate ourselves in the market. I mean, the reality is that all of our major carrier customers, obviously, they're different scaled than we are, are going through very similar types of business transformations on their side.

I mean, what are they doing? We know in conservations – with daily conversations, they are working to improve their operating efficiency by doing more than just cutting operating expenses. They're deploying more automated systems, both internally and/or their customer-facing applications. They are trying to place their applicants at the center of their service model as opposed to on the periphery, because that is a key concern for them, what is that applicant's experience with carrier XYZ? And they are trying to drive a more consistent applicant in customer experience across their market, the same way we are.

So we believe and our customers have confirmed in consultation with them that what we're doing is very supportive of what their kind of objectives are in transforming their businesses. I won't comment on what our competitors may or may not be doing, but I'm not aware of any of our competitors that have had made the amount of change in their operations, right, that we have worked to make in the last 18 months, and that we've actually implemented in the last 30 days.

Great. Thanks, guys.

Thank you, Nick.

Thank you. The next question is from the line of Gregg Abella with Investment Partners Asset Management. Please go ahead.

Good morning, gentlemen.

Good morning.

Good morning.

I'm going to just – I don't want to spend too much time with a history lesson here, but it's just probably hasn't gone unnoticed that you ended 2010 with about $21 million – a little more than $21 million of cash. We're now down, as of the end of the quarter, to $11.5 million. Based on your internal projections, where do you anticipate ending the year with cash?

Where we see right now as we said in the second quarter, we used $2 million of cash, $0.9 million used in operations, and then $1 million in CapEx were the primary drivers. For the balance of the year, we are expecting cash to decline in Q3, primarily resulting from an expected increase in accounts receivable, which we've historically seen from second to third quarter during the summer months, and also, some additional CapEx.

However, in the fourth quarter, we are expecting cash to increase from third-quarter levels, primarily driven by our fourth-quarter profitability, lower accounts receivable as it – the year-end is always are lowest DSO position, and slightly offset by Q4 CapEx. So, net-net, at the end of this year, we're looking at a – forecasting a minimum $10 million range as far as the cash position.

Okay. On this level of sales, what sort of cash you just need to run the business?

Well, there's just two targets we operate by for our bank covenant and borrowing standpoint, we need to maintain $6 million, not to violate any of the financial covenants. So, that's the one key metric. Obviously, our metric to run the business is below that, but $6 million is the one, which we cannot go below. So, my forecast, even during the third quarter, and certainly, for the fourth, keeps us above that bank minimum.

Okay. That's fair enough. We want to be supportive and patient here, and I think we've been that, but I guess I would repeat more or less what I asked in the first quarter conference call, which is that if this doesn't sort of shake out as you project and you're burning cash continually, is there a point where plan B has to be enacted, which is hiring an investment banker to sell the company?

We don't have a firm plan to do that at this point, but we have those discussions internally just as a normal prudent course of business.

Okay. I -

So the answer to your question is, yes; it's not under consideration at this point, but it's obviously something we consider as we've watched our progress through the first half of this year and quite frankly, as we monitor our progress in the third and the fourth quarter with – and before that, just monitoring the progress of performance improvement on the delivery model, and what we expect to be a very strong third and fourth quarter in Health & Wellness, but...

Okay.

We are aware of that and discussing it internally.

Okay. I'd like to see this work out and for Hooper Holmes to remain independent, but we, obviously – you can't watch things go straight into a wall either. So, I think there's a lot of value here in either scenario, but all things being equal, if you can remain independent and profitable, that would be fantastic, but there is a point though, gentlemen. So -

Understand.

Okay. That's it.

Thank you.

Thank you. The next question is from the line of Matt Reiner with Adirondack Funds. Please go ahead.

Hi, guys.

How are you?

Good. Hey, first question, when you talked about the five major new insurance companies on the – is it the Portamedic platform?

Yeah.

Are they – that you were expecting in the second half? Is that new or existing – is that existing once being converted or are those entirely new?

Those are carriers with whom we have contracts to provide services. And the way to think about it is they're adding the iParamed e-Exam platform for the services that we already provide. So, those would be net new users of iParamed, but they wouldn't be net new name contract for us.

Okay.

Does that clarified?

Yeah. Okay. And then, moving them over is, I would assume it's more profitable.

Yes. There is revenue and profitability associated with the deployment of iParamed in those carriers' customer base.

Okay. Then on the Health & Wellness side, about how many – or do you have an idea of how – or can you provide to us how many Health & Wellness customers you have?

Approximately 40, at this point, 40 customers.

Okay. And that's something you're thinking there is an opportunity to expand that even more?

Absolutely. Well, the growth is happening with – there's a substantial amount of growth that's happening within that customer base, that sponsor base as we refer to it based on the increase in their business. And they're, as I referenced in my comments, a number of new opportunities that we're pursuing.

Okay. And then as far as Q3, is there any typical normal seasonality in Q3?

Yes, it is. From a Portamedic standpoint, seasonality has the lowest quarter of the year, Q3, primarily because of the summer months and the decline in people getting exams, buying insurance, agents selling. So, the third quarter is the lowest from the seasonality aspect for our Portamedic. It is though a good quarter for Health & Wellness. We should see an increase from Q2 levels and fourth quarter from a seasonality standpoint is the strongest quarter for Health & Wellness.

Okay. And the second quarter is a weaker quarter for Health & Wellness, I assume, the one that you just had?

Yes. Yes, yes, that's correct.

And then, okay. Then as far as the – when you talk about the $4 million in savings, and thanks for breaking out by quarter there, the $1.8 million and $2.2 million, is – do you expect that or should we see that more in cost of goods sold or SG&A or a little bit of both, or how would you break that down?

That's primarily reduction of cost of operations, all right, so that the vast majority of that will be above – within gross margin.

Okay. All right. And then when you also – someone else had asked the question, when you talked about the second half having $400,000 or $500,000 less in SG&A due to transitioning some of this training, and what not, is that part of that $4 million number or is that -

No, that is in addition to that number in the SG&A line.

Okay. Great, all right, good, that's all I have for now. Thanks, guys.

Very good, thank you, Matt.

Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We do have a question from the line of [ph] Joe Fernicola (34:48), a private investor. Please go ahead.

Yeah, hello, Randy.

Yes, Joe. How are you?

I'm fine. Randy, I've been a shareholder now, I'm a private investor for many, many years and I watch the decline go down every year. And I believe you, when you say you're working on some new innovations to turn this company around some time maybe by the end of the year. That's what you said, is that correct?

Yes, we expect to see, since we've already seen very initial progress after 30 days, and we expect to see continued progress on Portamedic.

So, in your belief, do you feel so far you've earned your pay at the company?

Yes.

You feel you've earned it?

Yes.

In other words, you reached the goals you wanted to reach and you've earned the pay that you get?

We have executed, not perfectly, we have executed against the plan that we've put in place starting in January of 2011 to correct some of the deficiencies and the competitive issues in Portamedic that we have all known of for a number of years prior to January of 2011. Has it worked perfectly? No. Do we know that was going be more complex and take longer than the other two options that I cited, i.e., doing nothing or making marginal changes? Yes, we did know all of that. But I'm very comfortable with the progress that we've made against the plan that we've put in place in January of 2011.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We do have a follow-up question from the line of Matt Reiner with Adirondack Funds. Please go ahead.

Hey, guys. One more there, on the – you talked about with the platform just kind of being turned on, was it late June?

Yes.

You're already seeing pretty good results from that.

Early indicators, right, right.

Yeah, they're early indicators.

Right.

On the early indicators, can you give an idea like profitability wise, how much different it looks than the old model, I guess?

It's really, really hard to tell, Matt, given literally 30 days, 30 days experience. It's very hard to tell.

Okay. So, right now, it's more – you're seeing it in the service side of it just, is that like the real progress you're seeing?

You're seeing – I mean, this is literally within the last three or four weeks, right?

Yeah.

We are getting, it's not just our monitoring of statistics, the inputs that we're getting from ordering agents and from the health professionals that we're servicing. And the high-level message is you guys are doing the right thing to keep it up. We've actually, as I said, we're seeing some modest exam order volume increase in specific geographies and increases in our examiner – e-health professional network core, and that's within three weeks. I'm not going to take the risk of drawing an absolute solid black trend line on that, but the early indicators, as I've said, are fairly positive.

Okay, great. Thanks.

Thank you. There are no further questions at this time. I will turn it back over to management for any closing remarks.

I appreciate everyone's time and attention and focus, and we look forward to updating you again in early November.

Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude the conference call. You may now disconnect. And thank you for your participation.