Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Andrew M. Berger — Vice President, SM Berger & Co., Inc.
Henry E. Dubois — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Hooper Holmes, Inc.
Tom Collins — Chief Financial Officer & Senior Vice President, Hooper Holmes, Inc.
Joe David France — Analyst, Cantor Fitzgerald Securities
Matt Patrick Reiner — Chief Investment Officer & Portfolio Manager, Adirondack Research & Management, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, and welcome to the Hooper Holmes' 2014 Fourth Quarter Financial Results Conference Call. Today's conference is being recorded.

At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Andrew Berger of SM Berger. Please go ahead, sir.

Thanks, Christy. On behalf of the management of Hooper Holmes, we are extremely pleased that you have taken the time to participate in our conference call, and thank you for joining us to discuss the company's 2014 and fourth quarter financial results and business outlook.

Before I introduce management, I would like to remind everyone that certain statements made during the course of this conference call, especially those that state management's intentions, hopes, beliefs, expectations, or predictions for the future are forward-looking statements. It is important to remember that the company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements. Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements is contained in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K, copies of which may be obtained by contacting either the company or the SEC.

By now, you should have received a copy of the news release, which was issued earlier this morning and is available on our website. You should also have received the copy of the slides, accompanying management's presentation this morning, which is also available on the website.

Participating in the call today are Henry Dubois, Hooper Holmes's President and Chief Executive Officer; and Tom Collins, Chief Financial Officer.

At this time, I'll turn the call over to Henry. Henry?

Thanks, Andy. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us. For this quarter, we're again referring to a slide presentation. As Andy mentioned, it is available on our website. I want to begin by reminding you of the goals we set for 2014. When we spoke a year ago, we focused on the future and we cover three things, our Health & Wellness business capabilities, the dynamics of our markets and growth opportunities and our high-level strategy to deepen our customer partnerships and growth.

Please take a look at page three in today's presentation. This is the slide we used a year ago to describe plans for 2014. In 2014, we delivered in each of these areas. It was a record year for our Health & Wellness business. We grew our cash balance. We grew revenues and units. We reduced SG&A and we significantly reduced losses. It was also a transformation year. I have more to say about that but first, let me turn it over to Tom to review the numbers we announced this morning.

Thanks, Henry. Turning to slide four for the full year ended December 31, 2014, consolidated revenues were $28.5 million, representing an increase of approximately 18% from the prior year of $24.2 million. The increase corresponds to more screenings during 2014 as well as additional revenue from a long-term clinical study contract.

For the year ended December 31, 2014, we performed approximately 474,000 health screenings compared to approximately 416,000 health screenings for the year ended December 31, 2013. This represents an increase of 13.9% in the number of screenings performed.

Consolidated revenues for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 also include third party kit revenue of $0.8 million and $1 million, respectively. Gross profit increased by $0.4 million to $6.8 million in 2014 compared to $6.4 million in 2013. Our gross profit percentage from continuing operations was 23.8% for the year ended December 31, 2014, representing a decline from 26.5% from the year ended December 31, 2013. The decrease in gross profit percentage is primarily due to increased labor and travel cost for field specialists and health professionals.

As we turn to slide 5, you can see the selling, general, and administrative expense decreased to $14.1 million in 2014 compared to $17.6 million in 2013, representing a decrease of 19.5%, which is a result of efficiencies achieved in connection with the relocation of the corporate headquarters to Olathe, Kansas.

SG&A also includes $1.9 million of transition costs incurred during the year ended December 31, 2014 associated with maintaining the Basking Ridge, New Jersey real estate prior to the sale as well as transition of information technology infrastructure.

SG&A excluding transition costs for the year ended December 31, 2014 was $12.2 million representing a decrease of approximately 30% compared to 2013. We also recorded a gain on sale of real estate of $1.8 million in connection with the sale of the property in Basking Ridge, New Jersey.

For the full-year ended December 31, 2014, income from continuing operations improved 53% as compared to 2013, includes some of the costs associated with transitioning our headquarters to Kansas, and transforming the business to focus on health and wellness.

In the fourth quarter of 2014, consolidated revenues totaled $6.7 million, representing a 27% decline from $9.2 million in the fourth quarter of 2013. The company recorded a net loss of $1.7 million or $0.02 per share for the fourth quarter of 2014, compared to a net loss of $2 million or $0.03 per share for the fourth quarter of 2013.

Our cash balance as of December 31, 2014 was $5.2 million, compared to $4 million at December 31, 2013. This is the first year-over-year increase and end of your cash balance since 2010. We also have a working capital of $2.9 million and no debt on the balance sheet as of December 31, 2014.

Our loan and security and security agreement remains in effect and provides flexible financial support if needed. I will now turn the call back to Henry.

Thanks, Tom. As Tom mentioned, last year, we grew year-over-year revenues, delivered positive cash flow and reduced SG&A.

As you can see on slide 6, 2014 was a year of major changes carefully executed. During the year, we sold two business units, formed a strategic alliance with CRL, moved our headquarters and IT infrastructure across the country, and sold our New Jersey real estate. We delivered significant increases in revenue and screenings in the first half of the year, while the second half was essentially flat. This reflects work with our customers to more evenly distribute revenue, which we told you about in November.

As Tom said, we believe our income improvement year-over-year and current SG&A run rate position us well for the year ahead. Our job now is to leverage our assets for growth for the full year. As you can see on slide 7, we're going to do that by winning new wellness customers and channel partners, and by helping our customers and channel partners enroll more participants in their programs. We will expand our support for clinical research, we will introduce new screening technology, and we'll continue to expand our health professional network.

We believe our unit volume in the first quarter of 2015 suggests we are on the right track. As you may recall, in the first quarter of 2014, we delivered a 34% increase in the number of screenings completed. The first quarter of 2015 is tracking to roughly the same unit volume while revenue will likely be down due to the product mix, that is one reason why continued growth in clinical research is an objective this year.

Clinical research is not a new area for us. We have leveraged our screening capabilities to serve academic, non-profit and government customers for several years. Clinical research programs offset some of the seasonality of our traditional wellness business.

As you can see on slide 8, we have a track record in meeting the needs of clinical research organizations. For example, we were selected to perform sample collection for Westat for the largest government study ever done in the United States. And we were awarded a multi-year contract to support the U.S. Department Of Veteran's Affairs. Also, we have just been engaged to support a tobacco study in New York state. We'll be working in all five boroughs of New York city and Buffalo, New York. These projects typically require special protocols that produce more revenue.

Unlike wellness programs, however, these projects have end dates. One of the studies we have been supporting began to wind down in the fourth quarter of 2014 producing revenue in the first quarter of 2015. We've been working to bring new contracts to replace that this year. Like the growth we're targeting in our core wellness services, winning new clinical research work improves our network utilization and leverages our logistics and supply chain assets.

As you can see on slide 9, we are leveraging technology to continuously refine our core biometric screening process. We're now rolling out a new digital front end for biometric screenings. Our new mobile application eliminates the costs associated with paper and scanning. Information will also be available even faster for our clients. It also delivers a superior participant experience.

We have been internally testing this application for several months. We'll beta test it with customers in the second quarter of 2015 and launch it in the fall. The feedback we have received from channel partners about this application is very positive and we believe it positions us well in the market.

Moving to slide 10, our network of health professionals includes nurses, phlebotomists and doctors. We have the skills and talent needed to collect health information accurately and professionally. We train local health professionals in our screening process to ensure our screenings are consistent wherever they are delivered.

This map shows the scale and scope of our operations. Each of the yellow dots on the map is a location where we have health professional talent in our network. Our network uses the complete range of capabilities needed to conduct biometric screenings anywhere in the country. As you can see, we have access to a large network of local talent. It mirrors the population density of the United States. Wherever there are employee groups or study participants that need to be screened, we can do the job. While we have more to accomplish, we're confident about our outlook for the year.

As slide 11 shows, we expect the be operating cash flow positive for the full year and to maintain SG&A at the same run rate with which we exited the fourth quarter of 2014. Looking back, 2014 was a complex year. 2015 is focused on growth. Our sales forces are aligned with the opportunities we have targeted. We have a clear strategy to accelerate revenues to achieve our targets of building a $100 million business in four to five years. We continue to evaluate strategic partnerships and to work with Cantor Fitzgerald, our investment banking advisor, to explore all opportunities. Our job right now is to pick up the speed and accelerate growth for the full year.

And now, Tom and I will be happy to answer your questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Joe France with Cantor Fitzgerald.

Good Morning. Just a couple of questions really. Can you just talk a little bit more about your developing CRO effort? You mentioned [ph] that at the time (00:12:11) when you announced the fourth quarter, like kind of where it stands now?

Sure. Joe, thank you for joining us this morning and thank you for the question. But regarding our efforts to expand into the clinical research market, we've got a number of activities going on. We've got a number in the pipeline. As I mentioned, we just won a study in the New York state area to help – to do a tobacco study. We've got some specific – members of our sales team are focused on calling on universities and hospitals and other organizations that are in the process of doing the collections there. So, it is active and we expect to see some progress and we'll be able to continue to report on that across the year.

Great. So, you've hired a specialized sales force for it or?

We are evaluating whether we need a new sales force now, because given our experience in the marketplace, we have won these projects in the past. We're initially utilizing our existing sales force, because they have, have traction there and they do have relationships. So, we're initially using that, but we'll always be evaluating.

And how would this contract compare, the New York state contract, compare with the tobacco study are in the process of doing with Westat from the rest of the [indiscernible] (00:13:23).

The Westat study, I mean as we say, that's the largest tobacco study that the U.S. has undertaken. So that one is a very significant one. This one is a shorter term and more near term. So it's not in that same order of magnitude, but it is still a significant study.

So it's not a five-year contract?

No. This is a pretty much a one year contract.

One other question if I may. You mentioned later in the handout that the 36% of employers are expected to add wellness programs in 2015. How much visibility do you have on volumes at the beginning of each year for the year ahead?

What we typically have is we've got visibility with the customers that we performed screenings for the prior year, because while these contracts are not necessarily annual or they're typically annual renewals as opposed to multi-year contracts. What you typically have is once you start getting into the contract, there's stickiness there because the true benefit of a wellness program is to have that annual checkpoint, if you will, that annual benchmarking of how the overall population health is. So I would think our visibility is pretty strong based on our existing customer base and then we look out in terms of who our channel partners are pursuing and working and coordinating with them, potential growth there, as well as our own internal sales model.

So then for example 80% of your volume this year was recurring and you would assume that the same thing would be true in 2015?

That would be a fair assumption.

Or at least that much?

At least that much, correct.

Okay. And one last clarification, if I may. You mentioned, if I understood it correctly, because of the strong first quarter volume last year that the volume in the first quarter of 2015 will be flat but revenue will be down and I didn't understand, would you just elaborate on that please?

Sure. The unit volume is going to be – will be pretty flat or we expect to be flat from year-on-year, but what we're getting is, is we're getting more on the pure wellness side. As we're talking in the clinical research discussion, the clinical research pricing is typically higher per unit because of the different protocols that are required. There's a lot more customer – custom tailoring, a lot more specific collection requirements, methodologies, et cetera. So there's a higher unit price when you're doing the collection protocol.

That's great. Thank you very much, Henry.

One comment there, when you made that comment about 80% of the revenue was recurring. What you're actually referring to is, if you took a look at our revenue, roughly 80% of our 2014 revenue was revenue that we had from prior year, that we had, if I recall, at that time was about $4.8 million of new revenue that we reported.

Correct.

Okay. Yes. Thank you.

And we'll take our next question from Matt Reiner with Adirondack Funds.

Hi, guys. The fourth quarter – what was the Health & Wellness in the fourth quarter? I don't know if you said that. I see what you said for the year, but I know – what was – if you could bring...

From a revenue perspective?

Yeah.

Yeah, yeah. Matt. Thanks for the question. The total revenue for the Health & Wellness business for Q4 was $6.7 million.

Okay. That was all Health & Wellness, okay.

Correct.

Correct.

So, all right. And then, the kind of the difference would have been the contract that went off or that ended on a year-over-year perspective?

Matt, this is Henry. You may recall in November, we've talked about how we started to see the shifting of some of the wellness customers moving their – moving their programs early into the year as they wanted to get into the medical insurance premium markets a little bit more quickly. So, it's more of a shifting between the fourth to the third.

Okay. And then – so when we look out for next year, is that seasonality likely to repeat or...

We're kind of thinking in terms of first half of the year and second half of the year because it really all plays as in terms of when the customers are looking to get in front of their insurance carriers.

Okay, okay. Good, thanks. [Operator Instructions]

There appears to be no questions at this time.

Okay. Well, then I'd like to thank everyone for joining the call, and we look forward to talking with you as we continue to proceed through 2015.

This does conclude today's conference. Thank you for your participation.