raw transcript


Hooper Holmes, Inc.
 
HH
 
Q4 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 3, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning and welcome to Hooper Holmes Fourth Quarter and Year-end 2005


Earnings Conference Call. At this time all participants are in listen-only mode. [Operator


Instructions]. Now I will turn the meeting over to Mrs. Theresa Kelleher with Financial Dynamics.


Ma'am you may begin.


Theresa Kelleher Teresa, Financial Dynamics


Thank you. Good morning everyone and welcome Hooper Holmes fourth quarter 2005conference.


If anyone has not received the copy of the release issued yesterday morning please call Financial


Dynamic at 212-850-5600 and a copy will be to sent to you immediately. Before management


begins the formal remarks, I’d like to remind you that to the extent of the company statement or


comment represent forward-looking statements. I refer you to the risk factors and other cautionary


factors in yesterday press release as well as the company’s most recent SEC filings. In addition,


this call is been recorded on behalf of Hooper Holmes and is copyrighted material. It cannot be


rerecorded or rebroadcast without the company’s expressed permission. As you know,


participation implies consent to our tapping. Once management has concluded their formal remark,


we will open the call for questions.


With today from management our James Calver, President, Chief Executive Officer and Joe


Marone, Vice President & Acting Chief Financial Officer.


With that I’d like to now to turn the call over to James. James, please go ahead


James D. Calver, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you Theresa and thanks to all of you for joining our conference call today. This is the first


conference call since I joined the company on January 16th of this year. I think as you are all


aware we have been late in finding – filing our financial results than I would have like. However I


believe the additional time spent on thoroughly reviewing all aspects of our financial position by our


management team and our independent auditors has been well worthwhile. In parallel to that effort


I put in motion a bottom up strategic review of the entire business. The goal of the review is to


identify both cost savings and opportunities for increasing revenues. We will be returning to these


two issues shortly.


I think as is clear from today’s announcement and from results over recent years Hooper Holmes


faces a number of challenges both internal and external and I would like to devote much of today’s


call to setting out the parameters of my strategy returning the business around over the next 24


months. Beyond the turnaround we will build a sustainable growth business.


I would like to start on a personal note and I chose to come to Hooper Holmes because it has the


fundamentals of an excellent business, market leading position, an array of quality products, an


unrivaled client base, high potential businesses and a committed and talented workforce. Big


opportunity also exists as a result of some difficult times for the previous management over the last


two years, a whistle blowing investigation, the departure of the CEO and the CFO last year and 4


Chief Operating officers, General Managers of the business in the last 6 years. So, coupling the


business fundamental, prior management challenges and building a strong leadership team creates


excellent opportunities for future growth. The Board believes that my background is ideally suited


to leading the task of stabilizing the existing business, moving through the recovery phase, and into


a period of renewed and sustainable growth, which is the heart of that strategy.
raw transcript


Hooper Holmes, Inc.
 
HH
 
Q4 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 3, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


As you may be aware, I came to Hooper Holmes with a broad range of business experience.


Having worked with Blue Chip Fortune 500 companies, including General Electric, GE, Mellon


Financial, and Gartner. To give you a flavor, while at GE, I founded a new business, Small


Business Solutions, successfully built a team that integrated 9 existing brands, dramatically


increased revenue, and reduced cost substantially. At Mellon, as an SVP of the company’s HR and


Investment Solutions division, and outsourcing business, I strengthened the team that reversed a


revenue decline, launched 4 new products and a brand. I think, much of this experience is already


providing to be invaluable – proving to be invaluable at we work to return Hooper Holmes to its full


potential.


I am now going to ask Joe Marone to present a summary of the 2005 full year results before


reviving some of the challenges facing the business, laying out my goals for the business and


shaping out our initial thoughts on the recovery strategy. Joe?


Joseph A. Marone, Acting Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, James, and good morning everyone. Our financial performance in 2005 while it’s still


below our internal goals, we’re certainly offset by strength elsewhere and give us cautious optimism


for the future.


For the 12-month ended December 31st 2005 total revenues decreased 2% to $320 million


compared to 327 million in 2004. We had a net lost of 96.6 million or $1.40 per diluted share


compared to net income of $10 million or $0.15 per diluted share in 2004. The net lost includes an


impairment charge to goodwill and intangible assets totaling 133.6 million and is reflected in SG&A


cost. As previously announced in details in our 2005 Form 10-K, we restated prior period financial


statement and recorded a goodwill and intangible asset impairment charge. The restatement had


no adverse effect on the company’s business outlook for future periods or any impact on its future


cash flows of the company.


I’d now like to provide you with some detail on our businesses for the year-over-year results. For


the Health Information Division reported a slight decline in full year revenues the 282 million


compared to 283 million in 2004. Due to continued weakness in the company’s core paramedical


exam business. All of the other divisions other units experienced positive growth helping to offset


some of the decline in Portamedic's revenues. The year-over-year results include Portamedic's


revenues increased 9.1% to 171.9 million compared to 189.1 in 2004.


Mid-America Agency Services or MAAS revenues increased 90% to $8.2 million to 17.3 million


compared to 2004 reflecting growth and the full year impact of MAAS, which was acquired in May


2004.


Medicals Direct Group, our UK subsidiary had revenues increased 4.7% to $42.2 million compared


to 40.3 million in 2004. Our Heritage Labs reported revenues of 19.2 million, an increase of 14.5%


compared to 16.7 million in 2004. Infolink reported revenues of 31.3 million, an increase of 12.1%


compared to 27.9 million in 2004. Our Claims Evaluation Division reported full year revenues of


38.5 million, a decline of 11.5% compared to the 43.5 million reported for 2004. The decrease was


primarily the result of continued declines in the independent medical exam and peer review activity


in New York State.


And quarterly revenue information on a consolidated basis, for the 3 months ended December 31,


2005, consolidated revenues totaled 76.5 million compared to 82.1 million and as already


mentioned the fourth quarter was burdened with a goodwill and intangible asset impairment charge


of 133.6 million or 95.6 on an after-tax basis. Earnings per share diluted for the quarter was a loss


of $1.51 per share.