Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Andrew M. Berger — Vice President, SM Berger & Co., Inc.
Henry E. Dubois — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Hooper Holmes, Inc.
Tom Collins — Chief Financial Officer & Senior Vice President, Hooper Holmes, Inc.
Bill Sutherland — Analyst, Emerging Growth Equities Ltd.
Matt Patrick Reiner — Chief Investment Officer & Portfolio Manager, Adirondack Research & Management, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, and welcome to the Hooper Holmes' 2014 Third Quarter Financial Results Conference Call. Today's conference is being recorded.

At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Andrew Berger of SM Berger. Please go ahead, sir.

Thanks, Heather. On behalf of the management of Hooper Holmes, we are extremely pleased that you have taken the time to participate in our conference call, and thank you for joining us to discuss the company's third quarter financial results and business outlook.

Before I introduce management, I would like to remind everyone that certain statements made during the course of this conference call, especially those that state management's intentions, hopes, beliefs, expectations, or predictions for the future are forward-looking statements. It is important to remember that the company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements. Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements is contained in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K, copies of which may be obtained by contacting either the company or the SEC.

By now, you should have received a copy of the news release, which was issued earlier this morning and is available on our website. You should also have received the copy of the slides accompanying management's presentation this morning, which is also available on the website.

Participating in the call today are Henry Dubois, Hooper Holmes's President and Chief Executive Officer; and Tom Collins, Chief Financial Officer.

At this time, I'll turn the call over to Henry. Henry?

Thanks, Andy. Good morning, everyone, and thank you very much for joining us this morning. As Andy mentioned, you can find a copy of the presentation we are using on the Investor Relations page of our website. Today, I would like to do three things. First, I want to mark the end of our transformation from the life insurance industry to a pure-play health and wellness company. As you can see in the center of the slide, we took the last step in that transition in the third quarter by completing the sale of our former headquarters in Basking Ridge and closing the CRL strategic alliance.

Second, we will give you our customary report on the financial results of the quarter. As you can see on the right hand side of the slide, those results reflect a 51% increase over revenues in the third quarter 2013 to $7.9 million, a 34% increase in the number of participants screened compared to the third quarter of 2013 to 119,000 participants and improved markets.

Third, I want to describe the capabilities we bring to our customers and why we believe these capabilities will help us achieve our long-term operating and financial goals. We continue to focus on building a profitable $100 million revenue company over the next four years to five years, and we expect to improve our balance sheet increasing our cash position in the coming quarters. And after reviewing our financial performance, I'll give more detail on our business and the steps we are taking to get there.

Now, let me turn it over to Tom for the numbers.

Thanks, Henry. And good morning, everyone. As Henry discussed on our last call, the revenue and gross margin lines on our financial statements are clean representations of our go-forward Health & Wellness business. Beyond that, it is important to understand that transition and transaction-related items are still contained in our third quarter results.

SG&A performance in the third quarter includes the sales of New Jersey real estate and some lingering transition costs. Our financials also show discontinued operations activity associated with the closing of the CRL alliance that also occurred in the third quarter.

As you can see on slide four, consolidated revenues for the three-month period ended September 30, 2014 were $7.9 million, an increase of $2.7 million or 51% from the prior-year period. Our revenue increase is primarily due to an increased number of screenings. Our Health & Wellness operations performed 34% more health screenings in the third quarter of 2014 compared to 2013. Screenings were also up 35% for the nine-month period ended September 30, 2014 compared to 2013. Our year-over-year average price per unit increased to $66.39 compared to $58.43 in the third quarter of 2013 due primarily to the increased mix of screening revenue associated with a long-term government clinical study contract.

Gross margin in the third quarter of 2014 was 23.5%, bringing our year-to-date gross margin to 25.9%. The improvement in gross margin compared to Q3 2013 is a result of operating initiatives implemented during the quarter. The impact of those initiatives was offset by staffing costs to support high screening volumes from customers who move planned fourth quarter screening programs into the third quarter of 2014.

Turning to slide five, SG&A expenses for the three-month period ended September 30, 2014 were $3.5 million, a decrease of $0.9 million compared to the prior-year period. The decrease is primarily due to reduced corporate head count. These improvements were partially offset by transition costs and investments in Health & Wellness sales, account management, and information technology.

As we continued to find efficiencies in SG&A, we trend toward the run rate we expect going forward. Included in SG&A for the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2014 were $0.2 million and $1.8 million of transition costs, which were incurred in connection with the relocation of the corporate headquarters and information technology infrastructure to Olathe, Kansas.

Our income from continuing operations for the quarter ended September 30, 2014 was $0.1 million or $0.00 per share on both a basic and diluted basis compared to a loss of $3.9 million or $0.06 per share on both a basic and diluted basis in the same period of the prior year.

Our loss from continuing operations for the nine-month period ended September 30, 2014 was $4.7 million or $0.07 per share on both a basic and diluted basis compared to a loss of $10.5 million or $0.15 per share on both a basic and diluted basis in the same period of the prior year.

The table on slide six shows cash inflows and outflows from the third quarter. To summarize cash activity in the quarter, we began Q3 with $3.1 million in cash. We received $5.1 million in net proceeds from the sale of our New Jersey property and the sale of certain assets to CRL. We incurred $1.1 million in losses from discontinued operations and transition costs.

Third quarter expenses included $0.4 million in CapEx to help fuel second-half growth and $1.3 million for hiring, transporting and equipping staff to handle busy season unit growth, including orders advanced by some customers into the third quarter of 2014. In addition, we experienced a $1.3 million change in working capital for health professional and supplier payments that we expect to be recovered in our fourth quarter 2014 receivables.

To conduct successful screenings, we much use cash to secure and ship equipment and materials needed for the screenings. We must also pay our health professionals, their expenses and our site managers within a short time of screenings being completed. From a timing standpoint, that cash is spent before customers are invoiced for the event. We do not receive payment on many of the screenings completed in August and September, two of our highest volume months of the year until the fourth quarter. We ended Q3 with a cash balance of $4.1 million, no debt outstanding, and working capital of $4.5 million.

And now I'll turn the call back to Henry.

Thanks, Tom. I'd like to underscore the top-line revenue and volume results Tom just covered, which reflects orders from some customers who advanced screening programs from the fourth quarter to the third quarter. Our 51% revenue growth in the third quarter of 2014 compared to the third quarter of 2013 was fueled by a 34% increase in screenings. Through the end of the third quarter 2014, we completed 347,000 screenings, a 35% increase over the number of screenings completed during the same period last year.

As many of you know, the fourth quarter has historically been our strongest quarter for revenue and units. We've been working to smooth volume distribution, and our actions improved revenue and unit performance in the first nine months of this year. This also reflects increased demand from employers. Today, there are more incentives for employers to run wellness programs requiring biometric screenings. And as interest in wellness has increased, some employers have been scheduling their screenings earlier in the year. Because some customers chose to complete their screenings early in the year, we anticipate fourth quarter screening volume to be in line with the volume we saw in the third quarter.

We accomplished much during the first three quarters of this year, and you can see the list on slide eight. We sold Hooper Holmes Services and Heritage Labs and completed the post close transition associated with the sale of Portamedic last year. We migrated our technology infrastructure and consolidated our headquarters here in Olathe, Kansas. We added to our management team, strengthened operations and sold our New Jersey real estate, and we established a strategic alliance with Clinical Reference Laboratory, CRL. This alliance makes our lab testing cost a variable cost, eliminating the fixed cost burn associated with operating our own laboratory.

Our partnership with CRL also offers us or allows us to offer our screening customers an advanced laboratory testing platform and a very wide range of testing options that we could not offer historically. For example, we were recently asked to conduct liver, kidney, bone, mineral and electrolyte profiles for a large group along with our standard lipid profile and blood glucose test. Our CRL alliance equips us to deliver exactly this kind of comprehensive testing. We have created a compelling Health & Wellness business that offers customers a nationwide footprint of examiners, a complete end-to-end service offering and a superior level of service, which set us apart from others in the industry.

As you can see on slide nine, Health & Wellness is a complex business. Each year, we serve more than 2,500 employers and every employee population is different. We also leverage our biometric screening capabilities to support government and university studies and for clinical research. Every screening event we complete is tailored to local needs. Each year, more employees are enrolled in corporate wellness programs for our clients. And it's all about the data.

Since the inception of our Wellness division, we have accurately gathered data from than 2 million individual screenings. Some of these records are for the same participant over multiple years, thus providing us a longitudinal data set for future analytics. I said earlier that I explained how our business operates and explained the path from interest in a biometric screening to revenue to operating income.

At first glance, the biometric screening business probably sounds simple. The planning and delivering screenings that are reporting accurate data are all part of an integrated process. We performed three basic functions. We planned biometric screening events that meet the requirements of our Wellness channel partners, governments and direct customers. We delivered group screenings, which can also include collecting samples for research or government studies. And we performed tests, aggregate measurements and report data to our customers.

Turning to slide 10, it takes expertise to deliver a screening program. Screening events are staffed by the highest quality health professionals available. Many health professionals choose their assignments on our scheduling portal, and our management team here in Olathe works with our Wellness channel partners and employers to ensure their requirements are met.

Our screenings gather important data about employee populations. The result of the screening programs we execute give employers a baseline for measuring changes in employee health that can reduce healthcare cost. On this slide, you can see some of the factors that go into planning a screening event. Biometric screenings typically involve around 10 basic measurements and test results. The moment when participants receive their screening results is often referred to as an engageable moment. It is the time when participants can make the decision to take action reduce their health risks.

Our screenings deliver objective information that helps employers and wellness companies structure incentive programs to drive change. While our screenings are not medical exam, they do provide health risk indicators and communicate results to help people make choices about eating, exercise and other healthy behaviors.

Designing and delivering screenings demand attention to detail. We show some of that detail on slide 11. Screenings are usually delivered where people work. The right room must be selected. The screening event and reporting results to the employee must be done in private. Moreover, there are significant logistic requirements. Calibrator equipment must be used. Employees must sign up in advance. At the same time, every employee group and wellness channel partner has different requirements.

We work with all our customer and their clients to select the right blood tests, the right sample collection methods and the right data reporting formats for their employee populations. We frequently design special approaches to reach and include remote workers and their spouses in screening programs. We also have national partnerships with a network of clinical and walk-in centers across the country.

Turning to slide 12, the last part of the biometric screening process is the aggregation and reporting of data. Data is usually delivered to at least three stakeholders. First, the employee participant receives all the data, including result of the health risk assessment, biometric measurements and blood test results. If we do fingerstick blood testing on-site, participants usually receive the results right away along with explanations of the values. Data is also provided to the employer, are provided in such a way so as to minimize the individual participant's privacy – I'm sorry, to maintain the individual participant's privacy. Employees usually receive an anonymized report that shows the risk ratification of their population. Most of our Wellness channel partners use the data we collect to develop their [ph] coaching (14:38), incentive and other programs to reduce health risk and the employer's overall healthcare cost.

Our job is to compile the data. The biometric measurements we collect on site are matched with screening test results. This becomes more complex when working with large number of remote employees or distance locations. We leverage our health professional network and nationwide partnership as we work with dispersed work forces such as, for example, truck drivers. Some of our competitors have minimum requirements – have high minimum requirements. That means they want to screen fewer than 50 people at a time. At Hooper, we offer screenings for groups of all sizes.

Now, moving on to slide 13. As we outlined in previous slide, it takes talented people, calibrated equipment and sophisticated system to schedule and deliver quality screenings across the country. Even as we continue to drive operational and cost structure improvements, there is a baseline cost requirement for providing our customers with the service level they require. Our baseline operations not only allow us to service our existing customers but can be leveraged to handle increased volume with limited, if any, additional cost as we continue to grow.

Our ongoing initiatives are enhancing service quality while streamlining the business. At the same time, we continue to focus on smoothing out volumes, seasonality, where possible. That will allow us to drive operating efficiency and more consistent gross margins across borders. At its heart, we believe this business is highly scalable. By continuing to strengthen technology, operations and account management, we believe we are positioned to continue to grow top-line revenues with minimal incremental or indirect costs.

Turning to slide 14, now that we are a standalone Health & Wellness business, we are leveraging our proprietary technology platform, years of experience and track record to grow our business. You can see the results in the top-line revenue growth we've delivered for the first three quarters of this year. Each of the three phases of the business we just described provides opportunities for us to innovate and expand our capabilities.

In the months ahead, we will continue to refine and update our operating, training and administrative processes to continuously improve the quality of services we deliver. We believe we are on track to achieve the targets we have communicated earlier. We expect to end 2014 with an improved cash position on our balance sheet. We are entering 2015 optimistic about further growth and expect to make further investments in our future to deliver positive operating cash flow. We continue to focus on building a profitable $100 million revenue business over the next four years to five years.

And now, Tom and I would be happy to answer your questions. [Operator Instructions]

And we'll take our first question from Bill Sutherland of Emerging Growth Equities.

Good morning. I wanted to just make sure I understand kind of where normalized SG&A is at this point on a go-forward basis.

Well, thanks. Good morning, Bill. Thanks for joining us and thanks for the question. We're not quite at a normalized SG&A rate yet. We still had some transition costs. We also finished our transactions with CRL in the third quarter. So we are not quite at our normalized go-forward SG&A run rate yet. We expect to be closer to that at the end of the fourth quarter this year.

Can you give us any directional feel for kind of what that should be? I mean, what are you aiming for?

Bill, this is Henry. As Tom was saying, we are continuing to trending towards our expected SG&A level. We're still working our way towards that. We aren't at the moment providing guidance, but we do believe we have some improvements we can make as to where we are.

Okay. And then I guess based on just sort of the market and then your specific customer conversations, do you expect your volume growth to be in line with what you've been able to do this year for 2015?

Bill, as we just mentioned, we are not in the process of giving guidance. What we've said in the past and we're still – and we continue to believe that the market is growing at about a 15% to 20% annualized basis, and we believe we should grow at or better than the market.

Okay. And then I know that it'll be in the Q, but just curious what the – where D&A was for the quarter?

Depreciation and amortization will be in the Q.

I could hold on. That's okay.

Yeah. I'd prefer to – when we file the Q, either later today or at the absolute latest, tomorrow -

Okay.

We'll have more specific – will have more specific information in there.

Okay. And then finally, I guess there will be a little bit of non-recurring kind of items in the fourth quarter, or I wasn't clear exactly on whether that's almost all behind you? Thanks.

Well, for the most part, it's – it's mostly behind us. We will have a little bit of a trailing off, as you may – if you've read the transaction documents with CRL, we've maintained the lab capabilities in our facilities through the end of October for contingency purposes. So that was – we will have few costs associated with that in the fourth quarter, but they are trailing down.

Okay. Thanks very much, guys.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

And we'll take our next question from Matt Reiner of Adirondack Funds.

Hi, guys.

Good morning, Matt.

Hey, can you tell me on the – you made some comments about – did you say Q4 is historically the strongest quarter as far as requests? Was that the comment that I heard?

Historically, it has been, but as we've also been indicating, we were able – we've always had a very lumpy set of revenues. And we've been working to try and move that forward some, and we've been successful in having more screenings done in the third quarter as opposed to just delaying in the fourth quarter. So, from a volume base, we're looking at them being consistent.

Okay. The third and the fourth.

Right.

Okay. Got it. And then on the cash flow part, you had mentioned – so obviously you had to pull some expenses or pull some cash or payments – or not pull, but make some cash payments in the third quarter and those – so I'm assuming those are invoiced and collected by early in the fourth quarter or midway through the fourth quarter.

That's correct. Yeah, that makes sense, and that's correct.

And so what is the – I know you're near cash flow breakeven, now you're not quite there, but you're getting close?

Yes -

Yeah, we're getting closer. And again, as we continue to work our SG&A expenses down, et cetera, we're getting closer.

And as we indicated, we expect to be operating cash flow positive as we go through 2015 and building.

Okay. Great. Thank you. I appreciate that. [Operator Instructions]

And it appears we have no further questions at this time. I'll turn it back over to Henry Dubois for any further or closing remarks.

Well, I'd like to say once again, thank you all for joining us on this call and we look forward to speaking with you again as we get into the fourth quarter. Thank you.

That does conclude today's conference. Thank you for your participation.