raw transcript


Hooper Holmes, Inc.
 
HH
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 1, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning and thank you all for standing by. At this time all lines have been placed


on a listen-only mode throughout the duration of today's conference. Today's conference is being


recorded. If you do have any objections you may now disconnect. At this time I'd like to turn the call


over to Lanie Marcus from Financial Dynamics.


Lanie Marcus, Financial Dynamics


Thank you, operator. Good morning everyone and welcome to the Hooper Holmes Fourth Quarter


and Full Year 2004 Conference Call. If anyone has not received a copy of the release issued this


morning, please call Financial Dynamics at 212-850-5600 and a copy will be sent to you


immediately. Before management begins their formal remarks, I would like to remind you that to the


extent the Company's statements or comments represent forward-looking statements, I refer you to


the risk factors and other cautionary factors in today's press release, as well as the Company's


most recent SEC filings. In addition, this call is being recorded on behalf of Hooper Holmes and is


copyrighted material. It cannot be re-recorded or rebroadcast without the Company's express


permission. As you know, participation implies consent to our taping.


Once management has concluded their formal remarks, we will open the call up for questions. With


us today from management are James McNamee, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer; and Fred


Lash, Chief Financial Officer. With that I'd now like to turn the call over to Jim. Jim, please go


ahead.


James McNamee, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer


Good morning, thank you very much Lanie. Thanks for joining us to discuss our fourth quarter and


full year 2004 results. Total revenues for the quarter increased 9.1% to 82.5 million form 75.6


million in the fourth quarter of 2003 reflecting the performance of Medicals Direct Group, Infolink,


and Heritage Labs as well as $6.9 million in revenue for the Company's acquisition of MAAS,


Allegiance Health and MEG. All of which occurred subsequent to December 31, 2003. Fourth


quarter net income was 1.9 million or $0.03 per diluted share compared to 2.8 million or $0.04 per


diluted share in 2003 fourth quarter. Our operating margins during the fourth quarter benefited from


cost control initiatives that were offset by softness in Portamedic our core examination business


due to continued industry challenges higher than expected cost associated with Sarbanes-Oxley


compliance and residual cost from our completed Audit Committee investigation. I expect the cost


cutting initiatives to drive net income improvements throughout 2005.


As I've mentioned earlier, our financial performance for this quarter reflects a strong performance of


our Medicals Direct Infolink and Heritage Labs businesses and the continued success of the cost


cutting initiatives we implemented in the second quarter as we maintain margins on lower revenues


in our core paramedical business and continue to improve margins in our plain evaluation division


formally the diversified business unit. Medicals Direct financial performance has enabled our health


information division to generate solid results overcoming the revenue decline in our core


examination unit which is due to soft life insurance application activity and pricing pressure. During


the fourth quarter the MIB reported a life insurance application activity declined by nearly 2% in


October, nearly 5% in November, and almost 9% in December.


Now I'd like to move on to performance of our business divisions. The revenue for heath


information grew 5.1% to 71.2 million this growth again reflects the strength of Medicals Direct,


Infolink and Heritage Labs businesses. In addition, we are pleased to see a 5% increase in Mid-
raw transcript


Hooper Holmes, Inc.
 
HH
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 1, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


America Agency Services revenue from the third quarter of 2004 to the fourth quarter 2004. Again,


MAAS was acquired in May 2004. Thanks to aggressive expansion efforts, select small


acquisitions, exceptional customer service and continued client outsourcing of policy underwriting,


our Medicals Direct business grew at 38% for the quarter and 82% for the year. The success of our


call center in Kansas City continues to drive the performance of our Infolink business which


generated 16% and 28% revenue growth for the fourth quarter and for the full year respectively


over the comparable 2003 periods. And market share gains driven by a business model built on a


superior service continue to fuel the performance of our Heritage Labs business which had year-


over-year revenue growth of 9% and 11% for the fourth quarter and full year respectively. We


expect these business units to continue to perform well as they execute the respective business


plan and grow their franchises.


During the quarter Hooper Holmes made a strategic progress in health information division. The


integration of our management team with MAAS and Medicals Direct which we announced in the


beginning of the fourth quarter is now completed. Joining these two businesses allows us to focus


health information on the growth opportunities in the marketplace as the life insurance industry and,


thus, its vendors continue to face many challenges, in addition the management team of Medicals


Direct and Portamedic are working closely together to help drive the business and improvement in


growth with the goal of expanding our U.S. outsource underwriting business, increasing sales


activity, implementing operating efficiencies to drive improved profitability and further building our


franchise. We believe that the new direction of this business offers growth potential and promise for


Hooper Holmes and we look forward to delivering these results to our shareholders.


Moving on to the claim evaluation division we're pleased to see year-over-year revenue growth of


43% and 29% for the fourth quarter and full year respectively. The acquisitions of Allegiance Health


and Michigan Evaluation Group provide most of the growth in this division strategically we continue


to make progress with our national claims management provider and business strategy to


effectively bid on and secure national contracts and expand additional states during 2005. On this


note we're pleased with the performance of Michigan Evaluation Group continue to expand our


presence in the attack to Midwest claims management market a key part of our national expansion


effort. We're continuing to build a national network of operating centers though well property and


casual insurers' third-party administrators and self insurers to execute one call outsourcing strategy


for all medical evaluation services needs. By building this national network to the medical


evaluation radicals [ph] market we believe that our claims evaluation division will be able to offer


the industry superior efficiency, quicker order processing unmatched quality and competitor pricing.


With that I would like to turn the call over to Fred Lash who'll review our financials in more detail.


Fred Lash, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Jim and good morning to everyone. To repeat our total consolidated revenues are up


9% for the fourth quarter over the third quarter and also 9% for the year 2004 over 2003. For the


quarter, what was formally DVU is now CED, revenues were up 43%, primarily from the


acquisitions of Allegiance and MEG as Jim stated, and up 29% for the year, again, due largely to


those acquisitions. In our HIBU business, which is now the health and information division, and


name change, but no change in the business aspect of the segment, revenue grew 5% in the


quarter and 7% for the year. These increases for the quarter were fueled by the 38% Medical


Directs Group, our U. K. company revenue growth, 16% Infolink growth and 10% or 9.5% Heritage


Labs growth. As far as the acquisition of MAS in May contributed 3.7 million to the quarter, and


MAS again is our underwriting, outsource underwriting acquisition. All this above, off sets a decline


of $4.6 in Portamedic revenues, or decline of about 9.3%. For the year consolidated revenue


increased 9% or 27 million. Of that, health information division increased 17.7 million or 6.6% and


the Claims [ph] and evaluation division increased 9.9 million.