raw transcript


Hooper Holmes, Inc.
 
HH
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 28, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Welcome to the Hooper Holmes quarter 2005 conference call. All participants will be on


the listen only mode until the question and answer session. I would also like to remind participants


that the call is being recorded. If you have any objections you may disconnect at this time.


Now I would like to introduce your first speaker for today's call, Mr. John Capodanno, Financial


Dynamics. Sir, you may begin.


John Capodanno, Investor Relations of Financial Dynamics


Thank you operator. Good morning everyone and welcome to the Hooper Holmes 2005 first


quarter conference call. If anyone has not received a copy of the release issued this morning,


please call Financial Dynamics at 212-850-5600 and a copy will be sent to you immediately.


Before management begins their formal remarks, I would like to remind you that to the extent the


company's statements or comments represent forward-looking statements, I refer you to the risk


factors and other cautionary factors in today's press release as well as the company's most recent


SEC filings.


In addition, this call is being recorded on behalf of Hooper Holmes and is copyrighted material. It


cannot be re-recorded or re-broadcast without the company's expressed permission. As you know


participation implies consent to our taping.


Once management has completed their formal remarks, we will open up the call for questions. With


us today from management are James McNamee, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, and Fred


Lash, Chief Financial Officer. With that I'd now like to turn the call over to Jim McNamee. Jim,


please go ahead.


James McNamee, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Okay, thank you very much John. Good morning everyone. Thanks for joining us to discuss our


first quarter 2005 results. Our financial performance this quarter was in line with our expectations,


which we are particularly pleased about given the ongoing reorganization activities and related


charge we incurred. Despite the ongoing sluggishness in the life insurance industry, given what we


know at the current time, we continue to expect to see some stabilization of our core business later


in 2005.


Total revenues for the quarter increased 3% to $82.5 million from $80 million in the first quarter of


2004, reflecting the performance of Medical Directs, Infolink, Heritage Labs as well as s $7.5 million


in revenues from the company's 2004 acquisition of MAAS, Allegiance Health and MEG.


First quarter net income was $2.4 million or $0.04 per diluted share compared to $3 million or $0.05


per diluted share in 2004 first quarter.


Our operating margins during the first quarter benefited from cost control initiatives that were offset


by softness in our Portamedic examination, our core business due to continued industry challenges


and ongoing reorganization activities.


I expect the cost cutting initiatives to continue in an effort to drive net income improvements


throughout 2005.
raw transcript


Hooper Holmes, Inc.
 
HH
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 28, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Our financial performance this quarter reflects the performance of our Medicals Directs, Infolink and


Heritage Labs businesses and the continued success of the cost-cutting initiatives we implemented


last year as we maintained lower margins on lower revenues in our core trimedicals business and


continued to improve margins in the Claim Evaluation Division.


Thanks to Medicals Directs' financial performance our Health Information Division has generated


solid results in spite of the revenue softness in our Core Examination business due to life insurance


application activity and pricing pressure.


During the first quarter of the MIB reported a decline of 2.3% in life insurance applications and our


unit count during that quarter was pretty consistent with the market statistics, plus some of our


larger accounts individually appeared to have gotten off to a slower start, particularly in January,


but did pick up substantially towards the end of the quarter.


Now I'd like to move on to the performance of our business divisions. Revenue for HID grew 2% to


$72 million. This growth reflects the strength again of Medicals Directs, Infolink and Heritage Labs.


In addition, we were pleased to see a 22% increase in Mid America Agency Services revenues for


the first quarter 2005 compared to the fourth quarter 2004. Again, as a reminder, MAAS was


acquired in May 2004.


Thanks to aggressive expansion efforts, select small acquisitions, exceptional customer service,


and continued client outsourcing of policy underwriting, our Medicals Direct business grew its


revenues by 12% for the quarter.


The success of our Call Center in Kansas City continues to drive the performance of our Infolink


business, which generated 6% revenue growth in the first quarter over the comparable 2004 period.


Additionally, market share gains driven by a business model built on a superior service continued to


fuel the performance of our Heritage Labs business, which had revenue growth of 14% for the first


quarter.


We expect these business units to continue to perform well as they execute their respective


business plan and grow their franchises.


As we mentioned last quarter, the integration of our management teams of MAAS and Medicals


Direct is now complete. Joining these two businesses will allow us to focus health information on


the growth opportunities the life insurance and its vendors continue to face many challenges.


Additionally, the management team of Medicals Direct and Portamedic have been working closely


together to drive business improvements and growth with the goal of expanding our U.S. outsource


underwriting business, increase sales activity, implementing operating efficiencies to drive


improved profitability and again building our franchise.


We believe that the new direction of this business offers great potential and promise for Hooper


Holmes, and we look forward to delivering those results to our shareholders in the long term.


Moving on to our Claim Evaluation Division, we're pleased to see revenue growth of 9% for the first


quarter 2004. Again, the acquisitions depleted during 2004 have provided most of the growth in this


division by design.


We are continuing to move forward with building a national network of operation centers that will


allow property and casualty insurers, third party administrators, and self insurers to execute a one-


call outsourcing strategy for all medical evaluation services needs. By building this national network


of the medical evaluation services market, our Claim Evaluation Division will be able to offer the