Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Andrew M. Berger — Vice President, SM Berger & Co., Inc.
Henry E. Dubois — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Hooper Holmes, Inc.
Tom Collins — Chief Financial Officer & Senior Vice President, Hooper Holmes, Inc.
Gary Ribe — Director of Research and Investment Management, MACRO Consulting Group

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Hooper Holmes 2014 First Quarter Financial Results Conference Call, on 14 May, 2014. Throughout today's presentation, all participants will be in a listen-only mode. After the presentation, there we will an opportunity to ask questions. [Operator Instructions]

I will now hand the conference over to Andrew Berger of SM Berger and Company. Please go ahead, sir.

Thanks. On behalf of the management of Hooper Holmes, we are extremely pleased that you have taken the time to participate in our conference call, and thank you for joining us to discuss the company's first quarter financial results and business outlook.

Before I introduce management, I would like to remind everyone that certain statements made during the course of this conference call, especially those that state management's intentions, hopes, beliefs, expectations or predictions for the future are forward-looking statements. It is important to remember that the company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements. Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements is contained in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K; copies of which may be obtained by contacting either the company or the SEC.

By now you should have received a copy of the news release which was issued earlier this morning, and is available on our website. You should also have received a copy of the slides, the company management's presentation this morning, which is also available on the website.

Participating in the call today are Henry Dubois, Hooper Holmes' President and Chief Executive Officer; and Tom Collins, Chief Financial Officer.

At this time, I will turn the call over to Henry. Henry?

Thanks, Andy. Good morning, everyone, and thanks for joining us as we speak with you from here in Olathe, Kansas, the new location of our headquarters. We are using a slide presentation again this morning, and as Andy mentioned, it is on our website. To remind you, we began to transform Hooper Holmes a year ago. The purpose is to move away from the mature, slightly declining life insurance market to focus slowly – I'm sorry, to focus solely on a growing and vibrant market, the Health & Wellness market. Though we last spoke to you just seven weeks ago when we reported our 2013 financial results, as you can see on slide 3, in that short time since then we have made more progress in our transformation.

When we spoke on March 26, I said our success would be shaped by three things, quality, partnerships and growth. Today, I'm pleased to report progress in all three areas. This morning, we will look at all three of them starting with our strategic alliance with CRL on slide 4.

Our strategic alliance with CRL will bring Hooper three things: capabilities, clarity and capital. The new capabilities come in the form of CRL's state-of-the-art lab testing services.

CRL completes over the 100 million lab tests each year, which gives them significant scale. Those capabilities will now be available to our wellness customers. Going forward, clarity comes in Hooper's total focus on Health & Wellness. When this agreement closes, our company's involvement in life insurance will end; and capital comes in the form of $3.7 million as CRL acquires our lab and services business.

Those businesses complement CRL's leadership in the life insurance sector. We also believe this alliance will deliver important value to our Health & Wellness customers. The alliance puts Hooper and CRL in the top tier of companies providing wellness screenings and advanced lab testing.

And the strategic alliance should allow Hooper and CRL to cross-sell and be first to market with new solutions and services. We believe CRL's lab tests, plus the Hooper Health professional network, have the potential to meet more sophisticated customer needs.

But announcing the CRL alliance is not our only recent accomplishment. Turning to slide 5, you can also see that we rounded out our management team and we got closer to the finish line of our transition to Olathe.

On April 29, we announced that Tracy Mackey and Dave Rexroat had joined our team. Tracy is our new General Counsel and Corporate Secretary. She is an expert in corporate law, governance, mergers and acquisitions and business strategy. Dave is our new Senior Vice President of Health & Wellness Products & Operations. He has a long background in healthcare services, related technology and health insurance. Tracy and Dave will help us capitalize on healthcare trends and help us create a nimble, growth-oriented entrepreneurial culture.

At the end of March, we also completed moving our finance and administrative functions to Olathe. That was a major milestone. We outsourced our datacenter and other administrative functions such as benefits and payroll and strengthened our IT capabilities, and we have signed an agreement, subject to customary real estate provisions, to sell our New Jersey property for $3.05 million. That transaction is expected to close by July 11.

Now, let me turn it over to Tom to review the results we announced this morning.

Thanks, Henry, and good morning, everyone. As you can see on Slide 6, consolidated revenues for the first quarter of 2014 were $12.6 million, representing an increase of approximately 2% from the prior year of $12.4 million. An increase in Health & Wellness revenues of $1.9 million or 38% was partially offset by decreases in Heritage Labs and Hooper Holmes Services of $0.6 million and $1.1 million, respectively.

Gross profit decreased by $0.6 million during the first quarter of 2014, primarily due to lower profits for Heritage Labs of $0.4 million and Hooper Holmes Services of $0.2 million. Selling, general and administrative expense for the first quarter 2014 decreased $0.2 million to $5 million, compared to the prior year period. The decrease is due to efficiencies achieved from consolidating operations in Olathe, Kansas. Included in the SG&A number of $5 million was $1.1 million of one-time transition costs that were incurred in connection with winding down legacy operations in New Jersey.

Our consolidated operating loss for the first quarter of 2014 was $2.5 million, compared to a consolidated operating loss for the first quarter of 2013 of $2 million. The increase is due to lower gross profit, primarily from Heritage Labs and Hooper Holmes Services, and from the previously mentioned $1.1 million in transition costs. Our consolidated net loss for the first quarter of 2014 was $2.7 million or $0.04 per share, as compared to a net loss of $2.6 million or $0.04 per share for the first quarter of 2013. In terms of our balance sheet, our cash balance on March 31, 2014 was $2.7 million with no debt outstanding and working capital of $6.7 million.

Turning to slide 7, Health & Wellness revenues for the first quarter of 2014 were $7.1 million, an increase of $1.9 million or 38% from the prior year period, reflecting higher volume from existing customers as well as new customer contracts. In the first quarter of 2014, Health & Wellness performed 125,000 health screenings, compared to 93,000 health screenings in the prior year period, an increase of 34%.

Operating income from Health & Wellness was $0.5 million in the first quarter compared to an operating loss of $0.02 million in the prior year period. Health & Wellness gross margins decreased in the first quarter 2014 to 22% as compared to 31% in the prior year period. A portion of the margin decrease corresponds to investments made to improve our distribution of revenues, by bringing new large employers onto our screening platform in the first quarter. These investments reflect some screening events with a higher per unit cost, as well as increases in the cost of materials, and higher per unit labor and travel costs for field specialists and examiners.

We expect to improve Health & Wellness gross margin by continuing to expand our health professional network, increasing supply efficiency and achieving productivity increases by optimizing our operating platform.

Historically, our Health & Wellness gross margins have ranged from 25% to 35%. We expect to end 2014 at a gross margin run rate at the upper half of that scale. The 2014 first quarter saw year-over-year decline in both Heritage Labs and Hooper Holmes Services, which will ultimately be treated as discontinued operations when we close our strategic alliance with CRL.

Heritage Labs revenues in the first quarter of 2014 were $2.5 million, a decrease of $0.6 million, or 19.8%, compared to the prior year period. Hooper Holmes Services revenues for the first quarter of 2014 were $3 million, a decrease of 26.5% from the prior year period.

These declines reflect the continued decrease in demand for our life insurance services. Looking ahead, when we close our strategic alliance with CRL, we expect to have approximately 125 employees, a decrease of 60% from our head count as of March 31, 2014, reflecting the reduction of head count associated with the lab and services businesses.

We anticipate closing the transaction in late Q2 or early Q3, and expect to head into 2015 at the go forward SG&A run rate of our Health & Wellness focused business. And now, I'll turn the call back to Henry.

Thanks, Tom. When our strategic alliance with CRL is complete, we'll be purely a Health & Wellness company. We serve a large market and have lots of room to grow. As we have discussed with you in the past, the graphic at the top of slide 8 shows that the total market for biometric screenings is not nearly fully penetrated.

At the top of the slide, reading from largest to smallest, the red area represents potential market of the total U.S. workforce. The dark blue area represents that about half of those employers offer wellness programs. The light blue area represents employers that offer wellness programs with biometric screenings. And the small blue circle on the left represents Hooper. We're a market leader, but there is no dominant player, and the adoption rate for biometric screenings is still growing.

To succeed, we are concentrating on three things: growth, new offerings and improved gross margins. In the short term, we believe growth on a year-over-year basis will come from gaining market share by winning new customers through our channel partners and expanding the range of services we provide. We'll also be making investments in our sales and marketing capabilities to help generate this growth.

With an expanded range of lab testing capabilities from CRL, we will work closely with our wellness channel partners to develop new services to meet their needs. Over time, we may pursue new channel opportunities, including health plans and benefit consultants that could use Hooper services.

You can expect us to continue to refine our offerings to broaden our revenue base. For example, we believe we can help our customers improve their data capture and reporting processes by eliminating paper. You can expect us to continue to refine our operating model, improve our efficiencies and reduce costs. As Tom said, our historical gross margins have ranged from 25% to 35%. Our goal is to end 2014 at a gross margin run rate at the upper half of that scale. Finally, you can expect us to deliver growth on a year-over-year basis as we continue to grow our business.

Turning to slide 9. Our work now is to build upon what we've started. The 38% revenue growth we've delivered year-over-year, in the first quarter, is a positive start to the year. We're excited about that for two reasons. First, because two large organizations decided to adopt wellness programs, we believe that shows the demand for wellness and for the services we provide. Second, screenings can become an annual event, typically around the same time each year. With our management team complete, we expect to conclude our strategic alliance with CRL late next month or early in the third quarter.

In terms of what's next, you can expect us to strengthen our sales team and continue to improve our service delivery model. We continue to work closely with our channel partners to attract new employers, and we will thoughtfully refine and expand our service offerings. The new Hooper has a clean balance sheet with no debt, access to capital, and additional capital to come from the CRL transaction and the sale of our New Jersey property. We believe we have the right team, the right partners, the right customer relationships and the right assets. We're continuing to focus on long-term strategy and delivering shareholder value.

And now, I'd be happy to take your questions. [Operator Instructions]

The first question comes from Gary Ribe from MACRO Consulting. Please state your question.

Yeah. Hi, guys. Thanks for taking my question. I guess I just want – maybe I missed the first four or five minutes, so maybe you can clarify it. I know in one of your presentations, you guided to operating expenses, SG&A, half of what it was in 2012, or being able to cut over 50% of the SG&A. I just wanted to clarify that was ex the Portamedic overhead and everything else, and I think the number that I was looking at was a little north of $20 million from where to cut from. Is that – I don't know if you spoke to that or not, but is that still a goal, and am I thinking about that correctly, and am I looking at the right number on which to kind of be thinking about that?

Thanks, Gary. This is Henry. I'll pass that question to Tom to address it first.

Sure. Thanks, Gary, for the question. The 50% reduction that was mentioned was on the historical SG&A of about $40 million.

Okay.

As we continued to – so that was with Portamedic, that was a company that was built, frankly, for a different structure. So we're continuing to evolve and work towards building an SG&A structure that centers around our Health & Wellness focused business.

Okay. And I may have missed this, I don't know if you guys gave any guidance on how to think about that going forward from here? Now that you're done with the New Jersey sale and everything else, you fully moved out there, how do you think the business scales as you pick up revenue going forward?

Well, Gary, as you know, we're a company that's in transformation, and we're moving towards just a Health & Wellness focused company. With the sale of the lab and service businesses to CRL, we're continuing to right size the operations, continuing to right size the SG&A portion. Yes, with the sale of the building in New Jersey, we will be in a position to reduce the cost associated with maintaining that, even though we're not operating from there anymore, but we still have some maintenance costs associated with that. So all of that will help us drive to a lower SG&A number. We have not provided guidance on that, but we do believe that we will continue to be reducing that from the numbers that Tom has shared.

Okay, okay great. I appreciate that. I think that's it. I'll jump off. I appreciate you taking my questions.

Thank you, Gary.

Thanks, Gary. [Operator Instructions]

And there appear to be no further questions at this moment. Please continue with any further points you wish to raise.

Okay. Well, thank you very much and thank you all for being on the call. We look forward to seeing you at the shareholder meeting in June here in Olathe, Kansas, and speaking with you in August when we report our second quarter results. Again, thank you for joining the call.

This concludes today's conference. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.