raw transcript


Ironclad Performance Wear


Corp.
 
ICPW
 
Q3 2006 Earnings Call
 
Nov 14, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
6 4 6. 44 2 .0 2 70 •
 
Co p yr i g h t © 2 0 01- 2 00 6 C a l l Str e et


(ed i te d)
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, everyone, welcome to the Ironclad Performance Wear Corporation Third


Quarter Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to your


host, Miss Anne Rakunas of Integrated Corporate Relations. Please go ahead, ma'am.


Anne Rakunas, Integrated Corporate Relations


Thank you. And welcome everyone to the Ironclad Third Quarter 2006 Earnings Conference Call


and Webcast. By now, everyone should have access to the third quarter 2006 earnings results


release that was issued today after market closed. If you've not received a copy, please contact


me, Anne, at Integrated Corporate Relations, at 310-954-1100 or visit the Ironclad website at


www.ironclad.com.


Before we begin today, we would like to remind everyone of the Safe Harbor Statement under the


Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The following prepared remarks contain forward-


looking statements and management may make additional forward-looking statements in response


to your questions. These statements do not guarantee future performance and therefore undue


reliance should not be placed upon them.


For a more detailed discussion of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from


those projected in any forward-looking statements, we refer you to Ironclad's recent 10-Q filed with


the Securities and Exchange Commission today, November 14.


Now I would like to introduce the speakers and the topics for today's call. Ed Jaeger, President and


CEO of Ironclad Performance Wear Corporation will highlight the quarter's results and the progress


made on several key growth initiatives. Then Tom Walsh, Chief Financial Officer, will go through


the financial results of the quarter and discuss the company's outlook for the remainder of 2006. Ed


will finish the call with some closing remarks and we will then open it up to take your questions.


I would now like to turn the call over to Ed Jaeger.


Eduard Jaeger, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Anne. Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us today on Ironclad's Third


Quarter Conference Call. During our last conference call in August, we highlighted the key


elements of our growth strategy. We talked about new credit facilities to be put in place and


outlined our expectations for additional distribution channels in the remainder of the year.


On today's call, I would like to discuss execution. As our announcement indicates, the third quarter


was a very busy one for us as we made significant progress on a number of our growth initiatives.


As today's earnings release indicates, we achieved strong net sales growth of 47.3% during the


third quarter of the year. I'm very pleased with these results. This reflects the progress we made


during the quarter as we began to realize the results of advancing our growth initiatives.


During the quarter we continued to build upon one of our core target markets, the industrial worker,


by adding Granger, one of the largest industrial supply distributors in North America to our


distribution network. 11 different styles of Ironclad gloves are now available in hundreds of Granger


branches and showrooms across the United States and Canada as well as its website.
raw transcript


Ironclad Performance Wear


Corp.
 
ICPW
 
Q3 2006 Earnings Call
 
Nov 14, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 6 C a ll S tr ee t ( e d it ed )
2


Granger chose a number of our very specific gloves, including our proprietary new high-dexterity


heat and abrasion resistant gloves, called the Heatworx and the Tac-Ops, which is specifically


designed for military and police use. In addition, our gloves will form the foundation of the Work


Glove category in Granger's catalogue that will be available in February of 2007. Through


Granger's branches, their showrooms, its website and catalogue, Ironclad has access to over 1


million businesses and institutions in the industrial, manufacturing, military and government sectors


throughout North America.


We believe the industrial market has been waiting many years for technically superior performance


gloves and specialty apparel. The addition of Granger to our distribution base will greatly enhance


recognition of the Ironclad brand in the eyes of industrial end-users from small companies through


the Fortune 100 manufacturers.


Another element of our growth strategy is the cross over of our gloves and other apparel into the


action sports market. During the quarter we took a significant step forward regarding this initiative.


Dicks Sporting Goods is now offering Ironclad gloves in 200 of its sporting good retailers


nationwide. 7 styles of Ironclad gloves are now available in both the work wear and the hunting


departments.


Dicks challenged our R&D team to design a specific glove for hunting that provides functionality


and protection and comfort and we succeeded with the General Utility Digital Camo. This is a great


example of how our – how we are leveraging our brand recognition into the work wear market and


into the active lifestyle market.


Now I'd like to turn to the progress we made during our international expansion. In the last quarter's


call, I talked about – we talked about our discussion with distributors in Canada. During the third


quarter we finalized those discussions and established distribution for our gloves and performance


apparel in Canada through Canadian Industrial Distributors Incorporated. I think it's important to


highlight the fact that this was the first international distribution of Ironclad's performance apparel


outside the United States.


CID is a great partner for Ironclad. They've been supplying to Canadian professionals with industrial


and construction-related markets for over 60 years. They distribute to over 500 authorized dealers


and retailers throughout Canada, who have a vast network of locations and very importantly CID


will be carrying at least 16 different styles of Ironclad gloves, including those that are well suited for


tough and cold work environments. These included the General Utility Safety Orange, the Griptec,


the extreme duty and all 3 styles of cold condition. They will also distribute the first layer cold


condition and DRI-T long sleeved work shirts.


CID is well known for supplying products that comply with Canadian Government work place safety


requirements, providing Ironclad with a great exposure to new and large target markets. Again, our


results for the third quarter reflect the progress we have made on our growth initiatives and


continuing the momentum we have created in the third quarter, we also announced the


achievement of a number of milestones after the end of the quarter.


First, we continue to expand our product offering in existing distribution channels. Lowe's, one of


the largest home improvement retailers in the United States, increased their number of task specific


gloves offered in their retail locations. After a successful test of our General Utility gloves, Lowe's


added 2 of our Cold Weather glove styles for a seasonal promotion. As part of this value-added


winter promotion, the cold condition glove is bundled with a branded winter cap that we designed


specifically for them.


This is an important distribution channel for us. Lowe's operates over 1,000 stores in 49 states and


these Ironclad gloves will be available in stores located in colder areas. As a testament to the