Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Jeffrey D. Cordes — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Ironclad Performance Wear Corp.
William Aisenberg — Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Ironclad Performance Wear Corp.
Louie M. Toma — Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC
Benjamin L. Padnos — Chief Executive Officer, DONE! Ventures, LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good afternoon and thank you for participating in today's Conference Call to discuss Ironclad Performance Wear's Financial Results for the First Quarter, ended March 31, 2017.

Following remarks by the company's management team, the call will be opened for your questions. I would like to remind everyone that this call will be available for replay through June 15, 2017 starting after 7:30 PM Eastern Time today. A webcast replay will also be available via the link provided in the earnings release as well as available on the company's website at www.ironclad.com.

The following presentation by Ironclad's management contains forward-looking statements that include information related to future events and future financial and operating performance. Forward-looking statements should not be read as a guarantee of future performance or results and will not necessarily be accurate indications of the time at or which by that performance or those results will be achieved.

Forward-looking statements are based on information available at the time they are made and/or management's good faith belief as of the time with respect to future events and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual performance or results to differ materially from those expressed in or suggested by the forward-looking statements made today. For a description of the risks associated with these statements, you are encouraged to read the forward-looking statements information contained in the company's press release issued today.

Now, I would like to turn the call over to the CEO of Ironclad Performance Wear, Mr. Jeff Cordes. Sir, please proceed.

Thank you. Good afternoon. I'm Jeff Cordes, the CEO of Ironclad Performance Wear, and I want to welcome everyone to Ironclad's first quarter 2017 financial results conference call. Joining me on this call is Bill Aisenberg, our Chief Financial Officer. During this call, we will review the financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2017, which has now been publicly released. Bill Aisenberg will provide details on the financial results for the quarter, followed by myself, where I will provide my insights into the state of the company. We will conclude this conference call by answering any questions you may have regarding these financial results on our business.

I'm now going to turn the floor over to Bill Aisenberg, who will provide the details on our quarterly and year-to-date financials results. Bill?

Thank you, Jeff. As reported in our press release issued earlier today, net sales for the first quarter ended March 31, 2017 decreased by 11.7% to $4.5 million, as compared to $5 million for the first quarter of 2016. As we pre-announced on March 31, the quarterly decline in revenues was primarily attributable to reduced sales from our Australian distributor as a late finalization of their largest retail customers line review later this quarter.

As we do each quarter to keep this simple, as we speak about the business today, we will look at revenues of the company over three key areas, our international business, our industrial business, and finally our retail business including private label. Our first quarter international segment net sales decreased approximately 37% from the same period in the prior year. This year-over-year decrease, as previously reported, is due to our Australian distributor, Performance On Hand's decision to delay further purchases as they go to an upcoming product line review with their largest retail customer. The line review is expected to be completed later this quarter.

At the same time, our international base of industrial distributors that we've began to build followed the end of our relationship with ORR Safety, just nine months ago, had a strong first quarter, reporting sales of over $850,000. We now have more than 15 international distributors and see more distributors and growth to come from this area.

The first quarter of 2017 net sales for the industrial segment decreased 15% from the prior year period. This segment decrease was primarily attributable to a decrease of sales to the former master distributor of our Kong product or safety of our products from approximately $620,000. This represented 12% of total company 2016 Q1 sales and 24% of Q1 2016 industrial revenues. The master distributor agreement was terminated in Q3 of 2016. It is important to note that Q1 2016 represents the last quarter of significant sales to this former master distributor.

Grainger revenues were nearly flat in the first quarter when compared to Q1 2016 totals. This is very good news given that Q1 2016 shipments were driven by the large initial stock placements while Q1 2017 revenues are driven by an ongoing and daily written business.

Finally looking at our other national, regional and safety industrial business, which for the first time this quarter has its own head of industrial sales, grew by nearly $300,000 or an increase of over 80% from prior-year totals.

Turning now to our retail segment, despite a continuing difficult retail environment, our retail and private label segment for the first quarter increased 25% from prior year. The increase is spread across numerous retail segments and customers as our sales team continues to make greater inroads. Of particular note are our exploding business at Amazon and the first placement of our year-round products at Menards.

Gross profit for the first quarter decreased to $1.6 million at 35% of net sales, as compared to $1.8 million and 36% for the corresponding period in 2016. The decrease in gross profit dollars and percentage was due to lower sales for the quarter and a mix of business.

Operating expenses for the first quarter of 2017 were $2.2 million or 50% of net sales as compared to $2.1 million or 43% for the same quarter in 2016. The increased spending for the first three months of 2017 was primarily driven by increased wages and related travel costs in the sales area, an increase of the customer mandated advertising costs. Due to the reduced revenue number, we recorded an increase in loss from operations to $692,000 or 16% in the first quarter 2017 as compared to a loss of $323,000 or 6% in the first quarter of 2016.

Net loss before provision for income taxes increased $382,000 to a loss of $741,000 in the first quarter of 2017, from a loss of $359,000 in the first quarter of 2016. Net income decreased $409,000 to a loss of $767,000 in the first quarter of 2017, from a loss of $358,000 in the first quarter of 2016. Ironclad utilized $281,000 of cash flow from operations in the first quarter of 2017, as compared to utilizing approximately $2.6 million of cash flow in the first quarter of 2016.

The primary drivers of the cash from operations is the net loss recognized for the quarter, an increased in prepaids and other assets of approximately $514,000 and a decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses of approximately $2.4 million. This was partially offset by a decrease in cash receivable of $2.4 million and a decrease in inventory of approximately $774,000. The company's cash receivable days outstanding decreased to 59 days from 78 days of last year and our earned inventory of March 31, 2017, net of inventory reserves and deposits, was down $774,000 from the end of last year.

I will now turn over the call to Jeff Cordes, our CEO, who will discuss the state of the company.

Well, thank you, Bill, and good afternoon again, everyone. Bill has just detailed the first quarter sales results. The sales totals which we pre-announced this quarter and covered again today were the result of the lower ORR levels from our Australian distributor, POH. While no ones like it, POH's decision to lower the stocks was the right thing to do so that after completion of Bunnings line review, everyone is positioned to move into the new line as quickly as possible.

Given this situation, our focus has been to work with POH on the new line for Bunnings. We in fact visited the POH earlier this year in Perth to do just that. The new and competitive assortment includes a number of innovative items. POH is our exclusive distributor in Australia and has assured us that they are working diligently to continue our success at Bunnings. Time will tell. We will look forward to the completion of this line of review later this quarter.

We also this quarter, in addition to POH, had the last quarterly impact of ORR Safety. In Q1 of 2016, ORR shipments were $600,000. That represents about 12% of the 2016 Q1 totals. So, POH and ORR combined represent about $1.4 million or 28% of the 2016 Q1 totals.

Now looking at Q1 of 2017, we grew the business outside of POH and ORR by $820,000. Put another way, that would be equal to 16% increase over the $5 million Q1 2016 totals. The point here is twofold. First, as we have said on numerous occasions, quarterly order changes with our larger customers can and will continue to impact quarter-to-quarter company performance. We will therefore continue to focus on our full-year objectives and performance. Second, setting aside the quarterly changes of our biggest customer, we are growing this business.

I want to take a few moments today to make sure we are clear on a few other points. While we all focus on accounts like POH and Grainger, the reality is if we're going to grow over time at the levels we desire, we must build and drive the other parts of our business as well. In order to accomplish this, we need both confident sales leadership and sales teams to service and promote all channels and regions.

To that end, we have said before, we see three parts to our sales effort; retail, industrial, and international. The first leg, retail, we set in place with a new sales manager and team during late 2015 and early 2016. The results were solid and growing already as you have seen today with a Q1 25% increase.

With regards to industrial and international, there were serious limitations as to what could be done while we resolve the litigation with ORR Safety. We settled the ORR Safety matter in August of 2016. So please remember that as of March-end, it had only been seven months ago that we ended our involvement with ORR.

Now with ORR behind us, we have quickly acted to [ph] seventh place (11:39), both our international team and North American industrial team. Our new international sales manager, as of the end of March, had been on board seven months. Our new head of industrial sales has been on board just two and a half months.

So, what's happened in that timeframe? Let's take a more focused look at what's occurred during the first quarter of 2017.

International. For the first time, we are building a global network of international distributors. In less than seven months, Mike Emslie, our Head of International Sales, has taken us from 3 to 15 international distributors, and there are still more to come. That is remarkable when you realize that only seven months ago nearly all of these distributors were reluctant to even speak to us given the ORR litigation.

Keep in mind these are stocking distributors. They service end users in more than 25 countries. This quarter we picked up placement in South and Central America, Norway, Malaysia, India, the UK, Poland, Brunei, Azerbaijan, Japan, Korea, Mozambique and Germany. In fact, if POH had matched its 2016 first quarter numbers in 2017, for the first time ever, they would have been smaller than what our international distributors booked in revenues during the same period.

Our international distributors are aggressively pursuing new business all over the globe. They currently have more than 180 end user opportunities working. They currently have more than 120 wear trials with the distributors and users in progress as well. Up to now, the international focus has been primarily oil and gas gloves. However, through Mike and his team's effort, we are seeing more and more Ironclad and EXO products penetrating this market.

Additionally, as words spreads of the changes at Ironclad, we are seeing more offshore interest in places like Malaysia, West Africa, the North Sea, Brazil, Argentina, Australia and other parts of the Far East.

I would like to take a moment and talk about Kapern, our South and Central America distributor. This company is investing heavily since the start of 2017. This distributor in addition to taking on stock has developed an extensive marketing campaign across Central and South America translate our entire product information package to Spanish and Portuguese and is making significant investments in trade shows. With more than 40 field professionals and distribution in 14 countries, their business is beginning to grow. We expect Kapern by Q2 and will exceed our original full-year 2017 volume targets.

On a separate note, we are gaining recognition around the globe as well. This week in Dubai, Eric Jaeger will be a keynote speaker for ADIPEC, one of the largest oil and gas shows on the planet. On the industrial side, Ron Broussard, our new Head of Industrial Sales, who has been on board about two and half months, has been driving new inroads for his segment.

Keep in mind that just like international, Ironclad faced significant resistance from many major investment distributors of four and frankly even after the ORR settlement in August 2016. Ron Broussard's outsider status, however, has opened many new doors that we struggled to open previously. Ron has, in the past 75 days, added three new seasoned professionals to the Ironclad sales team. This now places the total five sales professionals focused on our general industrial business. We expect this quarter to add one more. Every dollar of an SGA is being focused on selling. For the first time, we'll add true coast-to-coast industrial coverage. For the first time, we'll have coverage in the Permian Basin where things are already getting busy.

During the first quarter, across the entire industrial group and working with our distributors, we closed more than 1 million in new end-user business for Ironclad. This business, as always, will transition over several quarters to Ironclad products. However, this tells us we are making solid progress. As in the international area, we have numerous work trials going on as well.

Finally, retail. Mike Fowler's team had a solid quarter with a 25% increase. This was particularly gratifying given that we had a slower quarter in the hardware segment as these merchants both balance and lower warehouse stocks. The good news is within hardware, things are back online and growing during Q2.

The online and catalog business continues to expand at a record pace. Amazon grew in the quarter by more than 100% and we anticipate will be a seven-figure count for this company in the near future. We now have more than 100 products on Amazon site.

DIY is also expanding, as again do-it-yourself, as we shipped three new styles for Menards that are now part of their year-round assortment. While we continue to grow Menards, we are turning our focus as well to other DIY members for the second half of 2017.

Tactical also continues to grow. Online, general retail, and industrial outlets are all steadily expanding their Ironclad tactical assortments. We see greater growth to balance of this year in this area. During Q1, we also added a new and well-respected sales rep group. The [ph] Moresby Group (16:43) out of Dallas, Texas, who has sales team members in more than 17 states is now working to support our sales efforts at retail.

Looking at the second quarter, the retail team's focus includes DIY, farm and ranch, selective hardware, and, of course, greater online emphasis. In addition, Mike and his team have several new private label programs that they are working on presently, which while not guarantee, he has a good chance of landing.

And speaking of product, given our position as a technology company in many ways, we are also driving a number of new product introductions come into market. During the first quarter, we added in a series of leather welder gloves and leather cut protection drivers that have already gained place including a few container orders.

During Q2, we learned some new line of performance leather gloves with simply incredible abrasion resistance when compared to conventional leathers. During Q2, we'll expand our line of knit products. This is a very viable market that we know we can be competitive in to drive volume.

Bottom line, the list of opportunities in work is growing as an engaged and focused sales management and sales team digs in.

While we do not like to give guidance, we would like to again emphasize to you that we do expect double-digit top-line growth in 2017. We are in an agreement with publicized guidance that we should achieve at least $28 million of net revenue. This represents a 12% increase over 2016 net revenues. In regard to gross margin, we believe that we should be in the range of 36% to 36.5%, an increase from 35.7% in 2016. This increase in net revenues, coupled with the increase in gross profit, will generate positive income from operations.

Before we move to questions, I would ask that our shareholders be on the lookout for their 2017 proxy materials. We have a number of important matters on the ballot, including the election of two new board members and authorization for a reverse split of Ironclad shares. Please be sure to return your ballots as promptly as possible.

At this time, I would like to open the floor for questions.

Yes. [Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question today from Louie Toma With Craig-Hallum Capital Group. Please go ahead.

Hi, guys. Thanks for taking my call.

Hey, Louie. This is Jeff.

Hi. Just have a couple of questions. If you could give us a little bit more insight on Grainger, you said it was flat this quarter, can you give us your thoughts on what you think growth from that channel could be for 2017 for the year?

Yeah. Again, first of all, again, you have to remember that last year we had a huge rollout in the first quarter and actually some in the second quarter. So now it's really happening. We're getting regular online business that's growing every week, and we love that, I mean. And so, again, while it's not higher than last year, the fact that it's all coming on a regular basis tells them how fast we're ramping.

I think we've talked before that we feel we're probably 170% converted, somewhere in that range right now. So we expect again that we'll continue to see growth from Grainger. There's a lot of areas we haven't touched still. We have a long way to go. I think on the – we've got [indiscernible] (20:05) in a lot of areas well done. [indiscernible] (20:09) we have a lot of opportunities as well on the oil and gas side.

And again, you have to remember, too, Louie, we talked about the – in the industrial segment, I mean, we had about $1 million of closures this quarter at distributors that obviously included Grainger. So we see some really good growth, I don't know, the exact numbers but I think we see strong growth continue to come from Grainger. We certainly have impact that at Grainger in any way.

Got it. That's helpful. And just international versus domestic, I know your international was down because of POH, but can you tell us what the mix is between the two segments?

I'm sorry. Say it again one time, you cut out there for a second.

Sorry. What's the mix between international and domestic revenues?

Yeah. It's probably – I'm guessing right now about 30/70, but I want to go back and just make sure of that, for sure. That's all on top of my head but I'll clarify and come back to you on that one, and I have it right in front of my face right now.

Okay. I appreciate that. And then about the POH and the timing of what's going on there, you said it should be completed this quarter. Do you have any sense for what product line, how much share you'll get after they're done with their analysis of what they're doing, and will we get a ramp from your initial channel, still, when they start their new lineup? What are your thoughts on that?

Well, I don't have a crystal ball. I mean, obviously we've been an important part of the Bunnings equation for a long time. We heard nothing but positive comments on the Bunnings. And I know our folks are working as hard as they can, our team is working hard to make sure they're ready. So from the standpoint of whatever happens, obviously they have to restock their shelves. Bunnings has to restock their shelves, so we would see a bump from that standpoint.

As to say whether you've gotten everything you had before or more or less, I don't have a crystal ball. I think we've got a really good lineup, I think we're very competitive, and we priced ourselves extremely competitively to make sure that there's no surprises.

Our supply chain has done a good job of driving cost out to make us competitive. But we are now – I can't tell you more than that. I think we're optimistic. I think we have a lot to offer, and a lot of new things that we never had before. We really never win it with a lot of leathers and things like that. We've walked in with more products this year than ever before. So I think we have some great opportunity there. But you're on that, Louie, we'll have to wait and see.

Got it. Okay. That's helpful. And just lastly, can you elaborate on the gross margin? You mentioned that it was down because of mix. Can you just give us a little bit more details on what – was there higher-margin products that were down? Or just give us a little bit more detail on how the mix affected the gross margins. Thank you and that's all I have.

Sure. I think a little bit, again, hardware normally is growth which carries a little higher margin. I think that hit a little bit, that was one of the pieces. I think it was just a little bit of mix on some of the industrial side too. We had a couple of different products that for whatever reason seem to move heavily at the end of the quarter, and I think that was another piece of it. So there wasn't any perfect rhyme or reason, but I think those two areas, one being hardware and the other being just some of the mix on the industrial side was a little bit lighter in margin than historically we've seen.

Great. Thanks, guys. I appreciate it.

Thank you.

And we'll now go to [ph] Ron Chez (23:51), just a private investor. Please go ahead.

Good afternoon. Bill, inventory is very high relative to sales. Are you ever going to bring that number down consistent with sales and better your cash position?

Yes, [ph] Ron (24:10). Inventory is down about three-quarters of $1 million from December 31, 2016. While it's still a bit higher than we'd like, we do have a target inventory number, about another three-quarters of $1 million down from there. Now that will obviously change at different times a year and at different quarters. We're going to have to have different inventory levels. But we are laser-focused on inventory and what we need to do to take it down. And obviously we'd much rather work with our sales team to sell product that's in the warehouse and bringing in product obviously from the factories. So... [indiscernible]

(24:46) Go ahead. I'm sorry.

It is trending in the right direction, and like I said, we're down to three-quarters of $1 million just in three months ago.

Yeah. And you do have goals to make it better?

Yes we do. We have target numbers that we shoot for internally, and our team is well-aware of what those targets are.

And with respect product and inventory, maybe the company has too many products.

I guess that's a subjective question. I mean, obviously as our customer base continues to grow, they will be showing variations. For instance, our EXO product, we originally started with 17 different gloves in our EXO program, and we are now up to approximately 90 different gloves now. It's moved into different categories also from – EXO was designed as a retail product, but when you bring it into the industrial segment and also the international segment, as Jeff mentioned before, you will have to possibly do gloves to fit those segments a little bit better. So we're not building product just for the sake of building product, we're building product fit for a specific demand or purpose for a given customer. And obviously any product – we're not just buying it and putting it on the shelf, we'll always build and probably shelf when there's a known demand.

Any problem with obsolete inventory?

No. And actually, we have good reserve on the books [ph] Ron (26:20), and new auditors look at that reserve at every interim period and year-end. And to be honest with you, they keep proposing – actually they believe we're overreserved on inventory. So I think as long as BDO is comfortable with it, I think we are too.

Is this number net of that reserve? [indiscernible] (26:41), right?

Yes. The number is net in the reserve and the reserve on the books currently is about – well, above $190,000.

Okay. I'm sorry, I see it, I apologize, I see it, okay. And are you making any effort to get these deposits back? And then I'll ask Mr. Cordes a question.

Yes. The deposits are after the vendors we've been dealing with for a long time, a good piece of those deposits are actually tied with the fabric that they're holding for us. So, as we utilize that fabric, the deposit numbers going to come down.

Okay. And if I didn't hear the numbers, Jeff, and I just listened to what you said, I would think business was great. You have spectacular results and so many things going on. The problem is it never produces profits.

I think – first of all, good afternoon, Ron, and I think we have been pretty clear that, again, as we go through the year, we expect a double-digit growth and it will result in bottom-line operating earnings later this year. We obviously run a little better this time of the year. We're working on getting that member up. It doesn't help when we have issues like POH, but against the fact of life as well. So we are watching where we are spending SG&A. It's focused on selling, and we're doing everything we can to kind of cut our expenses. So we expect to be profitable this year, absolutely profitable this year.

But let's assume you've got to $28 million or north of $28 million. If you did some back of the envelope numbers with gross margin and existing cost, if you got to $40 million, $35 million to $40 million, the earnings are still relatively small as a percentage of sales and just in total with regard to earnings per share. It's just isn't good enough.

Well, from our perspective right there [indiscernible] (28:59) we've talked about before. We said probably the $40 million to $50 million you start getting into the operating margins in the 10% range and we think we obviously going to ramp from there. So, again, that's the decision you have to make as a shareholder, but we believe from the standpoint we start to drive significantly more value to the bottom line as those numbers start to come along.

Just one more thing about that. Let's assume your number of 10% on $40 million would be $4 million of operating or pre-tax income, and that would still only be, what would that be? That would be maybe $0.05 a share, $0.04 a share in operating income, and that's a hell of a long way away on sales. My point is it's a nice sounding story but the results aren't there and maybe on behalf shareholders, you got to consider strategic alternatives with regard to how to deliver results for shareholders, and I'm sure you're trying to do that.

Look, you well know that there's a lot of things going on, whether it be driving sales through other channels or driving sales through M&A or a variety of things going on. I'm not going to hear today and say I'm trying to do a massive expense reduction. We think that that business, that sales side will pay for itself, it's from an investment standpoint. And we want to be conservative. We rather underpromise and overdeliver. So, again, we feel those numbers are doable this time.

You also know we didn't come here for those numbers. We came from much larger numbers, and we expect down the pipe they will come, but I'm not going to overpromise right now. We got to do one step at a time. We certainly had – last year, we did a lot of things from a revenue perspective to drive revenues clearly. We have to replace existing business that wasn't sustainable, didn't make anybody feel good about that, but the point was that that we did drive that. So we're hopeful that later on, as we go through the years, some of things we will see again.

You've got to make sure that you're not too dependent on Grainger. I know it's a very large customer. You got to spread that out.

Amen, brother. That's absolutely – look, that is why [ph] Ron's (31:19) here, and we are working feverously to find other companies along with Grainger that we can go grow. It's the same thing on the retail side even in the international side, and that's why we got three legs.

And to your point about inventory, that's one of the things we have to watch every day because we have a variety of products and more products. And we don't put something in unless we absolutely have a customer for it. And then on top of that, you are right, the inventory was high. We did it as we talked about a year ago and six months ago for Grainger specifically.

And to answer one more quick on Bill's side is the place for inventory is a little high right now. It would be on the oil and gas side because we're hopeful that business continues to start to come back and rejuvenate. We'll be in a good position assuming it does. Otherwise we'll continue to work that inventory down. That will be the one side where I'd say we're a little steep in inventory today.

Please, last thing. Please maintain your focus on the responsibility to shareholders to deliver some value. You came here three years ago the stock was $0.20 per share, and today it's virtually the same. Okay?

Very good.

I know that doesn't please you. Maybe you would consider demonstrating your confidence by purchasing stock in the aftermarket.

Thank you, sir.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

And we'll go to Ben Padnos with DONE! Ventures. Please go ahead.

Good afternoon, Jeff and Bill.

Hey, Ben.

Padnos, how are you?

I'm doing all right. Thank you. So, like [ph] Ron (33:10), I always appreciate the upbeat sentiment and it does sound like the international is the primary reason for a softer quarter that we'd all like to see. Can you just talk a little bit about what you're seeing from an M&A standpoint. We've talked probably for years now about whether be the acquirer or the acquirer, I think that some people think about this as the potential acquiree. I think you guys have presented more that where the acquirer are. What are you seeing and what can you talk about today?

Well, let's do this. My job is to worry about where I can go find something to buy, and I have a board and to have a board that decides the other side of that equation. From a acquirer standpoint, as you already know, we looked at a significant variety of different companies out there. There are several I think that potentially shortly maybe we have a real opportunity to go do something with.

It's been a long road. We're trying to find something of a specific size and nature that fits in that's kind of tuck-in deal. And I think you talked about this before too that the first one is always the toughest to do in trying to make all constituents happy.

So that's still, say, top of mind. In fact, we've had discussions with a couple of companies in the last two weeks. So it just continues to work on that path and hopeful later on this quarter, early next quarter we had some good news to talk about on that front.

Got it. And do you care to talk a little bit? I was personally pleased to see just some new blood on the board of directors. Do you care to comment just a little bit about the two new proposed additions to the board?

Sure. Look, Amit and Bob both have great backgrounds, great pedigrees, very eager to help, very eager to engage and be involved and be active board members – not to take anything away from the prior two gentlemen who are stepping down, we can't thank them enough for the service they've done, everything they've done for the company. But again, one of the objectives here as we go down with the board is to find other folks who can bring value, Bob being a long-time merchant, Amit being a long-time time capital markets guy, I think both those guys bring great value to us. So we're very much looking forward to having them and having them contribute and be actively involved with our management on what we're trying to do.

Great. Well, that's it for me. Looking forward to the next quarter update.

Thank you, sir. Appreciate it.

And we'll now take a question from [ph] Mike Andrews (35:48), who is a private investor. Please go ahead. [ph]

Mike (35:54)?

I don't have any – Good afternoon. Hi. I was taking my phone off speaker. Ben still might thunder a little bit with a question about the board. But one other, just one other question real quick. The $28 million that you're saying you can achieve top line full-year, does that include anything from Performance on Hand?

Yeah, it would include something from Performance on Hand. Absolutely. Yes.

Would it include sales similar to the 2016 levels from Performance on Hand?

Look, I will tell you that I try not to get into that conversion too much. I think the answer is we have enough different pieces and things in the fire that we feel comfortable we can achieve that number, and then where it comes from. So, at this point -and again, the other problem is there's other people listening to the phone calls and so I really don't want to be talking about what we do or don't do from a specific customer. I think it's a little dangerous. I'm happy to talk offline, but I just prefer not to do that.

Okay. Fair enough. Understood. That concludes my questions, guys. Thanks.

Good. Thank you.

And that will conclude our question-and-answer session. I'd like to turn the conference back over to Jeff Cordes for any additional or closing remarks. And we did have some...

Well, thank you again for everyone joining us. And on behalf of our management team, we want to thank you for your continued support and participating in today's call. Our next financial reporting for the quarter and year-to-date ending June 30, 2017 is tentatively scheduled for August 14, 2017. Please note this date in your calendars and schedules and we hope you have a great week.

Thank you very much. That does conclude our conference for today. I'd like to thank everyone for your participation.