Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Jeff Cordes — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Ironclad Performance Wear Corp.
William Aisenberg — Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Ironclad Performance Wear Corp.
John Edward Orcutt — Managing Director of Wealth Management, UBS Financial Services, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good afternoon and thank you for participating in today's Conference Call to discuss Ironclad Performance Wear's Financial Results for the Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2014. Following remarks by the company's management team, the call will be opened for your questions. I would like to remind everyone that this call will be available for replay through April 5, 2015 starting after 07:30 PM Eastern Time today. A webcast replay will also be available via the link provided in the earnings release, as well as available on the company's website at www.ironclad.com.

The following presentation by Ironclad management contains forward-looking statements that include information related to future events and future financial and operating performance. Forward-looking statements should not be read as a guarantee of future performance or results and will not necessarily be accurate indications of the time at or by which that performance or those results will be achieved.

Forward-looking statements are based on information available at the time they are made and/or management's good faith belief as of the time with respect to future events and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual performance or results to differ materially from those expressed in or suggested by the forward-looking statements made today. For a description of the risks associated with these statements, you are encouraged to read the forward-looking statements information contained in the company's press release issued today.

Now, I would like to turn the call over to the CEO of Ironclad Performance Wear, Mr. Jeff Cordes. Sir, please proceed.

Thank you. Good afternoon. Again, I'm Jeff Cordes, the CEO of Ironclad Performance Wear and I want to welcome everyone to Ironclad's fourth quarter 2014 financial results conference call. Joining me on this call is Bill Aisenberg, our Chief Financial Officer. During this call, we will review the financial results for the quarter ended December 31, 2014 and the 12-month year-to-date period, which has been now publicly released. Bill Aisenberg will provide detail on the financial results for the quarter and year-to-date followed by myself, where I'll provide my insights into the state of the company. We will conclude with the conference call by answering any questions you might have regarding the financial results on our business.

I'm now going to turn the floor over to Bill Aisenberg, who'll provide the details on our quarterly and year-to-date financials. Bill?

Thank you, Jeff. As reported in our press release issued earlier today, net sales for the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2014 decreased 9% to $9.1 million versus $10.1 million for the same period one year ago. This decrease for the fourth quarter was primarily the result of the company making certain customer shipments in an earlier quarter of 2014 versus the fourth quarter. Net sales for the 12-month period ending December 31, 2014 decreased 1% from the same period in the prior year to $24.3 million from $24.5 million. As we did last quarter, to keep this simple, as we speak about the business today, we will segment the company primarily between four areas, domestic industrial distribution, international distribution, the private label business and finally the retail business.

The fourth quarter of 2014 net sales for the domestic industrial segment decreased 4% from the prior year period primarily the result of a single distributor in transition after being acquired. Although revenues were somewhat lower in the first and fourth quarters of this year, for the full 12 months of 2014 this segment's business was up over 10% from the same period in the prior year. Moving on, the international distribution segment continued on its record pace with fourth quarter net sales up 33% over the same period in the prior year. For the full 12 months of 2014, this segment's net sales were up over 49% from the same period one year earlier.

Within the private label segment, net sales for the fourth quarter were down approximately 39% from the prior year same period. Much of this decline was quarterly timing differences in shipments. The company shipped a larger part of its private label business during the third quarter of 2014 versus the fourth quarter as was done in 2013. For the 12 months of 2014, this segment's net sales were flat with the same period in 2013. We believe we will continue to see this segment grow with our current partners and other new private branded customers. We expect to see additional revenue movement between the quarters in 2015, but the total business should remain at the current level as a percentage of our total business. Some of this business may be at lower margins than our current margin levels.

Finally, our retail segment revenues for the fourth quarter declined 45% from prior year totals. As previously detailed in prior quarters, the decline was primarily attributable to the loss of the Snap-on license program in early 2014. For the 12 months of 2014, the retail segment was down 43% when compared with the same period in 2013, again, the result of the loss of the Snap-on license. Gross profit for the fourth quarter of 2014, despite the decrease in sales, increased 2% to $3.2 million, as compared to $3.1 million for the corresponding period in 2013. Gross profit as a percentage of net sales increased to 34.8% in the fourth quarter of 2014 from 30.9% in the fourth quarter of 2013.

The improvement in gross profit was the result of a better mix of business, less promotional sales, and supply chain efforts driving lower product costs. Gross profit for the 12-month period ending December 31, 2014, was $8.2 million as compared to $8.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2013. Gross profit as a percentage of net sales increased to 33.6% on a full year basis from 33.1% in the same period of 2013. The increase in gross margin of 0.5% for the year primarily again was due to the mix of business and lower product costs. Operating expenses decreased to $1.9 million in the fourth quarter of 2014 compared to $2.0 million during the same period last year. As a percentage of net sales, operating expenses represented 20.9% of net sales for the three months ended December 31, 2014, compared to 19.9% of net sales for the same period in 2013.

Operating expenses were $8.1 million for the 12 months ended December 31, 2014, compared to $7.8 million for the corresponding period in 2013. As a percentage of net sales, operating expenses represented 33.2% for the 12 months ended December 31, 2014, compared to 32.1% of net sales for the same period of 2013. The decrease of actual dollars for the quarter ended December 31, 2014, was primarily driven by reduced payroll and benefit costs. The increase in actual dollars for the 12-month period is primarily driven by one-time costs associated with the company's move from California to Texas, including severance, re-staffing and move-related costs, which were estimated more than $600,000. Our number of employees was 22 as at December 31, 2014, versus 27 at December 31, 2013.

Income from operations increased by $166,600 to $1,276,888 in the fourth quarter of 2014 from $1,110,288 in the fourth quarter of 2013. Income from operations as a percentage of net sales increased to 13.9% in the fourth quarter of 2014 versus 11% in the fourth quarter of 2013. Income from operations decreased by $134,770 to $108,701 for the 12 months ended December 31, 2014, from $243,471 in the corresponding period in 2013. If adjusted for the one-time expenses attributable to severance, re-staffing and move-related charges that we discussed before, income from operations would have been approximately $708,701 for the 12 months ended December 31, 2014. Net income increased $801,111 to $2,110,167 in the fourth quarter of 2014 from $1,309,056 in the fourth quarter of 2013.

The Q4 2014 net income increased over the Q4 2013 income primarily due to improved margin, lower operating expenses and the recognition of deferred tax benefits. Net income increased $373,590 to $934,319 for the year from net income of $560,729 in the prior year period. The company recognized a deferred tax benefit of $760,000 in calendar 2014 as compared to deferred tax benefit of $214,500 in calendar 2013. Ironclad's net cash flow utilized by operations improved by approximately $84,000 for the 12 months period from a use of $1 million in the prior year to use of $0.9 million in the current year. The primary driver of the decrease in cash utilized by operations was the increase in inventory balances of approximately $2.3 million.

The company's accounts receivable, average sales outstanding increased to 62 days from 59 days last year that is still within our expected parameters based on customer dating terms. We continue to look for ways to invest and manage our inventories, to reduce order to delivery lead times for our customers.

I'll now turn the call over to Jeff Cordes, our CEO, who will discuss the state of the company.

Thank you, Bill, and I want to say good afternoon to everyone again, as I woke up this morning, I wasn't sure whether I was in Chicago or Dallas with 7.5 inch of snow on the ground, but we are still – we're glad to have you all here today and this afternoon I'd like to recap 2014 and provide a view of what's ahead in 2015.

Now, last February, our message to shareholders was that we would spend our first year at Ironclad focus inside the company and not outside. Our plan was to work and protect and rebuild our largest accounts, drive development into the supply chain for competitive advantage, go back to our heritage focusing on technology to develop better products. Leverage our marketing to create compelling programs that merchants would actually want, and try to build out a capable sales team who begin to tell our story.

Our goal was to position the company to be more competitive as we enter this year 2015. We have made a great deal of priorities in 2014 having executed a significant list of changes. While we are by no means done, we are getting better every day. Finance, as Bill detailed, we ended the year with annual revenues flat to the prior year. Our fourth quarter revenues were off in the prior year by about $900,000. At the end of the year, we did leave a small amount of unshipped orders due to port issues but not huge. The bigger part of the quarter-over-quarter decline, as Bill detailed, was due simply to customer orders being shipped into the earlier quarter for this year versus being shipped in the fourth quarter last year.

What's more important and easily missed is that our 2014 annual revenues would have been down 10% with the loss of a Snap-on business had our new sales team which started in June, not pursued and booked over $2.5 million of new business for the year. The sales team effectively drove a 10% increase. We are seeing significant growth across a number of our key partners and expect growth going forward. Gross margins, as Bill indicated, are improving, the result of both supply chain efforts to lower costs and improving product mix.

While our full year operating margins were below the prior year, this was again included in the results of one-time cost all related to our move to Texas through office restructure and related severance. And on a pro forma basis, adding back these one-time costs, the company operating income for 2014 would be nearly three times what it was booked in 2013.

I'm sure by now that most of you have also seen there is some other things going on, that go well beyond the numbers, the first thing is our press release yesterday announcing a new and significant customer in Dickies Europe. More than nine months ago, we began work with the international oil and gas division of Dickies on a co-branded line of blocks. The products are being distributed by Dickies Europe and their 48 global distributors that are outside of the U.S.A. Since the launch of the program in January, we have already booked orders for nearly $1.4 million in new business. We expected new growth from this new partnership during 2015. We expect to have additional press releases about our business with Dickies later this month.

Moving on, there are a number of other important 2014 sales related changes for review. As some of you may recall, as we started our 10-year at Ironclad last year, we faced a number of contract issues with our largest customer Orr Safety, these issues are not resolved. And working through these contract issues or as agreed to allow Ironclad to create direct co-branding programs with global partners like Dickies Europe, always looking to expand its sales team. The two companies are also working together diligently to drive new business and there is a building pipeline of oil and gas and non-oil and gas prospects under the KONG brand.

During the fourth quarter, too, our largest second customer Performance On Hand and Ironclad executed a new 10-year distribution agreement covering Australia, New Zealand and New Guinea. The new agreement requires Performance On Hand to achieve an average annual growth of 10% each year. POH is a great partner and has a growing relationship with Bunnings, the largest DIY home improvement chain in Australia. Also during the fourth quarter, Ironclad and 5.11 executed a new two-year agreement to continue to make 5.11's current products. We are also presenting new products to this customer that will expand this volume with 5.11.

Working our new programs and completing certain international testing required for 5.11 will allow us to increase revenues with this customer. However, this also means a significant portion of 5.11's business historically shipped in Q1 will move to Q2, Q3 and Q4 of 2015. It's a great overall move for the company, but will create certain quarterly revenue reporting changes. Another win this fall was Ironclad selection as continuing vendor for Grainger. During the fall of 2014, Grainger, an important Ironclad customer, decided to consolidate their glove supplier group, cutting it by more than 50%. Our challenge was to show the valuable potential Ironclad could provide. Our team led by Bryan Griggs, our Head of Sales and Marketing, did a great job. Result will be an expansion of our business with Grainger over the next year.

We are also on our way to a new relationship with AutoZone. The new line of products for AutoZone that rolled out late in Q4 is gaining traction. We're working to turn this customer to a multimillion dollar account level. While sales were to build key account programs, Tom Felton and our supply chain team made significant progress as well. We have nearly completed the staffing of our Indonesia sourcing and development team and office. We've been aggressively pursuing new and capable production partners. Our supplier base of manufacturers has been expanded nearly fourfold this past year. Our focus has been to provide partners that offer us greater product expertise, a competitive pricing environment and speed to market.

At the same time, we have been taking back the relationships with material suppliers that were previously just left to [ph] cut and sell (17:10) makers. We have changed vendor partner payment terms eliminating deposits, their most new orders and establishing open account payment plans. Results of these efforts are beginning to show through decreasing product costs, significantly improved speed to market and greater cooperation on new development.

Administratively, there have been a long listed changes to rebuild Ironclad. We have brought on a new audit firm, BDO, many of you know our prior firm informed us last spring that it was exiting the audit practice of public companies. BDO has been a great new partner to have. We have entered into a new credit facility with Capital One in Texas to replace our prior facility with Union Bank of California. This has also been a very positive move. And of course, we moved to Texas.

While pleased with all these changes, what is far more impressive for me personally is watching the Ironclad team across R&D, marketing and supply chain come together to drive the development of new products and programs. Our new product designs and functionality as well as the merchandising and go-to-market development we are seeing has been outstanding. The proof as always is in the results. Today, we are seeing this with new partners like Dickies, end users like Seadrill and Kiewit, and merchants like True Value, Uline and Atwoods that validate our offerings and programs with their orders and commitments.

In the past six months, we have developed more than 15 new glove styles that have customers and orders attached. We have additional product in development at this time. The most exciting new part for me today is to tell all of you as investors about a new line of products being launched currently called Ironclad XL. The vision of Bryan Griggs and his team, Ironclad XL for the first time opens the doors for this company to reach the heart of retail consumers in this country. This innovative collection of products has been well received by merchants because it offers consumers exceptional value, [indiscernible] (19:02) exceptional return and the ability to move gloves beyond the tired old historical glove walls found in most stores.

Ironclad XL combines highly engineered product with the right blend of customer-focused features and still offers Ironclad's famous durability fit and function. It goes on to offer consumers additional high value with the GWP or gift with purchase value. We began taking this program to retailers just over 60 days ago and are beginning to secure commitments. If you would like to see this new product, we encourage you to go to our new Ironclad XL website at ironcladxl.com.

As we look forward to 2015, we will continue to build our business with our important industrial partners, drive our new international and co-brand partnerships for KONG and for Ironclad, begin to move to both Canada and Mexico with some of our business, build our sales team, expand the places with Ironclad XL, expand our presence of KONG at retail and do a better job of building annual retail programs for Ironclad. Finally, we will leverage our supply chain further to improve margins and speed to market. We have made a great deal of progress in 2014 and have more to do in 2015. However now, we will turn more of our focus to driving profitable growth.

At this very early point in the year with clean ups still to do and a lot of irons in the fire, we are targeting annual growth of 10% to 15%. We know all the ups and downs by quarter this year as we adjust for timing changes in customer orders to help customers. We'd also expect much of the growth this year will be in the third and fourth quarters. In closing, two things. First, we are all very grateful to you as investors and our board for the year we've had and been allowed to work on this business. Second, after the shareholder meeting in early June, Bill Aisenberg and I will begin to more actively market and present our storage with potential investors. We've already been in contact with a number of investment groups and parties we believe will have interest in the Ironclad story. It is a good story, one I'd love to tell and one that is improving every day.

This concludes the formal part of our conference call. I'd like to open the floor to questions, if the operator can come back on.

Thank you. [Operator: Instructions] And we will take our first question from [ph] Scott Butler of Catalyst Research (21:41).

Hi, I apologize, I have not seen a release yet, so if I'm asking anything that's answered in the release, my apologies. But as I hit my wire system yet, I was wondering, if you could remind us all the cost savings that you anticipate from the California to Texas move, can you tell us what the kind of quarterly benefit is? And then, I have a couple of follow ups, if you don't mind.

Yeah, I will – again, I think what we've said is that we incurred probably cost of about $600,000 in total between the move, severance cost, et cetera. From the savings perspective, I don't think we've actually detailed specific savings [indiscernible] (22:31) other prior documents. And I would tell you right now that from our perspective, the cost savings that we're making probably go back into developing our team and driving from a growth perspective, we had a lot of opportunities. So the thing we do right now is those savings would be invested into both our staff internally and externally to drive the business.

Okay. That's fair. Have you really affected at all by the port slow down? I know, you mentioned something about shipments, and I know that's affected a lot of businesses on the West Coast. Can you talk about that at all? And talk about inventory levels and are there where you need to be to achieve your objectives heading into as we move through 2015?

Certainly. First of all, obviously everyone has been impacted by the port and the situations there. I'm glad that our team has foresight to go and sell as we got to drive inventories up till at the end of last year. We did it probably because we were concerned about the port. We did also probably because, last year coming in the door, there were lot of out of stocks that we were facing early in the year. So we did it for both of those reasons and raised that inventory number up. Despite that, we've had some delays on a [indiscernible] (23:49) actually two specific styles I can think of right now, we've had some delays, and our retailers have been very cooperative, understood in most cases and so we're working through that, and we hope very sooner the port – that that port situation changes.

From an inventory perspective, I would tell you, I think we're probably little higher right now because we really want to make sure we were prepared given what we thought might happen at the port. And so I think you will see that will probably come down to some extent over the year. And also as we continue to get better turns out of our factory so I think that will make a big difference too. A year ago at this time, we were looking at many times six-month returns. We're trying very hard to get turns down to out of a factory of 60 days to 90 days and that helps as well. So over time, I think it will be a working capital benefit to us.

Okay. Great. All right, that's terrific. Thank you very much.

And we will take our next question from Private Investor, [ph] Mike Andrews (24:46).

Gentlemen, good afternoon, good evening.

Good afternoon, [ph] Mike (24:51).

In regards to the Ironclad XL product and what sounds like it's focused towards the retail segment, can you talk a little bit about the marketing plan that you guys have envisioned to sort of bring the Ironclad brand to the top of mind for consumers as they enter retail stores?

Well, I think there's a couple of things. First of all, don't get the idea that it can't go into industrial; it's been amazing. As Bryan went overseas and met with the Dickies team, their 48 distributors saw some of that product and loved it. So we think from an industrial standpoint there is a lot of application as well. From a marketing standpoint, look, we will be focusing a lot of grass roots in lot of areas. Obviously, we're watching our dollars every day. You'll see some co-op, you'll see a variety of things happening, and actually those plans are coming together, and I was really hoping I could talk about those at the next conference call to kind of lay out some of the exciting things we're doing. But we also live within budget constraints and being very careful with our dollars. So I think you'll see a blend of things happening over the next six months to nine months as that product and that brand becomes established.

So I heard that the Williamson-Dickies deal would not be simply the KONG brand. Is that what I just heard?

No. What I'm saying is the Dickies relationship is strictly with KONG, but the other piece is those distributors also sell multiple products. And so one of the things some of them have interest in is securing the Ironclad brand as well. These are independent distributors across the globe. So it's a new opportunity for us to grow our business as well.

Understood. Thank you. In regards to the inventory increase, I heard you mentioned that the challenge is at the port. Is that the only cause for the increase in inventory in Q4?

It was a combination of – number one was, yes, concern about the port; number two was, last year, we had some out of stocks at the beginning of the year and we want to make sure we didn't have those issues, so we had some of that. The other piece is we thought we need to have a little more inventory on the KONG side to make sure that we could service other types of business as they grew. So we just want some extra inventory in. I think that you'll see some of that – as I said before, you'll see some of those inventory numbers change over time. Really, it's a function of how fast we can get service out of our vendors.

So, final question, gentlemen.

Okay.

What is your thoughts on the number of outstanding shares, and what's your opinion – for a $20 million, $25 million market cap company, is – I think I saw 91 million fully diluted, is that the right amount of shares for a company this size?

Well, I'll answer this way. I'm actually right now not as focused still on the number of shares, and perhaps I should be, but I'm not at this point. I'm more focused on how do I drive my earnings number up and how do I drive the profitability of this company and the revenues of this company. I think over this next year, again, we spent the whole year like looking inside, we're going to start looking outside. So second half of the year, we'll start to get into that. There's a lot of people have a lot of different ideas and answers. But right now, I think the number one thing we have to do is drive earnings and drive our revenue stream. And we'll get through the rest of it later. And I hope you don't take that as being I'm not trying to answer your question, it's just that my focus is in a little different place right now.

Fair enough. Thanks, guys.

And we will take our next question from John Orcutt of UBS.

Hi, good afternoon, everybody. Sounds like you guys got a lot of good work done here in the last quarter. Question is back on inventory. My understanding was before we had some old inventory there, we've been able to get rid of some of that, turn it into cash. And then the next question is, how do we look on cash and cash flow with the new line to – we're in a good enough position to increase marketing and grow some of these spaces?

I'll let Bill answer the cash flow. From an inventory perspective, yeah, there is some inventory that the company has that, over time, I think we need to get rid of, I think it's well reserved at this point. And we are moving a piece at a time, I think it will be [indiscernible] (29:20) excuse me, that will work more on in the – during 2015, it was something we just back burned it last year, John, but I think it's a – put it this way, it's higher on my list now and it's really [ph] apparel (29:33) piece and I think it's fully reserved and really well-reserved. I think we can move it and we'll move on from there. And I'll let Bill answer the cash flow issue.

Hello, John. In regard to the cash, I would say that we are in a good cash position – I'm sorry. In regard to the cash position, we are in a good cash position. We do have the new line with Capital One that we spoke about previously. We have plenty of availability under that line. We also have an accordion there as the business grows and as we build our receivables and as we build our inventory, we are able to ramp up under the accordion. So from a cash perspective, we are very comfortable right now.

Good. Thank you very much. [Operator Instructions]

We will go next to [ph] Ben Padnos of DONE! Ventures (30:26).

Good afternoon, guys.

Hi, [ph] Ben (30:32).

Hello, [ph] Ben (30:32).

Hey, just kind of take away from me is the shining star here is international, what is I think you said up 33% in the fourth quarter and 49% for the year. So Performance On Hand, sounds like that's one area of focus and this Dickies deal that you announced last night, that's – is that Europe specifically? [ph]

Ben (30:56), that or anywhere you can certainly take oil and gas outside of base of United States is where that glove can go. And again their 48 distributors are from Kazakhstan to Singapore to you name it they're there. Many of the same ones that we dealt with it rolls. So it's a great avenue to move business and to grow business. And so we're really, really pleased and excited with that business.

Great. So my question just really is the – just generally around international, I mean that sounds like that's continued to be a focus for us this year. Is there any other markets that you're thinking about outside of Performance On Hand is Australia, I believe.

That's correct. And obviously, we will have upcoming press releases talking more about other things we're doing in Europe and other opportunities we see out there. Obviously, the Vibram equation coming down the path will open up more international doors as well. We see it as an important part of the business even during 2015 and going forward from there. Don't want to discount the domestic business, I think it's a big opportunity; we're really focused on the XL product and think there is a big opportunity there as well.

Great. Thanks, guys.

Thank you.

Thank you [ph] Ben (32:10).

And we will take our next question from Private Investor [indiscernible] (32:15).

Good afternoon, sir.

Good afternoon, ma'am. How are you?

I'm fine. This is Ms. [indiscernible] (32:22). I was wondering, I read the press release regarding the Dickies deal, are there any other outstanding issues to report on the Dickies that might affect the company's progress in the future that you would like comment on?

No, not at this point. And again there is a, as we reported before there is a litigation going on between certain shareholders of the company [indiscernible] (32:51) that was sold to Dickies which Mr. Aisenberg and I were shareholders, but it has nothing to do with Ironclad specifically. And at this point there is a tentative settlement that's being worked on, and we hope that's taken care of surely but there is nothing else that would impact Ironclad.

Sounds like good news. Thank you, sir.

Thank you.

And at this time, there are no further questions from the phone. [Operator Instructions] And as there are no further questions at this time, I'll turn the call back to our moderators.

Thank you. On behalf of Ironclad team, I want to thank you for your continued support and participating in today's call. Our next financial reporting for the quarter ending March 31, 2015 is tentatively scheduled for May 7, 2015. Please note this down in your calendars and schedules. Again I really appreciate and thank you for your support.

And this does conclude today's conference call. Thank you again for your participation. And have a wonderful day.