raw transcript


Internap Network Services


Corp.
 
IIP
 
Q1 2006 Earnings Call
 
May 4, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2006 Internap


Earnings Conference Call. My name is Manoshia [ph] and I will be coordinator for today. At this


time all participates are in a listen-only mode. We will conduct a question and answer session


towards the end of today’s presentation. [Operator Instructions]. I would now like to turn the


presentation over to your host for today’s call, Andrew Albrecht, Vice President of Corporate


Development/Investor Relations. Please proceed sir.


Andrew Albrecht, Vice President – Corporate Development, Investor Relations


Thank you Manoshia and good afternoon everyone. Thank you for joining us today to discuss


Internap Network Services first quarter results for the period ending March 31, 2006. I would like to


start by reminding everyone this call contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of


Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements, other than statements of historical


facts, including, among others, statements regarding our future financial position and performance,


business strategy and prospects, projected levels of growth, projected costs and expenses and


projected profitability are forward-looking statements. Those statements include statements


regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of Internap and members of our management


team, as well as the assumptions on which such statements are based, and are equally identified


by the words such as "may," "will," "seeks," "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "expects,"


"projects," "forecasts," "plans," "intends," "should" or similar expressions. Forward-looking


statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties that actual


results may differ materially from those contemplated by forward-looking statements. Internap’s


filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission discussed important risk factors that could


contribute to such differences or otherwise affect our business, results of operations and financial


condition. You should place any undue reliance on any of these forward-looking statements


further. Any forward-looking statements speaks only as of the date on which they are made and


the company undertakes no obligation to update such statements for any reason.


Joining on today’s call is Jim DeBlasio, our President and Chief Executive Officer, David Buckel,


our Chief Financial Officer. In addition to reviewing the first quarter results, we will also discuss


recent developments at Internap along with outlook and guidance for the full year 2006. We will


then turn the call over to David Buckel to discuss financial results. During this call we will be


referring to some non-GAAP measures that we believe are helpful for understanding our financial


results and operations. These non-GAAP measures are not prepared in accordance with Generally


Accepted Accounting Principles under the presentation of earnings section of the Investor Relations


page of our website we define these non-GAAP terms and reconcile these non-GAAP measures


with the most directly applicable GAAP financial measures.


At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Jim DeBlasio.


James DeBlasio, Chief Executive Officer, and President


Thank you, Andrew. And thank you all for joining us this afternoon as we review our results for the


first quarter 2006. In February, I provided you with an insight to our operational plan for 2006, a


plan with focused goals across the business in 3 key areas. First, fortifying the core business;


second, delivering excellence in execution and third, creating a winning environment. My goals


were to create and maintain shareholder value through a disciplined and focused approach that
raw transcript


Internap Network Services


Corp.
 
IIP
 
Q1 2006 Earnings Call
 
May 4, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


would drive our costs, create operating leverage and improve operational efficiencies, the basis of


sustained profitable growth and a solid foundation upon which to build.


In addition to our intense focus on operational excellence, I also said that we will be vigilant in


seeking out and driving new initiatives for unprecedented growth, whether they are organic or


strategic in nature. I’m pleased to report that during the first quarter of 2006, we have made


significant progress towards these goals. I’m extremely proud of this team and what we have


accomplished together in such a short period of time on behalf of you our shareholders. To name


just a few of these accomplishments, we have achieved revenue levels of $42.6 million for the


quarter, compared to our guidance range of $39.5 million to $40.5 million and set a new record for


the company.


I committed to a level of non-GAAP net income, which is income prior to stock compensation


expense of $2 million to $4 million for the entire fiscal year and we achieved over $2 million of non-


GAAP net income in the first quarter alone. Despite the inclusion of accounting treatment for stock


compensation expense, we posted a GAAP profit of over $500,000, our first profit in the history of


this company and a fitting way to celebrate our 10th year in existence. And it doesn’t stop there.


As Dave will discuss latter, we improved our gross margins to 48% for the quarter, up from 46% in


the prior quarter. We have reduced our expense for revenue levels and most important to me, we


are generating cash from operations. The trending as never been better for this company and we


are now in a position where we must take hold of the market opportunities that lie before us.


We have a lot to cover this afternoon and I’d like to discuss the following topics on our call today;


results and performance for the first quarter, new marketing initiatives, our plan to upgrade to our P-


NAP infrastructure, to proposed revenue stock split, sorry reverse stock split, and upward revise


guidance for the year.


So let’s review the results for the first quarter 2006. GAAP net income for the first quarter was


$541,000 including $1.5 million of stock compensation expense. This was an improvement of


$718,000 versus the fourth quarter of 2005 and $1.1 million versus the prior year period. We saw


measurable improvement in profitability in the quarter driven by increased operating leverage


where a greater portion of every incremental revenue dollar floated to our bottom line.


Revenues for the quarter, which included $460,000 settlement from a sales allowance in the fourth


quarter were $42.6 million, another record for the company. This represents 5.8% quarterly


improvement versus the fourth quarter of 2005 and 12.5% increase year-over-year versus the first


quarter 2005. Gross margins reported at 48% for the period. This represents an improvement of


200 basis points versus the fourth quarter.


Our revenue breakout for the first quarter was approximately 62% IP Services, 27% Data Center


Services, and 11% Technology and other revenue. In the first quarter our sales team had another


record performance for new bookings. They posted $1.4 million, new monthly recurring revenues,


an increase from $1.3 million in bookings in the fourth quarter 2005 and an increase from $800,000


of bookings in the first quarter of 2005.


Our performance this quarter represented a total of 364 new orders. New orders sold into our base


continued to be in the area of strength representing 72% of orders for the quarter. We added 50


new customers in the quarter for a total of 2,142 customers ending the period, a slight decrease in


60 net new customers added in the fourth quarter of 2005. A few of these new customers include


Blizzard Entertainment, ESPN.com, Fidelity National Financial, Genentech, NHN, which is Korea’s


largest gaming company and Nintendo, Net2Phone, OfficeMax, and Scientific Games. A select


group of customers who have expanded service with us in the first quarter include Shopzilla,


Friendster and TeleNet Communications.