Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Richard R. Ramlall — Vice President, Investor and Public Relations, Internap Corp.
Peter D. Aquino — President, Chief Executive Officer & Board Member, Internap Corp.
Robert M. Dennerlein — Chief Financial Officer, Internap Corp.
Barry Michael Sine — Analyst, Drexel Hamilton LLC
Frank Garreth Louthan — Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc.
Daniel L. Kurnos — Analyst, The Benchmark Company, LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Internap Corporation Second Quarter 2017 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this call may be recorded.

I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference, Richard Ramlall, Vice President, Investor and Public Relations. Please go ahead.

Good morning, and thank you for joining us today. I'm joined by Peter Aquino, our Chief Executive Officer; and Robert Dennerlein, our Chief Financial Officer. Following prepared remarks, we will open up the call for your questions.

The slides we reference in the call are available on our website in the Presentations section of our IR page. Non-GAAP reconciliations and our supplemental data sheet, which includes additional operational and financial metrics, are available under the Financial Information section of our Investor Relations page under the Quarterly Results link.

Today's call contains forward-looking statements as described in page 2 of the slide presentation we reference in this call, which we urge you to read. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. Because these statements are based on certain assumptions and involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. We discuss these factors in our filings with the SEC, which are available from the SEC or on our IR website. We undertake no obligation to amend, update or clarify these statements made as of today, August 3, 2017.

Now, let me turn the call over to Peter Aquino. Pete?

Thank you, Richard, and good morning, everyone. We had a very good quarter and on track with our 2017 goals. Our execution thus far is creating real momentum for the future of INAP. We are reorganizing and strengthening our portfolio of data center assets for long-term sustainable growth. Some of the bright spots for the quarter include continued traction in margin expansion and rebuilding our sales team.

On the top line, total revenue for the second quarter was over $70 million when you account for the planned closing of facilities in New York and San Francisco. Churn has improved this quarter as well, and the rate of decline is slowing. Our growth products in COLO and AgileCLOUD are the best contributors and we continue to invest in them, but we have a lot of work to do.

Regarding our 2017 pure-play business segments, INAP COLO and INAP CLOUD, we're now approaching best-in-class metrics on profitability. We are working through specific areas to invest in for the long-term to grow revenues and harvesting profitable lines of business that continue to produce good cash flow. All of this is baked into our guidance for this year.

So, for a quick review, allow me to briefly run through our accomplishments through the second quarter. First, we completed the recapitalization of our balance sheet this April to gain more flexibility in our credit agreement. This success is reflected in this quarter's results. Simultaneously, we initiated revenue growth strategies while cutting unnecessary cost and overhead out of our business. All of this is showing up in our margin expansion.

Our direct sales team is now close to 50 quarter-bearing reps, and we're still aiming to get to at least 60 QBRs by the end of the year. As they quickly ramp up, we are driving activity towards our surplus data center space as well as market expansions combined with anchor tenants.

Besides organic growth, we also initiated a more intensive business development effort this quarter designed to [ph] search out (04:15) accretive tuck-in deals. With this offensive strategy, we can continue to optimize our data center portfolio of nearly 50 locations. We are evaluating real estate assets that we should invest in or simply exit to improve profitability and/or pay down debt. All options are on the table.

Now, midway through 2017, we're on a fast track with an improved balance sheet and momentum in operations performance. And to that end, we also made the leap this quarter and now presenting a consolidation of our facilities into our top 20 markets.

So, for the unveiling, let's turn to slide 5. Today, we formally announced INAP's top 20 markets. A detailed supplemental data exhibit is included in our press release for greater transparency and consistency within our industry. We will no longer refer to old definitions of company-controlled and partner sites, which frankly caused some confusion relative to peer group comps. This new dashboard is particularly helpful to marketing and sales so we can better articulate where we have a strong presence and excess capacity. Our prospective customers can more easily search our entire footprint for their build-outs, especially if they're looking for speed to market.

Today, management considers our Tier 3 data center excess capacity as an advantage as we can build-out customers at relatively lower incremental cost. To the extent we have multiple facilities in the market, all the better as long as they're required by customers and/or remain profitable. Another interesting takeaway with this presentation is that INAP operates a state-of-the-art Internet infrastructure in nine of the top 10 MSAs in the country, plus the number two market with Montreal in Canada. And if you go to the top 15 MSAs, we have a COLO presence in 12 metros with 100% coverage with our POP presence in all 15 markets. I view this as a real asset and we need to take advantage of this addressable market.

We're likely one of a very few that can do one-stop shop in retail data center and we can bundle COLO, Cloud, Performance IP in the central business district where demand for infrastructure tends to be the greatest.

And finally, to give our sales team even more air cover, we'll be marketing the new INAP market through all forms of media from our website to digital marketing to flagship data center events where management and customers can continue to discuss new business.

We want to engage and strengthen customer relationships so we can grow with them. And so, to summarize our new INAP claim, today, we have nearly 1 million square feet under lease, of which approximately 700,000 square feet is data center space with admin and overhead. Of the total data center space, we already built out 300,000 square feet and customers occupy approximately 60% today. This is our current picture, and I'm really excited about our upside.

So, at this point, let me hand it off to our CFO, Bob Dennerlein, and take us through the quarter in more detail. Bob?

Thank you, Pete, and good morning, everyone. After completing the recapitalization of our balance sheet this April, we turned our full attention to executing against our 2017 financial and operating plans. In addition to providing clarity around the strength of our assets and product offerings in our top markets, we drove positive results from our margin improvement initiatives as reflected in our adjusted EBITDA result of 33% this quarter.

We also invested in our future growth, specifically regarding our Phoenix market opportunity. We worked with digital realty to add additional collocation space to meet the requirements of a significant anchor tenant in the enterprise software space. This is exactly the type of success based investment that we will be pursuing to strengthen our portfolio. The combination of a longer-term commitment and an increased footprint in Phoenix provides a path to grow for our sales team to sell into.

Also, as I mentioned last quarter, we successfully exited a large underutilized footprint at 75 Broad Street in Manhattan at the end of the second quarter. There was approximately $5 million in annualized cost associated with that facility. We've now migrated the customers over to Secaucus, New Jersey and will be realizing bottom line benefits beginning in the third quarter.

In addition, we did some clean-up in San Francisco where we exited one of two facilities that we leased to capture some modest savings. This property was on our original target list and we completed the shutdown in May. We continue to work through many other subscale unprofitable locations and will report on these in the future as we take action.

Now, let's turn to this quarter's financial results. On the consolidated earnings summary on slide 6, our second quarter 2017 results reflect the continued focus on expanding our margins and driving profitable growth as we continue to rationalize our assets and rebuild the sales engine.

Reported revenue in the second quarter was $69.6 million, declining 3.5% from the first quarter 2017 and 6.3% from the second quarter 2016. $1 million of the sequential decline was driven by the planned closure of our facility on 75 Broad Street in New York City and to a customer unfortunately needing to seek bankruptcy protection. Normalizing for these two events, yield is approximately $70.5 million in second quarter revenue, which signals that our revenue decline is beginning to slow. This is encouraging as we are putting a lot of focus on growing the top line once again. Other variances in revenue were somewhat slower declines in network services, partly from the continued pricing pressure in our industry.

GAAP net loss in the second quarter was $19.3 million, which included $13.4 million of onetime expenses including $4.6 million of exit and restructuring costs and $7.1 million due to debt refinancing. On a normalized non-GAAP basis, second quarter 2017 net loss increased by $1.8 million from $4.1 million in the prior quarter and $0.3 million versus last year. The increase was due to interest expense from an increase in our capital leases and our bank debt. Cash flow from operations was $14.8 million in the current quarter versus $7.3 million in the prior quarter and $14 million last year. The main driver was working capital timing.

Adjusted EBITDA in the second quarter was $23.1 million with adjusted EBITDA margin of 33.1%. Adjusted EBITDA increased by $1.5 million versus prior quarter and $2.9 million year-over-year. EBITDA margin grew 320 basis points sequentially and nearly 600 basis points compared to the second quarter 2016. The positive EBITDA performance despite the absolute revenue decline is driven by our data center portfolio initiatives of eliminating unproductive sites and investing in long-term key markets. During the quarter, we renegotiated five of our leases, which resulted in capital lease treatment, the result of which improved the adjusted EBITDA by $2.1 million. With continued focus on improving profitability and returning to growth, we believe there is still upside to our second quarter adjusted EBITDA margin of 33%.

Capital expenditures in the second quarter were $6.7 million compared to $6 million last quarter and $14.4 million second quarter 2016. Our year-over-year spending through the first six months, reflects new management's conservative approach to capital allocation while we rebuild the new INAP. We believe in investing in high ROI projects and our tuck-ins that are accretive to our story. Further, we continue to apply rigor when it comes to our planned CapEx investments. While we planned our second half CapEx investments to be somewhat higher than the first half, this measured approached let us to reduce our overall CapEx spend guidance for the year. Second quarter 2017 adjusted EBITDA less CapEx was $16.3 million, an increase of $0.7 million sequentially and producing almost three times free cash flow as we did in the second quarter 2016.

Let's move on to slide 7. Our INAP COLO segment. INAP COLO revenue totaled $52 million in the second quarter 2017, a decrease of 2.4% from $53.3 million sequentially and 6.8% from $55.8 million year-over-year. The largest drivers of the sequential decrease were the exit from 75 Broad and the unforeseen customer seeking bankruptcy protection. The combined impact was $800,000 for the COLO segment. Normalizing for these two events, the COLO segment was down less than 1% sequentially. This decline included continued pricing pressure but at a lower rate of decline than we have seen historically within network services. INAP COLO second quarter 2017 contribution margin of $22 million was higher sequentially by $2.1 million and year-over-year by $2 million or 10%. The sequential increase was due to our initiatives of eliminating unproductive sites and making investments in long-term key markets.

The 42.2% contribution margin is 480 basis points higher sequentially versus 37.4% in prior quarter and 640 basis points than 35.8% from the prior year. We believe the continued margin expansion in INAP COLO puts us on a more level playing field with our competition. And we remain focused on increasing these margins even further while growing our sales organization in parallel. We expect to continue capitalizing on profitability improvements throughout the second half of this year. Now, let's turn to slide 8 to discuss our INAP CLOUD segment. INAP CLOUD second quarter revenue totaled $17.6 million, a decrease of $1.2 million or 6.3% sequentially and a decrease of $0.9 million or 4.9% year-over-year. Within INAP CLOUD, iWeb revenues were partially impacted by the seasonally higher churn we referenced on our last call at the end of the first quarter 2017.

AgileCLOUD revenue was negatively impacted by $0.2 million from the 75 Broad data center exit and although revenues still declined, we did see lower sequential churn levels, which is an encouraging sign if the trend continues. INAP CLOUD contribution of $8.1 million was lower by $1.3 million from prior quarter due to the revenue decrease and higher by $0.1 million year-over-year. While second quarter INAP CLOUD contribution margin of 46% declined sequentially from 50.1% in the first quarter 2017, it was still higher than the 43.1% in the prior year. Like INAP COLO, we will continue to look for ways to both increase sales and manage our cost structure more efficiently in the INAP CLOUD segment.

Moving on to slide 9. We will look at our balance sheet and cash flow. Free cash flow defined as cash generated from operations less capital expenditures was $8 million, an improvement of $8.4 million over prior year and $6.7 million from prior quarter due to higher net cash flows from operating activities driven by working capital timing. As I mentioned previously, capital expenditures were $6.7 million in the current quarter, comprised of $5.7 million of growth-related spend and $1 million of maintenance. Cash interest was $7.6 million in the second quarter, bringing unlevered free cash flow to $15.6 million compared to $8.6 million in the previous quarter and $7.4 million last year. Cash and cash equivalents were $17.5 million at the end of the second quarter versus $9.2 million from prior quarter. The increase of $8.3 million was due primarily to the free cash flow of $8 million in the quarter.

As we discussed on our last call, early in the quarter, we successfully refinanced our entire debt facility, which increased the runway needed to execute our vision, increased our covenant flexibility, and allowed for a wider range of options to grow the company moving forward. Total debt of $486.7 million includes $197.6 million in capital lease obligations. $134.7 million of our capital lease obligations are excluded from debt for bank covenant purposes as they were operating leases at the time of refinancing. Turning to slide 10 is our updated outlook. Our full-year 2017 revenue range of $275 million to $285 million is unchanged as we continue to execute our plans to rationalize our data center portfolio, while also bringing on sales talent and channel partners.

We are also exploring opportunities to increase revenue through tuck-ins. We are maintaining our adjusted EBITDA range of $85 million to $90 million, and at the same time believe our initiative should enable us to move toward the higher end of the range for the year. As we have discussed previously, we continue to manage CapEx tightly, and are leveraging the assets we have in place. As such, we are revising downward our capital expenditure guidance to a range of $32 million to $37 million down from $37 million to $42 million previously.

Our objective for the remainder of the year is to continue to improve our return on assets through greater efficiencies, greater sell through and selected investments in growth. With this great platform, we believe we can continue to increase our run rate profitability and cash flow by streamlining our cost base, managing CapEx toward higher return projects, and building our sales organization and channel partner program for future growth. With two quarters under our belt, we now have a path to continuing profitable growth with execution in our control.

Now, let me turn the call back to Pete.

Thanks, Bob. Let's move to our closing slide, number 11. So, this second quarter is a real turning point for the company, with a new bank deal and a new identity as a strong retail data center company in 20 major markets, primarily North America. We are now on offense to grow our business. Another takeaway is from customer testimonials. They consider us their partners. Through consultative sales, we work with them to create seamless solutions in the age of internet infrastructure, whether it's high-density COLO, AgileCLOUD or High-Performance IP, we work hand-in-hand with our customers to help them grow their business. This is our value proposition, and then certainly a win-win for INAP. With the stronger core competency in sales, operations and customer service, we expect to capture our fair share of increasing demand for our products and services in the markets we serve.

This concludes our prepared remarks. At this point, operator, we'd love to take some questions. [Operator Instructions]

And our first question comes from the line of Barry Sine with Drexel Hamilton. Barry, your line is open.

Hey. Good morning, gentlemen. Obviously, a lot of heavy lifting in the quarter. Pete, one thing I'd be curious on getting an update on is the composition of the salesforce. I know in the past you've talked about increasing the salesforce, so you can have enough sales people to overcome churn. Where are you in that process and when does that really start to show up in revenue?

Well, we were targeting about 60 direct reps, Barry. And we're probably at 50 now, which is really good. When you look at INAP COLO versus CLOUD, CLOUD is pretty much at full strength now. They have a lot more transactions to do and they're not typically three- to five-year contracts. They could be big deals out of [ph] clips (23:05), so it's a lot more hands-on on the Cloud side. And we also use e-sales especially for iWeb.

On the COLO side, we're probably a little short, but the new talent coming in is really good, and they're hiring more people. So, I would say in total at 50, we're maybe 10 short and they're probably in the COLO group. By sitting here in August, that's not bad. It's actually better than I thought. So, we just want them to ramp up and to get their sea-legs as soon as possible by reorganizing into these markets where literally putting COLO sales rep talent in each of these 20 markets or at least the top 10 with bulk. And then, we'll just leverage our channel partners to help us do more. And that's kind of the one-two punch we're focused on now.

Okay. And then also maybe for Bob, a more of a balance sheet question. A pretty significant increase in net PP&E sequentially versus 1Q. And presumably, that's related to some of the data center transactions you've done. Can you walk me through what went on there, please?

Yes. Yep. So, in the course of looking at our portfolio, we're focusing on the key markets first. We had five leases that were coming due anywhere from six months to two years out. And in this industry, you really need to get ahead of the curve when you start negotiating lease renewals, probably three years is about the right window. So, in the process of doing that, secured by an anchor tenant, our first negotiation was with [ph] BRT (24:59) where we expanded there by about 8,000 square feet due to this one anchor tenant. And we're betting long here on some of these markets.

And so, we ended up getting capital lease treatment on the five leases. They were operating leases previously. The sum total of all the five leases from a cash flow standpoint is actually an improvement, a slight improvement when we bundle them all. And these were leases that were operating leases previously. As you probably are aware, by 2019, really every lease will end up on the balance sheet in some way, shape or form. So, we're kind of doing this in the normal course of business as we're investing in markets.

And is the kind of clean-up of the real estate portfolio finished? Or are we likely to see more transactions and perhaps more charges into 3Q and 4Q?

Yeah, as Bob and I like to say, we're probably in the third inning of that. We have about 50 locations and they're like trading cards for the most part because we're looking at each of the sites one-by-one. And now that we're adopting markets sort of as – flag in the ground, we're looking at the combination of all the sites in a market and presenting the whole portfolio to the customer base. But that gets us through 50 data centers. Beyond that, we have POPs all over the world. We have about 87 POPs. Some of them are in our data centers and some of them are not. So, that's another target list for us where we can go through the real estate and maybe consolidate some of these POPs worldwide. So, that's more of a volume effort for us but that's – it's work on the table right now.

And when is the ninth inning over?

Well, I think it's always going to be work in progress. I think we'll get – by the time we're done with this year, we're going to be 80% through this pile. I think that's – at least that's our goal but for the most part, the bottom 20% aren't going to really move the needle all that much in my mind. It might be one or two. But for the most part, we're doing this every day since literally I've been here. And that's the key to success because we don't have our real estate portfolio right – being in the data center of business and network business, it's just an irritant because it costs you too much, it's underperforming and it's a drag. So, we're all over it and it's not something we're putting on the backburner.

All right. Thank you for taking my question.

You're welcome.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Frank Louthan with Raymond James. Frank, your line is open.

Great. Thank you very much. I just wanted to touch base on the pace of the sales force hiring and see where that trend is? And as far as the margin improvement, is there – is this sort of a baseline we can expect from here? Is there any thoughts about how – is this anything one-time that helped that? Or what – how should we sort of build models from here?

Well, we increased EBITDA guidance last quarter because we knew this was cooking. So, we're at 85% to 90%. Bob mentioned that we're at the top-end to that range, at least right now. It's a little bit of a look forward because we don't know what deals are going to actually get done. So, it's a little difficult to nail it perfectly because that – we don't control the other side of the negotiation half of the time. So, I would say, our update last quarter gave us a very good range and Bob leaned a little towards the top-end of EBITDA today. We'll see what happens next quarter and we'll make any adjustments we need to on that side. Regarding the sales force, we're really excited about the leadership we brought in. And as we mentioned earlier, their bringing in their guys and their talent.

We're also looking at bigger wholesale deals. I think that's also the secret sauce for our company because it's one thing to have good salespeople, but it's another to present what I would call empty airplane seats like everybody else does where the surplus in some of our biggest data centers is really right for a wholesale deal. So, that was not popular in the past. It's very popular with us. And I think that's the thing that may change the dynamic a little bit as we're ramping up our sales guys and giving them that opportunity in their toolbox to go look at bigger deals potentially at a wholesale rate. And the general partners are helpful there too. So, we're rebooting that.

Great. All right. Thank you very much.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

Our next question comes from the line of Matthew Heinz with Stifel. Matthew, your line is open.

Hi. This is [ph] James (30:47) on for Matt. As you guys look to stabilize your top line growth and land these large wholesale deals with a focus on the top 20 markets, can you sort of speak to how you competitively differentiate yourselves in these markets?

Sure. Hey, [ph] James (31:09). These cities, as you can tell, I outlined it today, these are big NFL cities. And you can imagine the demand for what we do is pretty big there from the business segment to the enterprise segment on the upper end. There's a lot of demand to take care of. What I try to talk about today a little bit is that we do more than one thing. We're not just a wholesale COLO company. We're not just a retail COLO company with little hands on. We actually offer Performance IP to improve video streaming, low latency, less jitter. We also offer a Cloud service for those customers who need to be in some ways flexing from a COLO footprint to excess capacity on the fly and spin up servers in the Cloud.

So, we're differentiating ourselves by basically working hand in hand with customers to provide solutions in areas where the demand is really big, and the growth curve on the products that we're offering is there. So, there's enough to go around. We're in a growing environment. So, the idea that we can bundle solutions for a high-touch answer, I think, is our secret sauce.

I also mentioned today that some of the customers that we've been meeting with basically came right out and said it that we consider INAP our partner. And some of the bigger deals and maybe the bigger wholesale companies, they're really not looking for partnerships. They're just looking for space and they got a team that will do it themselves.

In our case, they come to us for help and contribution to what they're trying to solve. And that, I think, is unique. And we can do a good job there, and that's our focus.

Great. Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Dan Kurnos with The Benchmark Company. Your line is open.

Great, thanks. Good morning. Could you just – as we think about kind of your plan to obviously getting more aggressive and exiting something on profitable spaces and the top-line turnaround underlying is solid, I'm just kind of wondering as we've balanced out sort of this ramp to overcome churn, which you're now starting to get passed and sort of exiting some of these unprofitable spaces, I just want to make sure we shouldn't be thinking about any sort of risk to the low end of guidance you've kind of captured that on the revenue side, and then we get into some more acceleration kind of hockey stick issues get into the back half of this year, some of the bookings start to catch up?

I'd like to say when I first started here that I was going to get yelled at immediately for starting at $275 to $285, which the Street basically understood. I think that's the solid range. We haven't changed it. We're tracking in it. And it was a little early for us frankly, because I didn't know exactly what all the moving parts are. In [ph] dog years (34:32), I'm probably here 17 years. So, I kind of get it now, and I think we're about right.

We're trying to do a heavy lift in 2017 so we can get a baseline to grow as the industry grows in our segment. The COLO Group and AgileCLOUD are the engines of this company, and those products typically grow. So, we're just trying to kind of muscle through this year, get to the right baseline, shift the portfolio into the right spot and, in some ways, change your tires as it's going down the road. The sales team, I think, are really focused, I'm really excited about their attention of detail, their reorganization, their leadership. So, I think we're doing all the right things as it sits here today. I would love to see kind of a blow-through into next year, but we just have fundamental work to do this year to set up.

I think the business development strategy we have that's on the top of it is just going to help, because there's other ways to work this portfolio. And we're looking at all options to get better, and that's one of the tools in the toolbox.

Yeah, yeah. And listen, just maybe to kind of ask it in a different way, I don't think – clearly what you're doing is working. I think it was more a question of – and I don't think anyone would blame you if you had incremental cost savings you could identify now and, as Bob talked about, making sure you get out ahead of some of these exits, if you identified opportunities in Q3, in Q4, and put a little more pressure on some of the partner stuff. I don't think that that's necessarily an issue, but it sounds like you've incorporated all that you expect to do in guidance. That's fair, right?

Yeah. I mean, we've been at it three quarters, and we changed guidance twice. We increased EBITDA last quarter. We lowered CapEx this quarter. You can see we're tuning. We're tuning as we go, and it's all going in the right direction. So, I think, the third quarter, depending on what – and we have a whole list of things in progress now that maybe can do something else, but we're getting close to the end of the year too. But in the third quarter, you're kind of done. I think, next quarter, we'll end up tightening these ranges so that what one quarter probably in sight, we'll be able to give you pretty good tightening of what we're doing. And right now, the ranges are pretty spread still. So, that gives us the flexibility to really make the right decisions frankly.

Good. And then, just [indiscernible] (37:15) just last one because obviously you've talked about sort of the – all the other businesses and their drivers, I'm just curious if you are – how you are evaluating the iWeb within the portfolio if anything has changed as you've kind of redeveloped the business strategy and sort of where it sits relative to the offering or where you'd like to go?

Well, it's a little bit different business than almost everything else we do because it's aimed that SMB. The ARPUs are lesser than – under 1,000 per customer. We have almost 5,000 customers in that group. So, it's having a cable background and kind of get that group very well. [indiscernible] (38:00) transactions, it takes a lot of e-sales, it takes a lot of digital marketing, it takes a lot of attention but we have a really good product. And in Canada, it really rocks because that brand is very strong. So, we want to continue invest in it, and it's very profitable. The way they go to market is very impressive. I think we could do more, and we're just trying to work that asset a little bit better.

All right. Thanks. Appreciate it.

Thank you. And I am showing no further questions at this time. I'd like to turn the call back over to Mr. Aquino for any closing remarks.

Thank you, operator, and thank you all for your attention today. We look forward to our next report. Have a great week.

Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference. Thank you for your participation, and have a wonderful day. You may all disconnect.