raw transcript


Internap Network Services


Corp.
 
IIP
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 4, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Third Quarter Internap Earnings


Conference Call. My name is Colby [ph] and I will be your co-ordinator for today. At this time


participants are in a listen-only mode. We will be conducting a question-and-answer session


towards the end of this conference. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being


recorded for replay purposes.


I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today's call, Mr. Andrew Albrecht,


Vice President, Corporate Development, Investor Relations. Please proceed, sir.


Andrew Albrecht, Vice President, Corporate Development, Investor Relations


Thank you, Colby [ph], and good morning, and thank you all for joining us on today to discuss


Internap Network Services third quarter results for the period ending September 30, 2005. I'd like


to begin by reminding everyone that today's call contains forward-looking statements within the


meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than the


statements of historical fact, including statements regarding our future financial performance or


performance, business strategy, projected levels of growth, projects costs and projected financial


needs are forward-looking statements. Those statements include statements regarding the intent,


belief or current expectations of Internap and members of our management team as well as the


assumptions on which statements are based and equally are identified by the use of words such as


may, will, seek, anticipates, believes, estimates, expects, projects, forecasts, plans, intends, should


or similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and


involve risks and uncertainties that actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by


forward-looking statements. Internap's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission


discuss important factors, risk factors, that could contribute to such differences or otherwise affect


our business, results of operations and financial conditions. You should not place undue reliance


on any of these forward-looking statements. Further, any forward-looking statements speak or less


for only as the date on which they are made and the company undertakes no obligation to update


such statements.


Joining me on today's call is Greg Peters, our Chief Executive Officer and David Buckel, our Chief


Financial Officer. In addition to reviewing the quarter, the third quarter results, we will also discuss


recent developments at Internap along with outlook for the remainder of 2005. Greg will open the


call with comments on current events of the company, performance and industry trends as well as


comment on the remainder of 2005. Greg will then turn the call over to Dave Buckel to discuss


financial results.


At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Greg Peters.


Gregory Peters, President, Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Andrew. I would first like to thank everyone for joining us this morning as we review our


results for the third quarter of 2005 and discuss our industry, Internap's business model and future


expectations. Today's call is taking place at our Atlanta headquarters with several employees in


the room.


Our industry continues to evolve with consolidation at every level of the supply chain. Just last


week the FCC approved the merges of AT&T and SBC, MCI and Verizon. We've also seen Level 3
raw transcript


Internap Network Services


Corp.
 
IIP
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 4, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


announce the acquisition of WilTel, Telefonica make an offer to buy the British cellular provider O2


[ph] and data center consolidation continuing with mergers in Europe and acquisition of regional


and local inventory in the States by existing players. We believe it's inevitable that when the top tier


of the supply chain consolidates every support tier will also consolidate. Scale and operating


leverage are the focus today as opposed to the build-it-and-they-will-come approach of the past.


Internap continues to monitor and in some cases participate in consolidation activities.


During this period, our internal focus has remained the same; profitable growth, resource


conservation and careful evaluation of strategic opportunities. Last quarter, we discussed in detail


how internet-based applications such as real-time e-commerce, streaming audio and video, as well


as large file downloads, are driving business model evolution and impacting consumer lives.


Internap's product solutions facilitate our customers' success in these areas, and continue to see


increasing demands from current and new customers. During the third quarter, our substantial


customer base of over 2030 customers, drove greater than 70% of our incremental new orders.


Our sales and customer support effort remain focused on up-selling our base, some of which have


over 5 years of tenure with us. Now let's look at the third quarter. We continue to execute in a very


competitive marketplace. We are pleased to report record revenue for the quarter of $38 million, an


increase of 8.1% compared to the third quarter of 2004, and a sequential increase over the $37.6


million reported in the second quarter of 2005. Our net loss for the quarter was 3.3 million, a


reduction of 58%, versus the third quarter of 2004, and an increase of 2.3 million, compared to the


second quarter of 2005.


The year-over-year reduction of our net loss is the continuation of a three year process of reducing


our losses by an average in excess of 50% per year. And the majority of the quarterly increase from


this last quarter was due to the increase investment in our co-location and data center businesses


in key markets. They will provide greater detail later in the call. The third quarter results reflected


another quarter of bundling our performance IP, and quality data center products to our base of


2032 customers, as well as to new customer acquisitions. Our customer count at the end of the


second quarter was 2032, which was a 7.6% increase from the third quarter of 2004, adding 13 net


new customers, compared to the second quarter of 2005.


As mentioned previously, over 70% of our incremental orders came from our base. This factor has


led to a refocusing of our sales team: own the base, with a focus on up-selling additional


performance IP capacity, and co-location space, as our customers IP applications grow. All of this


without losing sight of adding new customers. Our team added 97 new customers in the third


quarter, in spite of significant farming of our base. Revenue turn continues to average less than 2%


per quarter. We are pleased to report, as of the third quarter, that greater than 95% of our co-


location customers also purchased IP services. Demonstrating the correlated value of these two


products, and the ability of the Internap model to generate greater value from co-location assets.


Notable new customer acquisitions, or additions in the third quarter include: MySpace.com, The


Land of Nod, Clark Atlanta University, DataPath, the Manhattan Mortgage Company, IT Soft, and


TIAA Creff. The sales force performance in the quarter continues to be strong, as evidenced by


selling new monthly recurring services to over 352 customers, which included the up-sell of 255


existing customers, through bundling of our services. 100 of the 255 up-sold customers came from


the top 25% of our customer base. A representative sample of these top 100 accounts include:


Autodesk, BizRate.com, fastsearch [ph], 4X capital [ph], InfoSpace, Logitech, Motorola,


Shopping.com, VeriSign, and Zone Labs, all of how increased their monthly spend with us greater


than 40% during the quarter.


Gross margins for the quarter were approximately 44%, which was a decline of 8.9% versus the


second quarter of 2005. This was mainly due to strategic investment in Colocation expansion