Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Michael Nelson — Senior Director-Investor Relations, Internap Corporation
Eric Cooney — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Internap Corporation
Kevin M. Dotts — Chief Financial Officer, Internap Corporation
Dan L. Kurnos — Analyst, The Benchmark Co. LLC
George Frederick Sutton — Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC
Frederick W. Moran — Analyst, Burke & Quick Partners LLC
Frank G. Louthan — Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc.
Gray W. Powell — Analyst, Wells Fargo Securities LLC
Matthew S. Heinz — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Internap First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.

At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this call may be recorded.

I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference, Michael Nelson, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, Sir.

Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today.

I'm joined by Eric Cooney, our Chief Executive Officer; and Kevin Dotts, our Chief Financial Officer. Following prepared remarks, we will open up the call for your questions.

The slides we reference in the call are available on our website in the Presentations section on the Investor Relations page. Non-GAAP reconciliations and our supplemental data sheet, which includes additional operational and financial metrics are available under the Financial Information Quarterly Results section of our Investor Relations page.

Today's call contains forward-looking statements including belief in our overall business strategy, market growth rates, timing for bringing new capacity online and the benefit to be achieved through combining our brands and related timing, expectations regarding customer churn and it's drivers, margins, return on capital and operational performance and expectations for revenue, adjusted EBITDA and capital expenditures in 2015.

These statements are not guarantees of future performance because these statements are based on certain assumptions and involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. We discuss these factors in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We undertake no obligation to amend, update or clarify these statements. In addition to reviewing the first quarter results, we will also discuss recent developments.

Now, let me turn the call over to Eric Cooney.

Thank you, Michael, and good afternoon, everyone. We appreciate you joining us for our first quarter 2015 earnings presentation. I will start the discussion with the summary of our results and then turn the call over to Kevin Dotts, our Chief Financial Officer to take you through our detailed financial results. From there I will briefly wrap up our prepared remarks before we open up the call to take your questions.

Beginning on slide three, I'll start by saying that we are disappointed with the sequential revenue decline for the first quarter of 2015. As you can see, we delivered total revenue in the first quarter of 2015 of $80.8 million representing a decrease of 1% year-over-year and 4% quarter-over-quarter.

Data center services revenue totaled $59.1 million in the quarter, an increase of 1% year-over-year and a decrease of 4% quarter-over-quarter. The year-over-year data center services revenue increase was predominantly attributable to increased sales of core data center services, which includes company-controlled co-location, hosting and cloud services partially offset by decreased sales in our partner data centers.

Sequentially, data center services revenue was negatively impacted primarily due to churn from a small number of significant co-location and hosting customers as well as more modest impacts from customer installation delays, lower sales in our partner data centers and the impact of U.S. dollar to Canadian dollar foreign exchange rates.

Consistent with our strategic plan, the mix shift towards data center services is evident with revenue from this segment now accounting for over 73% of total revenue as compared to approximately 64% two years ago.

In our IP services segment, revenue decreased 8% year-over-year and 6% quarter-over-quarter to $21.7 million. The lower year-over-year and sequential IP revenue was the result of per unit price declines which more than offset data traffic growth.

We continue to rely upon the IP services segment as a healthy source of cash flow generation for the business as well as an element of competitive differentiation for our data center services segment. In the first quarter, revenue churn in our data center segment declined 20 basis points sequentially to 2.1%, while churn in our IP segment increased 50 basis points to 1.9%. Total company churn increased 10 basis points to 2.1%.

Turning to slide four, we are reflecting the strategic mix shift in our business towards core data center services and away from legacy services. Revenue from these core data center services increased 3% year-over-year and has increased at a 22% three year compound annual growth rate through the first quarter of 2015.

However on a sequential basis, core data center services revenue decreased 4% due to the churn, customer installation delays and foreign exchange rate items previously mentioned.

Importantly, we believe the first quarter 2015 core data center services revenue represents a solid foundation for a return to above mid teens annualized market growth rates for this product portfolio from the second quarter of 2015.

Core data center services now represents 81% of data center services revenue and 59% of total revenue. The favorable mix shift to core data center services has historically been a primary driver in our strong adjusted EBITDA growth and adjusted EBITDA margin expansion.

Adjusted EBITDA has increased at a 14% three-year compound annual growth rate, and adjusted EBITDA margin has expanded 390 basis points over the same timeframe.

Moving on to slide five, we identified the sources of change in revenue from the fourth quarter of 2014 to the first quarter of 2015. Our core data center services declined $1.7 million driven by the churn installation delays and foreign exchange rate headwinds previously mentioned.

The churn events we're highlighting are the result of customers that are consolidating our IT infrastructure, not uncommon following an acquisition or customers that have outgrown their retail co-location environment or those customers whose application workload requirements have diminished.

We do not see this significant churn as a fundamental change to our business, but rather a confluence of customer events, which unfortunately combines to negatively impact our full year revenue.

Within our legacy business, partner co-location revenue declined $0.5 million. From a sales strategy perspective, our sales team is not pursuing a lower margin partner co-location re-sale business as they're keenly focused on selling the higher margin core data center services

IT services revenue declined $1.3 million driven by per unit price declines and the result of higher non-recurring revenue including [ph] bursting (07:09) revenue in the fourth quarter of 2014, which more than offset data traffic growth.

Moving on to slide six, I'll cover segment profit and segment margin. Segment profit of $47.4 million increased 3% year-over-year and decreased 3% quarter-over-quarter. Segment margin in the quarter was 58.7%, an increase of 230 basis points year-over-year and 80 basis points sequentially.

The primary driver for the solid year-over-year improvement in segment profit and segment margin was due to the favorable product mix shift of selling a larger proportion of higher margin company controlled co-location, hosting and cloud services. Sequentially lower revenue weighed on segment profit.

Turning to slide seven, I'll discuss data center services segment profit and segment margin results. Data center segment profit of $34.9 million increased 8% year-over-year and decreased 1% quarter-over-quarter. Data center segment margin expanded 330 basis points year-over-year and 130 basis points sequentially to 58.9%.

We continue to experience significant year-over-year margin expansion in our data center segment as we execute our strategy to sell an increasing proportion of higher margin core data center services.

Core segment profit of $31.5 million increased 7% year-over-year and decreased 1% quarter-over-quarter. Core segment margin expanded 220 basis points year-over-year and 140 basis points quarter-over-quarter.

Long term, we see significant opportunities to continue to further expand data center services margin based on the mix shift towards core data center services. In addition to these mix shift benefits, we also see the opportunity to expand margins as we increase utilization in our recently deployed data center footprint.

With approximately 54% utilization across our company controlled data center footprint, there is further upside benefit to the data center services margins derived from utilization efficiencies as occupancy increases.

On slide eight, we show IP services segment profit and segment margin results. IP segment profit of $12.6 million decreased 9% year-over-year and 6% quarter-over-quarter. IP segment margin declined 20 basis points year-over-year and 60 basis points sequentially to 58.1%.

We expect IP segment margin to trend higher towards 60% throughout 2015 as we continue to renegotiate our IP transit provider contracts that will lower our cost structure and contribute to margin expansion.

Despite the declining IP services revenue, the segment continues to deliver solid segment profitability and cash flow, which we leveraged to invest in the more capital intensive data center services segment.

Further, the IP business also provides a key element of competitive differentiation for our data center services business and that the high performance network enhances the competitive differentiation of our high performance, hybridized internet infrastructure service offerings. The vast majority, over 95% of our data center customers also take our IP services.

Moving on to slide nine, we delivered soft first quarter adjusted EBITDA of $17.9 million, an increase of 1% year-over-year and decrease of 21% quarter-over-quarter. Adjusted EBITDA margin expanded 50 basis points year-over-year and declined 480 basis points quarter-over-quarter to 22.2%.

The year-over-year improvement in adjusted EBITDA and the associated margin expansion was predominately the results of revenue and segment profit growth of data center services and positive operating leverage in our business model.

While the sequential decline in adjusted EBITDA in margin was largely the result of the reduced revenue, these items were also negatively impacted due to seasonally higher employee related costs and sales kick off expenses. We believe first quarter adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margin represent a low point and expects steady improvement throughout the remainder of 2015.

On slide 10 we're providing an update to the final phase of our iWeb integration process. Since the acquisition of iWeb in November of 2013, we've gone to market under two brands Internap and iWeb; however, with a consolidated integrated portfolio of co-location, hosting and cloud services, it is no longer necessary to maintain the extra complexity and expense of both brands.

As a result we are undergoing the process to consolidate under the Internap brand as the final step in the iWeb integration process and in support of our strategy to sell a single portfolio of high performance hybrid infrastructure solutions across direct channel and ecommerce routes to market.

Combining the two brands under the Internap identity should allow us to increase our brand presence and strength, create a uniform customer experience and accelerate growth. We expect to complete the brand integration by the end of 2015.

Now I'll pass the call over to Kevin Dotts, our Chief Financial Officer, who will give us a more detailed review of our financial results.

Thanks Eric. I'll start my comments on slide 11 and take everyone through our first quarter income statement comparisons.

In the first quarter of 2015 revenue totaled $80.8 million, a $1.2 million decrease compared to the same period last year, representing 1% year-over-year decline. Compared to the fourth quarter of 2014, total revenue decreased $3.5 million.

Both the year-over-year and sequential decrease were driven by churn from a small number of significant co-location and hosting customers, installation delays, U.S. dollar to Canadian dollar foreign exchange rate and lower partner and IP revenue.

Segment profit totaled $47.7 million, an increase of 3% year-over-year and a decrease of 3% quarter-over-quarter. Total segment margin expanded 230 basis points year-over-year and 80 basis points sequentially to 58.7%.

The primary driver for the year-over-year improvement in segment profit and segment margin was due to the favorable product mix shift of selling a larger proportion of core data center services. Sequentially, the product mix shift benefited segment margin despite the lower revenue, which weighed on segment profit.

Total cash operating expense was $29.5 million, representing an increase of 4% year-over-year and 13% sequentially. The year-over-year increase was driven by our strategic transition to hosting and cloud services, which include higher operating expense including customer support, which is more than offset by lower cost of goods sold resulting in higher adjusted EBITDA margin.

Sequentially the increase was driven by seasonally higher cash operating expenses. We remain focused on cost containment and improving internal operating efficiencies to help drive financial performance.

Adjusted EBITDA totaled $17.9 million an increase of 1% year-over-year and a decrease of 21% quarter-over-quarter. Adjusted EBITDA margin expanded 50 basis points year-over-year and declined 480 basis points quarter-over-quarter to 22.2%.

The year-over-year improvement in adjusted EBITDA and the associated margin expansion was driven by increased revenue and segment profit in data center services and the positive operating leverage we are building into the business.

As previously mentioned, seasonally higher employee related costs led to increased cash operating expenses. As we continue to execute our strategy to grow core data center service revenues, we believe we will have the opportunity to further drive margins up into the right.

GAAP net loss in the first quarter of 2015 was $10.4 million or $0.20 per share. Included in the loss is $0.5 million in amortization expense related to our decision to combine our two brands.

We currently expect to amortize remaining $14 million related to the iWeb trade name through the end of 2015. Normalized net loss, which excludes the impact of stock-based compensation expense and certain items management considers non-recurring, totaled $8.6 million or $0.17 per share.

Cash flow and balance sheet summaries are shown on slide 12. Adjusted EBITDA less capital expenditures and capital lease payments totaled $400,000 or $0.4 million. At the end of the first quarter, cash and cash equivalents totaled $16.2 million. Funded debt totaled $311.6 million.

As of March 31, 2015, our debt consisted of $288.6 million borrowed under our term loan at a rate of 6% and $23 million borrowed under our revolving credit facility at a rate of 4.7%.

We also had $58.7 million in capital leases. Our net debt totaled $354.1 million, while our net debt to last quarter annualized adjusted EBITDA was 4.9 times.

We're comfortably below our financial covenants and our credit agreement. Our current capital deployment plans are fully funded with our current debt facilities, which include an incremental $20.7 million in borrowing capacity, cash generation and cash on hand.

On slide 13, we're providing revenue, adjusted EBITDA and capital expenditure guidance for the full year 2015. We expect to deliver full year 2015 revenue in the range of $331 million to $337 million down from our previous range of $339 million to $353 million and adjusted EBITDA in the range of $89 million to $95 million, which is unchanged.

Our capital expenditure plan for 2015 is unchanged and includes an expected investment of $70 million to $80 million of total CapEx. Our CapEx guidance includes $55 million to $60 million of growth based capital, which includes success based capital that we intend to invest in hardware to meet growing demand for our hosting and cloud services.

We also intend to deploy capital to increase capacity in data centers in existing markets largely related to incremental power and cooling capacity.

In the first quarter of 2015, we brought online an incremental 6,000 net sellable square feet of capacity in Santa Clara and we expect to bring on 6,000 net sellable square feet of capacity in Atlanta in the second quarter of 2015. We also intend to add incremental power and cooling to existing data centers in Los Angeles and Secaucus.

Data center expansions whether space, power or cooling, are conducted in multiple phases, limiting excess capacity and driving consistent utilization rates. Roughly 75% of our 2015 plan is either success based capital tied to customer installation request or capital deployed for future growth.

This provides us with substantial flexibility to adapt to potential changes in macro industry trends. We've a very disciplined approach to capital allocation and we believe we have significant opportunity to invest in the business and generate returns well in excess of our cost of capital.

Now let me turn the call back to Eric for his closing remarks before we take questions.

Thanks, Kevin.

Now, I'll briefly summarize on slide 14. As I said at the outset, we are disappointed with our first quarter 2015 results and particularly the sequential revenue decline.

Although higher than anticipated churn from a small number of larger co-location and hosting customers has led us to reduce guidance for our full year 2015 revenue, we believe the circumstances for these churn events were somewhat unique to the individual customers and were largely the result of changes in their business and/or IT infrastructure consolidation opportunities.

Despite the reduced full year revenue guidance it is important to recognize that our continued strategic investment in core data center services is delivering significantly stronger segment margins and enabling us to reiterate our full year adjusted EBITDA guidance in the range of $89 million to $95 million.

We remain confident in the strategy we have chosen and in our ability to execute against this strategy, which we believe will return the company to sequential revenue growth from the second quarter of 2015.

Likewise with core revenue growth expected to return above 15% annualized market growth rates in the second quarter of 2015. We see the first quarter as a revenue low point from which the company can quickly recover while still meeting our annual adjusted EBITDA guidance.

Now, we would like to open up the call for your questions. Operator?

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from Dan Kurnos from Benchmark Company. Your line is now open. Please go ahead.

Great, thanks for taking my questions. Eric, just a couple just on the events here. First, if you guys could just parse out the shortfall versus your expectations between the churn event and the installed delays, obviously we have a little bit of color there based on the change in revenue guidance.

And then secondly, I know you just sort of reiterated this, but I want to give you a chance kind to spell it out, you're stating that the churn event had nothing to do with competition in the space and that it was unique to these companies and their reduction of footprint?

Sure Dan. This is Eric. I'll take the second question maybe and Kevin can give you a little color on your parsing question. Specific to competition, your statement is correct. We're not suggesting that churn had anything to do with either Internap's competitive position or changes in the market competitive dynamics.

Rather the customer churn we're highlighting, we feel was more driven by customer issues, if you will. In one case it was a customer of ours who was acquired by a much larger entity and that entity took some decisions to essentially in-house or in-source their IT infrastructure.

In other cases we've had customers outgrow the traditional retail co-location model and move to a more wholesale co-location model and in another example, we had a customer essentially have change in their internal, let's say, business priorities that caused them to no longer need the IT infrastructure on which we were providing their services.

So in none of those cases was there a change in the competitive landscape that led to that churn.

Hey Dan, it's Kevin. With regard to the FX impact, really the, call it the sequential effect of that was somewhere in the $300,000, the installed delays probably cost us another $300,000 to $400,000.

And then if you're looking at just the quarter-over-quarter sequential, the rest of that will relate to predominantly then churn and then if you were to kind of look at the year-over-year quarter comparative, you do have the factor of you probably had roughly maybe $2 million to $2.5 million at the 111 8th revenues that were obviously not included this quarter that would have been in first quarter of 2014.

Perfect, thanks for that color. And then just Eric, since you brought it up, I don't know if this is the fair question or not, but I'm going to ask it anyway. With regards of co-lo whenever there's been kind of a shortfall it's typically come from co-lo and co-lo has been, we've seen off to a sluggish start this year and has had some challenges particularly with reduction of footprint in several instances.

I just kind of want to hear your thoughts on the high level value of offering co-lo as a service long-term to your customers, especially since you guys have been primarily building out only in places where you have a cloud presence understanding that that's sort of the key driver of the business. But we'd just love to your thoughts on how co-lo still fits into the long, long-term strategy for Internap?

Sure, Dan. I'll say notwithstanding the recent past couple of quarter headwinds we've certainly experienced in the co-location business I firmly believe that co-location as part of our portfolio of integrated data center services, including hosting and cloud is an important differentiator for Internap and more importantly I think it's increasingly required if not expected by our target IT customers.

That hybrid integrated suite of data center services co-location, hosting and cloud is an important offering – increasingly important offering to support the types of IT workloads that I think our target customers are and will be deploying in the future.

So we definitely continue to expect and require company controlled co-location as a core part of our long-term data center services portfolio and a fundamental part of our strategy.

Great. And then just last one from me, just if you could give us any updates on the adoption rates for your ecommerce offering that would be great. Thanks.

The ecommerce offering, I'll rephrase your question a little bit, ecommerce is really a route to market. So in other words we're selling the same suite of data center services, just selling that suite through multiple routes to market, direct sales, channel sales and also an ecommerce route to market. And in round figures today, we generate about 25% plus of our total company bookings from via that ecommerce route to market.

Has that accelerated at all that's really where I was getting at?

I think it's, in terms of a proportion of total company bookings it's remained fairly consistent over the past couple of quarters.

All right, great. Thanks for taking my questions.

Sure, thanks Dan.

Thank you. And your next question comes from George Sutton from Craig-Hallum. Your line is now open. Please go ahead.

Thank you. One of the points you made in your prepared comments were that the first quarter set a solid foundation for return of growth to 15% and what was I think missing in that commentary at least from what I heard was why that is the case or what kind of business you've been winning or what gives you the comfort that that acceleration is occurring?

Sure George. Essentially, the message we're conveying is that we believe the disappointing first quarter results are largely attributable to some customer churn specifically a relatively small number of fairly large customers and given both current, recent bookings performance and given our visibility to the rest of our customer base, we take those two elements and combine them to derive a sense of confidence around what Q2 2015 and beyond looks like.

So again, bottom line, we think the poor start to 2015 is largely attributable to a relatively small number of significant customer churn events that we don't think are likely to repeat beyond those that we have visibility to today.

Okay. And then relative to guidance, you obviously guided for lower revenues, but maintained your margins. Obviously, by doing that, you're sending a pretty significant message that margins are going to inflect a bit from here and I just wanted to give you the ability to explain the logic on the guidance a little bit.

Sure. As you point out, the implication is obvious that our margins must be expected to increase given the reduction in revenue and maintaining our EBITDA guidance and to peel the onion back a little bit.

But what I will tell you is what we are seeing already, even in the first quarter of 2015 despite a fairly disappointing revenue level, we still delivered sequentially increased segment margins and our expectation, our internal forecast suggests that that improvement in segment margins is only going to continue. And the reasons that that segment margin is continuing basically three factors.

One is a, if you will, business mix shift from legacy products to core data center services. Two is within core data center services a product mix shift from company controlled co-location to hosting and cloud which are growing a faster clip and have higher gross margins.

And then third, as we fill unutilized deployed data center capacity that also has a positive impact on segment margins. So again, the expectation is absolutely correct that we do expect segment margins to improve throughout 2015.

I guess my last point would be that is a continuation of the trend that actually started here a couple of quarters ago. So we're not forecasting any required step change in segment margin, but rather a continuation of the trend and trajectory that the company is already on.

Understand. Okay. Appreciate the thoughts.

Sure. Thanks, George.

Thank you. And your next question comes from Mark Kelleher from D.A. Davidson. Your line is now open. Please go ahead.

<<Q – Mark Kelleher – D. A. Davidson & Co.>: Great. Thanks for taking the question. Just wondering if you could talk a little bit more about how co-location contracts are structured? How much advanced warning do your customers have to give you that they are leaving and is there any penalty to them for leaving quickly?

Sure. Co-location contracts are typically multi-year contracts. The short end maybe a year, on the longer end three years, in some cases as many as five years. And yes, they typically give us multiple months of notice prior to their departure.

<<Q – Mark Kelleher – D. A. Davidson & Co.>: So – but there is no penalty if they just up and leave at any moment?

Well, they can't leave prior to their contract end date. The revenue is secured through their – typically through their contract end date. So...

<<Q – Mark Kelleher – D. A. Davidson & Co.>: So these large customers that churned were coming up on the end of their contracts.

Yes. Absolutely the case. The only extra point I'll make is hosting and in particular cloud customers as compared to co-location tend to execute shorter term contracts. So in some cases, we're signing hourly, monthly hosting and cloud customer agreements.

Obviously in other cases, we are signing one-year plus contracts, but in general hosting and cloud contracts tend to have a shorter term than co-location. In both cases, customer has -- customers have a notice period and of course are obligated for their revenue through the end of their contract term.

<<Q – Mark Kelleher – D. A. Davidson & Co.>: Okay. And turning to IP that seem to accelerate to the down side. Is that a new level of decline that we should assume or was that unusual in the quarter?

No, I think to understand IP, you really need to go back to third quarter of 2014 and we were actually relatively flat with IP between third quarter and fourth quarter and in that sense or the reason for that was we experienced some one-time on non-recurring revenue in the fourth quarter that somewhat artificially uplifted the fourth quarter revenue.

So we saw, let's say, double the expected reduction in IP revenue on a sequential basis Q4 to Q1. So our guidance we've previously given in terms of IP revenue is typically to expect between $400,000 and $600,000 of quarterly sequential revenue decline and we would maintain that guidance on a go-forward basis.

<<Q – Mark Kelleher – D. A. Davidson & Co.>: Okay. Great, thanks.

Thanks Mark.

Thank you. And your next question comes from Fred Moran from Burke & Quick. Your line is now open. Please go ahead.

Thanks very much. If you were to strip out these lost customers, how much new leasing is being added? What do you see as the change in pricing year-over-year and if you could extrapolate that into an organic growth rate for the first quarter, that would be helpful. And what specifically gives you confidence in the mid teens or better growth rate going forward?

Okay. So I guess maybe the best way to approach that is to talk about the expectations for revenue growth going forward and if you break our total company revenue down into three buckets, essentially core data center services, IP business unit services and partner data center revenue and all of that information, by the way, historically is available in our data sheets released with the quarterly results.

Core data center services revenue growth what we've said is and reiterated in these results is an expectation of mid teens plus i.e. 15% plus annualized growth and what we are specifically saying is take first quarter of 2015 core data center services revenue, apply on a sequential basis, de-construct 15% to 3% plus quarterly sequential revenue growth rate and apply that to our Q1 core data center services revenue to derive a go forward revenue stream for core data center services.

You just heard my comment about IP business unit revenue apply $400,000 to $600,000 sequential revenue decline for IP business unit revenues and for partner data center revenue, while we haven't mentioned it on this call, what we've previously said is 2013 to 2014 partner data center revenues declined just under 8% on an annual basis.

Our expectation is 2015 versus 2014, we would expect about an 8% -- similar 8% year-over-year decline in partner data center revenue.

So if you aggregate all of that information and apply your own individual assumptions, you will develop – you'll find yourself within the revenue guidance that we just reported i.e. between $331 million and $337 million on a full year basis.

Eric, I am specifically trying to figure out what is the trend at the core data center business and if you strip out these lost customers, are you seeing 15% or better organic growth that you see in the first quarter or even excluding that, do we have to see some rebound to get to that?

And specifically can you talk about what kind of new leasing activity you're seeing in co-location and what kind of pricing trends you're experiencing?

So what we're trying to say in terms of the trend in core data center services is that if you strip out these large churn events, yes we are expecting 15% plus annualized growth rate and no that's not, let say, requiring a rebound, I think to use your words, if you exclude the churn events we're referring to, we have been delivering in excess of 15% plus annualized core data center services growth rate and we expect to be back on that trend albeit with a lower jump off point here as of first quarter of 2015.

In terms of pricing trends, really no changes in terms of industry pricing trends, co-location, retail co-location tends to trend upward about 3% per year and at least over the past few quarters, we've seen frankly pretty flat pricing in the hosting and cloud segment. No material changes in market pricing from a hosting and cloud perspective.

Yeah, that's perfect that's helpful. Thank you, Eric.

Sure, thanks Fred.

Thank you. And your next question comes from Frank Louthan from Raymond James. Your line is now open. Please go ahead.

Great, thank you. Are there any more customers that you have that might be at risk for this kind of churn currently? And then can you walk us through the margin impact, it just seems like it's a little disproportionate and why you think that's going to kind of bounce back a little bit? Thank you.

Sure. Thanks Frank. The more customers expected to churn, the short answer is, no. The visibility we have today and the engagement we have with our customers and you can probably appreciate the heightened sensitivity that we have to customer churn having had these recent experiences definitely combined to cause us to take as close a view as is possible into our customers base and what the churn expectations are. So given current information, we do not expect this level of churn to continue beyond the guidance we've just provided here today.

In terms of the margin, I am assuming you're referring predominately to the EBITDA and EBITDA margin in the first quarter and there are to bucketize basically two causes. Part of the margin reduction was of course attributable to the revenue shortfall and beyond that, what we might have expected there were also negative impacts to EBITDA in the first quarter that are really just attributable to seasonal staff, staff costs and things like our annual sales kick off which were, let's say, which are always a bit negatively impactful to our first quarter.

Can you quantify the sales kickoff in the seasonal items?

So sequentially the quarter-over-quarter kind of increases kind of on the, call it, the people cost alone, so this goes into people, payroll, bonuses and benefits cost and all that probably,. Frank, are in the $2 million to $2.5 million range.

In this we have increase in the FICO restarts and things of that nature. I would say that the sales kickoff costs are probably in the several hundred thousand dollar range.

Okay. Great. Thank you.

Thank you. And your next question comes from Gray Powell from Wells Fargo Securities. Your line is now. Please go ahead.

Thank you. So stepping back a bit, we're seeing a lot of private deals in the space, any thoughts on further consolidation and broader M&A environment?

In general, your observation is certainly correct. We see and even some recent announcements here over the last year or so, the industry consolidation in the sector. I mean, at the end of the day, we obviously believe the IT infrastructure services or data center services sector is a fairly hot market so to speak, large industry growth rates, very healthy returns on capital and therefore a lot of strategic and financial sponsors interested in participating in the space.

I think for Internap, our focus is on challenging ourselves to ask and answer the competitive differentiation question and we wake up every day and challenge ourselves to ensure that we have a sustainable long-term basis for competitive differentiation.

In our case, that's a high performance offering. Certainly recognizing that we're competing in a segment that is very hot and has some very large well-capitalized large scale providers. So we spend a lot of time thinking about competitive differentiation.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

And your next question comes from Matthew Heinz from Stifel. Your line is now open. Please go ahead.

Hi, good evening, thanks for taking the questions. I appreciate the supplemental breakout of segment margins there within the data center segment, good to see the rising gross margin trend and kind of the core piece.

But as we think about kind of the attrition in partner co-lo revenue going forward, I was hoping you could give us a better sense of how much of your core cloud and hosting revenue is generated from those partner data center sites?

Sure. So our – just to clarify, our core data center services revenue doesn't include any partner data center revenue. So...

Right, but I was under the impression that some of the cloud and hosting services were actually taking place and deployed in partner sites although the revenue is still reported under the core segment?

So to the extent we're selling hosting and cloud services and as an example, we have our hosting and cloud point of presence in Amsterdam and another one in London. Those are not Internap owned and operated data centers. So yes, we are effectively renting space in a third-party data center. That flows through our cost-of-goods sold for the hosting and cloud business and the revenue – the only revenue that we're recognizing is hosting and cloud revenue, certainly not any collocation revenue.

Okay. So those are the only few sites where you're generating cloud and hosting revenue from third-party data centers?

We also have hosting and cloud points of presence in Hong Kong and Singapore.

Okay. So I guess the question is can you sort of quantify what percentage of core revenue is occurring in those third-party sites that are not – sites that are not included in company controlled data centers?

We don't or haven't previously broken that level of detail out. You're asking how much of our hosting and cloud revenue is derived from partner data centers versus company controlled data centers?

I guess I'll go so far as to say that the large majority of our hosting and cloud revenue is derived from Internap company controlled data centers and those are, as you probably would expect, Montreal, New York, Dallas and Santa Clara.

Okay. That's helpful. Thank you. And then as a follow-up, I guess in terms of customer concentration, to my knowledge, you haven't given any disclosures around that other than kind of the top customer at 10%.

So I guess first off can you tell us was this churn event, was this customer part of churn event in the quarter? And then going forward what else might you be able to give us in terms of renewal risk on the co-lo side or revenue concentration?

I'll answer your – part of one of your question about the customer churn that we were referring to and let Kevin give you a little more color on our overall customer concentration.

The customer churn that we referred to, i.e. the retail collocation customer and a couple of fairly large hosting customers, those were all part of our quote unquote top billers. So within the top 20 customers across the company.

Having said that, I want to clarify one other point for you, we don't have any 10% revenue customers nor frankly do we have any 5% total, 5% revenue customers. So our customer base is relatively diverse, but obviously as you can see in the quarter, there is still significant customers. So the churn of even a 2% or 3% customer is clearly impactful and relevant for us.

Kevin any other color we should provide?

No, I think you've covered what I was going to say, which basically is we really don't have anybody over 3% at this point and I think that dynamics and it kind of goes back to one of the earlier questions, which says is when a co-lo customer does churn out, usually you do have plenty of notice.

We certainly do have early termination fees should a customer leave us unexpectedly. It's a little bit more challenging, when you get down to customers, which tend to be month-to-month, those customers tend to be in the cloud space.

Okay, that's helpful thanks. And then just one more if I might, I might have missed this at the beginning of the call, but just kind of looking at the optics of the data center churn quarter-over-quarter being down 20 bps, I was wondering kind of how that reconciles with the event in the quarter and how that all kind of sums up?

I guess, the short answer is the churn percentage that you see is really a reflective of a snapshot in time, i.e. the customer revenue as of the last day of the quarter gets rolled up and calculated into our churn figure whereas the revenue is obviously determined by the time during the quarter when that customer churns.

So a customer churning on March 30 will still significantly negatively impact churn in the quarter, but we would obviously have revenue for the majority of the quarter and wouldn't see as much of the revenue impact until the subsequent quarter.

So my point in that is both in Q1 and in Q4 and frankly even as far back as Q3, we've had some unnatural churn events associated with the large customers we mentioned, but also some unnatural churn associated with exit from 111 8th, which makes it difficult to do what you're trying to do, connect the dots explicitly to percentage churn and revenue in any single quarter.

Okay. Thanks for the clarification.

Sure.

Thank you. And I'm not showing any further questions at this time. I would like to turn the call back to Michael Nelson for any further remarks.

All right, thank you for joining us today. We look forward to providing you an update on our progress next quarter and now I'll pass the call back to the operator.

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. This does conclude today's program. You may all disconnect. Everyone have a great day.