Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Michael Nelson — Vice President of Investor Relations, Internap Corporation
Michael A. Ruffolo — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Internap Corp.
Kevin M. Dotts — Chief Financial Officer, Internap Corp.
Jason Michael Kreyer — Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC
Matthew Heinz — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.
Dan L. Kurnos — Analyst, The Benchmark Co. LLC
Colby A. Synesael — Analyst, Cowen & Co. LLC
Frederick W. Moran — Analyst, Burke & Quick Partners LLC
Alex Sklar — Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the Internap Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session, and instructions will be given at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference call may be recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Michael Nelson, Vice President of Investor Relations. You may begin.

Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today. I'm joined by Michael Ruffolo, our Chief Executive Officer, and Kevin Dotts, our Chief Financial Officer. Following prepared remarks, we will open up the call for your questions. The slides we reference in the call are available on our website in the presentation section on the Investor Relations page. Non-GAAP reconciliations and our supplemental data sheet, which includes additional operational and financial metrics, are available under the financial information, quarterly results section of our Investor Relations page.

Today's call contains forward-looking statements including belief in our business strategy, including our channel partner and churn mitigation strategies, market and production positioning, and timing of customer adoption of new products, expectations regarding customer churn and its drivers, margins and our ability to generate sustainable positive and better free cash flow, expectations regarding the drivers of adjusted EBITDA in the fourth quarter, including bookings net of churn, sells of MIRO controller, cost of goods sold, and operating expenses, expectations for revenue, adjusted EBITDA, and capital expenditures in 2015, and our ability to drive profitable top-line revenue growth and continued increase adjusted EBITDA and expanded adjusted EBITDA margin in 2015 and into 2016.

These statements are not guarantees of future performance because these statements are based on certain assumptions and involve risk and uncertainties. There are important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. We discuss these factors in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We undertake no obligation to amend, update, or clarify these statements. In addition to reviewing the third quarter results, we will also discuss recent developments.

Now, let me turn the call over to Michael Ruffolo.

Thank you, Michael, and good afternoon and thanks for everyone joining us on the call today. I'm going to start the discussion with a summary of our results, underscoring our companywide focus on growth. Then I'll ask Kevin Dotts, our CFO, to take you through our financial and operational results. From there, I'll provide an update and some additional color on our strategy to drive growth through the introduction and customer adoption of new product offerings. We'll then conclude our prepared remarks and take your questions.

So beginning on slide three, before we review our third quarter results, I want to directly address the strategic alternatives we are evaluating. As we disclosed in our press release on September 1st, our board of directors created a strategy committee of independent directors and we hired Morgan Stanley and Greenberg Traurig, a law firm, to assist in the evaluation of strategic alternatives. At this point in time, the evaluation is ongoing. The board of directors has not set a timetable for completion of this process and there can be no assurance that any strategic transaction will be completed. As we previously stated, we do not intend to comment further at this time. We ask that you respect that request so that we can maintain the focus of our call on the operational results and our business opportunities.

What we can talk about and what we're excited to share with you today are the results from our third quarter and the solid progress we're making on our growth initiatives. So as you turn to slide four, you'll see that we delivered total revenue in the third quarter of 2015 at $78.3 million, a decrease of 7% year-over-year and 3% quarter-over-quarter. Data center services' revenue totaled $58.6 million in the quarter, a decrease of 5% year-over-year and 1% quarter-over-quarter. Core data center services revenue, which includes company-controlled co-location, hosting and cloud services, totaled $44.6 million in the third quarter, a decrease of 3% year-over-year and 1% quarter-over-quarter.

Segment profit of $44.6 million decreased 6% year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter. Segment margin was 57%, an increase of 90 basis points year-over-year and a decrease of 200 basis points sequentially.

Adjusted EBITDA of $19.8 million was flat year-over-year and increased 3% quarter-over-quarter. Adjusted EBITDA margin expanded 190 basis points year-over-year and 140 basis points sequentially to 25.2%, which is inclusive of $0.3 million in executive transition costs. In the end, we generated positive, levered free cash flow of $2.2 million in the quarter.

Turning to slide five, I wanted to reiterate my view of what makes a great company. This is a slide we introduced back in June and showed again last quarter. The key message is that based on my experience in the tech industry for more than 30 years, all great companies need to compete well in three dimensions, market, product, and execution.

The first dimension, market, answers the question, do we have an adequate, total addressable market? The consensus of the various research analysts indicate that Internap competes in a total addressable market of $60 billion. Given Internap's current size and revenue base, we have a lot of opportunity for growth in this market. Our ability to take advantage of this market comes down to our market positioning, which we describe as "performance without compromise". This positioning resonates because our target customers understand and value the performance capabilities of our suite of offerings.

The second dimension, do we have a product portfolio that provides the basis for long-term competitive differentiation that allows us to compete effectively? At a high level, we believe there are two primary strategies to successfully compete in the IT infrastructure services market. One approach is to compete on the basis of scale and low cost. In the retail industry, if you think about big box retailers like Costco and Wal-Mart, they compete that way in their industry. In our industry, it's what Amazon web services does in the public cloud.

The second approach that's successful and allows for competitive differentiation is a value-added solutions provider with a differentiated and integrated product set. This is the strategy we're pursuing at Internap. Our high performance hybrid infrastructure services portfolio enables us to effectively compete with a performance-based value proposition, which is very attractive to a number of key targeted vertical markets such as software and internet, media and entertainment, healthcare tech, ad tech, financial services, gaming and more. We continue to invest in innovation and patentable technology to further our differentiated high performance value proposition in the areas of cloud, hosting, and our patented IP offerings. We believe we're well positioned in terms of both product and markets.

The final aspect of what makes a great company is execution. And that is the area where we are improving, but we believe we can do better. The good news is that execution is almost entirely within our control. We believe improved execution is what is going to drive operational performance and shareholder value for Internap over the next 12 to 18 months.

On slide six, you see the six key growth initiatives that we introduced in June and again discussed last quarter. I thought it would be useful to provide an update on each growth initiative, which are beginning to yield positive results.

Let's start with our sales force productivity initiatives. The changes we made to our sales compensation plan, our training and selling methodology and others have resulted in a solid third quarter bookings. Bookings, in fact, increased each month during the third quarter with our September bookings the highest level in six months.

Secondly, let's discuss our churn mitigation and account management programs. Again, we started with changes to our sales compensation plan to provide incentives to renew existing customer contracts. We also put in place a global account management program, which provides white glove management and support for our top 100 customers. We believe the actions we've put in place are beginning to positively impact churn, which actually declined 30 basis points in the third quarter and we expect additional improvement in the fourth quarter.

Third, was our focus on increasing data center utilization. We've begun to roll out specific sales initiatives and product programs around improving the utilization in data centers, where we have lower-than-expected utilization. In some of our data centers, it's not an issue. But in other data centers around our network, we have opportunities with very little incremental expense required.

While we strive to increase the utilization, we're experiencing a mixed shift to the types of services that fill our data centers. For example, as we sell more hosting and cloud services, they take up a smaller physical presence but generate significantly higher revenue per square foot and increase returns on invested capital. In the third quarter, company-controlled data center utilization increased 100 basis points to 55%

Fourth are our channel programs. We've retooled our partner channel and hired several new channel veterans with proven track records of building successful channel businesses, which should be incremental to the enhancements we've made to our direct sales force. Our channel strategy is a significant element in our growth strategy going forward. We've revamped it in a way where we are much more channel friendly in our policies and programs and these new channel partner programs and incentives are showing positive signs and starting to have the desired effect of the channel being a sales force multiplier.

Channel bookings increased each month during the third quarter. We believe we are on the right track and expect to generate a larger contribution over time from our channel partners as we continue to grow the business.

The fifth initiative was around lead generation and targeted marketing initiatives. We have more tightly focused our lead generation programs on the performance centric industry verticals that value Internap's competitive differentiation and where we've seen recent traction with new customer additions. We've also improved alignment with the sales team by matching a lead development resource with each of our sales regions to support prospecting efforts in the key local markets. As a result of these changes, we have generated steadily increasing marketing qualified leads during the third quarter.

Finally, our new enhanced product and service offerings. Last quarter, you heard me discuss the launch of our Managed Internet Routing Optimizer controller, which is, shorthand is MIRO controller. This is very exciting and revenue impact the launch for us. The MIRO controller is an on-premise route optimization appliance that replaces our previous Flow Controller Platform or FCP and it was rebuilt from the ground up to meet the intensive performance and scalability requirements of today's internet-based applications.

We have a steadily increasing sales funnel for MIRO controller. Although we have seen a longer-than-anticipated sales cycle for this new product, partly due to customer budget cycles, we believe it represents a delay in orders and not lost orders. In addition, we recently announced the general availability of AgileSERVER 2.0, which is our bare metal infrastructure-as-a-service-offering on OpenStack. Again, this enables us to continue to deliver on our performance without compromised value proposition. I'll discuss this new exciting product launch in more detail later in the presentation.

Finally, we've also recently announced a strategic partnership with Akamai to provide customers with Internap's performance optimized cloud data center and network services, combined with Akamai's cloud security and data protection services. This enhanced service offering is beginning to show positive results already. Just last week, we closed a deal with a large global financial services firm, which combined Internap's high performance data center services with Akamai's industry-leading managed security services. Given my prior background with Akamai, I'm very confident in the revenue upside of this partnership and the power of the two companies working together.

Now let me pass the call over to Kevin Dotts, our Chief Financial Officer, who will give us a more detailed review of our financial results in Q3.

Thanks, Mike. I'll start my comments on slide seven. You will see we delivered total revenue in the third quarter of $78.3 million, representing a decrease of 7% year-over-year or 3% sequentially.

Data center services revenue totaled $58.6 million in the quarter, a decrease of 5% year-over-year and 1% sequentially. The year-over-year decrease was primarily due to the loss of revenue from the 111 8th Avenue, New York metro data center migration from last year. The sequential decrease was primarily attributable to the previously-disclosed large hosting customer churn experienced late in the second quarter and completed early in the third quarter of 2015, and decreased sales in our partner data centers, partially offset by organic growth in core data center revenues.

Consistent with our strategy, we continued to see the mix shift towards data center services, with revenue from this segment now accounting for roughly 75% of total revenue as compared to approximately 67% two years ago.

In our IP services segment, revenue decreased 14% year-over-year and 6% sequentially to $19.7 million. The lower IP revenue was the result of per-unit price declines and lower non-recurring revenue. We continue to rely on the IP services segment as a healthy source of cash flow generation and our MIRO technology as a competitive differentiator for our data center services segment.

In the third quarter, revenue churn in our data center segment decreased 30 basis points sequentially to 2.1%, while churn in our IP segment decreased 20 basis points sequentially to 1.6%. Total company churn decreased 30 basis points sequentially to 2%. Our churn mitigation programs are beginning to yield positive results and we do expect churn to continue to decline.

Turning to slide eight, we note the positive mix shift toward our core data center services. Revenue from these core data center services decreased 3% year-over-year and 1% sequentially, primarily due to the previously-discussed hosting churn event. I will discuss this in more detail on the next slide.

Core data center service revenue has increased at a 19%, 3-year compound annual growth rate through the third quarter of 2015, and now represents 83% of data center services revenue and 62% of our total revenue.

Importantly, the favorable mix shift to core data center services has been the primary driver in our strong adjusted EBITDA growth and adjusted EBITDA margin expansion. Adjusted EBITDA has increased at a 17%, 3-year compound annual growth rate and adjusted EBITDA margin has expanded 690 basis points over the same timeframe.

Turning to slide nine, as previously discussed on our two prior earnings calls, we had a unique customer churn event, where a large hosting customer was acquired by a much larger entity and eventually consolidated their IT infrastructure in house. That unique customer churn event occurred very late in the second quarter, resulting in $200,000 of lower revenue in the second quarter and $1.3 million of lower revenue in the third quarter. That customer migration is now complete. Normalizing for this unique customer churn event, core data center services revenue increased 1.6% sequentially in the third quarter, which highlights that our growth initiatives are beginning to yield positive results.

Turning to slide 10, we recorded data center services segment profit of $33.5 million, a decrease of 1% year-over-year and 4% sequentially. Data center segment margin expanded 220 basis points year-over-year and declined 180 basis points sequentially to 57.2%. Core segment profit was $31.2 million, flat year-over-year and a decrease of 4% sequentially.

Core segment margin expanded 210 basis points year-over-year and decreased 200 basis points sequentially to 64.4%. The primary driver for the strong year-over-year improvement in segment margin was due to the favorable product mix of selling a larger proportion of higher margin company-controlled co-location hosting and cloud services. The sequential decline was a result of seasonally higher power costs associated with the cooling requirements of our data center infrastructure during the third quarter.

Long term, we see significant opportunities to continue to further expand data center services margin based on the mix shift towards core data center services. In addition to these mix shift benefits, we also see the opportunity to expand margins as we increase utilization in our recently-deployed data center footprint. With approximately 55% utilization across our company-controlled data center footprint, as occupancy increases we expect further upside to data center services margins derived from utilization efficiencies.

On slide 11, we show IP services segment profit and segment margin results. The IP segment profit of $11.1 million decreased 18% year-over-year and 10% sequentially. IP segment margin decreased 250 basis points year-over-year and 240 basis points sequentially to 56.5%. While we continue to realize the impact of secular pricing trends, sequentially we realized a lower appliance usage and other one-time event revenues. We expect continued renegotiations of vendor contracts and the contribution from MIRO controller to be accretive to IP margins as we execute our strategy in coming quarters.

Despite the revenue headwinds created by the declining IP services revenue, the segment continues to deliver solid segment profitability and cash flow, which we leveraged to invest in the more capital intensive data center services segment. Further, the IP business also positively impacts our data center services business because our high performance network enhances the competitive differentiation of our hybridized IT infrastructure service offerings. Over 95% of our data center customers also take our IP service.

Moving on to slide 12, you can see we delivered a solid quarter of adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margin. Third quarter adjusted EBITDA was $19.8 million, which was above our revised guidance range of $18 million to $19 million and flat year-over-year and increased 3% sequentially. Adjusted EBITDA margin expanded 190 basis points year-over-year and 140 basis points sequentially to 25.2%. The improvement in adjusted EBITDA and the associated margin expansion was predominantly due to the result of favorable product mix shift towards core data center services and the positive operating leverage in our business model.

Cash flow and balance sheet summaries are shown on slide 13. We are pleased to report the generation of positive levered free cash flow in the third quarter. Adjusted EBITDA less capital expenditures and cash interest expense totaled $2.2 million in levered free cash flow. With a disciplined approach to capital allocation, we believe we are on the path towards sustainable positive levered free cash flow.

At the end of the third quarter, cash and cash equivalents totaled $18.3 million. Funded debt totaled $318.8 million. As of September 30, 2015, our debt consisted of $287.8 million borrowed under our term loan at a rate of 6% and $31 million borrowed under our revolving credit facility at a rate of 4.7%. We also had $57.5 million in capital leases.

Our net debt totaled $358 million. While our net debt to last quarter annualized adjusted EBITDA was 4.5 times. We are below the financial covenants in our credit agreement. Our current capital deployment plans are fully funded with our current debt facilities while include an incremental $12.7 million in borrowing capacity, cash generation and cash on hand.

On slide 14, we are reaffirming our full-year 2015 guidance, adjusted EBITDA and capital expenditure guidance. We expect to deliver a full year 2015 revenue in the range of $320 million to $325 million, adjusted EBITDA in the range of $80 million to $85 million, and capital expenditures in the range of $60 million to $70 million.

On slide 15, we provide a bridge from the third quarter 2015 to the fourth quarter 2015 adjusted EBITDA. Our full year 2015 guidance implies fourth quarter 2015 adjusted EBITDA of $23.2 million to $28.2 million, compared to $19.8 million in the third quarter of 2015. In the fourth quarter, we expect continued execution on our growth initiatives to result in increased bookings net of churn of $0.5 million to $3 million. We also project the strong and growing funnel for MIRO controller to result in $0.5 million to $3 million.

On the expense side, we expect to realize cost of goods savings of $1.5 million to $2 million inclusive of roughly $1.5 million in lower seasonal power. Finally, we expect to achieve incremental operating expense benefits of $0.4 million to $0.9 million as a result of seasonally lower employee-related tax expenses and other operational efficiencies.

Now let me turn the call back to Mike.

Thanks, Kevin. I thought it would be good to end this part of the prepared comments with a discussion on our strategy to drive growth through the introduction of new product offerings and then we'll end with a summary of our progress to date.

On slide 16, we thought it would be helpful to highlight a recent product launch that I mentioned earlier that resulted in Internap being recognized as a leading data center and cloud services provider. Last week, during the OpenStack summit in Tokyo, we announced the general availability release of AgileSERVER 2.0. That's our bare metal infrastructure as a service offering on OpenStack. Bare metal infrastructure as a service is a rapidly growing product category and we've established ourselves as a leader in this space. AgileSERVER 2.0 increased our competitive advantage in this market by delivering bare metal on an open standard space platform, OpenStack, and also providing significant networking flexibility for customers deploying complex workloads in the cloud.

AgileSERVER 2.0 features significant hardware, networking, and management advancements. The platform is ideal for customers running performance-oriented applications across big data, SaaS and a variety of other use cases and can be easily integrated into a hybrid environment for maximum application performance and cost efficiency, clearly the sweet spot of our go-to-market strategy.

Personally, in my many meetings with customers around North America, I'm most inspired when we discuss and learn from customers about how they're getting unique value from Internap, and how Internap is enabling them to compete effectively in their industry.

On slide 17, we show a former Amazon web services customer who has "graduated" to Internap. AppLovin, a leading global mobile advertising company, started on AWS then moved to Internap's higher performing and more cost effective bare metal infrastructure for the company's data intensive workloads. For AppLovin, there is a direct correlation between the speed of ad delivery and the conversion rate.

The company processes more than 50 billion ad requests every day and these ads must be served within 100 milliseconds of the initial request to reach the target demographic. After running tests, AppLovin found that Amazon's virtualized infrastructure could not scale cost effectively, and would not be able to meet its performance needs as the company's user base grew. In an effort to constantly improve the speed at which ads are delivered, AppLovin delivers up to 10X the performance of today's fastest available SSDs by turning to Internap where we are delivering up to 10X the performance that they experienced in the past with Amazon.

AppLovin is a perfect example of a customer for whom our high performance value proposition resonates in what we call, as I mentioned earlier, an AWS graduate. They found that Internap's automated bare metal service and route optimized IP connectivity provides a superior price to performance for their data intensive applications as compared to AWS.

Internap's AgileSERVER allows AppLovin to meet its performance needs using fewer servers, which has helped the company achieve a cost savings of up to five times compared to running similar workloads in a virtualized AWS environment. We are increasingly coming across these types of Amazon graduates that are finding improved performance and cost efficiencies and migrating their workloads from commodity public clouds to Internap's high performance bare metal solution.

So now let me summarize on our slide 18. We believe our third quarter 2015 results provides a solid foundation for our return to profitable growth as our growth initiatives are beginning to yield positive results. In the third quarter, adjusted EBITDA increased 3%, and adjusted EBITDA margin expanded 140 basis points quarter-over-quarter. As Kevin mentioned, we generated positive levered free cash flow while bookings and churn are both trending favorably. Through the rest of 2015 and into 2016, we expect to drive profitable top line revenue growth as well as continue to increased adjusted EBITDA and expand adjusted EBITDA margin. We expect improvements to be driven by the customer adoption of new products and services and even better execution.

As a team, we remain confident in the strategy we have chosen, and believe our ability to execute against this strategy in our growth initiatives should accelerate growth for the company.

Now we'd like to open up the call for your questions. So I'll hand it back to the operator. Operator? [Operator Instructions]

Our first question comes from the line of Matthew – I'm sorry George Sutton of Craig-Hallum. Your line is now open.

Hey, guys. This is Jason on for George. Thanks for taking my question. Mike, when you took over, you talked about some hesitation on the public process just because there could potentially be some dislocation on either the internal or the external side. Just wondering if that factored into the revised outlook that you issued a month ago or if you can talk through that at all?

Well, so first off, on the announcement that we made on September 1st, in some regards what that allowed us to do is take a lot of pressure out of the system because as you can appreciate it was an awkward conversation with employees, with customers, with investors, etc. So we've now, now that it's in the open, in fact, it becomes kind of a non issue in those discussions and people are quite comfortable that as many companies do taking a look at strategic alternatives as a logical thing to do given the changes going on in the industry.

Certainly the adjustments we made to the guidance earlier had a lot to do with the factors that Kevin identified earlier where we had the impact of some large kind of unique churn events and we also didn't have as quick of take up of the MIRO controller product in terms of the timing of when sales would go through. I think, as you know, we recognize the revenue 100% on that product as an appliance. So there was a number of different factors, but at the end of the day in Q3, we got back on an improvement in both bookings and a decrease in churn in all three months.

Okay, great. Thank you for the color. Diving into the channel progress a little bit, if you can provide anything quantitatively like a percentage of bookings or anything that shows the success that you're having in the channel? Then taking that a step further, my understanding is that most of the channel in this industry is focused more on colo, and I know you're pursuing more cloud and just wondering if you have any progress that you can talk about on that front?

Yes, no, we're that – I loved to talk about that. I think you may have seen that awhile earlier this summer we hired Patty Watkins to run our – to become VP of Channels. She has a tremendous background. I've known her for a number of years, and she came on and really very quickly jumped right into helping to execute our vision around making the channel of sales force multiplier for us. In Q3 or historically I think on average we've booked about 20% of our bookings on average came through the channel. In Q3, they're actually higher than that. As you know, we don't give bookings numbers out in our public information. But suffice to say they were higher this quarter than what we experienced historically which was around 20% in the past.

The channel partner productivity is really increasing based on the fact that we've got a much more collaborative relationship with our direct sales force. In addition to, now they're also able to sell some new high margin products like the MIRO controller. So we're very bullish about the opportunity that the channel is going to be able to provide for us. We were not a channel-friendly company historically, and I think we're being recognized as trying to really drive a lot of business jointly with our partners.

You're right that historically colo and IP were the two areas we used channel partners the most. But in our cloud and hosting business, that's an area we're doing a lot of recruiting to help drive business in that area of our company as well.

Great. Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Matthew Heinz of Stifel. Your line is now open.

Hi, good evening. Thanks. I was hoping you could comment on CenturyLink's plan to divest physical data center assets, and I guess just the broader trend around teleco struggles in a co-location space? It seems that there is an ongoing shift towards specialization in terms of service providers. I can appreciate that you're limited in what you can say around the strategic alternatives, but I'm just curious to hear how you think this might impact the addressable universe of partners or the discussions that you're having?

Yes, I'm certainly not in a position to comment on what CenturyLink's thinking is on that, but certainly what I read is probably the same as what you read which is they made that acquisition of Savvis and paid multiple billions of dollars for it, and from the standpoint of what I believe they're doing is actually spinning out the co-location part of it, not the cloud and hosting part. But anyway, I would recommend you certainly talk to them directly to get the straight scoop.

But I would say that in general that what teleco's have had issues with acquisitions of those kind of companies, I think there's some evidence that's true. From our standpoint, we're going – we didn't see them as a particularly direct competitor of what we do. But we do find that when we go to market with the vertical market focus that we're at, that we're tending to focus on customers where our value proposition's pretty unique. So, as that example I gave of AppLovin, it matters deeply to guys like that that they're able to deliver those ads very quickly, because that's how they drive revenue. So we're kind of focused around areas that are pretty unique to what we can do with our IP and our service offerings. So like I said, I don't pay attention too much to what the other guys are doing in that space.

Okay, I appreciate the color. Thanks.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Dan Kurnos of The Benchmark Company. Your line is now open.

Great. Thanks. Good evening. Just a few, Mike, high level questions, and maybe just following up a little bit on the first two questions from a different standpoint. Now that you guys have normalized churn to an extent, can you maybe just update us on your expectations for the colo piece of growth, understanding that obviously you're prioritizing cloud and hosting? Then secondly, you did mention in your prepared remarks about some of the new initiatives and programs you're putting in place to optimize DC utilization. Just curious if you feel like once that's been rolled out, if you feel like sales force incentives are now sort of properly aligned with how you want the business to be going forward? Thanks.

Let me take the second one first. So, as I mentioned earlier, this is Mike, as I mentioned earlier, the targeted data center utilization activity is really to drive in specific geographies where there is a lot of new capacity that we've brought on line or where there's a lot of supply in the marketplace for us to go after some large anchor tenants to kind of be bigger contributors to the success of that particular data center. But as you know, when we're selling hosting and cloud, it's independent of geography. So it really only relates to the colo part of the business. But our sales compensation plans and the other incentives in place with our channel partners are very much congruent with that strategy and we anticipate it accelerating in Q4.

Hi, Dan, this is Kevin. Going to your first question, I mean and somewhat in tying back into the previous question that was discussed, right, we – I think what we understood from CenturyLink as an example they had a decline in their colo revenues. You know some of this gets into a little bit of analytics cause we've had a lot of noise in the numbers over the past 12 months with the exit of 111 8th in New York. We also did talk about that we had one large churn event in our – actually January timeframe in our – one of our Boston data centers. If I normalized that out, I think what we've actually seen is we believe that the industry for our company-controlled co-location, the industry itself is growing. Call it in the 10% range roughly. I think if we had normalized out the 111 8th and that one large colo customer, we would actually be ahead of that and actually be growing faster in our colo business. So, I think we're still seeing very good colo growth.

That's great color, Kevin. Thanks. Then maybe just one more for me and either one of you I guess can take this. I thought it was interesting in the press release, just reading a little bit about some of the synergies or cost savings, however you want to look at it, with the iWeb, that the retiring of the brand, if you will. So I'm just curious if maybe you guys could give us an overall update now on where you stand on synergies post or cost savings post the acquisition? Mike, you know I know you've talked about this before, but just an update on how the ecommerce sales channel kind of fits into your new strategy. Thanks.

Yes, so you had two questions there. Again, I'll take the second one first then ask Kevin to provide some additional color. So, first off, kind of at the macro level, we remain very pleased with the business combination between iWeb and Internap. It's largely integrated at this point. What we view iWeb is really as a route to market, really more of a distribution channel then a product set per say. Cause the talent that we picked up with that company has really been integrated fully into what we announced recently with the AgileSERVER 2.0. So all the engineering talent is really focused around advancing us in the bare metal space and the work that we're doing with OpenStack. So from that standpoint, it's kind of in our rearview mirror in terms of what we did with these guys. But in the meantime, I think that you're going to see that we're going to continue to use the assets we've picked up from iWeb and as we get the cost synergies from retiring the costs associated with running iWeb as a standalone that'll benefit us as well.

This is Kevin. Just to add to the first question there. Agree with, exact what Mike had just articulated. I mean where we stand right now as you think about it anything from product management, marketing, sales, operations activity in the back office are fully integrated at this point. I think what we've been able to realize like in the sales and marketing align is pretty much quarter-over-quarter over probably a million dollars worth of let's say lower spending alone. As it relates to the fact that we're not really out there trying to market two different brands, but effectively focusing more on the Internap brand at this point.

You know on top of that I think there's just been some general operational synergies that have added to that and we continue to benefit from that. I would say that's probably been let's say another probably in that range of another million dollars or so that's kind of benefiting the bottom line. So if you look at the total OpEx quarter-over-quarter, I think it was roughly about $3.5 million. A large part of that was basically the fact that we took the $1.3 million worth of executive transition cost in Q2. So, I think that kind of adds up to synergies plus that is really what you're seeing as a benefit hitting the OpEx lines.

Got it, great. Thanks for all the color guys.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Colby Synesael of Cowen and Company. Your line is now open.

Great. Thank you. Two lines of questions if I may. Just talking about churn and management's expectations for that to continue to see improvement. Can you just discuss what's been done on the back end to kind of go through that customer list, get a better understanding, Mike, since you've taken over, about the contract terms, customers' expectations to stay, you know that there's no I guess surprises coming in the next few quarters? Then also as it relates to free cash flow, certainly appreciate that the company is driving towards sustainable free cash flow positive. Any color on when that is actually expected to be achieved? As part of that, is it fair to assume that we should see a notable decrease in CapEx going into 2016? Thanks.

Okay, hi, Colby. It's Mike. I'll do question one and Kevin if you'd do the second one. So yes, the churn thing's kind of a budding success story here within the company in the sense that the amount of heat and light that we've put on churn reduction over the last five months, six months almost now, is really beginning to yield. As I mentioned earlier, we saw decreases in each of the last three months of churn. Churn is a reality in any business like ours, but what I think we've done is significantly improve the visibility and manageability, if you will, of the risk of churn. So we've put in place initiatives that mitigate churn and what that really starts with is, first off, putting a global account management program in place for our top 100 customers. What that means in practice is that every one of those customers has both local sales and technical support and executive support, including people like myself that has a personal relationship with each of these customers to ensure that we're touching them often enough.

We coupled that with improvements to sales comp plan. Colby, I think I told you earlier where the incentives were not in place where sales people cared about renewing existing customer contracts. That obviously isn't a good thing if you're trying to keep your relationships strong. So now we have incentives as part of the comp plan to renew existing customer contracts. So it's not just management. It's not just customer support. It's the entire company that cares about the health and wealth of each of those large customers.

In addition, that's the human touch. The other part of it is for the rest of our customer base and our customer base in general is that we've become a lot more data driven around what we can do in our support organization to insure that we have as many of the key metrics available to us well in advance so we know when and if there's issues that we have to deal with customers. So it could be everything from when their contract is coming up for renewal, the number of trouble tickets they may have had, any customer service issues. But the idea there is that we want to get ahead of a churn discussion and not be surprised by it. So I would say and you know this from following other companies, there's always the potential for unexpected churn. But I think we're way better in terms of getting in front of potential issues with the actions we've put in place.

Colby, this is Kevin. Jumping in on the free cash flow question. I think we've talked historically, publicly about the idea that we expected to go free cash flow positive in a timeframe that would have pointed towards probably second half of 2016. So the fact that we kind of stepped over that line here this quarter I think is more representative right now of the fact that there's been one of those small silver linings to one that large hosting churn event was we were able to let's say redeploy a significant server environment to other customers, which allowed us to not go out and spend more money on CapEx. So that's part of, call it a tailwind that's kind of supporting the lower CapEx spending this year.

I think if you've seen the CapEx that we've spent over the past let's say couple of years, I think that's historically what we've guided folks to is the neighborhood of we would continue to spend that amount. We're not giving guidance at this point for 2016, but I think from the perspective of we could, based on timing of construction cycles, I would anticipate in 2016 we'll be looking at expansions in Secaucus, possibly as well as another one out in the West Coast in Santa Clara. So I think it's more as we continue to grow our EBITDA, it'll outpace effectively both the EBITDA spend and the interest costs and then we'll be in a more sustained free cash flow positive situation.

Great. Thank you for the color. I appreciate it.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Fred Moran with Burke & Quick. Your line is now open.

Thank you. Slide 15, I understand the MIRO controller is direct flow through of revenue from sales there. But can – Is the growth initiatives the bookings you made in the third quarter flowing through as new revenue or is that something else? Can you just help me understand a little bit what costs you're cutting that add to the EBITDA in the fourth quarter?

Yes, sure thing, Fred. This is Kevin. From the growth initiatives perspective, I'd say there's two elements to that. Some of that is inherently the positive [indiscernible] (47:27) as you noted right, and as we talked about the fact that the bookings continue to grow through the third quarter and September being kind of our highest point as churn was kind of cycling downward. So we kind of exit the quarter with a favorable [indiscernible] (47:43) tailwind. So some of that based on install cycles becomes a positive revenue event that wasn't seen in third quarter but shows up in fourth quarter. We've actually seeing some good traction in the bare metal or what we call as a product brand, Agile product. Those install cycles tend to be very short. So we can realize revenue very quickly on those. So those types of things are really what are making up that growth initiatives box. You kind of covered the MIRO controller. So I think we're pretty clear on that. The COGS saving I think we were pretty clear in the script that discussed the fact that close to 1.5 of that just comes from lower seasonal power costs related to cooler temperatures within the data centers during the fall into the winter months.

Then as far as the OpEx benefit, some of that is basically you know if you would at our head count and I think the supplemental information you'll see that the head count is down over third quarter as well as there are lower call it taxes, payroll taxes. People kind of max out on our FICA as we come into the second half of the year. So the accrued expense gets lower and that's also dropping through and all that kind of adds up to that guidance for the fourth quarter.

That's very helpful. Will you just help me understand a little bit the backlogs and the new – the backlog and the new leasing activity reaching six month ago level, is that a prior peak or is it still well off the peak? Specifically, other than using channel partners, what is Internap doing to reaccelerate the leasing importantly for larger customers?

Let me talk to the first part of that question and then we can talk about what we're doing otherwise. For the first part of that question, certainly I would say if you go back six months, right, you're talking effectively the March month timeframe and effectively. That was a strong point in the year. I would say the next higher point from that might have dated back to early 2014. So, I can't say that is the all-time peak for the business, but again it's one of those peaks in the more recent period. So, I think we feel positive that we're coming out of that rate and beginning to see momentum going in that direction going forward. [indiscernible] (50:24) the second part?

Yes, Fred, can you help me understand the second part of your question, cause I – you were using terms I wasn't familiar with. So can you say that again?

Just in terms of attracting new colo sale or co-location or wholesale or large customers, what are you doing there to compete against the other players in the market? Other than using channel partners, are you offering incentives, price discounts? How, in general, are you attacking the marketplace especially given that your sales people might be facing a challenge and that clients understand that you're going through a strategic review?

Okay, so a couple of things. One is you recall that with our colo product, 95% of our colo products are buying our IP product as well. So our colo solution is not just pure kind of colo as you probably describe it in looking at the industry as a whole. So, our ability to be successful selling colo really hasn't changed in that regard. Our value proposition is pretty unique and what we're doing in addition to kind of the regular stuff, if you will, is the targeted data center utilization strategies around a few of our geographies, where price is certainly one of the considerations that we're getting more aggressive on, in those specific geographies.

Then I guess the other thing is that as our sales force, as we both improve the tenure of our sales force and the success they've had, we're just getting more productivity out of the existing team. So there's a number of different things that are contributing and to not one thing in particular.

Okay, thanks very much.

Sure.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Frank Louthan of Raymond James. Your line is now open.

Yes, hi, this is Alex Sklar here for Frank. Had a clarification on the utilization you were talking about before. What is going after an anchor tenant entail? What's an example of like an anchor tenant because when you hear from other co-location providers that might be someone like AWS or Azure. I don't think that's what you're trying to suggest. But just a clarification there.

Then as far as on the bookings trends, and while September was the strongest month of the year, you may not have obviously been fully impacted by the announcement of the strategic alternatives, which was on September 1. So can you give us any color on how that bookings trends continued into the fourth quarter? Thank you.

Sure, well, okay a couple, you said a number of things there. So, let's kind of take them one at a time. In terms of the September bookings, September bookings wasn't the best of the year. It was the best in the last six months, just to kind of clarify that. The announcement of strategic alternatives is actually not affected -- did not affect our September results and is not affecting our Q4 results as we see them so far. We're not going to talk in detail at this point about our progress in Q4 but we're very confident that the trend lines continue in a good direction. The other thing is you're right, we are not using the term anchor tenant in the context of AWS or Azure. We're talking about end user customers that are large purchasers of our colo and IP services in specific targeted data centers. So I'm glad you clarified that because that's clearly a different definition than what we mean, which is really just large customers that are buying the suite of Internap services.

Got it. Then maybe just some additional color on some of the changes you made. I appreciate the color on the churn side, but as far as on the booking side, what's been working? Then any color on if any of the September 3Q bookings have turned to revenue yet?

Okay, so first off on the September bookings turning to revenue, depending on the service offering, we get revenue somewhere between you know on the low end 30 days, on the high end, I don't know, what do you think, 60 days?

Yes, yes, even for some of the hourly stuff, let's say you're getting it immediately when you're talking about, but I don't know

Yes, so I mean obviously it depends on the mix. So certainly there's been some positive impact to revenue already on that based on the mix of products. But in terms of our bookings, you know the reality is, is that what we're finding is that our sales force, one of the things we did and if you were following us over the past three or four quarters, we really have done a good job of kind of changing out the profile of our sales force to being more hosting and cloud oriented skill sets versus network and in colo skill sets. So, the folks that we brought on board over the last nine months have become more productive quicker. I think we've done a better job of training them and we have been very focused on key vertical markets where the performance value proposition really resonates like the example I gave you with AppLovin. But if you look at any of the key verticals that we're strong in, we have our sales force targeted there and they're going to a very receptive customer and prospect base that's interested in what we offer.

Thank you. I'm showing no further questions at this time. I'd like to hand the call back over to Mr. Michael Nelson for any closing remarks.

Great. Thank you, everyone, for joining us today. We look forward to providing you our next update on our progress. Now, I'll pass the call back to the operator.

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. That does conclude today's program. You may all disconnect. Have a great day everyone.