Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Richard R. Ramlall — Chief Communications Officer, Internap Corp.
Peter D. Aquino — President, Chief Executive Officer & Board Member, Internap Corp.
James C. Keeley — Chief Financial Officer, Internap Corp.
Dan L. Kurnos — Analyst, The Benchmark Co. LLC
George Sutton — Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC
Frank G. Louthan — Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc.
Erik Peter Rasmussen — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.
Jonathan M. Petersen — Analyst, Jefferies LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the INAP Fourth Quarter 2018 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded.

I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference, Mr. Richard Ramlall, Chief Communications Officer. Sir, you may begin.

Good morning, and thank you for joining us today. I'm joined by Pete Aquino, our Chief Executive Officer and Jim Keeley, our Chief Financial Officer. Following prepared remarks, we'll open up the call for your questions. The slides we reference in the call are available on our website in the Events and Presentations section of our IR page.

During this call, we'll present both GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included in today's earnings press release. Management believes that our presentation of non-GAAP financial measures provides useful supplemental information to the investors regarding our results of operations, and our non-GAAP financial measures should only be considered in addition to and not as a substitute for or superior to any measure of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. The earnings press release is available under the Financial Information section of our Investor Relations page under the Quarterly Results link.

Today's call contains forward-looking statements as described in page 2 of the slide presentation we reference in this call, which we urge you to read. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. Because these statements are based on certain assumptions and involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements.

We discussed these factors in our fillings with the SEC, which are available from the SEC or on our IR website. We undertake no obligation to amend, update or clarify these statements made as of today, March 14, 2019.

Now, let me turn the call over to Peter Aquino. Pete?

Thank you, Richard, and good morning, everyone. Welcome to our 2018 wrap-up. We've just completed our second year as the new management team of INAP and pleased to report that the end of 2018 marks the completion of several key initiatives to reposition our company for profitable growth, partnerships and potentially transformative deals.

For the year, revenue is stable and beginning to grow once again as we proactively made changes to our portfolio. We're beginning to close larger deals with somewhat longer lead times, so we're now in the game. The fourth quarter includes some end-year adjustments and deal timing, but we're still very optimistic. In addition, EBITDA is up with expected upside yet to be captured, and our cash flow is also improving. Also, performance drivers of INAP are pointing in the right direction. So, let's turn to slide 4 to briefly review the key milestones and accomplishments that got us to this point.

The timeline highlights an ambitious set of objectives including cost savings, strategic investments, M&A and partnerships. During this period, we also rebuilt our sales, marketing and product teams. We made great strides in our customer support teams and go-to-market strategies for the long term. The primary objective was to refocus INAP on profitable growth and redirect investments into our flagship data centers.

Through acquisition and investments, we've also upgraded our managed cloud capability and network backbone. The goal was always to improve the overall customer experience and enable them to grow their businesses. In addition, while we subtracted six data centers that were non-core and less profitable, we also added two flagship data centers that we control in Atlanta and Phoenix, both high-absorption markets that we can capitalize on. This two-year period also reflects financing activity to improve our balance sheet to gain flexibility and fuel revenue growth.

Let's turn to slide 5 to review the financial results over the last three years. Our three-year financial history demonstrates the rebirth of a solid track record of transformation towards profitability. The positive outlook for EBITDA remains upbeat and our revenue composition has been rebalanced to better position our company for the future.

There were series of operational initiatives designed to rightsize our business. We made important decisions that reduced unproductive revenue by nearly $10 million and our EBITDA will go up over time. Simultaneously, we upgraded our value-added services in cloud and network to improve resiliency as customers are demanding more and more power, automation, connectivity and access.

Given our current business model, we expect 4% to 7% annual top line growth over normalized 2018 revenue post closures. Our revenue outlook reflects a path via organic growth; however, we will be opportunistic with smart tuck-ins that support our business plan.

As we look ahead, we're quoting projects to upsize and go beyond pure retail services. In 2018, we got our first taste of selling more wholesale deals than ever before and gaining momentum. This is a great sign, and we're confident that we're just getting started.

Although long-term wholesale deals tend to require more success-based CapEx, we've been able to place larger customer footprint in high absorption markets where we already have [ph] space (00:06:19) including Santa Clara, Phoenix, Dallas, Montreal. This has kept our CapEx relatively modest as a percent of revenue in the near term and generates margin expansion and positive cash flow.

For the year of 2018, EBITDA was up significantly to 35%, up from 27% in 2016. From a run rate perspective, we exited fourth quarter at 36% including all of these puts and takes for the fourth quarter. We still have our sights on 40% as the next milestone and we're getting closer.

Regarding cash flow in 2018, we drove approximately $70 million EBITDA less CapEx, which is double of 2016. We aim to increase margins further by focusing on high return on investment cases and reinvesting in colocation where we need capacity. Today, our Tier III design data centers are very profitable and are primarily located in the U.S. As we add more colo inventories to our international segment, we can gain more contribution margin.

INAP US contribution margin is similar to peers at over 45%, while INAP International has an opportunity to expand beyond 35% as we add more colo inventory. To drive international revenue margins higher, we're now planning an expansion in one of our core Montréal Data Centers, and working with Colt to add customers in North London. In addition, we have a good presence with bare-metal in Amsterdam and looking to grow our business there. Not only given our network presence in Singapore, in customer feedback, we're considering adding our cloud pods there in the near future. We're also very proud of our INAP Japan team and they're making great progress in extending their business. Today, we now own 85% of INAP Japan with NTT as a minority partner.

So, to better understand what makes INAP an emerging destination for new logos and customer expansions, let's turn to t slide 6. INAP's impressive footprint rivals the best-in-class data center operators in the markets that we compete in. We operate 53 data centers in 21 markets with over 125 megawatts of power. The top 400 enterprise customers at INAP produce the majority of our revenue; however, today we manage approximately 9,000 business accounts from startups needing space and power to the Fortune 500, requiring [indiscernible] (00:09:13) solution.

One of the most strategic advantages that we have is that our improving sales team can cross-sell against three critical infrastructure products; colo, cloud, and network. We are known for partnering with customers who need hybrid solutions that utilize colo, cloud and network services to engineer complex IT projects. INAP can bundle, where others cannot. To give customers the full spectrum of services they require, all under one roof, we are engaging customers through multiple fronts, including direct sales, channel agents and through our insight sales teams. This go-to-market approach is getting stronger every day.

So at a glance, the key attributes of INAP are that we offer Tier III data centers for colocation whether they're in our own INAP flagships or in turnkey Tier III facilities with our partners. We have significant transaction in gaming, ADTECH, healthcare, Fintech, and software, and other technology infrastructure sectors. And they're all beginning to – and we're beginning to talk to big customers about their edge requirements. We can enable those customers in short order [indiscernible] (00:10:34).

Another key attribute and clearly a significant barrier to entry is that our facilities across North America are primarily in metropolitan markets where enterprise demand for infrastructure is the greatest, [ph] taking three (00:10:51) times hyperscale. As the workloads begin to lead company facilities, we're building numerous multi-cloud requests, whereby customers are accessing both public and private clouds to fill the platforms needed for their business.

Security and privacy requirements are also driving growth in private cloud services. For example, we just landed a healthcare deal with the InSync whose goal is to securely control their environment with a partner like INAP to maintain a high level compliance across their platform.

In spite of our visions to be a leading cloud service provider, we're also very pleased with the integration of our advanced managed services platform through the acquisition of SingleHop in early 2018. We are now collectively known for advanced automation and flexibility across our bare-metal cloud platform. Our all-star team with experts provide our customers with a partner who they can work with hand-in-hand. And finally, one of the well-known key attributes of our company is our global network.

Let's turn to slide 7 to review the upgrades made during 2018. Over the last year or so, we've been busy scaling our bandwidth to handle the ever increasing IP traffic worldwide. Our network team revaluated all of our carrier contracts and architecture to reengineer our backbone across North America and to bring the majority of our data centers directly on that.

In addition, investments in dark fiber and electronics enable Metro E and SD-WAN, and are now being tested and under discussion with anchor tenants. This new and improved transport network not only benefits our uptime and reduces outages, but also allows our customers to monitor their services end-to-end.

Today, our data centers, cloud pods and over 100 network PoPs globally are all interconnected via fiber or waves. This new infrastructure coupled with our performance IP, routing technology is attracting new customers by providing their business with seamless, low-latency connectivity solutions. We aim to leverage this strength as a closing tool where others cannot.

So, at this point, let me turn it over to Jim, our CFO, to go through the fourth quarter results in more detail. Jim?

Thanks, Pete, and good morning, everyone. As we close 2018, I am very pleased with the groundwork that has been laid in the year to position the company for future growth. We have finished the planned closures of non-core, less profitable data centers. We built the sales force over the year, expanded our product mix and technical talent with the acquisition of SingleHop, strengthened our balance sheet in equity raise and debt repricing. These proactive actions are designed to improve operational performance. And we are working to support our customers with a high quality of service that drove many business decisions over the years.

Now let's walk through the fourth quarter results and discuss the impact of these strategic initiatives. As previously disclosed effective in the first quarter of 2018, we realigned our segments geographically into INAP U.S. and INAP International. We decided to make this change in conjunction with the SingleHop acquisition to better align and manage our [indiscernible] (00:14:33) data center operation and assets. New reporting segments and historical comparison are presented in the release we issued this morning.

Now let's turn to the consolidated earnings summary on slide 8. Total revenue as reported was $78.2 million in the fourth quarter of 2018, a decrease of 5.7% sequentially and an increase of 11.7% year-over-year. As Pete discussed earlier, the sequential decrease was partly due to the continuation of one-time proactive initiatives to improve our business, more specifically to close underperforming data centers. In order to exit the year with a clean baseline for 2019, we accelerated the completion of these planned exits in markets where we had already had an INAP flagship data center. In addition, the decrease was impacted by revenue accounting adjustments resulting from year end true-ups, lower non-recurring revenue, slightly higher churn from our base of continuing assets.

The good news is that our adjusted EBITDA was fairly stable with only a slight [indiscernible] (00:15:39) we have completely exited all six of the data centers planned and have begun to see the positive cash flow benefits as the lease term on these properties end. The majority of the remaining leases terminate by the end of the second quarter of [ph] 2019 (00:15:57). And even though revenue was impacted by these closures, we were able to continue to increase adjusted EBIT throughout the year.

As we look to the year ahead and account for the normalized fourth quarter results, we expect our revenue [indiscernible] (00:16:12) first quarter of 2019 to be around $77 million, a decrease from the fourth quarter due primarily to recurring revenue loss at the end of the quarter for which the full impact will not be recognized until Q1. Also given the nature of many of the one-time adjustments in the fourth quarter, we expect adjusted EBITDA and cash flow to remain relatively flat going into first quarter of 2019, then increase its revenue growth combined with continuous efforts to optimize our business and productivity trend towards our guidance.

Net loss end of the fourth quarter was $19.4 million including $3.4 million of other expenses, such as $2.3 million from exit, restructuring, and impairments, and $1.1 million of stock-based compensation. On a normalized non-GAAP basis, fourth quarter 2018 net loss increased by $4.8 million to $16 million from a net loss of $11.2 million in the prior quarter, and increased $10.5 million versus $5.5 million in prior year. Sequentially, the increase was primarily due to lower revenues, offset by cost savings from exited data centers operating expenses. The year-over-year increase is primarily due to higher depreciation and amortization and higher interest expense, both of which is primarily a result of SingleHop acquisition.

Adjusted EBITDA in the first quarter was $27.9 million with adjusted EBITDA margin of 35.7% Adjusted EBITDA decreased by $1.5 million including previously mentioned one-time adjustments versus the prior quarter, and increase $3.5 million year-over-year, including the impact of [indiscernible] (00:17:56). Adjusted EBITDA margin expanded 30 basis points sequentially and 90 basis points compared to [indiscernible] (00:18:05). The sequential decrease in EBITDA is driven primarily by the decline in revenue, offset in part by cost reduction associated with exited data centers and an OpEx to CapEx leasing [indiscernible] (00:18:18) fourth quarter [indiscernible] (00:18:20).

Capital expenditures in the fourth quarter were $12.4 million compared to $12 million last quarter, $12.7 million in the fourth quarter of 2017. Fourth quarter spend is predominately for success based growth [indiscernible] (00:18:42) installations for larger deals in turn reducing our backlog to about $14 million as of today. Our sales pipeline remained strong and we fully expect to replenish the backlog and to close larger deals with longer lead times. Fourth quarter 2018 adjusted EBITDA less CapEx was $15.5 million, a sequential decrease of $1.9 million due to the decrease in adjusted EBITDA and an increase of $3.8 million versus the fourth quarter 2017 resulting, largely from SingleHop acquisition.

Now let's turn to slide 9, our INAP business unit results. U.S. revenues totaled $61.3 million in the fourth quarter of 2018, a decrease of 6.6% sequentially and an increase of 15.3% year-over-year. The sequential revenue decrease was primarily due to the lower colocation and network revenues, resulting from planned data center closures, accounting adjustments resulting from year-end true-ups, lower non-recurring revenue, slightly higher churn from the base of continuing assets. The year-over-year revenue increase was primarily due to the addition of SingleHop defined with cloud service and higher non-recurring revenues offset in part by slightly lower network revenues.

U.S. business unit's fourth quarter contribution was $27.8 million, resulting in a 45.3% contribution margin, which remained flat compared to the third quarter and increased 210 basis points over the prior year. The year-over-year increase was primarily due to a combination of cost reductions, exits of the underperforming data centers.

Now, let's go to slide 10 to discuss our INAP International business unit results. International's fourth quarter revenue totaled $16.9 million, a slight decrease of $400,000 or 2.4% sequentially, and relatively flat year-over-year. The sequential decrease was primarily due to slightly lower revenue in the segment, dominated by cloud services mainly in Canada. Despite modest revenue decline sequentially, the International business unit contribution of $6.2 million slightly increased $400,000 sequentially and was relatively flat year-over-year. The fourth quarter International contribution margin increased 330 basis points sequentially to 36.9%, and decreased 70 basis points year-over-year. The sequential increase is due mainly to the intercompany adjustment related to [indiscernible] (00:21:20) pricing.

Moving to slide 11, entitled cash flow and balance sheet. Free cash flow defined as net cash flows provided by the operating activities, less capital expenditures was a negative $7 million in the fourth quarter of 2018, a decrease of $5.3 million from the prior quarter and a decrease of $8.2 million from the prior year. The sequential decrease was primarily due to working capital timing and the payment [indiscernible] (00:21:53). As I previously mentioned, capital expenditures were mainly comprised of growth-related spend. Cash interest was $16 million in the fourth quarter. This brings the free cash flow to $9 million compared to $14.1 million in the previous quarter and $13 million last year.

On October 23, 2018, the company closed a public offering approximately 42 million shares of common stock at $9.50 per share received net proceeds of $37 million. Net of underwriting discounts and commissions, [indiscernible] (22:23) expenses. The proceeds were used to pay off $18.5 million of the revolver, bringing the balance outstanding to zero, excluding letters of credit. The remaining funds provided flexibility to fund through [indiscernible] (00:22:40).

Total debt of $687.1 million includes $271.5 million in capital lease obligations. Capital lease obligations increased $9.5 million, primarily for the renewal and extension of our Santa Clara data center [indiscernible] (00:22:56). $168.8 million of our capital lease obligations are excluded debt for bank covenant purposes as they were operating leases at the time of the refinancing. Our covenant-based leverage ratio was 5.4 in the fourth quarter of 2018, 5.5 in the third quarter of 2018, 4.5 in the fourth quarter of 2017.

Cash and cash equivalents of $17.8 million at the end of the fourth quarter versus $11.8 million in the prior quarter. The increase of $6 million was primarily driven by the proceeds received in the equity raise, offset in part by working capital timing, the payment of [indiscernible] (00:23:39) tax settlement, higher capital expenditures.

First of the remaining lease commitments [indiscernible] (00:23:44) and the bulk of the remainder will roll off by the end of the second quarter of 2019, resulting in a nice increased cash [indiscernible] (00:23:54) available liquidity, with the release of several letters of credit [ph] held as deposits (00:24:01).

Turning to slide 12, 2019 guidance. Taking into consideration our newly established baseline entering the first quarter of 2019, assuming an expected 4% to 7% (00:24:16) growth profile for 2019, we believe it would be prudent to expect revenue to be in the range of $320 million to $330 million. Adjusted EBITDA in the range of $120 million to the $130 million and CapEx between $40 million and $50 million for the year.

As Pete mentioned earlier, there was about $10 million of revenue in 2018 related to the planned data center closures [indiscernible] (00:24:40). So you back that out of the 2018 revenue of $317 million and apply a moderate growth rate of 4% to 7%, you end up around our revenue guidance.

In addition and consistent with our actions for 2018, management constantly considers tuck-ins and disposition/asset sales, that could have a positive impact on our outlook. Regardless of any corporate development activities, we expect to produce meaningful cash flow, adjusted EBITDA, less CapEx, [ph] so we (00:25:12) continue to drive cost efficiencies in the business.

Now, let me turn the call back to Pete.

Thanks, Jim. Please turn to our last slide 13, on our final prepared remarks. [indiscernible] (00:25:28) emerged as a full service infrastructure player and many of the top [ph] 50 (00:25:33) markets in North America. Through our corporate development efforts, we are actively pursuing partnerships and larger transactions that could potentially transform INAP once again to the benefit of our customers and shareholders.

Our extensive portfolio of infrastructure assets can absorb and integrate other platforms into our environment to gain immediate scale. We can advance beyond multi-service retail and add wholesale beyond single megawatts deals.

We have the right assets in place, we have the capacity to sell and emerging partnerships that can help us gain more share. The macro trends are in our favor as customers took IT workloads off-prem. And consolidation activity in our industry continues almost out of necessity to gain speed and scale, we are excited about our assets that we bring to the table in Tier 1 market.

INAP is well diversified across many infrastructure platforms. Our execution strategies for 2019 are well underway.

So this concludes our prepared remarks. At this point, we'd like to take you questions. Operator?

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Dan Kurnos with Benchmark Company. Your line is open.

Thanks. Good morning. Pete so you've – maybe we can get into kind of the backlog and your commentary around elevated churn. You guys announced two deals recently publicly announced. Maybe you can give us a little bit more granularity on sort of the size or thought process around those deals?

And then kind of reconcile all of that and factoring in the accounting and, Jim, you kind of cut out a little bit when you are walking through some of the nuance there? Just trying to understand the new revenue guide and sort of the context of your prior expectations at the end of the year, the three wholesale wins embedded in the guide what these new deals mean and kind of what's going on with the underlying, existing user base? Thanks.

Sure, Dan. How are you doing? Look, the end of the year had typical fourth quarter seasonality in it. But for the most part, we're still on track. The sales teams are still talking to big customer accounts, we landed a few. Infrastructure deals sometimes take a little bit longer. Some timing involved too. But for the most part, the 2018, end of year of $317 million is slightly off our original thought of $320 million, but not that far off relatively speaking from what we expected.

The good news is everything we've been doing is still creating the momentum we need. I think the fourth quarter volatility and the macro trends may be push some things off that we thought we would score by the end of the year. That's probably affected our backlog somewhat, because everything that we could put on that were put into service we did. So, we pretty much moved the backlog from $20 million down to $14 million by installing what we could and getting the capital program working right through the end of the year.

We're still very optimistic. Lot of these deals are kind of hard to track quarter-to-quarter and may take little bit more time But as you swing for bigger deals, they do take a little bit longer. The healthcare sector, the gaming sector ad tech, are all in our sweet spot. We made a bunch of upgrades in 2018 to get our network stronger. We fixed a lot of things in a cloud platform that SingleHop actually helped us to advance. So, 2018 was somewhat of a cleanup year, but at the same time as you know underneath what we're doing the baseline and the traction is really good.

So, again, slightly off not a big deal in my opinion. EBITDA is still strong as strong as we predicted and I think we can do even better on the EBITDA. As I pointed out in the call, I think by focusing a little bit on international in the colo inventory that we have working in Montreal, London. I think that's going to automatically help our upside.

So that's pretty much the wrap-up. I mean, again one quarter doesn't make year, but the whole year in its entirety was a very successful year with a lot of work to rebalance the whole portfolio. So, hopefully, that's an opening to help you think it through.

Got it. And then just on the other side of the equation on the balance sheet, obviously, I guess your commentary around looking for tuck-ins is consistent with what you've said historically. I don't know if it's a little bit more opportunistic or optimistic. Obviously, you guys had mentioned before looking for more flexibility through refinancing I don't know if you could update us on sort of your thoughts, Pete, on sort of the necessity or what you're doing to sort of address, I guess, not that you have to re-fi, but certainly the balance sheet and where it stands today and your thoughts on sort of asset sale versus acquisition near-term.

Right. The equity rate is definitely helped by some time. We don't have to do refinancing now, but the window is certainly opened. By the end of the year, it was closed – January it was closed, February, starting to open. So now, what we like to do is look at next set of things we're having on table and see if we can combine it with some activity that we're working on the corporate development and make more sense of it.

Straight up we can do it in A&E, we can gain some more flexibility on a phone call almost, but we want to see if we can combine it. So we're doing a couple of things that hopefully, you know, it's a two cushion shot as opposed to straight A&E. so that's the first step on that.

The flexibility is really needed, so that we can put capital to work. As you know in the industry, there's is a lot of capital going into the ground for hyperscale. We still have an advantage, because some of the markets where we have excess capacity, but we're very optimistic we can land some bigger deals.

We have almost 15 megawatts of power in the new Anglo American building in Phoenix. That's a great asset to leverage. Our sales teams are all over that one. So, again, other than the timing and some of these things that take a little bit longer we're certainly aiming higher. The tuck-ins don't necessarily require an equity raise or refinancing to get those done. Some of them are quite easy in the line of maybe smaller [indiscernible] (00:33:32) deal or something like that where markets like Chicago, Ashburn, a couple of hot markets we could do better. Even in Toronto, we don't need to do another equity raise just to get those things done necessarily. So we have our eyes on a short list of those things that we are engaging on and don't expect to be doing any type of major raise to do those.

Got it. Thanks. Pete.

Welcome.

Thank you. Our next question comes from George Sutton with Craig-Hallum. Your line is open.

Thank you. I just wanted to – first if you could walk through, because we had talked in early December sort of the $10 million impact in the quarter sort of when that all came together and I wondered if you could just give us an ROI dynamic from that move. So, once we sort of seen the full impact and you have redeployed what kind of ROI would we expect from that?

Well, we've been talking about those closures most of 2018, George. And, some of the feedback I got from the market itself was be done with it, move on and we looked at accelerating a lot of those closures that impacted the fourth quarter by just moving everything up and it was a big effort by our operations team. They didn't love that idea either. But for 2019, and given some of the discussions we're having with partners and customers, we wanted 2019 to be clean. So the acceleration, which at the end of the day you look at those six centers, we have a list of what revenue was in there from the beginning, what revenue is going to be basically lost as Jim said, that $10 million of revenue that will disappear. But in some ways, we have opportunities. A lot of those customers came over to our flagships. And they can grow in our own body. What you end up doing is, eliminating a bunch of real estate leases with partners that frankly were happy to exit.

We think, we're going to save at least $10 million a year in recurring expense in lease cost, most of that is flushing out by the middle of the 2019. But on a one-for-one, we pretty much lose $10 million revenue and gain $10 million in cash back. And that keeps coming. So, it was a hard decision to make, we bit the bullet in 2018. And what you're seeing in the fourth quarter is somewhat of a timing issue, but also an initiative to pull it up.

And as Jim said, as you pull it all up, the fourth quarter is somewhat [ph] penalized (00:36:34), but it's all cleaned up now. Even got slightly down in the fourth quarter because of all of this work. So normalized EBITDA is probably up, and we get the whole company kind of back on track for 2019, exactly what we tried to do inside of the two-year period. So the return on investment is quite good. The half of the revenue is probably in time will make it into our flagship. And, again, $10 million cash savings is in the bank for 2019.

Okay. That's helpful. There are two mega hot markets in the U.S., Phoenix and Northern Virginia and I give you great credit for the moves you've made in Phoenix. Could you give us an update on what – I know, you're trying to get more of a presence, you mentioned in Ashburn, but if you could just talk more specifically about that market opportunity?

Ashburn, specifically?

If that's what you're pursuing most aggressively.

Okay. So, let's talk about Phoenix first. Our anchor tenant, Bank of America, they're an excellent customer. Hopefully, we could even do more with them. We also have a DRT facility virtually across the street that we build up three times, so that's pretty much capped. We have large customers in there who are touring the other facility. Again, long lead times, but they see that they can grow with us in the same hot Phoenix market, no pun intended, but... [indiscernible]

(00:38:15)

...so we think Phoenix is well situated. When it comes to Ashburn, Ashburn is very interesting, because it's sort of a hyperscale market and a lot of new players entering Ashburn with – I like to say two guys, a lot of money in a truck and they're developing land in a turnkey facility for one of the big players. I think competition there is getting interesting if you're a one-trick pony for hyperscale.

However, there are a lot of enterprises that want to be in Ashburn too, that I think from a wholesale perspective is good fit with INAP and we've been focusing on that sort of trying to burn the candle at both ends. We have access to one or two properties that are certainly 10 megawatts or better with landlords that are already in our body and friendly to us. We're trying in essence score a contract with the property in hand.

We don't want to build second Ashburn that's a me-too strategy and really not what we do for living, but we have a lead on the couple of property, couple of friendly landlords, we've already toured the facilities that could make sense and now we just got a push with sales to land a deal. So, again, in the spirit of infrastructure deals do take a little bit longer. We're talking to the right players, who want that type of presence.

As you know too George, a lot of our customers are in multiple locations. So to the extent we could leverage where they already are in Dallas or Phoenix or Santa Clara and offer Ashburn on a contract for us to fill with the landlord second, we can do that almost automatically and quickly. So we're staying active in that and we're trying to press the needle on contract-first, sign the lease second.

It's not always easy, because customers, especially the larger ones, may just go where the leases are already in place. But, again, a lot of our large customers who are already in our buildings like working with us. So we might get lucky there and we're trying to push beyond luck to an action.

Great.

Chicago is another one. Chicago is another half market for us. We don't have a lot of inventory there, we're in Cermak with Equinix. It's a great location, but we're also in a lot of discussions about tuck-ins in Chicago. That makes total sense for our footprint, we have a lot of network connectivity in Chicago. So our customers are almost pulling us there. We get a lot of feedback on Amsterdam, more in London, as I mentioned in the script, even Singapore is a push. So we're in the right conversations, I feel really good about that. And we're just playing for the future. And it just may not be quarter-to-quarter so much, but on an annual basis, I think we'll be scoring some major deals this year.

One other quick question if I could. You mentioned 2018 was a clean-up year. Just wondering if you can give us a preview of 2019 and 2020 if you were using very short descriptions of those years, what should we look for in a summary?

I think 2019 is a year of, baseline growth, the 4% to 7% off of a jumping point of say, 310-ish, $309 million something like that you consider to closures, that's blocking and tackling. We're going to do that. The way we get above that are things that really aren't in the guidance, which is, scoring some of these wholesale deals as soon as possible in a year because you've got to put them online, you've got to build them and you've got to book them.

So the sooner we can get them online, the better. That will definitely help. So that may drag into 2020, but of course, if we're going after these big deals, again more than 1 megawatt, we scored three 1 megawatt deals in 2018 and we haven't done that before. So if we can do that again in some and start scoring 3s and 5s, that's where 2020 starts to look even better. And why not really, it's really just a – it's a capital play. We weren't known for that in the past, but we are now – we're pushing that really hard. And we have the capacity. I mean to the extent [ph] we've to lend (00:43:24) somebody in Phoenix, with 15 megawatts ready to go, I mean why not? So we're touring those buildings with that kind of mindset and that's new George, for the sake of this company.

So, I would say 2018 clean up, for sure, we had to take our medicine. Well, we have to do it. 2019 is clean to go. Our properties are the ones we want. The North America footprint is a great platform. We show it to people and they're frankly surprised and I'm always surprised that we sound like we're new to them, but we're getting out there on the Street. We're helping the sales team. Our Head of Sales, Rich O'Dea is from Equinix. He knows all the biggest players. So we're in the game. We're in the discussion. But, again, as we're really turning the page from 2017 and 2018, which was really a turnaround story, that's why we went through the timeline this year to just recap what the two years were like here. Well, we did it to have a great 2019 and 2020. And the more resources and help we give our sales team from top to bottom, we'll get there with bigger deals.

Great. Thanks, guys.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Frank Louthan with Raymond James. Your line is open.

Okay. Great. I want to dig back into the top line, so, Pete, you said that $309 million is sort of the jumping off point, if you just kind of annualize Q4, that implies more like $313 million. And I think you said earlier in the call that – maybe I missed this, that Q1 will be close to $77 million. Can we get a – just a couple of things. One, is all of this completely out as of January 1? So, is there any more of these data centers to shut down or left? And then two, can we be clear on what sort of the base revenue in Q1 should look like in the EBITDA, you have a pretty good idea, I guess, what that's going to be at this point in the quarter. And then I got a couple of follow-ups.

Okay. Frank, this is Jim. So, the base revenue going into Q1 as I mentioned is going to be around $77 million. Some of these, the migration churn that occurred in the fourth quarter happened late in the quarter, so it's going to have a bigger impact going into Q1. That's why that's dropping a little bit. EBITDA will hold flat, around the $28 million mark at the start of the year. And from that point on, we'll grow to where, by the end of the year, we'll be at that $320 million to $330 million mark based on the growth rate of a 4% to 7%.

So, the $10 million setback as Pete mentioned, takes this from a starting point around $307 million to $308 million. And if you apply those growth rates, that's where we're going to get to. And then, of course, any of the tuck-in acquisitions or where we add additional space is going to help get us there if not exceeding.

Okay. So, when you say – okay, so you say around $77 million, could that be like $76 million and could it be something closer to $27.5 million for EBITDA? I'm not trying to be too – well, I am trying to be a little more precise on it just because it's something I think investors want to have... [indiscernible]

(00:47:04)

I would say look, from my perspective, $28 million EBITDA is kind of, where I'm thinking is going to be that or better. We've got a bunch of cost initiatives in place already for as part of the right-sizing last year. So we'll work our way through the first and second quarter. But the $28 million to $30 million is kind of table stakes for us, that's how we get into our guidance, whether it's – there's a little timing involved but that's – that one is the easy to do but in our control so to speak. The $77 million I think in my mind is – Jim is trying to be conservative, and I agree to not be overly aggressive on the top line as we make so many adjustments. The six buildings that we closed were the six buildings that – maybe five of the six I knew in 2017.

So the fourth quarter represents moving them all in, so that we can get them done. And to Jim's point, some of them that we didn't get a full three months out of all of them, so you got a little leftover that makes $77 million pretty much the number. But even if we sold some of these bigger deals now as you know book-to-bill takes a little bit longer, so we have to get out of the first quarter with normal rate in speed, and then we grow from there because the deals we have in the backlog were pushing – we're all going to start getting [indiscernible] (00:48:34) the second quarter and on. But I think $320 million is pretty reasonable for sure. EBITDA at $120 minimum is very solid. We said that in December as well.

So we're – if that's what we're doing inside of our own [ph] suit (00:48:55) so that's not a bad starting point. But as you know, we have two parts of our brain, one is organic and business as usual. We're pretty much out of the turnaround, cleanup mode. We're all on offence now and corporate development is really beating stuff to try to get some deals go and that really moved the needle for us. As you know too, the activity in the market is really half. A bunch of companies are sized and trying to double somehow either get bigger, get out. There's a couple properties coming in on market that pretty much look like us, but are either private or carve-outs. So, it's going to be very interesting 2019 regarding corporate development and where we fit. Another reason we try to accelerate all this clean up and so that when we're talking to others in terms of partnerships or ways to gain scale, coming or going, is we have to be clean.

We have tax diligence in a great way as opposed to maybe the past. Integration for the most part is business as usual, while we are trying to accelerate that because we have SingleHop, we have iWeb, we have our old managed services platform, all that's being integrated as we speak. Again, it's a benefit any combination or frankly absorption of an asset into our body. So, 2018 was critical if that was done. 2019, you want to be clean and attractive for any type of partnership we could do.

Okay, great. And so my follow up on this is, you have the statement and your footnote with the guidance that in addition, the management is expecting opportunities, tuck-ins et cetera will contribute to the company's results. How should we interpret that? Does that mean that you're anticipating getting to this guidance inclusive of some tuck-ins and if they don't materialize or don't materialize the way you're thinking about them, you could come in below or would tuck-ins and so forth be additive to the current guidance and as you go forward through the years?

Well, it's really depending on the size. The small tuck-ins are just you know helpful. There we're adding new customers and we're looking at a handful of small ones, it really don't matter that much I would say in whole scheme of things. This guidance is designed and we did it more conservative to just do it as a standalone organic path. We are in a position now where we can do 4% to 7%, with our own team, with the assets we have, with the capacity we have, we should be able to get there naturally, but our viewpoint is we have to do both.

So, during the year, we'll be briefing the market as to how we got there, what the changes are, but for the most part, the small tuck-ins are just part of normal traction. We're looking at one right now that I think was very modest, it doesn't contribute all that much, but it's a market we want. So we can get a footprint in a good market and we're in those discussions right now. Do we need it to hit our guidance? Not necessarily.

But if anything we can do to bolster our platform for the long-term is going to be helpful. So we designed it for an organic support, but we're going to do more. [ph] And so (00:52:57) depending on the size we were not going to need to do any type of refinancing or equity raise to do the small tuck-ins anyway, but if something bigger comes along and it's accretive and attractive to our shareholders, certainly we're going to look at those bigger deals too. That's a long way of saying tuck-ins don't really – don't require a whole bunch of financing so to speak to get there. Refinancing down the road, potentially you're going to be needed to gain more flexibility to do something bigger. So that's on the roadmap because we want to do both and be considered for both. Does that help?

Right. Yeah. That's helpful. Is any other refinancing you're looking at anything opportunistic gets better rates, how should we think about that?

Well, if we just do it straight up today given that rate sort of moves up, we're going to get flexibility, maybe more than rates. The flexibility is good, I mean the flexibility is helpful. But like I said before, we're not running to do that right now. We like to do it in combination with something else, but we'll keep our eyes open down the road and see what the advantages are either way. Flexibility for INAP is important as you know, but we already took a repricing and took the rate down some. We need scale to really take it down. So, whether we're coming or going down the road, that's what really drives rate reduction, but in our current suite you're probably not going to get that much rate change we're going to get from flexibility in the short term. But again, I'd like to combine it with something else, and we're in the market looking.

How comfortable are you or what kind of range are you comfortable taking rates up to get that flexibility?

No, it's kind of hard to tell. We get a lot of bites from bankers, it's either flat or slightly up just to get an A&E. But A&E is kind of the last resort for us, but we'll do it if need it. We're going to keep the company safe. We're going to look ahead and make sure there's no covenant issues down the road or basket issues, just to put an eye on that because right now we're pretty much capped out from the standpoint of what we – the facility we have. So, it's not a limiting factor in the sense that we can't do what we have to do to achieve our guidance, but it is a limiting factor if we want to do corporate development and make the company bigger. So, we'll keep our eye on that and we'll be smart about it, just like every other company does. But sitting here today, I don't think the repricing goes down 150 basis points, but the suite we have and the profile we have today, so we're obviously smart about that. But again looking ahead, just for the sake of doing an A&E, I don't know how interesting that is, but we're trying to be more creative than that.

All right. Great. Thank you very much.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Erik Rasmussen with Stifel. Your line is open.

Yeah. Thank you. First, circling back on these larger deals, you've talked in the past about the businesses, that business obviously tends to be bulky. But just trying to understand the timeline from say bookings to commencements, what is the lag, and obviously if there is a larger deal, what is the timeframe to a full ramp? I think that'll be helpful for us to get that context.

Yeah. I'm thinking of the Blade gaming deal we just did, it's probably a three months' bills to start seeing the beginning of revenue and probably by the fifth month we get it all, and that's a 1 megawatt deal. It's kind of the timing. So obviously, we're very anxious to score early in the year because the sooner you get those bills in books, the faster you can recognize the whole revenue stream. Those colo deals and footprints are the ones that provide long-term growth and have longer lead times, but we have two other products that are more simultaneous. The managed services platform and server deployment is very fast.

Either we have the servers or we buy the servers and put them in, that's the fast book-to-bill situation, it could be one or two months. So, the diversity of INAP is really helpful for [indiscernible] (00:58:09) speed because we have a big managed services platform that allows us to score fast. But the bigger colocation deals, which I think are really our bread and butter for the future can't be measured necessarily in quarters. They have to be measured in two or three quarters. So, as the press releases come out, and we say we just scored X, Y or Z, depending on the flavor, some take longer than others, but that's the nature of the business of data centers and infrastructure.

So, I would look at it from that perspective. We're diversified, we probably can do both. But colo, which I love to put on that, just takes longer and we have to live with that timeline. So, a lot of these good deals basically will drag into 2020. And so, when you think about colo, it's probably a two-year profile as opposed to certainly next quarter. But, we're pushing for the bigger colo deals, because we have the capacity to put them on. So, that's the nature of our business. And I think we'll be expressing that, we'll be more logical when we see these things come on during 2019 as to how that revenue is going to unfold.

Great. That's helpful. On CapEx and your capital intensity, what's the team's appetite and ability at this point to increase this to go after more wholesale opportunities that you've been talking about and drive up your growth rates? Are those the type of discussions you are having at the board level?

Exactly. I mean, it's not really the board level, it's the customer level. If we score 5 megawatts as opposed to 1 megawatt, that's why our capital program says $40 million to $50 million. But if we catch the bus, we're going to look like some of these other companies that are public where their CapEx is a function of revenue that's closer to 75% or so. But that's kind of a good problem. We would report that and describe that contract in a way that others do as well. We don't want to do a [ph] spec (01:00:39) though, I think that's the nuance because we're not a hyperscale spec team with some of those bigger players already in, waiting for their next campus. It's not our model today, but some hybrid of the two between retail and wholesale could be a better profile for us. And I know a lot of companies, I'm a big fan of [ph] Interxion (01:01:06) who over time, probably over 20 years has migrated into both. Even Equinix in their size and scale now consider themselves retail, but they're not, I think a big hyperscale player, but those with big wholesale deals.

So, some version – and that's the evolution of INAP. I mean, we tend to be smaller retail providers, but we've been beefing up this company to a hybrid of both. And so now, our sales team, our guys are motivated to go beyond a $50,000 MRR deal and let's see if we can get a $500,000 MRR deal, because we have the space and that would be fantastic. So, we can do it. We're set up to do it. We have the same technology as everybody else could do it. We just have to now talk to customers, show them our footprint, connectivity is a big selling point. These assets are all connected, it took us a whole year to do that well, and we'll get in a conversation. But a lot of companies don't know us to do that. I mean, we even talk internally about who do people think we are. And the answer always comes back small retail. That's the history of the company.

To change that profile, we have to land. We have to land these bigger deals and we have to become a hybrid of both retail and wholesale. And that may take time, but we're going to push that way. And then a capital program will go with it. But you'll be able to look at those contracts like others and say they're spending more CapEx because they're building 5 megawatts, not 1 megawatt. And that's what you see others doing. I think my peer group, mostly private, are doing the exact same thing. Their conversations are no longer every day focus on small retail, they're looking for big wins because the big wins mean the capital programs running 75% intensity or better and the growth rates are double digits. But you trade off spending a lot of CapEx over time to get that to happen. That's what's happening in the industry now. It's been evolving over the last two years.

And I would say even hyperscale versus retail in general have been further apart in the past. Now they're kind of morphing together. Everybody is trying to do both. So, a little bit of wholesale and retail is good. It gives diversity. And to the extent you have assets in the right markets even better. We have 53 data centers, not 2. So, if to the extent we could attract somebody at the edge, our company is formed just to do that. I think we could benefit. So, that's the strategy, that's the vision. It's a little longer term approach to things. It's a longer view, but that's the nature of our business and industry. So, we have to take a longer view of these things where we have to push for bigger deals.

Okay. Great. Thank you.

Our next question comes from Jon Petersen with Jefferies. Your line is open.

Great. Thanks. So, I know we keep talking about the top line revenue, but I just wanted to hopefully clarify one thing quickly. So, the base is $309 million, the midpoint $325 million. So, you've about a $16 million to get to the midpoint from your run rate right now. I'm just curious how much of that is already accounted for in the backlog. I know you have Blade that you're working out right now, but just trying to understand what percentage or what dollar amount of that's already kind of spoken for, and then what still needs to be accomplished through blocking and tackling?

Well, I think that's just the tip of the iceberg. That one deal is work in progress. Our churn rates for the year are pretty close to marketing conditions, so we have to outrun that and do a little bit better. So, I would say we need a very similar track of deals that we had in 2018, Jon. 2018 was a pretty good booking year from where we came from. If we did the same thing or a little bit more, we're right on those numbers. For a few quarters, we were doing 1%, 1.5% organic growth. That was on the rate and speed of the deals we were doing. So, I think we could assume that a Blade like deal where the backlog of around $15 million to $20 million every quarter being replenished can produce that type of growth rate. But we have to do at least the production of 2018 and probably a little bit more, but that's the momentum we have, save for timing.

Okay. Thanks. And then, I guess in terms of your expansion plans, your $40 million, $50 million of CapEx, and just kind of expected growth throughout the year, do you expect leverage levels to increase throughout the year and I guess will you need to raise any sort of capital to kind of meet your business plan?

Not for this current business as usual. The business is basically at a point where we're generating free cash flow from the [indiscernible] (01:07:06) that we're in. So, we don't really need to raise money just to do what we're doing. The leverage ratio right now at 5.4, slightly down given the equity raise. Again, this is a bank measurement as opposed to adding all the cap leases that puts us at about 6 from that perspective. [ph]

It's a little rich (01:07:30), others are doing much more than us. Certainly, the private guys are doing more in terms of leverage. But we would only raise money if we have a project or a deal that is worthy of financing. So, we're trying to get the deal first, and then to talk about capital markets second, that's the strategy for this year.

Okay. That makes sense. And then just one more question, I know it's really small, but a few months ago, you announced the $5 million stock repurchase program. Just kind of curious your thoughts around how and if you would use that authorization.

Well, obviously in the fourth quarter, we didn't use it. We want to be cognizant of the growth profile. We need to have CapEx available to grow this company, so that's the trade-off. But the stock is so low in my opinion in terms of underperforming, it's a buy opportunity as far as I'm concerned. So we'll keep our eye on that. The authorization was exactly what we're allowed to do. So it's not a lot, but at this level it's a buy in my opinion. So, we'll look to trade off CapEx for stock repurchase, and we have it available as the tool if we need it.

Sounds good. Thank you.

Thank you. The next question comes from [indiscernible] (01:09:03). Your line is open.

Good morning. Just trying to keep things like really simple. Phoenix you have is like the hottest market, and you have how many megawatts? I thought I heard you say 15 available?

Yeah, we have about 15 available. That's right.

Okay. And have you won any business there during the first quarter at all?

We didn't call out anything specifically by building, so to speak, but our anchor tenant there is Bank of America. So what the deal was when we picked up that triple net lease was BofA was going to resize their footprint, that was part of the deal. So with our eyes open, they wanted to remain in a certain section and release the footprint of another section. That's part of our – it's in our forecast so to speak, but BofA [ph] is the next (01:10:07) tenant, they may do other stuff with us.

We want to move SingleHop's platform from another facility in Phoenix with another partner. We would actually be putting a cloud pod inside of that BofA building. That will attract flies. So, we're going to build that work [indiscernible] (01:10:30) and then they will come, but we're working on that right now. The torch through the Phoenix facility, when we fix it up and triple net lease, the first activity, which is in our 2018 network story, is we have to put it on [ph] net (01:10:49).

So we had to build them some network into BofA that we didn't have before, that took a little bit of time and we're almost done with that, so to speak. So those were the moving parts that allow us to enable the BofA building and bringing on that into our body. But it hasn't stopped us from touring it and getting bigger customers to look at that building. It's our biggest and probably one of our best flagships in the portfolio. So it's an excellent building. We have an advantage in that market because it's a limited resource in Chandler. So we're very happy with it. Bu it takes a little bit of time and we're on it right now.

It seems to me that if you held everything else kind of flattish, right, and you filled up Phoenix to the tune of – I don't know – 2, 3 megawatts of improved utilization that, that could get you to where you currently have your number set.

You're exactly right. I mean think of this, if we did – we held everything constant and that is 3 or 5 megawatts in Phoenix and literally one or two deals. That's our number for the year. And so if I can have my way, that would be a great way to do it. And one of our sales guys who pulls that off is going to make a lot of money this year. So, yes, that is the – you hit the nail on the head. We have properties that if we hit a bigger deal – again, we weren't known for this in the past. We are now. We're pushing it. That is going to [indiscernible] (01:12:42) as the game changer.

And we are doubling all our efforts to talk the larger players to take bigger footprints down, it's a wholesale deal, not a retail deal for most part, but that would give us a lot of momentum. And that's why our capital program [indiscernible] (01:13:06) $10 million because some expansion in Phoenix for a 3 megawatt deal will probably cause that incremental $10 million pretty easily to put it on. But that's what we're playing for. And you hit it right. That's the way we're trying to sell this year.

Okay. These costs could be slightly painful because the Street and everybody looks and sees all right, asset [indiscernible] (01:13:33) revenue is coming down and that's a miss and blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. And as I look at the story, the story to me is [indiscernible] (01:13:40) have some productivity in Phoenix in the hottest market in the country. I got the numbers and potentially then some, the timing is – if it's happens a little later, it gives you that much more look-see into 2020.

And then my other question would be because the other area I see potentially that you could have upside to your guidance is, this [indiscernible] (01:14:08) arrangement is still kind of new, but if there's any productivity out of the reselling between you and them, then that would be pretty cool as well. But to me I just look at this as being kind of the Phoenix story holding all other stuff pretty much constant. And I got myself a stock that instead of being down 20% today, as soon as you can say, hey, we added 1 megawatt here, 2 megawatt there, that would get you a refi because your recurring predictability is going to be much higher.

I mean that's exactly, right.

I'm trying to help.

Well, listen, I mean this infrastructure business isn't a quarter-to-quarter business. I mean [indiscernible] (01:15:03)

Sure. No, I understand that. [indiscernible]

(01:15:05) about the 2019-2020 business plan. So we're the same company. We get punished essentially for being little dislocated here, but we're not playing quarter-to-quarter, we're playing year-to-year. And these deals that are bigger and those who we get compared to are playing year-to-year. So we have to make the transformation and prove to the market with these deals like you say, that puts us in that category. But that's what we needed to do to get to the point.

All the work we did to reformat the company to get to a Phoenix like opportunity is all the work we did in 2018. We didn't have that billing last year. And so we hit – we got the right building in the right market, Dallas is hot too, Blade went right into Dallas. Atlanta is also hot, we're trying to get more production out of Atlanta. We have the coke facility there now. So we like the market to look at us beyond the quarter, but we understand that we've got to prove it. So we're working really hard to prove it.

Okay. And then just for my own knowledge, what – your typical 1 megawatt deal, what's that translate into? I'm guessing that that's like 3 to 5 year type revenue.

Yeah. [indiscernible] (01:16:40)

What would be the revenue [ph] corresponding to that (01:16:42)?

Yeah. The three-year deals, typically the MRR is going to be six figures, depending on what they're buying with it because a lot of them buy network services as well. So they are our best deals. When [ph] you hit (01:17:01) six-figure MRRs on one AdTech or gaming company, that's the fuel of our company for the future.

Wow. So a $100,000 per month.

Yeah.

Yes.

Okay. All right. And then the fiber backbone, that's [indiscernible] (01:17:26) and you're using that as a selling tool as well, I take it right?

That's right. That's unique to us. We started off as a network company. So we just made it stronger, and we added fiber rings in the metro, that's very attractive to customers too that are in multiple locations. So that was a big part of the 2018 investment, it gets better [indiscernible] (01:17:48).

But no new wins yet in backlog due to your fiber rings?

It's kind of built into the customer conversations right now. Typically, what we'll see is they won't come in and just buy transport. They'll buy colo or managed services and then we give them that too as part of a on-net strategy. So that's how we're pitching it right now. So we had to build it first. We kind of pre-sold a lot of it and our sales team are actually putting that in the back now.

Okay. That's it.

Thank you.

Hey, thank you.

Thank you. This does end today's question-and-answer session. I would now like to turn it back over to Mr. Peter Aquino for any closing remarks.

Thank you, operator. A lot of good themes today, certainly INAP is playing for the long term. And we appreciate your thoughts and comments, feedback. We'll answer the one-on-one calls now. Thank you.

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. This does conclude today's program, and you may all disconnect. Everyone have a wonderful day.