raw transcript


Internap Network Services


Corp.
 
IIP
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 9, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for your patience and thank you for joining


us today to discuss Internap Network Services' second quarter results for the period ended June


30, 2005. I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Andrew Albrecht, the Vice President,


Corporate Development and Investor Relations. Please proceed Sir.


Andrew Albrecht, Vice President Corporate Development and Investor Relations


Thank you. Good afternoon and thank you all for joining us today to discuss Internap Network


Services second quarter results for the period ending June 30, 2005.


Today's call contains forward-looking statements relating to Internap's business and financial


outlook, which are based on management’s current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and


projections. In some cases you can identify these forward-looking statements by terminology such


as may, will, should, expects, plans, anticipates, believes, estimates, predicts, potential or continue,


or to negative terms thereof or comparable terminology.


These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks,


uncertainties, estimates, and assumptions that are difficult to predict. A number of important


factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by the forward-looking


statements. For a more detailed description of those factors and other information please see


Internap's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. You should not place undue


reliance on any of these forward-looking statements. Further any forward-looking statements


speak only as of the date on which they are made, and the company undertakes no obligation to


update any such statements for any reason.


Joining me on today's call is Gregory Peters, our President and Chief Executive Officer; along with


David Buckel, our Chief Financial Officer. In addition to reviewing second quarter results we will


also discuss recent developments at Internap, along with an update on our outlook for the


remainder of 2005. Greg will open the call with some comments on our current events within the


company, performance and industry trends as well as update the guidance for the remainder of


2005. Greg will then turn the call over for a detailed description of our financial results to David


Buckel, followed by Q&A. At this time I'd like to turn the call over to Greg Peters.


Gregory Peters, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks Andrew. I'd like to first thank everyone for joining us today as we review our results for the


second quarter of 2005 and discuss our industry, Internap's business model, and future


expectations.


Today's call is taking place at our Atlanta headquarters office with several of our employees in the


room. In our last call we spent a significant amount of time discussing the changes our industry


was going through. Among these changes were consolidation at all operating levels and product


lines, as well as business model revisions, and regulatory developments. Each of these events


created visibility challenges and limited our ability to forecast beyond a quarter or 2. Naturally we


took the conservative approach as we have done over the past few years and provided a base view


of our business and continued to monitor industry developments.
raw transcript


Internap Network Services


Corp.
 
IIP
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 9, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


The element of our business and in the industry as a whole, which has received the most attention


is bandwidth pricing. As we stated in the last call, we have diversified our model to the point where


bandwidth related services now account for approximately 67% of our revenue, which is down from


approximately 80% 3 years ago. Growth in this product line is a function of price stability, footprint


expansion, and base and new customers using more bandwidth for their applications. Greater


price stability returned to our model in the October timeframe of last year and has continued on a


relative basis since then. This is the most positive of the industry developments, and now allows


for growth in our IP business as we expand our model globally.


In the second area, footprint expansion, we now have 37 points at present and are addressing


further expansion with that development of our GRX product line. This is up from approximately 27


points of present during our restructuring program of the last 3 years. Our expansion architecture is


now more modular and scalable than that of the past and can be deployed in an expedited manner


to meet customer needs.


The third variable driving IP growth is customer utilization. As Internet based applications become


more mainstream and more a part of our daily lives our model will receive more capacity demands


from current and future customers. Our customer base is now over 2,000 and over 50% of our


incremental business in the second quarter came from these customers. Our sales and customer


support teams are spending more time with these customers to position Internap's growing IP


product bundle to satisfy our customers IP applications needs. This naturally places more of a


focus on up-selling our current customers than on new customer acquisition. We will strive for a


more balanced approach in this area as we continue to focus on customer care and business


development through partnerships and third-party channels.


In combination these 3 factors, 2 which are industry driven, and one managed by our growth


initiatives will provide a catalyst for growth in our traditional business.


The second largest element of our business affected by industry and product development –


product developments and industry development is growth in carrier neutral Colocation. Internap's


Colocation assets, by definition are carrier neutral and have benefited from the re-emergence of


this product line. There has been much discussion about the growth rate of this product. It is an


important – it is important to consider whether a truly carrier neutral product is being offered. Due


to the nature of IP based applications where the majority of the applications originate and terminate


on different networks only the truly carrier Colocation product, carrier neutral Colocation product


satisfies this requirement.


This rule out most, if not all of the larger facilities based providers and limits the solution to Internap


and our partners such as Equinix and Taramark [ph]. This product line has grown in excess of 30%


per year due to a limited number of compliant vendors and the growing demand of IP based


applications. Also benefiting from the continued growth in IP applications is our CDN partnership


with Akamai and our emerging RAL [ph] control appliance product line.


In combination with the trends described previously, the Internap model is benefiting from the


current events we all follow on a daily basis. There is much more to follow and analyze as


consolidation continues and business models are rationalized. With our variable based cost of


goods sold and flexible network model where we do not only interconnects, Internap will continue to


have the ability to adapt to market forces and capitalize on developments in the IP application


sector. Today we ready to reaffirm our previous guidance of turning net income positive in 2005.


We have remained focused on this goal throughout the year and strongly believe that profitable


growth should be our focus, now and in the future.


We are excited about the beneficial nature of industry developments and once again thank you for


standing with us during our restructuring period. In conjunction with the positive developments in