Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Michael Nelson — Vice President of Investor Relations, Internap Corporation
Michael A. Ruffolo — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Internap Corp.
Kevin M. Dotts — Chief Financial Officer, Internap Corp.
Frank Garreth Louthan — Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc.
Matthew Heinz — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.
Frederick W. Moran — Analyst, Burke & Quick Partners LLC
Dan L. Kurnos — Analyst, The Benchmark Co. LLC
George Frederick Sutton — Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC
Barry Michael Sine — Analyst, Drexel Hamilton LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Internap First Quarter 2016 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will host a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.

Now, I would like to hand the floor over to Michael Nelson, Vice President of Investor Relations. Sir, please proceed.

Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today. I am joined by Mike Ruffolo, our Chief Executive Officer; and Kevin Dotts, our Chief Financial Officer. Following prepared remarks, we will open up the call for your questions. The slides we reference in the call are available on our website in the presentations section on the Investor Relations page.

Non-GAAP reconciliations and our supplemental data sheet, which includes additional operational and financial metrics, are available under the Financial Information, Quarterly Results section of our Investor Relations page.

Today's call contains forward-looking statements including expectations for MRR, profitability per square foot and revenue per kilowatt, belief in our business strategy, including acceleration of the business unit realignment and its expected results, expectations regarding customer churn, margins, available capacity and our ability to generate positive levered free cash flow for 2016, belief in the value of our stock and expectations for revenue, adjusted EBITDA and capital expenditures in 2016 and our ability to drive long-term growth.

These statements are not guarantees of the future performance. Because these statements are based on certain assumptions and involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements.

We discuss these factors in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We undertake no obligation to amend, update, or clarify these statements. In addition to reviewing the first quarter, we will also discuss recent developments.

Now, let me turn the call over to Mike Ruffolo.

Thank you, Michael and good afternoon, everyone. In today's call, I will start the discussion with the summary of our financial results and highlight some of the enhanced disclosures we're providing, beginning this quarter. These new disclosures are in direct response to investor feedback, urging us to provide greater insight and visibility into the various parts of our business.

As we communicated on our last investor call in February, we have begun to report segment results in two integrated business units, the Data Center and Network Services Business unit or DCNS and the second business unit is called Cloud and Hosting Services. The change in our organizational structure has been designed to facilitate more effective and efficient business operations as well as to improve customer and product focus.

I will then ask Kevin Dotts, our CFO, to take you through our financial and operational results in more detail. From there, I will provide an update and additional color on our strategy to drive growth as we further leverage our marketing and distribution channel. I will than take a few minutes to provide my view on our recent stock performance and valuation. We'll then conclude the call with question and answers after the prepared remarks.

So beginning on slide three, you will see we delivered record results for adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margin, which represented the highest levels for our first quarter and our company history.

Total revenue in the first quarter of 2016 was $75.9 million, representing a decrease of 6% year-over-year and 4% quarter-over-quarter. Data Center and Network Services revenue totaled $50.9 million in the quarter, a decrease of 6% year-over-year and 4% quarter-over-quarter. Cloud and Hosting Services revenue totaled $25.1 million in the quarter, a decrease of 6% year-over-year and 3% quarter-over-quarter.

Segment margin expanded 40 basis points year-over-year and declined 100 basis points quarter-over-quarter to 59.1%. Adjusted EBITDA of $20.5 million increased 14% year-over-year and decreased 10% quarter-over-quarter.

Adjusted EBITDA margin expanded 480 basis points year-over-year and declined 200 basis points sequentially to 27%. We generated positive levered free cash flow of $1.3 million in the first quarter, which was our third consecutive positive quarter.

Turning to slide four, in conjunction with our new reporting segment, we have enhanced our disclosures to provide additional key operating metrics. We have heard from our shareholders their desire to gain additional information into the trends in the business, and we listen. We are now providing additional metrics around monthly recurring revenue or MRR and profitability per square foot, revenue per kilowatt and number of servers.

Starting with MRR per square foot, you will see for our company-controlled colocation, MRR per square foot has been relatively flat between $68 and $71, despite the recent customer churn we experienced.

For partner colocation, MRR per square foot has declined slightly to just under $100. But we expect this to improve as a result of a renegotiation of one of our largest partner providers, which will result in us returning some space and lowering our costs. For Cloud and Hosting, MRR per square foot is significantly higher at over $260.

You will also see that in terms of profitability, in the first quarter of 2016, our cloud and hosting segment generated segment profit and segment profit margins per square foot of $191 and 73.2% respectively compared to $65 and 52.1% respectively for our DCNS segment.

These numbers reinforce our belief that Cloud and Hosting provides higher profitability per square foot due to the higher density of those services. It is this higher density that should lead to increased MRR per kilowatt, which is currently $1,000. We are also beginning to provide the server count to all of you, which was 26,670 at quarter end.

We recognize challenges in comparing our metrics to peer companies due to our unique product mix, but with our new disclosures, investors can better track Internap's performance and progress within our various segments. We commit to all of you to continuing to improve the visibility into our business and continue to welcome your input on how best to do so.

Now, I'd like to pass the call over to Kevin Dotts, our Chief Financial Officer who will give us a more detailed review of our financial results.

Thanks, Mike. I'll start my comments on slide five. DCNS revenue totaled $50.9 million in the first quarter of 2016, a decrease of 6% year-over-year and 4% sequentially. The year-over-year decrease was attributable to lower IP connectivity revenue related to the decline in pricing for new and renewing customers and the loss of legacy contracts, a decrease in partner colocation revenue, partially offset by an increase in company-controlled colocation revenue. The sequential decrease was primarily attributable to the similar trends for IP connectivity and the anticipated churn from a significant company controlled-colocation customer.

Our Cloud and Hosting segment revenue totaled $25.1 million, a decrease of 6% year-over-year and 3% sequentially driven by churn from a small number of large customers. We expect churn to decline for the remainder of 2016, beginning in the second quarter.

Turning to slide six, we identified the sources of change in revenue from the fourth quarter of 2015 to the first quarter of 2016. Our DCNS revenue declined $2.2 million driven by the churn in our company-controlled colocation business as previously mentioned. IP connectivity revenue declined driven by $0.7 million of higher non-recurring revenue reported in the fourth quarter with recurring revenue decreasing by $0.5 million, which was in line with historical trends.

Partner colocation revenue was unchanged. Our Cloud and Hosting Services revenue declined $0.7 million, also driven by churn we discussed last quarter. The churn events we signaled last quarter that impacted first quarter performance are the result of a few customers that have been acquired by large social media companies and moved their infrastructure in-house. We do not see this churn as a fundamental change to our business, but rather a confluence of customer events, which created an anticipated headwind to revenue.

Turning to slide seven, we reported DCNS segment profit of $26.5 million, a decrease of 4% year-over-year and 6% sequentially. DCNS segment margin increased 110 basis points year-over-year and decreased 120 basis points sequentially to 52.1%. A favorable mix shift of higher company-controlled colocation revenue and lower IP connectivity costs drove margins higher year-over-year.

Long-term, we see significant opportunities to continue to further expand DCNS segment margins, based on the mix shift towards higher margin services. In addition to mix shift benefits, we also see the opportunity to expand margins, as we increase the utilization in our data center footprint.

With approximately 55% space utilization across our company-controlled data center footprint, we expect further upside to DCNS segment margins derived from the utilization efficiencies, as occupancy increases.

On slide eight, we show Cloud and Hosting's segment profits and segment margin results. Cloud and Hosting segment profits was $18.3 million, decreased 8% year-over-year and 4% sequentially. Cloud and Hosting segment's margin decreased 110 basis points year-over-year and 90 basis points sequentially to 73.2%. Our Cloud and Hosting services continue to generate healthy margins that are accretive to our overall margin profile. As we sell more Hosting and Cloud services, they take up a smaller physical presence, but generate significantly higher revenue per square foot and increased returns on invested capital.

Moving on to slide nine, you can see we delivered strong adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margin results. The first quarter adjusted EBITDA was $20.5 million, an increase of 14% year-over-year and a decrease of 10% sequentially. Adjusted EBITDA margin expanded 480 basis points year-over-year and declined 200 basis points sequentially to 27%. Adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margin represented the highest rates for a first quarter in company history. It is important to recognize that we have seasonality in our cost structure, so year-over-year comparisons tend to be the most relevant.

The year-over-year increase in adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margin was attributable to lower cash operating expense, primarily from optimizing the company's cost structure, reduced discretionary spending, improved marketing program efficiencies and benefits related to our business unit realignment.

On slide 10, we're highlighting the significant adjusted EBITDA margin expansion we have delivered the previous five quarters, with an excellent rate of margin expansion in the recent quarters. In the first quarter of 2015, adjusted EBITDA margin expanded 50 basis points year-over-year. In the second quarter margin expanded 180 points year-over-year. In the third quarter margin expanded 190 basis points year-over-year and in the fourth quarter margin expanded 200 basis points year-over-year and in the first quarter of 2016, adjusted EBITDA margin expanded 480 basis points year-over-year.

In addition to tight operational controls and positive operating leverage, we are building in the business model, there are two primary drivers of our margin expansion; the favorable mix shift towards selling higher margin services, specifically as the revenue derived from company-controlled collocation, Hosting and Cloud Services increases in proportion relative to the other revenue in the business, we would expect our margins to increase. That is the strategy we've put in place several years ago and continue to execute. The high incremental margin is associated with increasing the utilization rates within our company-controlled data centers. From a company-wide perspective, we believe we have significant available capacity across our company-controlled data center footprint which provides an attractive selling point for our collocation and hosting services.

Cash flow and balance sheet summaries are shown on slide 11. We are pleased to report the generation of positive levered free cash flow for the third consecutive quarter in the first quarter. Adjusted EBITDA less capital expenditures and cash interest expense totaled $1.3 million in levered free cash flow. With a disciplined approach to capital allocation, including a reduction in capital intensity, we are encouraged in our ability to generate positive levered free cash flow for the full year 2016.

At the end of the first quarter, cash and cash equivalents totaled $13.9 million. Funded debt totaled $318.7 million. As of March 31, 2016, our debt consisted of $286.2 million borrowed under our term loan at a rate of 6% and $32.5 million borrowed under our revolving credit facility at a rate of 4.9%. We also had $59.3 million in capital leases. We do not have any near-term debt maturity with our revolving credit facility maturing in November 2018 and our term loan maturing in 2019.

Our net debt totaled $364.1 million while our net debt to last quarter annualized adjusted EBITDA was 4.4x. We are below the financial covenants in our credit agreement and our current capital deployment plans are fully funded with our current debt facility, which includes an incremental $13.4 million in borrowing capacity, cash generation and cash on hand.

On slide 12, we're providing details of our recent credit agreement amendment which enhances our capital flexibility. The amendment increases our ability to divest up to $65 million in non-core assets and potentially monetize assets we believe we are currently getting little or no credit for in our valuation. It also improves our financial covenants, particularly, related to our interest coverage ratio and total leverage ratio. The interest rate did increase by 1% but we believe the trade-off of enhanced capital flexibility outweighs the incremental cost.

On slide 13, we are reaffirming our full year 2016 guidance for revenue, adjusted EBITDA and capital expenditures. We expect to deliver full year 2016 revenue in the range of $310 million to $320 million, adjusted EBITDA in the range of $80 million to $90 million and capital expenditures in the range of $40 million to $50 million. We expect a reduction in capital intensity in 2016 as we leverage our available data center capacity and repurpose hardware to meet growing demand for our Hosting and Cloud Services.

Now let me turn the call back to Mike.

Thanks, Kevin. I will now provide an update on our strategy to drive growth as we further leverage our marketing and distribution channels. I will also comment on our current stock price valuation and then summarize our progress.

Turning to slide 14, we launched our new shopping cart at the beginning of 2016. We're excited with the launch as the updated shopping cart supports our online ecommerce channel strategy and improves our ability to sell bare-metal servers through a cost-effective channel. We've had solid early success through the shopping cart and recently acquired a large online gaming company that is a new logo to Internap and came to us through our new shopping cart. This gaming company has a fast growing game with millions of downloads every week. In order to support their rapid growth, the customer recently took down dozens of our OpenStack-based bare-metal AgileSERVER 2.0 servers out of our Dallas facility.

We're pleased to report that the customer switched to Internap from IBM SoftLayer due to ease of use including the ability to configure its server and change the quantity to order multiple servers with a particular configuration, with a very simple easy-to-use shopping cart . As a CEO, I've spent a lot of time with our customers. I am most inspired when we discuss how customers are getting unique value from Internap and enabling them to compete effectively in their industry.

On slide 15, we show yet another customer who moved to Internap from SoftLayer. ConvertMedia, ad tech company that connects publishers and advertisers through a programmatic platform actually started at Amazon Web Services, then moved to SoftLayer before ultimately switching to Internap. ConvertMedia performed a head-to-head performance test between Internap, SoftLayer and Rackspace and choose Internap. They found that Internap's bare-metal cloud provides superior price performance for their high-performance applications. The customer increased performance by over 50% and saved 20% to 25% on the cost of their infrastructure, while ensuring the highest level of reliability and ease of setup.

On slide 16, I wanted to take a few minutes to comment on my view on Internap's recent stock performance and valuation. At Internap, we're very pragmatic and we remain focused on the things that we can control. While we have steadily improved the business as Kevin indicated over the past year, we know that missing 2015 expectations has resulted in the stock being in the penalty box and declining well in excess of our actual financial results.

Specifically, during the past 12 months, the share price of Internap has declined roughly 80%, while 2016 consensus EBITDA estimates have declined only 18%. As a result, our stock currently trades at roughly 5.5 times 2016 consensus EBITDA, compared to over 11 times for our peer group. As an investor, the more that you understand Internap, the more that you realize that the company is making progress each quarter and continues to earn the trust and loyalty of our customers.

We believe that the stock is significantly undervalued and will recover based on continuing to improve our results each day. Again, we understand we're not a REIT that trades in the mid-teens EBITDA multiples, but at the same time we're certainly not a pure-play custom-hosting company with a mid-single digits EBITDA multiple. In fact, Internap generates only roughly 8% of our revenues in custom posting.

So while we believe our stock is undervalued, we're focused completely on what we can control, which is improving operational performance, continuing to increase margins and driving profitable growth. In addition, we expect that the more visibility that we provide into our unique business, the easy it'll be for all of you investors to value and appreciate the assets we have and the customer loyalty we're driving.

So let me end my prepared comments by briefly summarizing on slide 17. We believe our first quarter 2016 results provides a solid foundation for our return to profitable growth. In the first quarter, adjusted EBITDA increased 14% and adjusted EBITDA margin expanded 480 basis points year-over-year. We generated positive levered free cash flow for the third consecutive quarter and while churn increased as we indicated it would, we expect churn to decline beginning in the second quarter. Looking forward, we're confident that our strategic realignment and the associated cost savings will further improve our margin profile and position Internap for long-term growth.

Now, we'd like to open up the call for your questions. Ryan?

Thank you, sir. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Frank Louthan with Raymond James. Your line is now open. Please go ahead.

Great. Thank you. Can you talk little bit about – give us some more color on some of the increased churn from some of the larger cloud and hosting companies is going to be the first question. And then secondly, if you could follow up the Equinix transaction or partnership that you announced earlier this week, is this exclusive with you guys? What sort of revenue opportunity [ph] you're thinking there (22:57)? Thanks.

Okay. Hey, it's Mike responding. Let me start and Kevin if you want to jump and add any other color. I think your first question was around churn and the second was around Equinix. So in the case of churn, first off, quantitatively as you recall from our last call, we communicated that we expected Q1 to have the peak of our churn for the year due to some large churn that occurs in some of our large Cloud and Hosting customers and that indeed happened as we told you. The good news is that we – the churn that we expected in Q1 did occur, but the churn that we're anticipating going forward will steadily decrease beginning in Q2.

But frankly the thing that I think you're most interested in is that the Cloud and Hosting churn, the significant one was related to one of our large customers who was doing quite well with us and growing quite rapidly that had been acquired by one of the large social media companies with significantly larger scale of data center operations. And over time, the parent company ultimately required, the company that we were supplying to use their facilities. So that's what drove this significant large churn in Q1.

Relative to Equinix, Equinix has been a partner of ours for a long time and frankly from our standpoint this is really just the next step in reinforcing the partnership. We're now part of the Equinix Cloud Exchange that's certainly not exclusive to us, but what it does for us and what it does for them is allow us to offer our China Performance IP service which is the capability we announced earlier this quarter that allows for customers to have direct access to the Mainland part of China, not just Hong Kong, with very cost and price performance-driven network capabilities. So Equinix is supporting our efforts out there and we're part of their Equinix Cloud Exchange. We've been partners for over 14 years. They're a big supplier of ours and we're a big go-to-market partners in the global economy at this point.

Hey, Frank, this is Kevin. The only thing I would add to the – at least going back to the churn comment was the fact that roughly what we could say is the heightened churn element of what we impacted in the first quarter was roughly just shy maybe of $1.5 million. And as some of that heightened churn actually occurred right at the end of the fourth quarter and then some of it is occurring in the midst of the first quarter, there'll be some rollover effect as we anticipate into the second quarter and that amount would probably be possibly as much as another $1 million.

Great. Thank you very much.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Matthew Heinz with Stifel. Your line is now open, please go ahead.

Hi, thanks. Good afternoon. So as you begin to divest the non-core assets and sort of see churn levels go down, I'm just curious to hear how you're thinking about the returns on incremental capital dollars invested? And what are the other metrics we should be thinking about to gauge the improvement in the business and the acceleration, as you see capital intensity go down? Is it unlevered free cash flow or is it levered free cash flow that we should be thinking about as the way to really gauge the incremental improvement in your business?

Hey, Matt, this is Kevin. I'm not sure I quite heard all of that directly, but let me take a shot at what I think I did hear and then feel free to point me in a different direction. So with regard to the opportunities for us to sell the – as we call the non-strategic assets, we think there are a couple of assets that are relatively something that the investors just don't focus on and I don't think they're valued really into the share price today. So one of those is a software business that we have that we picked up with the Cloud business called Ubersmith, so that would be an example. It's a nice growing, but relatively small part of the overall revenue part of the business, less than $5 million at this stage, but rapidly growing. So that's an opportunity I think for us to monetize that and take some cash back and then based on the most recent amendment of our debt amendments that most of that or all of that will go back to delevering, so paying back to the existing lenders at this point.

The second part I heard something along the lines of return on invested capital and how do we think about that. Obviously, with some of the extended metrics and as we've talked about before, deploying capital into our Cloud and Hosting businesses has the highest rate of return for the company and for shareholders, so that is always probably the investment we like best. Company-controlled colo provides a nice healthy return and we've talked about it where as an example the investments in company-controlled colo and IP, we've found greater returns in our data centers that are over 25%, whereas when you do the Cloud and Hosting investments, even with the incremental capital that you deploy for the servers and the switches on the top of rack that gets a return of over 40%. And then you kind of look at how does that fill in on a blended average into our company-controlled data centers and that blended average is probably somewhere a little over 30%. So I did pick up that much, I wasn't sure whether there was something more to your question.

No, that's helpful. Thanks. I'm sorry about the bad connection, but I guess I'll pickup offline. But just before I go, I'd like to hear more about the China opportunities, kind of what you're doing there to help customers with connectivity, just a little more color on that initiative would be great.

Sure, and I'd also point you to the press release and the information we provided that's on our website if you want some additional detail than what I'll provide right now. But basically, the China Performance IP, what that really is all about is taking our unique network capabilities with our MIRO capability that's built into our network services and being able to deliver that for customers that want to reach into Mainland China without having the significantly higher cost of doing it on their own. And so in our particular case, we're able to through new network relationships with the main carriers in China, be able to offer a much more cost effective, higher performance and much more reliable service for people who're trying to essentially reach consumers that are in that huge market of China. So, technically, it's really an extension of our MIRO capabilities into a much larger market without the extra effort and the extra time and cost associated of trying to do it on your own.

Thank you very much.

Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Fred Moran with Burke & Quick. Your line is now open. Please go ahead.

Thanks. Michael, can you update us on your pipeline of demand and possibly quantify a new leasing number in terms of annualized revenue and maybe even a backlog number? And is there anything inherent in Internap's facility that prevents it from capitalizing on the leasing demand surge that the data center industry is currently seeing?

Okay. Let me start on that. Well, first off, I think what we tried to do this time was to give you some – I think you were one of the guys that had access to actually take a look at what other kind of operating metrics can we give you to help describe what's going on in our business and what's going on physically within the data centers and the various service we provide there. So we're looking for your feedback and whether that's a step in the right direction.

In terms of utilization, kind of traditional utilization, that's basically flat from the past. I think it's about 55% at this point. Certainly, the bookings as you know, in our particular business we had in Q1, the higher than normal churn because of the turnover of a couple of our large customers. But the reality is is our bookings are progressing as we expected them to in Q1 and we anticipate that trend continuing through this year. So it's difficult to predict what the actual floor space utilization will be because, we'll continue to push into the higher density services as Kevin identified and so that's why we're looking at other measurements, including the ones around density and dollar per kilowatt. So it's an evolving hybrid story, as you know, and we're trying to dissect and bisect the business around the two business units we have at this point. Kevin?

The only other thing I was going to add Fred, I think the second part of your question was is there anything that we see in our data centers that would inhibit us from participating let's say in the marketplace. I think as Mike has spoken to, I don't think there's anything that we see would at all give us any cause for concern as to we should continue to grow and improve those utilization rates.

Yeah, our data centers are very current and recently invested in and we feel like we've got very prime square footage available for customers that want our services.

Okay. If I may, I'll just ask another question. On the last earnings call, you said that the interruption in the high-yield market had hindered the strategic alternatives review. What have you experienced since then given the recovery of the high-yield market and what do you see as the obstacles to enhancing shareholder value?

Well, there are couple of things. One is, yeah, certainly the market for high yield has improved I think since our last conversation in February for sure. And as you know, we – at the last conference call, we kind of reminded people that we had gone through a comprehensive review of the strategic alternatives, had the advisors and the basically had determined that at this particular point that we were essentially going to move more toward figuring out how to improve and optimize both our cost structure and organizational model. And that's why we broke into the two business unit realignments that we talked about. But we remain open to all alternatives, both in terms of divestiture of non-core assets like Kevin described as well as other ways to maximize shareholder value. So though we're not actively in a marketing process as we were last year, we continue to receive inbound interest and we're certainly open to maximizing shareholder value as appropriate.

Okay, thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Dan Kurnos with Benchmark Company. Your line is now open. Please go ahead.

Great, thanks. Good evening guys. Thanks for all the additional disclosure, quite a far cry for the prior no-guidance days. Just if we can go back to the MRR trends, good color initially on that, appreciate that, and just not to put words back in your mouth. But it sounds like with the new partner deal, colo should be stable, partner should be stable. We did see some tick down until Q1 on the MRR for Cloud and Hosting. I don't know if that's churn related or if you could just give me a little bit of color on the puts and takes there and just if my evaluation is fair that would be helpful color.

Yeah, I think, you're on the right track and clearly that was churn-related relative to Cloud and Hosting. That's a growth business for us and should continue to or should return to being a growth business, and that's where we've put quite a bit of our emphasis given the profitability of those services as we described.

No, Mike, I know that this is probably unfair since you are using these good examples just business wins from SoftLayer, but as you've kind of taken over resetting the sales process, could you give us some – a little bit of additional granularity on the sales process, timing of going after the customer, whether they approached you directly and if anything that you've put in place kind of enhanced the process on the win side there?

Yeah, are you talking about customers?

I'm talking about the two ones that you called out, the ConvertMedia in specific, and if you want to take that a little bit further on, new logo wins and...

Okay.

...how the process has evolved, I'd appreciate it as well?

Yeah, in fact, I realize that people on the investor side have to be patient with us. We are in the midst of a turnaround that's taking some time and we've had some roadblocks and headwinds with some of these large churn events.

But underlying all that, we identified the key growth initiatives which continue to be central to what we do. And as you may recall, a lot of that was around sales force productivity initiatives, churn management with our top 100 customers, improving utilization of data centers, a lot of work with channel programs and then lead generation initiatives and targeted marketing initiatives around the key verticals. And then finally introducing new products and services like the China product that we talked about earlier and some of the new things we are doing with OpenStack.

So those, we will continue to talk about those forever, because those we think are sustainable and important initiatives within the company. And so I think the thing that you want to take from the two examples I gave you, they are quite diverse.

Even though they both happen to have been defections from software, one was a classic head-to-head direct sales force initiative with ConvertMedia and that's a big opportunity in a very highly contested opportunity in the marketplace.

The other one actually was an inbound through our shopping cart. And so two different ways to reach us; one, of course is much larger than the other at least initially, but we're obviously looking at making it easier for customers to find us and to continue to grow with us.

But I would just say in general that 0where we're seeing most of our productivity increase is by the improvement of the hiring and training of sales people, giving them time to get into the job and get some tenure, in the meantime our growth in our channel program, we had really unfriendly channel programs not that long ago, a little over a year ago and now that's really becoming a sales force multiplier for us with a lot more synergy between the channel partners and their customers and our sales force. So expect to hear more about that as we go forward but underneath the cover there's some very good things going on in terms of [ph] MRR growth (38:24) and sales productivity.

Yeah, e-com picking up I think that was laggard before, but certainly a positive. Just last one from me if I could then and I'll step aside. Just on the IT, how much of the – if any of that was churn in Q1 on the step down if you could – I think you mentioned the MIRO sales number of Q1, I might have missed it though, and just your thoughts on incremental MIRO sales over the balance of the year?

Sure. Dan, this is Kevin. So from the perspective of the IP step-down I would say about $0.5 million in total of the $1.2 million decline in revenues were driven through – driven by churn or repricing of existing customer contracts. There is about $700,000 of call it non-recurring revenue mostly related to the fourth quarter, so of that, there was about $300,000 decline in MIRO Controller quarter-over-quarter, there is some termination fees of a couple of hundred thousand dollars and somewhat collectability reserves that were booked.

So really, call it, the two trends in our mind is basically in line with expectations of about anywhere between $400,000 to $600,000 of decline quarter-over-quarter and then the rest from more an MRR nature.

Let me just add to this comment, just on the MIRO Controller, I think part of your question was around that. We're continuing to look at different ways to get that product out in the marketplace, we've tried a number of different approaches and the sales funnel for the MIRO Controller remained strong and we actually decided that we would hire a dedicated person to focus exclusively on MIRO Controller opportunities in addition to being part of the portfolio that our general sales force sells along with everything else.

So that dedication, we think is actually a good way for us to have it first in that go to work every day trying to drive as much business as possible for the MIRO Controller. When we done our market estimates, we think there is about 50,000 companies globally that run multi-home networks that could benefit from the MIRO Controller. So it's taking longer than we want but we're optimistic that the MIRO Controller can contribute even more meaningfully to our revenue performance going forward.

That's good additional color. Thanks Mike, thanks guys. Appreciate it.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of George Sutton with Craig-Hallum. Your line is now open. Please go ahead.

Many of my questions have been asked, but you did mention, you had renegotiated with one of your partners and I wasn't clear what that renegotiation was and how that might impact you going forward?

Sure. George, it's Kevin. We have – obviously we take down [indiscernible] (41:20) but specifically to lease base we have a large partner globally and in this case it was a renegotiation, I think our U.S. footprint and that was worth to us...

$1.5 million, I think.

Yeah, about a little over $1.5 million of annualized benefit.

Got you. Okay, one... [indiscernible]

(41:47) to be clear and with that partner metric will actually be given back, so that's partner colo just to be clear but with that also we will also be giving back some footprint, so we will have less lease space as well.

Got you. One other question because I know I'll be asked this question and would rather just hear from the [indiscernible] (42:06) mouth, so you continue to receive inbound interest and you previously had a special committee and obviously advisors, how do you handle inbound interest when that comes in now?

The same way, I mean basically like everything, we have to quality the interest, find out what the perspective acquirer is looking to do and then make a judgment on what kind of a timeframes and energy both parties are interested in putting into it and we're obviously open to a lot of multiple ideas and so we take those inbound interests quite seriously and typically Kevin and myself address them directly.

Okay, thanks guys.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Barry Sine with Drexel Hamilton. Your line is open, please go ahead.

Good morning – good afternoon gentlemen. Basic financial analysis question, so you're reporting revenue now in two different categories and I noticed you're also giving out square footage in those two categories.

How should we think about these categories, how does management think about these categories, I am guessing that's it's a revenue per square foot, we look at those trends, you're also giving out other data items, not quite sure what to do with MRR kilowatt or total number of servers. But if you kind of help us understand, how you think about how this business works, I think that would be helpful at least to me in terms of modeling the business going forward.

I am going to refer to the page four in the presentation, Barry, I am sorry, this is Kevin, in page four. So when we look at each of those kind of blocks, when you see the MRR per square foot, understanding it is difficult as we've discussed in our prepared remarks, to, let's say, sometimes compare us to other competitors, but what you should see is kind of improved performance over time against these metrics.

So when I think about MRR per square foot, think of this as, I deployed capital to build out this data center structure or I lease space in my partner colo space. And so from that perspective I've either invested capital or I am leasing space.

And then here are the MRR dollars that I am getting against those and you would expect that over time that those would improve. Now, as we said some of these are relatively flattish, mostly driven by some of that churn we've talked about both in, beginning in 2015 and through 2016, the larger type of churn event.

So the fact is that we've been, call it, reasonably stable, it hasn't been necessarily a bad story, but you do also get a perspective of how much more impactful the Cloud Hosting business is in comparative to let's say the company-controlled colo just on the margin dollars per square foot or revenue dollars per square foot excuse me.

Same way we deploy infrastructure, we deploy with regard to distribution of electricity and power and cooling, and again you'll see that the – effectively the revenue, again MRR so taking out some of the noise that we do, get [ph] cut off (45:22) in non-recurring that has been relatively stable over the past year.

And again a little of fluctuation based on churn events but kind of stable type of metric. And then we get down and we've actually now began to show of this as a profit perspective per square foot. And you can kind of say the differences between the data center and network services, kind of profit per square foot versus a Cloud Hosting per square foot and then the margin rates.

So again, I think we're just trying to present some of this information, so you get a better idea of how we look at invested capital or leases and what that does from either revenue perspective or margin perspective. And then it also gives you a perspective of the hosting, Cloud Hosting bu versus the DCNS bu.

Okay. That's very helpful and a similar question on the supplemental data on the square footage that you give you, so you give out a total sellable, you break that out by company controls and partner and then within the two revenue categories you breakout how much of that is sold, so I am assuming the net sellable that can be sold to either one of the revenue categories and then you're breaking out where it was in fact sold.

Yes that's correct.

Okay, that was easy. And my last question on goes to the major churn event that seem to be somewhat of an annual event and they really set you back quite a ways every time you have one of these big churn events and I understand, you tend to attract these great high-growth companies that are also attractive acquisitions.

For example if look at this the company you talked about in your slide deck, Convert Media they seem like they'd be a perfect acquisition for Verizon in which case you'd lose them. So how do we address that risk, that ongoing risk that seems to have it annually and just really result in a big hit to the result and to the stock price on an ongoing basis?

So I think you're bringing up a good example of one of the challenges of working with the vertical markets that really value what we do, is that, as it turns out at least some of them have been very attractive acquisition targets for companies that may have an interest in taking it in-house.

We've actually had one of the acquisitions that just occurred, one of our large customers actually play the opposite way, where they're actually owned by a company that doesn't have that kind of capability and we ended up picking up a lot of additional business from the parent company, So it's a little hard to predict whether it's going to be a good thing or a bad thing for our business but we do work with vertical markets that are growing quite rapidly and that's generally a good thing for us but there is obviously a chance that, that could, it could end up resulting in a churn event like that.

So the good news is that, to the extent that we're always going to have some amount of churn, it's the nature of the business in any of our competitors as well. We're doing everything we can to ensure that as we grow these customers that we continue to over service them and keep them happy with us.

The one that just churned actually has been acquired almost for two years before they moved over. So, it isn't an immediate activity but the reality, if we have a diversified customer revenue base and we don't have the tendency on any one particular customer or a group of customers, but we care every time we lose one of our Top 100 customers and we've had a few occur in the last few years.

okay. I really appreciate it. Thank you gentlemen.

Good luck. Thank you.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's question-and-answer session. I would now hand the call back over to Michael Nelson, Vice President of Investor Relations for closing comments.

Great. Thank you for joining us today, we look forward to providing you an update on our progress next quarter. Now I'll turn the call back to the operator, Ryan?

Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today's program and you may all disconnect. Everybody have a wonderful day.