Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Michael Nelson — Vice President of Investor Relations, Internap Corporation
Michael A. Ruffolo — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Internap Corp.
Kevin M. Dotts — Chief Financial Officer, Internap Corp.
George Frederick Sutton — Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC
Frank G. Louthan — Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc.
Frederick W. Moran — Analyst, Burke & Quick Partners LLC
Daniel Kurnos — Analyst, The Benchmark Company, LLC.
Mark D. Kelleher — Analyst, D.A. Davidson & Co.
Matthew Heinz — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Internap Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this call may be recorded.

I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference, Mr. Michael Nelson, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.

Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today. I'm joined by Michael Ruffolo, our Chief Executive Officer, and Kevin Dotts, our Chief Financial Officer. Following prepared remarks, we'll open up the call for your questions. The slides we reference in the call are available on our Web site in the Presentation section on the Investor Relations page. Non-GAAP reconciliations in our supplemental data sheet, which includes additional operational and financial metrics, are available under the Financial Information, Quarterly Results section of our Investor Relations page.

Today's call contains forward-looking statements including belief in our business strategy; including acceleration of the business unit realignment and its expected results; including cost savings and restructuring charges; expected market growth rates and our ability to capitalize on them; expectations regarding customer churn and its drivers; margins and our ability to generate positive levered free cash flow for 2016; expectations regarding the drivers of adjusted EBITDA in 2016, including bookings, sales of MIRO Controller, contributions from the channel; cost of goods sold and operating expenses; and expectations for revenue, adjusted EBITDA, and capital expenditures in 2016; and our ability to drive profitable growth and deliver enhanced value to shareholders.

These statements are not guarantees of future performance because these statements are based on certain assumptions and involve risk and uncertainties. There are important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. We discuss these factors in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We undertake no obligation to amend, update, or clarify these statements. In addition to reviewing the fourth quarter and full year results, we will also discuss recent developments.

Now, let me turn the call over to Michael Ruffolo.

Thank you, Michael, and good afternoon, everyone. In today's call, I want to start with a discussion and provide some color around our strategic review process and the business realignments.

I'm also going to provide a summary of the quarter before I turn the call over to Kevin Dotts, our Chief Financial Officer, and Kevin will review our financial and operational results in more detail. We'll then conclude with an overview of our company-wide focus for future growth and then take your questions.

So beginning on slide three, as committed, I wanted to update everyone on the strategic review process. As you know, we announced last September that Internap's Board of Directors created a strategy committee of independent directors to explore strategic alternatives to maximize shareholder value.

During this process, the company and its advisors undertook a thorough review process designed to look at all available options. We contacted a wide range of financial and strategic parties to ascertain interest in a potential transaction. In connection with these discussions, we did receive several preliminary non-binding indications of interest with respect to a potential acquisition of the company.

However, due to a variety of factors including the inability to obtain financing and volatility in the credit markets, no agreement was reached. At this time, the Board has determined that accelerating Internap's business unit realignment represents the best alternative available to enhance shareholder value. We also believe that establishing two distinct integrated business units that can operate independent of the other may open up additional strategic options in the future. It may go without saying, but let me emphasize that the Board and management team are committed to making the right decisions for the company and our shareholders.

We are always open to considering all opportunities for the company and its businesses to create and maximize shareholder value. I'd now like to provide some additional perspective on the business realignment and the associated cost optimization activities on slide four.

Today, we announced steps to accelerate Internap's operations into two integrated business units, Data Center and Network Services, and Cloud and Hosting Services. This transition has been designed to facilitate more effective and efficient business operations and improve our customer and product focus. These restructuring actions create a management and cost structure that better aligns with the opportunities of each business and the needs of their respective customers.

Operating as two integrated business units will enable us to respond better to customers and to grow faster as a result. The transition into two business units also allows us to eliminate non-core functions and better align our cost structure. We expect to achieve approximately $4 million to $5 million of annualized cost savings, beginning in the second quarter of 2016 as a result.

Savings will be generated primarily from optimizing the company's cost structure during the business realignment, as well as reduced discretionary spending and improved marketing program efficiencies. We expect to record a one-time below-the-line restructuring charge of approximately $2.5 million to $3 million associated with severance and other costs to implement the plan.

If you'd turn to slide five, we'll show you that the revenue mix from our infrastructure services portfolio as represented in our new business realignment structure. As you can see, roughly two-thirds of our 2015 revenue was represented by data center and network services with the remaining one-third driven by cloud and hosting services. We believe the additional autonomy and accountability derived from our business realignment will drive improved financial performance in each of the segments.

Turning to slide six, you will see we delivered record results for adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA margin and segment margin. Total revenue in the fourth quarter of 2015 totaled $78.8 million, representing an increase of 1% quarter-over-quarter and a decrease of 7% year-over-year.

Core data center services revenue, which includes company-controlled colocation, hosting and cloud services totaled $49.1 million, an increase of 1% sequentially and a decrease of 1% year-over-year.

Segment profit of $47.3 million increased 6% quarter-over-quarter and decreased 3% year-over-year. Segment margin was a record high at 60.1%, an increase of 310 basis points sequentially and 220 basis points year-over-year. Adjusted EBITDA of $22.8 million increased 15% quarter-over-quarter and was flat year-over-year. Adjusted EBITDA margin expanded 380 basis points sequentially and 200 basis points year-over-year to 29%.

Adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margin represented the highest level in the company's history. As a result, we generated positive levered free cash flow of $1.4 million in the fourth quarter, which is our second consecutive positive quarter.

Now, I'll pass the call over to Kevin Dotts, our CFO, who will give us a more detailed review of our financial results.

Thanks, Mike. I'll start my comments on slide seven. Data center services revenue totaled $59 million in the fourth quarter of 2015, an increase of 1% sequentially and a decrease of 4% year-over-year. The sequential increase was attributable to increased sales of colocation in company-controlled data centers, hosting and cloud services, partially offset by decreased partner colocation revenue. The year-over-year decrease was primarily due to the loss of revenue from the 111 8th Avenue, New York Metro data center migration last year.

In our IP services segment, revenue totaled $19.7 million, flat sequentially and a decrease of 14% year-over-year. MIRO Controller contributed $0.5 million to the fourth quarter results.

In the fourth quarter, our churn mitigation programs produced positive results as total company revenue churn decreased 40 basis points sequentially to 1.6%.

Turning to slide eight, we are pleased with the positive mix shift towards our core data center services. Revenue from these core data center services increased 1% sequentially and decreased 1% year-over-year. Core data center service revenues returned to sequential growth and has increased at a 17% three-year compound annual growth rate through the fourth quarter of 2015 and now represents 83% of data center service revenues and 62% of total revenues.

Importantly, the favorable mix shift to core data center services has been the primary driver in our strong adjusted EBITDA growth and adjusted EBITDA margin expansion. Adjusted EBITDA has increased at a 15% three-year compound annual growth rate and adjusted EBITDA margin has expanded 750 basis points over the same timeframe.

Turning to slide nine, we recorded data center segment profit of $35.3 million, an increase of 5% sequentially and flat year-over-year. Data center segment margin expanded 270 basis points sequentially and 230 basis points year-over-year to 59.9%.

Core segment profit was $32.7 million, an increase of 5% sequentially and 2% year-over-year. Core segment margin expanded 220 basis points sequentially and 240 basis points year-over-year to 66.6%. The primary driver for strong improvement in segment margin was due to the favorable product mix shift of selling a larger proportion of higher margin, company-controlled colocation, hosting and cloud services.

Over the long-term, we see significant opportunities to continue to further expand data center service margins based on the mix shift towards these higher margin services. In addition to the mix shift benefits, we also see the opportunity to expand margins as we increase utilization in our data center footprint. With approximately 55% utilization across our company-controlled data center footprint, we expect further upside to the data center services margins derived from the utilization efficiencies as occupancy increases.

On slide ten, we show IP services segment profit and segment margin results. IP segment profit of $12 million increased 8% sequentially and decreased 11% year-over-year. IP segment margin expanded 420 basis points sequentially and 200 basis points year-over-year to 60.7%.

Despite the impact of secular pricing trends, we expect continued renegotiations of vendor contracts and the contribution from MIRO Controller to be accretive to IP margins as we continue to execute our strategy in coming quarters.

The IP services segment continued to deliver solid segment profitability and cash flow which we leverage to invest in the more capital-intensive data center services segment. Further, the IP business is an enabler of our data center service business because our high performance network enhances the competitive differentiation of our high performance IT infrastructure service offerings. Over 95% of our data center customers also take our IP service.

Moving on to slide 11, you can see we delivered record high adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margin results. Fourth quarter adjusted EBITDA was $22.8 million, an increase of 15% sequentially. Adjusted EBITDA margin expanded 380 basis points sequentially and 200 basis points year-over-year to 29%. The improvement in adjusted EBITDA and the associated margin expansion was predominantly due to a favorable product mix shift toward core data center services, lower cash operating expenses and positive operating leverage in our business model.

Cash flow and balance sheet summaries are also shown on slide 12. We are pleased to report the generation of positive levered free cash flow for the second consecutive quarter. Adjusted EBITDA less capital expenditures and cash interest expense totaled $1.4 million in levered free cash flow. With our disciplined approach to capital allocation, we expect to generate positive levered free cash flow for the full-year 2016.

At the end of the fourth quarter, cash and cash equivalents totaled $17.8 million. Funded debt totaled $318.5 million. As of December 31, 2015, our debt consisted of $287.5 million borrowed under our term loan at a rate of 6% and $31 million borrowed under our revolving credit facility at a rate of 4.7%. We also had $57.1 million in capital leases. We do not have any near-term debt maturities, with our revolving credit facility maturing in November 2018 and our term loan maturing in November 2019.

Our net debt totaled $357.8 million, while our net debt to last quarter annualized adjusted EBITDA was 3.9 times. We are below the financial covenants in our credit agreement and our current capital deployment plans are fully funded with our current debt facilities, which include an incremental $14.9 million in borrowing capacity, cash generation and our cash on hand.

On slide 13, we are providing full-year 2016 revenue, adjusted EBITDA and capital expenditure guidance. We expect to deliver full-year 2016 revenue in the range of $310 million to $320 million, adjusted EBITDA in the range of $80 million to $90 million and capital expenditures in the range of $40 million to $50 million. Our CapEx guidance includes $30 million to $35 million of growth-based capital and $10 million to $15 million of maintenance capital. Our capital intensity significantly declined in 2015 with CapEx of $57 million compared to $77 million in 2014. We expect a further reduction in capital intensity in 2016 as we leverage our available data center capacity and repurpose hardware to meet growing demand for our hosting and cloud services.

On slide 14, we provided a bridge from 2015 to 2016 revenue. We continue to internally challenge ourselves to growth at or above industry growth rates within our core data center services. You can separate the core data center services market into colocation, hosting and cloud.

We ascribe market growth rates of approximately 8% to 10% for colocation, mid-teens for traditional custom hosting, and 20% to 25% for cloud services. We also estimate our total addressable market is growing in the aggregate at a mid-teens growth rate over the next several years. Our guidance considers these expected market growth rates for core data center services market, offset by anticipated churn, which I'll discuss in a moment. We expect lower partner co-location revenue and lower IP revenue.

Turning to slide 15, we provide a bridge from 2015 to 2016 adjusted EBITDA. We expect continued execution on our growth initiatives to result in incremental bookings of $2 million to $7 million. Our value proposition of providing high performance Internet infrastructure service offerings tends to attract high-growth, Internet-centric companies, like online gaming or ad tech that grow very rapidly with Internap, and due to their high-growth are susceptible to being acquired by much larger companies with significant scale.

Although we do not have any single customer that accounts for more than 3% of revenue, a few of these customers have been acquired. And we expect several customers that have been acquired by very large technology, social media companies to move the infrastructure in-house in an effort to realize the synergies associated with the acquisitions.

We have much better visibility into customer churn as a result of our account management program and, as you know, churn events result in an immediate loss of revenue, while new bookings take time to ramp. Implicit in our 2016 guidance is churn, which may largely offset our growth initiatives. As we continue to execute our growth initiatives and acquire new logos, we believe we can now grow the churn headwind over time.

In 2016, we project the solid funnel and success we had in the fourth quarter for MIRO Controller to result in $1 million to $3 million of incremental adjusted EBITDA. On the expense side, we expect to realize cost of goods sold savings of $1 million to $3 million.

Finally, we expect to achieve incremental operating expense benefits of $3 million to $6 million, inclusive of the cost optimization benefits from our business realignment.

Now, let me turn the call back to Mike.

Thanks, Kevin. I thought it would be beneficial to our investors to provide an update on our growth initiatives and then summarize our progress.

Turning to slide 16, this is a slide that we've discussed for a couple of quarters now, which is a good one to help describe our view on what makes a great company in our industry. At Internap, we're very pragmatic and remain focused on what we can control. We all know about numerous macroeconomic events currently taking place that are out of our control, which we believe have placed significant downward pressure on our stock price.

For example, we can't control the price of oil, debt market situation in the US, or macroeconomic issues in China. However, we can control how we execute our strategy and that's what we're focused on.

Without question, we compete in a large addressable market. Based on third-party research and our own analysis, we believe the total addressable market for these services is a $60 billion plus global opportunity. Given Internap's current size and revenue base, we have a lot of opportunity for growth in this market.

We also continue to believe that we have a product portfolio that provides the basis for long-term competitive differentiation and allows us to compete effectively in the market. Our high-performance infrastructure services portfolio enables us to effectively compete with a performance-based value proposition. And as Kevin indicated, it's very attractive to high-growth technology-based companies and other key vertical markets.

The final aspect of what makes a great company is execution. And this is an area where we've demonstrated that we've improved a lot, but I believe we can do better. The good news is that execution is almost entirely within our control. We believe improved execution, along with the strategic realignment of our business, will drive enhanced operational performance and shareholder value over the next 12 to 18 months.

So on slide 16, let me provide an update on the six key growth initiatives that we discussed the last couple of quarters, which are all yielding positive results. First, our sales force productivity initiatives. The changes we made to our sales compensation plan and our training and selling methodology have resulted in solid fourth quarter bookings, which continued to improve from the third quarter.

Secondly, our churn mitigation and account management programs. As you know, we put in place a global account management program which provides white glove management and support for our top 100 customers. We believe these actions are beginning to positively impact churn with fourth quarter churn the lowest level in six quarters. Although, as Kevin indicated, we expect churn to increase in 2016 as a result of the few customers that have been acquired and will move their infrastructure in-house, we have much greater visibility into churn and expect fewer customers to churn as a result of our high touch programs.

Third, we're focusing on increasing data center utilization. We began to roll out specific sales initiatives and product programs around improving the utilization in data centers where we have lower-than-expected utilization. For example, in the fourth quarter, we experienced the largest quarterly leasing increase in our Dallas data center since the facility opened in the fourth quarter of 2011.

Fourth, our channel programs. New channel partner programs and incentives are showing positive signs and have started to have the desired effect of being a sales force multiplier. Channel bookings have increased significantly in the second half of 2015 when we implemented change compared to the first half of 2015. We believe, and more importantly, our channel partners believe, we're on the right track and expect to generate a larger contribution over time from our channel partners as we continue to grow the business.

Fifth, our lead generation and targeted marketing initiatives. We have more tightly focused our lead generation programs on the performance-centric industry verticals that would truly value Internap's competitive differentiation. As a result, we have increased the number of new logos and the monthly recurring revenue for our marketing sourced new logos and that's significantly accelerated over the past two quarters.

And sixth, and finally, our new and enhanced product and service offerings. On the last two quarterly conference calls, you heard me discuss the solid funnel we are building for our MIRO Controller. While we are pushing for even more growth, I'm happy to report that we've been gaining traction for the product which generated $0.5 million in sales in the fourth quarter. We believe that these growth initiatives will both improve profitability across the business and leverage the positive mix shift toward our core data center services that Kevin outlined earlier.

So let me briefly summarize on slide 18. We believe our fourth quarter 2015 results demonstrate improved operational and financial performance and provide a solid foundation for our return to profitable growth as our growth initiatives are beginning to yield positive results.

For the fourth quarter and full year 2015, we achieved several significant milestones including the highest levels of adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA margin and segment margin in our company's history. In the fourth quarter, we also generated the second consecutive quarter of positive levered free cash flow.

As we look into 2016, we're confident that our strategic realignment and the associated cost savings will further improve our margin profile and position Internap for long-term growth. With our disciplined approach to capital allocation, we are encouraged in our ability to generate positive levered free cash flow for the full year 2016.

We remain confident that our compelling performance-based value proposition should drive long-term profitable growth for the business and to deliver enhanced value to our shareholders.

Now, we'd like to open the call up to your questions. Let me hand it back to the operator. Christy?

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of George Sutton of Craig-Hallum. Your line is open.

Thank you. I wondered if you could just give us at least a tangible example of kind of how a customer would view the two integrated business units differently than the way you've been going to market. How is that going to affect the customer? And then, could you give us a sense of what in the strategic review process prompted you to move in this direction as well?

Okay. Let me take the second one first. In terms of the strategic review process, we certainly picked up a lot of data as we talk to various companies in the industry. And one of the comments that was made is that, we're clearly a business that has a number of different service offerings and business models. And the feedback we got was that to the extent that we could clarify that externally to the market and run our businesses in a way where they were more integrated in the way they go to market, that they viewed that as a better way to both show the power of the model and visibility to the marketplace.

In terms of the customer situation, as you know, we cross-sell our services to our customers. So some customers are traditional colo and IP customers and that over time also acquire some of our hybrid services, perhaps a cloud or a managed hosting offering. And we will continue to do this. We will have a singular sales force that represents the entire product line. However – so from a customer standpoint, they're going to get the benefit of the full product. From a development and marketing standpoint, we fundamentally compete against different competitors in each of the two business units, and sharpening that focus and ensuring that we're focused on winning in each of the respective units we think helps us as well even though, again, we bring it to market with a singular sales force.

Okay. Kevin, you mentioned relative to churn, that may largely offset your growth initiatives, but I think in a different part of the commentary, the white glove service and some other things have actually improved the churn outlook. I come away from those comments a little confused.

I think what we talked about is that we had noted that there was improved underlying operational performance in the fourth quarter versus prior quarters as the churn had continued to come down. Also we, at the same time, were talking about, and as Mike had come aboard and talked about some of the initiatives, we talked about the sales force initiatives and being able to get focused on our top 100 customers, et cetera, and so with that, we are being able to better see potential churn coming down the pipe. That churn is less per se related to, call it, other operational issues and more oriented to the idea that some of our larger customers that have grown with us very rapidly are also subject to being acquired by large social media technology companies. And we do anticipate in the guidance that we're giving that that will happen going into 2016 and thus the offset.

Hey, George. It's Mike again. Let me just add to Kevin's comments. Our visibility into our top 100 customers is extremely high. We actually set a goal to – in the first 100 days that I was on the job for either myself, our head of sales or our head of business development to meet at high levels with all 100 of our top customers. And we achieved that in the first 100 days in the job.

The good news is we have a lot of relationship capital with these large customers and we have a lot of visibility into their plans. What we don't control is that some of these very successful companies got acquired by large technology and social media companies that have huge infrastructure and data centers where they're bringing some of their infrastructure in-house, and we actually, I think, did a good job of essentially managing that process and we'll continue to do that, but there is some inevitable movement as part of the synergies of these acquisitions that these big companies made, and so that's what's causing the churn. I'd say we get high marks for customer retention, kind of unlucky in terms of which companies got acquired.

Got you. Okay. That's helpful. One other quick thing if I could. The MIRO Controller, $500,000 revenues this quarter, could you tell us how that was different than expectations you might have had for Q4?

Sure. I think, George, if you look back and going to the guidance that we had provided earlier, I think it was kind of at the end of the third quarter, really, clearly, MIRO Controller, while it did pick up in sales comparative to the prior quarter, I think we were probably less than $100,000 in the prior quarter. So we certainly did see some momentum. But, certainly, the sales cycles, as we've talked about before, have just been a little bit longer than what we anticipated. And so, we've [ph] finally (30:55) sold $0.5 million coming across. That was the largest element probably of the revenue shortfall as it relates to the guidance that we had provided previously.

Yeah. So, in our case, the MIRO Controller, we recognize 100% of the revenue at the time of sale and not a recurring revenue model. And, clearly, had we sold more of that in Q4, then, obviously, revenue would have gone up dollar for dollar.

Okay. Thanks, guys.

Okay.

Thank you. Our next question is from Frank Louthan of Raymond James. Your line is open.

Great. Thank you. Talk to us a little bit about how separating the businesses is going to save money. It sounds like it's creating more overhead. How does separating the two businesses do that? And then, what sort of valuation, do you think, boost you might get? And we got Rackspace earlier this week talking about public cloud kind of winning a lot of their market share. What is it about your cloud market share and your business there that might be different than what they're seeing? Thanks.

Sure. So, Frank, in terms of the operational separations of these two businesses, well, we basically we're getting a quite a bit of savings from shared services that we're actually able to use or spend less money, have less cost associated with it when we separated them into the two units. And so, we actually are eliminating some overhead in that regard. And, frankly, we are dedicating fewer resources, but making them fully dedicated to each of the unit. And that whole idea of being able to get people more laser focused on the specific competitors for each of their markets and the go-to-market strategies, it actually yields some nice cost savings for us. So without getting into the details, that's generally what we've done there.

Your second question was around something about Rackspace and the public cloud. Can you just ask that question one more time in terms of context?

So Rackspace made the statement on their conference call that they are seeing a lot more competition and acceleration of customers taking cloud services at the large hyper-scale public cloud businesses. As you separate the two business as well as increase sort of the focus on your cloud business, how are you maybe different in that regard? Are you seeing any similar competitive trends towards the larger hyper-scale guys like AWS or Azure that might risk that business?

Yeah, I think – first of, I think everyone likes to put AWS and Azure together, but let's just lump them together for this conversation. They're, obviously, responding to customer demand for kind of general purpose cloud computing. And as you see from their results, there is a lot of success that they're achieving.

Our strategy, I think you know from earlier calls, is that we focus our cloud business really around the performance verticals, which we think require a different level of hand-holding and service than the general purpose clouds where it's more of a do-it-yourself kind of model. And as a result of it, we not only are going after the markets that value our MIRO performance and the other initiatives we have around performance, but we also get, what we call, the Amazon graduates or the AWS graduates that start in a public cloud environment, but then recognize that they need not just scale but they also need technical support and a lot more vendor support, if you will, as they kind of scale their businesses. Because almost in all cases, they have very few people that have IT skills within their organization and they rely on this quite heavily.

So we are not going head-to-head with them. We're picking up a number of their customers that expand too quickly for what a general purpose cloud provider can do. But at the same time, we're focused on the key verticals that Kevin described.

Hey, Frank.

Okay. Yeah.

Yeah, this is Kevin. I was just going to add, we kind of lay things out on page five and breaking down the business in the kind of the go-forward data center and network services and cloud hosting services. And as you go into the cloud hosting services element, you'll see a block across from there about dedicated hosting. And it kind of walks you through – where we go more head-to-head with somebody like Rackspace is only roughly about 8% to 10% of our business.

Okay. And what's the additional clarity you're seeking to provide the market? Are you able to breakout the EBITDA and CapEx for the two different segments going forward?

Well, again, I don't think we're going to go down to per se an EBITDA level because, basically, we'll – we currently certainly understand what the gross margins are at the levels, we understand what the direct OpEx, but there's still a lot of shared OpEx, everything from what Mike talked about with how we're going to market with the sales organizations to certainly the back office. From a CapEx perspective, I think we have talked historically about expansion CapEx versus growth CapEx. And the growth CapEx is pretty much oriented towards the cloud and hosting services, while the expansion CapEx is mostly oriented towards the data center and network services. There are a little bit of crossover there, but I would say 90%, 95% of those are kind of aligned along those ways. And then kind of, obviously, the maintenance crosses everything.

Okay, great. Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question is from Fred Moran of Burke & Quick. Your line is open.

Thank you. Michael, two questions. One, did any actual offers materialize and why did they fall apart? And if realignment best positions the company for value creation, can you tell us if buyers specifically made offers for parts of your business and why after all this time you couldn't finalize a sale of something?

Okay. Well, I think that's actually three questions. We'll go through it as best we can. Okay, so in terms of the sale process that we announced in September, we did receive preliminary non-binding indications of interest and we did certainly have what I would consider to be substantial and meaningful conversations with a number of different parties. But in the end, the inability to obtain financing and general volatility in the markets, those agreements weren't reached. So I don't really have anything more to say about that outside of the fact that there was, I think, a good faith effort on the part of multiple parties along with us, but we did not reach a conclusion.

And in that vein, you were able to achieve a price for the total company that was essentially satisfactory to the Board, but the buyer couldn't get financing?

Well. Again, since they were all in the preliminary non-binding level, it's hard to kind of really speculate on that because it only makes sense if it's further down the path in terms of being able to conclude that with definition. But we, clearly, were engaged in meaningful conversations with the various parties, not to the point of Board approval or things of that nature.

But in terms of the issue of the separation of the business and offering for specific elements of the business, we didn't look at the business in that way. Certainly, there are certain companies that looked at our company that were more attracted to certain parts of the business than others because of what their business model looks like, and so that was a learning that certainly the integrated business unit model, as we said earlier, we believe offers us additional ways to create value in the future as we get more and more organized that way.

And safe to say, you would be comfortable selling one of these two business units and maintaining the rest of the business and/or that over time the business could be sold to different parties in two pieces?

Yeah. I think what you should assume from this is that the Board and the management team is open to any and all alternatives to maximize shareholder value, so that would be inclusive of what you just described.

I really appreciate it, Michael. Thank you.

Thanks, Fred.

Thank you. Our next question is from Dan Kurnos of Benchmark Company. Your line is open.

Thanks. Good afternoon. Kevin, let me ask George's question, one of his questions, in a different way. Perhaps trying to get to the numbers here because your guidance – appreciate the bridge breakout. I'm trying to reconcile the churn event with your guidance for essentially core growth at the midpoint of almost roughly 6%. And so, I wanted – is there any way that you can give us any more granularity on just how large these customers were or the percentage impact to growth there, so we can sort of understand some of the puts and takes that are going on in the core business?

Yeah. Happy to take a shot at that, Dan. When I think what we recognized, I think, is that the churn events that we see and are looking over the year at, certainly, we expect quarter-over-quarter from the 1.6% total churn, that will be a step-up in the first quarter reflective of one of those early larger churn customers. And because of that, we'll lose the revenue and margin in a very immediate basis. And so, that kind of drops us down from a revenue and then EBITDA performance. And then, as the bookings come through, as we go through install cycles, average install cycles, 45 days to as much as 90 days, then we start kind of making up for some of that churn impact.

So I'm not sure if that exactly gets to your question. But if you're looking for more help, I am happy to clarify.

Yeah. We can follow-up offline on that. And then, just high level, I know this has been asked several times in the past, but just if you guys think that there was any impact on operational performance as a result of the strategic review.

Yeah, this is Mike. I would tell you, Dan, that initially there certainly was because there were questions from customers and from employees and then it seemed like maybe 45 days to 60 days later all the questions and issues kind of went away and we went back to just kind of doing our job.

Our results in Q4 were our best in the company history from an EBITDA standpoint and we grew quarter-to-quarter. So I was actually pretty pleased with the ability for the company, the employees and our customers to kind of stay focused on the things that matter. And so, I think we did a good job of keeping the strategic process as non-impactful to operational results as best we could.

And then, Mike, just again – maybe just kind of following up, and maybe I should ask you this again also offline when it gets more color from Kevin just around the quantity, the size of the impact here. But as I think about your initiatives, both MIRO and channel partner sales, and just, again, reconciling that with core growth, maybe even versus your expectations. I know you came in very gung ho in terms of your expectations of being able to implement your initiatives. And you've given us some color around early success. But maybe just your thoughts on timing of actually achieving your goals. And, frankly, outside of your goals, reaccelerating core growth and increasing occupancy outside of channel sales would be kind of helpful, I think, to people to understand what's going on with the core business?

Yeah, sure. So, as you know, I think week one in the job when I did the Investor Day in New York, that's when we introduced the six key growth initiatives. That's why I keep coming back to those because I think it's important that all of our investors kind of hold us accountable for what we said when we took on this effort. And in all six of them, we can show you very quantitatively the progress we're making. Obviously, as Kevin has indicated, we're doing a lot of very good things, but the one thing that makes it difficult to show the growth as much as we want to externally is when you have a churn event or multiple churn events that are impactful immediately to your revenue growth. So our bookings growth, our new logos, our channel partners, all those things are progressing in a good way. But we have to – like I said, we have to outmaneuver the churn headwinds as we grow into the future, and that's what we do every day.

And just one more from me then. You talked in the press release and then also in your prepared remarks just about marketing inefficiencies and rectifying some of those. I'm just curious if you could give us a little bit more color around that statement and sort of what channels you think you might press to improve or reallocate marketing spend?

Yeah. So, again, similar to the comments around our business unit, what we wanted to do was to make sure that – the danger of having a lot of different businesses is that your marketing message isn't as focused and pointed as we want it to be. And so, in our particular case, the business units will certainly direct their marketing spend a lot more around the competitors they consider to be relevant to their business. So that's one of the marketing inefficiencies. The other one was the amount of money that we're spending, for example, on online advertising, Google AdWords kind of stuff. We're finding that we actually get a lot more benefit out of shifting those resources to kind of traditional lead gen programs and marketing efforts that are driven by outbound marketeers. And so, it's a shift of where we spend our money and an overall reduction as well.

Got it. Great. Thanks for all the color. Appreciate it.

Sure. No problem.

Thank you. Our next question is from Mark Kelleher of D.A. Davidson. Your line is open.

Hey, thanks for taking the question. Just going back to the churn. You mentioned that a number of your larger, faster growing customers have been purchased and you're talking about the churn and needing to outgrow that and get past that. But is there a risk that your other customers that are fast growing might be taken out as well? Is this a systematic risk of fast growing customers within your footprint?

Actually, it's not. What it is is it's fast growing customers that get acquired by large technology and social media companies that have huge infrastructure. So a traditional M&A event wouldn't be near as complicated for us because, in many cases, the impact on us could be positive or at least neutral. But if you're being acquired by one of the big technology giants that have huge data centers of their own or big social media companies that have capabilities that are substantial and certainly cost effective for them, that's the kind of M&A that's tough for us. And I would argue it would probably be tough for anybody that's in this business.

If we look at the utilization rate at 55%, that's kind of a reflection of the churn, right? The churn is customers going out, customers coming in, you're going to kind of stay around that 55%. Is that accurate, you're expecting to advance that utilization rate in 2016?

Yeah. So a couple of things to think about. Obviously, it's a net in-and-out type of model in terms of our revenue growth, our customer growth, our recurring contract growth. However – so when you think about utilization, though, it also has to do with what kinds of services they're buying from us. So traditional colo type of services are clearly going to take up physical floor space a lot more than cloud services would be, for example. So the density of the floor space that we're using is actually the other variable that makes it a little bit more complicated.

So as we do more cloud services and continue to do that, our utilization may not grow as fast as if it was just traditionally setting up cages and doing colo, but it's actually a good thing from us from a revenue and margin standpoint.

Is there an opportunity to look at your underutilized data center footprint and monetize those, sell some of the lower utilization facilities and reinvest that capital into the faster growing data centers?

You mean actually sell the data center? Is that what you mean?

Yeah, actually sell the data center.

I guess it's a possibility. I would say that what we're actually – we actually think the better approach is to get aggressive in those specific data centers where we think we can sell some of that space, some of the physical space, but maybe not as market-attractive as some of other locations, but that's a reasonable suggestion. But it's not what we're currently doing.

Again, I would be clear, Mark, right, we long-term lease generally our company-controlled data centers. So a pure asset sale is – it's more of a, can we sub-lease as opposed to, let's say – that would be a cash optimization opportunity to look for.

Okay, thanks.

Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question is from Matthew Heinz of Stifel. Your line is open.

Hi. Good afternoon. Kind of along the lines of that last question, but I guess just looking at your data center portfolio, there seems to be quite a divide between the – kind of the healthy markets and the outperformers and then the underperformers that seem to be dragging down. Hello?

It sounds like the operator might be...

Okay. We can hear you. So why don't you just keep going.

Yeah, sorry. So just in terms of kind of the underperforming assets in the portfolio that – markets that, I guess, have been sub 50% occupancy for a while. Is there any conversation internally as you think about your strategic review or your ongoing review of the business to change course anyway with some of those assets as you look to rationalize the portfolio?

Yeah. I would say, Matt, certainly, when we talk about some of the optimization – cost optimization, inherent in that is we do have programs more so with the partner data centers as we really have not been focused, let's say, on growing those because of the lower margin profiles. We actually have been giving back space in that regard. This quarter, we actually have put up an asset or reclassified an asset for sale up in Montréal. It was a legacy data center, not per se, call it, our most advanced or highest technology data center. So that actually is a reclassification of several thousand feet. In fact, we would have gone up about 1,000 feet versus prior quarter utilization had it not been for the reclassification. So I think there is an opportunity. And I think both yourself and market talk about, can we look at some of these other data centers when we look at those sub-lease opportunities and effectively think about other ways of monetizing that floor space. It's not immediately going out to – directly to customers.

The other thing I would also point out, both related to the past few questions, goes to the CapEx guidance that we are giving which shows that we're getting – obviously, as we bring down the capital – the intensity of the capital spend, we're getting better asset utilization.

Okay. That's very helpful. Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you. And that does conclude our Q&A session for today. I would now like to turn the call back over to Mr. Michael Nelson for any further remarks.

Great. Thank you for joining us today. We look forward to providing you an update on our progress next quarter. That's it.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your participation in today's conference. This does conclude today's program. You may all disconnect. Everyone, have a great day.