corrected transcript


Internap Network Services


Corp.
 
INAP
 
Q2 2007 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 31, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day everyone and welcome to the Internap Second Quarter 2007 Earnings Call.


Today’s call is being recorded. For opening remarks and introductions, I would now like to turn the


conference over to Andrew Albrecht. Please go ahead, sir.


Andrew S. Albrecht, Vice President of Corporate Development and Investor Relations


Thank you, Gwen, and good afternoon to everyone. I’d like to thank you all for joining us today to


discuss Internap’s second quarter results for the period ending June 30, 2007. I’d like to start by


reminding everyone that today’s call contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the


Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than statements of historical


facts, including among other statements regarding future financial position or performance,


business strategy and prospects, projected levels of growth, projected costs and expenses,


projected capital expenditures and projected financial needs are forward-looking statements.


Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance involve risks and


uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by


these forward-looking statements.


Internap’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commissions discuss important factors that


could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements and otherwise affect our


business results or operations and financial condition. You should not place any undue reliance on


any of these forward-looking statements. Further, all forward-looking statements speak only as to


the day in which they are made and the company undertakes no obligation to update such


statements for any reason.


Joining me on today’s call are Jim DeBlasio, our President and Chief Executive Officer; David


Buckel, our Chief Financial Officer; Phil Kaplan, our Chief Strategy Officer; and Richard Dobb, our


General Counsel.


In addition to reviewing the second quarter results, we will also discuss recent developments at


Internap, as well as outlook and guidance for the remainder of 2007 and introduce guidance for


2008.


Jim will then turn over the call to David to discuss financial results. And during the call we refer to


some non-GAAP measures, we believe these measures are useful in understanding our financial


results and operations. These non-GAAP measures are not prepared in accordance with generally


accepted accounting principles and under the presentations and earnings section of our ‘Investor


Relations’ page on our website we define these non-GAAP terms and reconcile these non-GAAP


measures – directly applicable GAAP financial measures. David will then turn the call back to Jim


for closing remarks.


At this time, I’d like to turn the call over to Mr. Jim DeBlasio.


James P. DeBlasio, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Andrew. I’d like to thank everyone for joining us on today’s call, as we review our


second quarter results. I’ll start out by providing you with highlights from the quarter and a few


thoughts on Internap’s strategic initiatives. Dave Buckel will follow with a more detailed financial


review. Then I will finish with a deeper look into our business units and a discussion on our


upwardly raised guidance before taking your questions.
corrected transcript


Internap Network Services


Corp.
 
INAP
 
Q2 2007 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 31, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Internap delivered record revenue, strong profitability, and a sizable margin improvement in the


second quarter. We are driving revenue growth, efficiency, and scale that you will not only see in


our second quarter results but in our raised guidance for the balance of 2007 and our strong


outlook into 2008. I’ll note that we achieved this level of profitable growth and margin expansion


while simultaneously executing on strategic investments designed to drive the scale on our


operations.


Turning to our second quarter results and key business metrics, Internap posted record revenue of


$58.5 million in the second quarter, up 9% sequentially and 33% over Q2 last year. Adjusted gross


margins rose sharply to 49.4% up 2.9 points from last quarter and 3.2 points from the same period


last year.


Adjusted EBITDA increased to $9 million up 14% over Q1 and 50% over Q2 last year. Our


expense to revenue level for Q2 was 34% compared to 32% in Q1 and 33% in the prior year


period. And we generated $6.1 million in cash from operations during the quarter.


We added 122 net new customers during the quarter, including 54 new CDN customers, for a total


of 3,403 enterprise customers. New customers added this quarter include Red Hat, Tupperware,


MIT, and CTV, Canada’s largest privately held television network. Examples of other customers


who expanded their business and service levels with Internap in Q2 include Thomson Financial,


Flying Lab Software and Fry Multimedia. And last Thursday, we announced one of the largest


deals in our company’s history; a $15 million, 3-year agreement to provide CDN and IP services to


QTS. You’ll hear more about that later.


In short, Q2 is highlighted by record revenue, a sharp increase in margins, strong profitability and


solid customer growth. The market is clearly validating the value proposition of the new Internap.


We are proving that our bundled approach results in our sales process that is less about price and


more about quality. And that translates directly to higher margins.


Our strong growth in the second quarter indicates that Internap’s engineering expertise can


demand higher margins and that our industry leading SLAs and route optimization technologies are


highly valued in the market. As customers rely more and more on Internap to handle more critical


web applications and delivery needs, we elevate our relevance and our number of touch points


within our customers’ organizations.


The strategic investments announced in the second quarter are in two of our fastest growing areas,


our CDN unit and our data center unit. The first initiative is a global expansion of both capacity as


well as features and functionality in our content delivery network. As we announced last week,


we’ve already finished the first step in this expansion with the completion of an origin point of


presence, or PoP, in London. London will be followed by new delivery points in Tokyo and Hong-


Kong. All three of our business units are now fully functional and revenue ready in Europe, and


Asia should be complete by the end of 2007.


The second project is a major data center facility expansion which is the largest capacity build-out


project that Internap has undertaken to-date. Our data center customers are fundamentally IP and


CDN customers that require data centers to support their Internet traffic needs. Our approach is to


view the data centers as an entry point that increases the completeness of our solution and makes


Internap invaluable to our customers. We require that data center customers have a high attach


rate of Internap’s valuated IP and CDN services. So in reality, our data centers are the engine that


drives the sale of complementary bundled CDN, IP, and monetization solutions.


The underlying market drivers and trends across all areas of our business are strong and growing.


Internap’s patented optimization technologies are ideally suited to handle the most dynamic and