raw transcript


InterNAP Network Services
 
IIP
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 9, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon. Thank you for joining us today to discuss InterNAP Network Services


First Quarter results for the period ended March 31, 2005. I would now like to turn the call over to


Mr. Andrew Albrecht, Vice President, Corporate Development, Investor Relations.


Andrew Albrecht, Vice President, Corporate Development, Investor Relations


Thank you Ann Marie [ph]. Good afternoon to everyone. Thank you for joining us today to discuss


InterNAP Network Services first quarter results ending March 31, 2005. There is a need to read


Safe Harbor statements. This call contains forward-looking statements relating to InterNAP's


business and financial outlook, which are based on management's current expectations, estimates,


forecasts and projections. In some cases you can identify forward-looking statements by


terminology such as may, will, should, expects, plans, anticipates, believes, estimates, predicts,


potential or continues, or the negative terms thereof or the comparable terminology. These


forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks,


uncertainties, estimates and assumptions that are difficult to predict. A number of important factors


could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by the forward-looking


statements.


For more detailed description of those factors and other information, please see InterNap's filings


with the Securities Exchange Commission. You should not place undo reliance on any of these


forward-looking statements further any forward-looking statements speak only transit data which


there is made and the company assumes no obligation to update any such statements or reflect


new information on the current or future events or circumstances of the otherwise. Joining you


today on today's call is Greg Peters, our President and CEO, as well as David Buckel, our Chief


Financial Officer. In addition, to reviewing our first quarter results, we will also discuss recent


developments at InterNAP along with an update on a strategic outlook.


Greg will open the call up to current events within the company, performance, and industry


standards, as well as full guidance for the year, 2005. Greg will then turn the call over to David


Buckel for a detailed review of the financial results, followed by Q&A. At this time I will turn the call


over to Greg Peters.


Greg Peters, President, Chief Executive Officer, Director


Thank you Andrew. I would like to first thank everyone for joining us today, as we review our


results for the First Quarter of 2005 and discuss our industry, InterNAPs business model, and future


expectations. Today's call is taking place at our New York office with several of our employees in


the room. First I would like to discuss recent events in our industry and the relative impact on the


InterNAP model. Beginning with full appreciation of today's events, you have to go back to the


Telecom Deregulation Act of 1996, where emerging carriers were given a license to compete


against the incumbent. The old buy venture capital CUX built networks based on new technology


and effectively leapfrogged existing networks and economic models.


The result was a price war, bankruptcies, re-emergence, and now consolidation. One confident in


this evolution has been the continued movement of business applications to the Internet. InterNAP


has business migration of business-based applications to the Internet, but has been challenged


with resetting a business model built for growth perimeters defined in the bubble. After eliminating


past obligations not required for today's competitive environment, redefining an operating model for


today's growth perimeters, and resetting a capital structure and balance sheet, InterNAP is now on
raw transcript


InterNAP Network Services
 
IIP
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 9, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


solid footing to capitalize on the opportunities our industry provides us today. Visibility has been an


issue in an issue in an industry that interjects variables in our model on a daily basis. Regulation


has created competitive challenges. Technology has created a migration to new platforms and new


applications. Business models have been recast at new cost and performance levels, and change


has been ever present.


InterNAP has evolved as our industry has evolved and at times has done so in the public light. At


all times however, InterNAP has been the beneficiary of the transition to Internet based application.


During this 3-year period, InterNAP has almost doubled our active customers, has tripled our gross


margin, and expanded our technology and geographic reach, and has grown revenues while other


comparable have declined, and has recapitalized our balance sheet in a period of very low visibility.


Today we are ready to announce guidance that we will turn net income positive in 2005. We are


proud of our accomplishments to date, today, and are committed to achieving this very important


milestone. We appreciate you standing by us during our restructuring period and look forward to


sharing our future success with you. Now, let's take a look at the first quarter results.


We are very pleased with the first quarter results as we continue to execute in a very competitive


marketplace with a differentiated suite of IP services. Revenue for the quarter was $37.9 million,


an increase of 4.4% compared to the first quarter of 2004, and a 1.9% increase over the $37.1


million reported in the fourth quarter of 2004. As mentioned on our previous call, our 2004 fourth-


quarter revenue was the highest in the history of the company. Today we announce a new


benchmark for quarterly revenue. The quarterly improvement is directly attributable to the quality of


our data center products, the continued migration of performance applications to the Internet, and


the acceptance of our emerging rout-controlled technologies. Our customers are increasingly out


sourcing the management of their performance applications and when they do so, are requiring a


full suite of IP solutions from InterNAP.


First, margins for the quarter came in at 47%, an improvement of 2.2% versus the fourth quarter of


2004, and level with the 47% reported in the first quarter of 2004. Our gross profit was $17.9


million and was also a record high for InterNAP. As mentioned on previous calls, the unique


variable nature of our model allows us to maintain high gross margin, even as band width pricing


adjusts. Our comp of sales were flat sequentially versus the fourth quarter, despite a 7.3%


increase in traffic volume over our network. Comp of sales increased 3.8% versus the first quarter


of 2004, while network traffic increased 30%. This year-over-year increase was largely due to an


expansion of our network footprint and carrier commitment in the US and in Asia. Today we are


only utilizing less than one third of our provision capacity.


Total operating expenses, not including cost of goods sold for the quarter, decreased approximately


8.9% or $1.8 million sequentially. We have previously discussed this significant increase in


operating expenses in 2004 for Sarbanes-Oxley compliancy, implementation of improvements to


our IP infrastructure, the full-year operational expense of our 2 late 2003 acquisitions, as well as


one-time adjustments. In 2005, InterNAP will return to a more normalized operating expense level


consistent with the annual improvements made prior to the 2004 period. Net loss for the quarter


was $570,000, an improvement of 83% over the fourth quarter of 2004 and 79% over the first


quarter of 2004. Through aggressive changes to our model and disciplinary budget controls,


InterNAP has reduced our annual net loss by approximately 50% per year on average over the past


3 years.


We had a strong balance of $4.2 million exiting the period and continue to focus on strict cash


management, low debt, and cash flow from operations. Our use of cash has been largely for


capital expenditures associated with expansion of our data center locations, IP systems, and


elimination of debt. On each of our calls over the past several quarters, we have discussed staying


with pricing and the impact on our top line revenue. As stated previously, we experienced a 40%


pricing decline on new acquisition pricing in 2003 and a 46% decline in new rates during 2004.


However with consolidation in the industry, we have recently seen a return to more stabile and