raw transcript


InterNAP Network Services
 
IIP
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 1, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today to discuss InterNAP Network Services


year-end and fourth quarter results for the period ended December 31, 2004.


Today's call contains forward-looking statements relating to InterNAP's business and financial


outlook, which are based on management's current expectations, estimates, forecasts and


projections. In some cases you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as


"may," "will," "should," "expects," "plans," "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "predicts,"


"potential" or "continue," or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. These


forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks,


uncertainties, estimates and assumptions that are difficult to predict. A number of important factors


could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by the forward-looking


statements. For a more detailed description of those factors and other information, please see


InterNAP's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


You should not place undue reliance on any of these forward-looking statements. Further, any


forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which it is made and the company


undertakes no obligation to update any such statements to reflect new information, the occurrence


of future events or circumstances or otherwise.


And at this time, I'd like to turn the call over to Mr. Greg Peters, the President and CEO. Please


proceed, sir.


Greg Peters, Chief Executive Officer


Thank you. I would like to thank everyone for joining us today as we review the fourth quarter and


2004 year-end performance, and provide you with an update on our expectations for the future.


Today's call is taking place at our Atlanta headquarters.


Before I go into detail on our financial results, I would like to congratulate our employees on the


positive year-end results, including the achievement of our revenue targets despite pricing


challenges in 2004. I'm very proud of this team's overall performance in overcoming the challenges


of our evolving IP services industry. I'm excited about our momentum exiting the fourth quarter and


look forward to continued success in 2005.


As you are aware, we have been undertaking a corporate restructuring effort for the last 3 years.


During this period, we have reduced our net loss by an average of 50% per year, recapitalized the


balance sheet and converted our capital structure to 100% common ownership. Now we look


forward to completing this restructuring through the restatement of previous period financials as


part of our internal audit of operating leases and compliance with FASB 13. On February 24, we


like many other public companies, reported the company would restate prior period fiancial results


due to FASB 13. These adjustments deferred our earnings release and conference call. While it is


untimely – or was untimely, the delay of our earnings release is a direct result of our own internal


audit process of reviewing operating leases that were largely acquired in the 1996 to 2001 time


frame.


Due to our finding, management recommended to the outside auditors and the audit committee of


our Board of Directors that we correct the error through restatement of our prior financial


statements, including other public filings with the SEC. It is important for you to know that our team


found these errors and recommended the corrections. These adjustments do not represent any


concern for the viability of our business today or in the future.
raw transcript


InterNAP Network Services
 
IIP
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 1, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Price Waterhouse Coopers as well as the audit committee mutually agreed with management that it


was in the interest of our shareholders to provide full and accurate disclosure by delaying the


earnings announcement and conference call until the restatement was completed. Today, all of our


leases have been reviewed and are properly accounted for.


In a related area, we have undertaken a massive effort in the Sarbanes-Oxley area. Included in our


10-K is management's report on internal control over financial reporting, as required by Sarbanes-


Oxley. Other than the restatement related to the lease and leasehold improvements, which is


inherently classified as a material weakness, there were no other single control deficiencies that


were concluded to be a material weakness. It should also be noted that there were no instances of


fraud identified or found.


Our senior team and the entire company has taken our S-Ox requirements seriously, and has


instituted corrective action to eliminate any deficiencies. To date, our material weakness has been


corrected, as has over 80% of our significant deficiencies. Of the approximately 20% to be


corrected, the major of these are related to conducting a physical inventory of all of our assets at


multiple locations worldwide, , which we'll take on. We will continue to update you on the resolution


of the remaining SOX requirement, as we report our quarterly results. Dave Buckel will provide you


further detail later in the call.


Now let's discuss the quarterly and year-end performance. Revenue for the year-end 2004 was


$144.5 million, an increase of 4.3% compared to full year 2003. Revenue for the fourth quarter


totaled $37.1 million, and increase of 5.7% over the third quarter of 2004, which represents the


highest quarterly revenue in the company's history. The quarterly improvement in revenue is


directly attributable to the market's continued acceptance of our diversified product portfolio, as well


as seasonal bursting of our variable services.


In related product areas, IP services were flat year-over-year, despite a 46% decline in new pricing


acquisition rates. We are currently seeing, however, a more rational pricing environment for these


IP services. Co-location services were up 12% sequentially versus Q3, and 24.4% versus the full


year 2003. CDN, or Content Delivery Networks was up 21% versus 2003. Edge revenues, which


include our Flow Control Platform, reached $3 million in 2004, with strong sales activities in the


third quarter and fourth quarter. Our cost of network declined 1.6% during the yea, despite a 45%


increase in traffic over our network, due to aggressive contract negotiations with our underlying


providers. This enabled InterNAP to drive network costs $8 million year-over-year, despite using


more capacity.


Total operating expenses increased in '04 by $11.4 million for the full year. The full-year number


for 2004 was $64.7 million, compared to $53.3 million in 2003. I think it's important for you to


understand how this increase was comprised. The major contributors to this increase represented


many one-time events. The cost of our Sarbanes-Oxley compliance effort was approximately $2.5


million of this 11.4, or 22%. We had New York State franchise tax assessment from previous


years, which was about $800,000, or 7% of the operating cost increase. And we had a 2003


restructuring charge of $1.3 million, or 11% of this increase in operating expenses.


Other elements of the operating expense increase including the full-year cost of our netVmg and


Sockeye acquisitions, which was about $3.8 million or 34% of the increase, and an investment in


sales professionals for organic growth in our model of about $3 million, or 26%. This level, or the


increased level of operating expenses we saw in 2004 will not be sustained in 2005. We expect


significant reduction through the elimination of the one-time event, and a focus on streamlining our


cost structure.


Net loss for the year was $18.1 million, an improvement of 48% versus 2003. The fourth-quarter


loss was $3.4 million, and was a 55% improvement from the third quarter of 2004. Gross margins


for the full year were approximately 47%, representing a growth of 7.3% versus the year ending