Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Michael Nelson — Senior Director-Investor Relations, Internap Corporation
Eric Cooney — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Internap Corporation
Kevin M. Dotts — Chief Financial Officer, Internap Corporation
Colby A. Synesael — Analyst, Cowen and Company
George F. Sutton — Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC
Dan L. Kurnos — Analyst, The Benchmark Co. LLC
Frederick W. Moran — Analyst, Burke & Quick Partners LLC
Mark D. Kelleher — Analyst, D.A. Davidson & Co.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Internap Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participant lines are in a listen-only mode to reduce background noise. But later we will be conducting a question-and-answer session after the lecture and instructions will follow at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the call over to your host for today, Michael Nelson, Vice President of Investor Relations. Sir, go ahead.

Good afternoon, and thank you for joining us today. I'm joined by Eric Cooney, our Chief Executive Officer; and Kevin Dotts, our Chief Financial Officer. Following prepared remarks, we will open up the call for your questions. The slides we reference in the call are available on our website in the Presentations section on the Investor Relations page. Non-GAAP reconciliations and our supplemental data sheet, which includes additional operational and financial metrics are available under the Financial Information Quarterly Results section of our Investor Relations page.

Today's call contains forward-looking statements including belief in our overall business strategy, market growth rates, capacity in our data center footprint and addressable markets, expectations regarding customer churn, margins, return on capital, profitability and operational performance; and expectations for revenue, adjusted EBITDA and capital expenditures in 2015.

Because these statements are not guarantees of future performance are based on certain assumptions and involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. We discuss these factors in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We undertake no obligation to amend, update or clarify these statements. In addition to reviewing the fourth quarter results, we will also discuss recent developments.

Now, let me turn the call over to Eric Cooney.

Thank you, Michael, and good afternoon, everyone. We are pleased you could join us for our fourth quarter and full year 2014 earnings presentation. I will start the discussion with the summary of our results and then turn the call over to Kevin Dotts, our Chief Financial Officer to take you through our detailed financial results. From there I will briefly wrap up our prepared remarks before we open up the call to take your questions.

Beginning on slide three, you'll see we delivered total revenue in the fourth quarter of 2014 of $84.3 million, representing an increase of 14% year-over-year and flat quarter-over-quarter. Data center services revenue totaled $61.3 million in the quarter, an increase of 23% year-over-year and a decrease of 1% quarter-over-quarter. The year-over-year revenue increase was predominantly attributable to increased sales of core data center services, which includes company-controlled colocation, hosting, cloud services and iWeb.

Sequentially, data center services revenue was negatively impacted due to significant churn from both the migration out of the 111 8th Avenue, New York data center, as well as churn from two custom hosting customers. Consistent with our strategic plan, the mix shift towards data center services is evident with revenue from this segment now accounting for roughly 73% of total revenue as compared to approximately 64% two years ago. In our IP services segment, revenue decreased 6% year-over-year and was flat sequentially at $23 million. The lower year-over-year IP revenue was the result of per unit price declines which more than offset data traffic growth.

The stable sequential performance was driven by traffic growth in certain non-recurring revenue including bursting revenue. We continue to rely upon the IP services segment as a healthy source of cash flow generation for the business as well as an element of competitive differentiation for our data center services segment. In the fourth quarter, revenue churn in our data center segment declined 70 basis points sequentially to 2.3%, while churn in our IP segment declined 40 basis points to 1.4%. Total company churn declined 70 basis points to 2%.

Turning to slide four, we are reflecting the positive mix shift in our business towards core data center services and away from legacy services. Revenue from these core data center services increased 33% year-over-year driven by solid organic growth and the contribution of iWeb. Core data center services revenue has increased at a 24% five-year compound annual growth rate from 2009 to 2014 and now represents 81% of data center services revenue and 59% of total revenue.

Excluding the contribution from iWeb, fourth quarter 2014 organic core data center services revenue increased 12% year-over-year, despite the headwind from the New York data center migrations and custom hosting churn events. We believe the circumstances for both of these churn events are somewhat unique, and further that the fourth quarter 2014 core data center services revenue represents a solid foundation for a return to market growth rates for this product portfolio throughout 2015.

Further, this favorable mix shift to core data center services has been a primary driver in our strong adjusted EBITDA growth and adjusted EBITDA margin expansion. Adjusted EBITDA has increased at a 23% five-year compound annual growth rate, and adjusted EBITDA margin has expanded 1,260 basis points over the same timeframe.

Moving on to slide five, I will cover segment profit and segment margin. Segment profit of $48.8 million increased 21% year-over-year and 3% quarter-over-quarter. Segment margin was 57.9%, an increase of 340 basis points year-over-year and 180 basis points sequentially. The primary driver for the strong improvement in segment profit and segment margin was due to the favorable product mix shift of selling a larger proportion of higher margin company-controlled collocation, hosting and cloud services.

Turning to slide six, I will discuss data center services segment profit and segment margin results. Data center segment profit of $35.3 million increased 38% year-over-year and 4% quarter-over-quarter. Data center segment margin expanded 610 basis points year-over-year and 260 basis points sequentially to 57.6%. We continue to experience significant year-over-year margin expansion in our data center segment as we execute our strategy to sell an increasing proportion of higher margin core data center services.

In an effort to clarify the positive margin trends we are experiencing within our core data center services, we are breaking out the segment profit and segment margin contribution from our core data center services. Core segment profit of $31.9 million increased 44% year-over-year and 3% quarter-over-quarter. Core segment margin expanded 500 basis points year-over-year and 190 basis points quarter-over-quarter.

Long term, we see significant opportunities to continue to further expand data center services margin based on the mix shift towards core data center services. In addition to these mix shift benefits, we also see the opportunity to expand margins as we increase utilization in our recently deployed data center footprint. With approximately 57% utilization across our company-controlled data center footprint, there is further upside benefit to the data center services margins derived from utilization efficiencies as occupancy increases.

On slide seven, we show IP services segment profit and segment margin results. IP segment profit of $13.5 million decreased 9% year-over-year, and 1% quarter-over-quarter. IP segment margin declined 200 basis points year-over-year, and 30 basis points sequentially to 58.7%. Despite the declining IP services revenue, the segment continues to deliver solid segment profitability and cash flow which we leveraged to invest in the more capital intensive data center services segment. Further, the IP business also provides a key element of competitive differentiation for our data center services business, and that the high performance network enhances the competitive differentiation of our high performance hybridized Internet infrastructure service offerings. The vast majority, over 95% of our data center customers also take our IP service.

Moving on to slide eight, you can see we delivered a record quarter of adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margin. Fourth quarter adjusted EBITDA was $22.7 million, an increase of 45% year-over-year and 15% quarter-over-quarter. Adjusted EBITDA margin expanded 590 basis points year-over-year and 370 basis points sequentially to 27%. Providing more support for the financial leverage and our strategic plan, these strong adjusted EBITDA results were achieved despite the churn related revenue headwinds in the quarter.

On slide nine, we are highlighting the significant adjusted EBITDA margin expansion we have delivered in 2014. We have experienced an accelerated rate of margin expansion in recent quarters, and the fourth quarter represented a record level of adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margin. In the first quarter of 2014, adjusted EBITDA margin expanded 140 basis points year-over-year. In the second quarter, margin expanded 190 basis points year-over-year. In the third quarter, margin expanded 290 basis points year-over-year. And in the fourth quarter, margin expanded 590 basis points year-over-year.

In addition to tight operational controls and positive operating leverage we are building in a business model, there are three primary drivers of our margin expansion. First, the favorable mix shift towards selling more core data center services, specifically as the revenue derived from company-controlled colocation, hosting and cloud services increases in proportion relative to the other revenue in the business, we would expect our margins to increase. That is the strategy that we put in place several years ago and continue to execute.

Second, the positive product mix shift within our core data center services. We continue to benefit from the product mix shift associated with hosting and cloud growth surpassing the company-controlled colocation growth rates. Additionally, hosting and cloud tend to have higher segment margins than our company-controlled colocation. Third, the high incremental margins associated with increasing utilization rates within our company-controlled data centers. From a company-wide perspective, we believe we have significant available capacity across our company-controlled data center footprint, which provides an attractive selling point for our colocation and hosting services.

On slide 10, we are providing a recap of our full-year 2014 revenue and profitability. We are pleased with the solid execution from the Internap team throughout the year, which led to record levels of annual revenue, segment profit, and adjusted EBITDA. We're making steady progress in our vision to help people build and manage the world's best performing Internet infrastructure. During 2014, revenue increased 18% to $335 million driven by both organic growth and the acquisition of iWeb. Segment profit increased 26% in 2014 to $190 million, while segment profit margin expanded 330 basis points to 56.7%.

The strategic shift the company has made towards higher margin company-controlled data centers, hosting and cloud services, is delivering results and remains a key driver for our long-term profitable growth. Importantly, while we have made solid progress on driving revenue in segment profit growth, we have also been disciplined in managing our cash operating expenses and maintaining our focus on operational excellence. As a result in 2014, adjusted EBITDA increased 36% to $78.7 million and adjusted EBITDA margin expanded 300 basis points to 23.5%.

On slide 11, we thought it would be insightful to describe our go-to-market strategy. Starting from the far right side of the graphic, we believe we are uniquely positioned to address the needs of enterprises for whom the performance of their IT infrastructure is business critical. We serve these customers with high-performance hybridized Internet infrastructure services across our portfolio of cloud, hosting, colocation and network assets. And we make these services available through all relevant routes to market, direct sales, indirect channel sales and e-commerce online sales. We have built or acquired these various routes to market to extend our reach and effectively reduce the risk and maximize the return associated with our capital investments.

Historically, we have relied principally on the direct enterprise sales route to market. More recently, we augmented our direct enterprise sales route to market with investment in our channel partner programs selling into the same target customer base. Finally, as our target customers had become increasingly comfortable procuring IT infrastructure services online, this e-commerce online route to market has become a valuable strategically important capability for Internap. High-performance forms the basis for our portfolio's competitive differentiation. High-performance of course means different things to customers depending on their specific applications, workloads and type of IT infrastructure services.

For instance, high-performance for an ad tech colocation customer might mean the ability to support 22 kilowatts per rack in a high-power density data center environment with a 100% service level availability commitment. For an e-commerce retailer, high-performance may mean webpage load times and shopping cart processing times, leaving that customer to select a high-performance network and bare-metal cloud solution.

Perhaps for the big data customer, high-performance means database access and throughput. Regardless, our differentiation leverages our technology to meet this wide range of high-performance customer requirements, with our platform of collocation, hosting, cloud and network services. Our strategic decision to build and deploy a hybridized suite of high-performance data center services and leverage our diverse routes to market continues to resonate well with customers for whom IT infrastructure performance is impactful for their business.

On slide 12, we consider that virtually every industry sector faces business demands on their IT infrastructure for increased scalability, flexibility, reliability and performance. Media and entertainment companies are no exception to this. As our first example, Lionsgate, a leading global entertainment company with a strong and diversified presence in motion picture production and distribution is leveraging Internap's high-density colocation and low latency IP services.

By moving to our high power density Los Angeles facility with up to 18 kilowatts per rack, and a concurrently maintainable design, Lionsgate was able to meet their network and performance goals, while assuring the highest level of reliability and efficiency. The hybridization capabilities in the data center also allowed Lionsgate to future-proof their investment with an easy on-ramp to cloud or hosting as future needs dictate. Scanline, a visual effects studio that specializes in creating complex effects for high-end feature films and commercials is another example of the solid traction we have recently gained in the media and entertainment vertical.

Scanline was struggling with slowing growth stemming from inefficient in-house data centers that limited their ability to take on new projects and clients. Like Lionsgate, Scanline decided to outsource their mission-critical infrastructure to gain better performance, reliability and efficiency. Again Internap's high density and concurrently maintainable design were key factors in Scanline's selection of our Los Angeles data center.

Now, let me pass the call over to Kevin Dotts, our Chief Financial Officer who will give us some more detailed review of our financial results.

Thanks, Eric. I'll start my comments on slide 13 and take everyone through our fourth quarter and full year income statement comparisons. In the fourth quarter of 2014, revenue totaled $84.3 million representing 14% year-over-year growth, and flat sequentially. The year-over-year increase was the result of higher core data center services revenue and the acquisition of iWeb. Sequentially, the anticipated headwind from our New York metro data center migration and churner from two custom hosting customers contributed to the decline in revenue.

For the year ended December 31, 2014, revenue totaled $335 million, an increase of 18% from 2013. Total quarterly segment profit increased 21% year-over-year and 3% sequentially to $48.8 million. Total segment margin for the quarter expanded 340 basis points year-over-year and a 180 basis points sequentially to 57.9%. Total segment profit and segment margin were positively affected by the solid growth from data center services revenue, and a larger mix of higher margin, company-controlled colocation, hosting and cloud services. Annual segment profit increased 26% in 2014 to $190 million, while total segment margin for the year increased 330 basis points to 56.7%.

Total cash operating expense in the fourth quarter of 2014 was $26.1 million, excluding acquisition cost representing an increase of 5% year-over-year and a decrease of 6% sequentially. Cash OpEx to revenue decreased 250 basis points year-over-year and 190 basis points sequentially to 30.9%. The year-over-year increase in total operating expense was largely a result of iWeb, while the sequential decline was the result of lower bad debt expense, employee related costs and increased operating efficiencies. We remain focused on cost containment and improving internal operational efficiencies to help drive financial performance. Total cash operating expense for the full year increased 19% to $111.3 million, while cash OpEx to revenue increased 30 basis points to 33.2%. The annual increase was primarily driven by the iWeb acquisition.

Our strategic transition to hosting and cloud services include higher operating expense, including customer support, which is more than offset by lower cost of goods sold, resulting in higher adjusted EBITDA margin. Fourth quarter 2014 adjusted EBITDA increased 45% year-over-year and 15% sequentially to $22.7 million. Adjusted EBITDA margin in the quarter was 27%, an expansion of 590 basis points year-over-year and 370 basis points sequentially. Annual adjusted EBITDA increased 36% compared to 2013 to $78.7 million, while adjusted EBITDA margin expanded to 300 basis points to 23.5%.

The solid EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margin performance was driven by a favorable shift to higher margin data center services and the positive operating leverage we are building into the business. In 2014, we added $51.7 million in revenue, an increase of 18%, while we increased adjusted EBITDA by $20.7 million or 36%, resulting in an incremental margin of 40%. As we continue to execute our strategy to grow core data center services revenues, we believe we will have the opportunity to further drive margins up into the right. GAAP net loss in the fourth quarter of 2014 was $8.3 million or $0.16 per share compared to $9.4 million GAAP net loss or $0.18 per share sequentially, and a $10.4 million GAAP net loss or $0.21 per share in the prior year.

For the full year 2014, GAAP net loss was $39.5 million or $0.70 per share, compared with a net loss of $19.8 million or $0.39 per share in 2013. The larger annual loss was primarily related to the increase in interest and depreciation expense. Normalized net loss, which excludes the impact of stock-based compensation, acquisition costs and certain items management considers non-recurring totaled $5.2 million or $0.10 per share in the fourth quarter of 2014, compared to $7.5 million normalized net loss or $0.15 per share sequentially, and a $4.1 million normalized net income or $0.09 per share in the prior year. For the full year 2014, normalized net loss was $27.7 million or $0.54 per share, compared with a normalized net loss of $7.5 million or $0.15 per share in 2013.

Cash flow and balance sheet summaries are shown on slide 14. In 2014, capital expenditures totaled $77.4 million, compared to $63.6 million in 2013. The majority of the capital deployed in 2014 went toward investment in our company-controlled data center footprint, and the development and expansion of our hosting and cloud services. We believe these investments should generate substantial returns on invested capital in the coming years.

At year-end, cash and cash equivalents totaled $20.1 million. Funded debt totaled $299 million. As of December 31, 2014, our debt consisted of $289 million borrowed under our term loan at a rate of 6% and $10 million borrowed under our revolving credit facilities at a rate of LIBOR plus 4.5%. We also had $60.1 million in capital leases, resulting in net debt of $339 million. Our net debt to last quarter annualized adjusted EBITDA was 3.7 times, down from 4.4 times in the prior year. We are comfortably below our financial covenants and our credit agreement. Our current capital deployment plans are fully funded with our current debt facilities, cash generation and cash on hand.

On slide 15, we are providing revenue, adjusted EBITDA and capital expenditure guidance for the full year 2015. We have decided to provide revenue and adjusted EBITDA guidance in addition to our customary CapEx guidance for the full year, and have enhanced the disclosures in our supplemental datasheet to enrich information provided to our stakeholders. We expect to deliver full year 2015 revenue in the range of $339 million to $353 million and an adjusted EBITDA in the range of $89 million to $95 million. We continue to internally challenge ourselves to grow at or above industry growth rates within our core data center services. You can separate the core data center services market into three services we speak about: colocation, hosting and cloud.

Based on third-party research and our own analysis, we believe the total addressable market for those services is $50 billion-plus global opportunity. And the market growth rates we ascribe to those three segments are approximately 10% for colocation, 15% to 20% for traditional custom hosting and 20% to 30% for cloud services. We estimate our total addressable market is growing in the aggregate at a mid-teens growth rate over the next several years. Our guidance considers these expected market growth rates for the core data center services market, offset by lower partner colocation revenue and lower IP revenue which we expect to decline $400,000 to $600,000 per quarter.

Importantly, we expect a favorable mix shift we are experiencing and the solid operating leverage we are building in the business to further drive adjusted EBITDA margin expansion and adjusted EBITDA growth of 13% to 21% in 2015. Our capital expenditure plan for 2015 includes an expected investment of $70 million to $80 million of total CapEx. Our CapEx guidance includes $55 million to $60 million of growth capital that we intend to invest in hardware to meet growing demand for our hosting and cloud services, as well as capital to increase capacity in data centers and existing markets including Atlanta, Los Angeles, Santa Clara and Secaucus.

Data center expansions, whether space or power, are conducted in multiple phases, limiting excess capacity and driving consistent utilization rates. Roughly 75% of our 2015 plan is either success-based capital tied to customer installation requests or capital deployed for future growth. This provides us with substantial flexibility to adapt to potential changes in macro industry trends. We have a very disciplined approach to capital allocation, and believe we have significant opportunity to invest in the business and generate returns well in excess of our cost of capital.

Now, let me turn the call back to Eric for his closing remarks before we take questions.

Thanks, Kevin. Now, I'll briefly summarize on slide 16. We believe our fourth quarter and full year 2014 results affirm both the strategic direction we have chosen for the company as well as demonstrate focused execution across the business. For 2014, the company achieved several significant milestones including the highest levels of revenue, segment profit, adjusted EBITDA, and adjusted EBITDA margin in our history.

Our strategy to deliver high-performance, hybridized Internet infrastructure service offerings, and generate a higher proportion of revenue from core data center services is successfully producing revenue growth and significantly expanding margins. During 2014, total revenue grew 14%, while adjusted EBITDA increased 45%, and adjusted EBITDA margin expanded 590 basis points, highlighting the successful execution of our data center services strategy and the solid operating leverage we are building into our business model.

Core data center service revenue increased 46% in 2014, driven by organic growth and the successful acquisition of iWeb, which accelerated our transition to core data center services, and added the complex and strategically important e-commerce online route-to-market capabilities. We successfully completed the data center migration in our New York metro market, further improving company profitability. As we look into 2015, we feel the market increasingly coming to us in terms of strategy to deliver high-performance hybridized Internet infrastructure service offerings. We will continue to leverage our company-controlled data center capacity, and expect to fill this capacity with our full portfolio of collocation, hosting and cloud offerings.

We expect to continue to focus on performance, differentiated service offerings and leverage the benefits of multiple routes to market in support of long-term profitable growth for our shareholders.

Operator, now we'd like to open up the call for questions. [Operator Instructions]

And our first question is from the line of Colby Synesael from Cowen and Company. Your line is open.

Great. Two questions if I may. One, I appreciate the guidance for the year, very helpful. I was wondering if you could just talk about what would have to happen for you to be at the lower end of your revenue guidance range versus what might have to happen to be towards the higher end. And then the second question, you talked about one of the ways to continue to improve profitability or margin was to improve the utilization of your current space. Is there any meaningful space that when you'd kind of argue is stranded, meaning that it's been sitting dormant for quite some time for whatever reasons, location, potentially the power capacity of that facility, maybe just the design of that facility. It's highly unlikely that you'll ever be able to fill that. Just trying to get a sense of where we could actually get to with the current space you have in terms of utilization. Thanks.

Sure. Thanks, Colby. So your first question about lower end and higher end of guidance, clearly from our perspective, we're comfortable with the guidance we've given. I guess the first thing I should articulate is why we decided to give guidance, and I would say there is really two reasons for that. One is 2014 really represented a year, a tipping point year, if you will, in which the transformation of our business to core data center services is, well, not wholly complete, largely complete with the majority of company revenues coming from core data center services. The second reason that enables us to give guidance is really our comfort around the positive momentum reflected in the business – sales growth from core data center services, revenue growth, profitability growth.

Simply put, we see the strategy we are executing borne out in the financial results we are delivering. So that provides us a level of confidence to provide the full year guidance. So the things to your question that would need to happen, would have to be surprises from what we are seeing today, either positive surprises from a bookings perspective or more likely at the other end of the spectrum, negative surprises likely in terms of customer churn. The last comment, I'll make on that question, particularly with regard to opportunities to exceed the high end of the range, I'll draw your attention to our investment in the online e-commerce route to market that we obtained and have invested in since the iWeb acquisition. And simply put, I'll suggest that the ability to accelerate growth in an e-commerce online route to market is faster, if you will, than the ability to accelerate growth typically in a traditional direct enterprise sales model.

So if there is a opportunity for positive surprises, there is a reasonable belief that that might exist in our online e-commerce route to market capability. Your second question about stranded space. Very short answer is, no, from our perspective. We don't have any space that we consider stranded or unusable in our – across our data center footprint. And part of the reason I can say that is because of our strategic decision to deploy colocation, hosting and cloud infrastructure, even if I have a colocation footprint that's not very attractive to colocation customers. In the long term, I can make a decision to monetize that footprint with either a custom hosting infrastructure or potentially cloud hosting infrastructure. So I'm essentially de-risking my colocation or my data center footprint.

Great. Thank you. Very helpful.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of George Sutton from Craig-Hallum. Your line is open sir.

Thank you. Eric, I completely agree that the market is moving to you relative to your strategy, particularly the colo to cloud continuum. Being in Minnesota, we have a hockey-based statement that you want to skate to where the puck is going to be, which it looks like you've done that. It also looks like competitors are starting to skate to where you are. Can you talk about how you manage that challenge or does that concern you?

Sure. Of course I don't think we're the only company on the planet that appreciates increasingly customers are seeking providers who can deliver a hybridized suite of IT infrastructure services. So in the long term, in addition to being able to provide that hybrid portfolio, our focus is on enabling our customers to select Internap based on our ability to deliver a high performance base differentiation. And again as some of the remarks I alluded to in our prepared script, high performance means different things to different customers. Colocation, it could mean high power density, concurrent maintainability; hosting and cloud. It might mean database access time, IOPS, throughputs, webpage load time, et cetera.

And Internap's at least recent history has been successfully delivering either first-to-market technologies or products, or in some cases patentable technologies or products that contribute to that high performance based competitive differentiation. We're investing over 10% of our company head count today in engineering and development resources such that we can continue that track record of being first to market and/or to market with unique intellectual property that delivers on that high performance vision.

Understand. That's helpful. Now, CapEx was – your CapEx guidance is higher than we were expecting. And I wondered if you could breakdown the expansion dollars just a bit, you mentioned the four markets, I'm wondering if there is a little bit more clarity you can provide there.

I'm not sure, if I heard the question correctly George. This is Kevin. So we said roughly about $55 million to $60 million of the 2015 CapEx will be in expansion [ph] order (35:45) growth. What we said in 2014, that roughly about – it's about 50%-50% split between colocation and colo space capacity – sorry, and the hosting assets. We are now probably mixing, I would say, certainly larger to success based cloud and hosting server assets. So it's probably in the roughly the 60% kind of 40% range.

The 40% being – so as I look at Atlanta, Secaucus, I think you said LA and San Francisco as well. If I look at those markets you're obviously seeing something from a demand perspective that I wanted to make sure we understood.

Right.

No, I was just going to say yes, absolutely. We continue to see New York and Santa Clara has always been very strong markets, continue to be strong markets for us. As we talk about in this release we did highlight two significant customers, they have taken out substantial space in the LA data center, so that's driving good growth there. And of course we're seeing, we continue to see reasonably good growth in the Atlanta market.

Thanks guys.

Okay.

Thank you. Our next question is from the line of Dan Kurnos from The Benchmark Company. Your line is open.

Great. Thanks. Just a few questions for me, just first, Eric any additional color you could give us on the customer churn, why they churned if it was – and how quickly you think you can replace that revenue. And then in terms of iWeb, you've reported for the year, iWeb revenue was actually slightly down versus the run rate when you initially acquired it. We know that profit has been up which has been great. So love to hear your thoughts on iWeb growth going forward, and your thoughts on integrating it into the broader platform aside from that sort of e-commerce swipe-and-go technology? Thanks.

Sure. So with regard to the churn in the fourth quarter, we mentioned the two contributing elements; one was obviously the 111 8th data center migration but I also made reference to two fairly large custom hosting customers that churned in the quarter. And for those two customers, the short message is they had their own, let's say business reasons which drove a different set of IT infrastructure requirements. I guess my points being from our perspective, it was not an issue or a reflection with specific to Internap and our products and services, but rather changes in the customer's application and workload requirements that simply cost them not to need the infrastructure they had with us any further. So we are not, let's say, expecting either the 111 8th type churn event, nor those two customer churn events to repeat, and you can see that reflected in the financial guidance we've provided for the full year.

I will remind the listeners that we speak about core data center services, market growth rates in the mid-teens, and our expectation is, starting from our fourth quarter core data center services revenue, that we would expect on a go forward basis to grow at or above that mid teens core data center services market growth rate. Specific to your question about iWeb revenue growth, just so we're, let's say, clear, iWeb revenue did or is growing on a year-over-year basis. We had originally given, at the point of acquisition, guidance that we expected iWeb revenue to grow at about 10% on an annualized basis and EBITDA from iWeb to grow at about 25%. We're exceeding the EBITDA growth targets, and we did not achieve the revenue growth targets. Single-digit, low to mid single-digit revenue growth rates for iWeb is what we achieved. And specific to the fourth quarter, iWeb contribution, there was a modest exchange rate FX impact to the Q4 results, about $200,000 of U.S. dollar-Canadian dollar FX impact headwind to our financial results in the fourth quarter.

And your thoughts on sort of the forward integration from here to either accelerate that growth or cross-sell between the platforms outside of the swipe-and-pay?

So...

Yes go ahead.

Sure. On a go forward basis iWeb route to market capabilities is really where the compelling or exciting opportunity – and frankly that's a primary part of the reason we acquired the company. And that is to leverage iWeb online e-commerce capabilities, and in many cases cross selling, if you will, Internap's cloud and hosting products in particular, through the iWeb e-commerce route-to-market. That's a quite interesting, exciting opportunity for us. And we've already seen really strong positive growth from that cross-sell throughout 2014. So we're simply looking to accelerate and expand that in 2015.

Great. And then in terms of the outlook, just if you could remind us, how hedged you are in your energy cost, and how much of a benefit you expect to see in 2015 as a contributor to EBITDA guidance from the lower oil prices or energy costs?

Yeah. Dan, this is Kevin. I think as we've kind of reviewed that, a lot of our, call it, I would say, a lot of our energy cost structure is already to a degree hedged, that which is not hedged has actually tied a little bit more to natural gas. So I don't think at this point that we're seeing outside of the productivity that we've talked about by moving out of 111 8th and some other ongoing productivity type of projects, that will increase margin in 2015. We're not planning on a, call it a significant or material amount of benefit coming just from the lower gas prices.

Perfect. And then just last one from me, it's kind of a housekeeping question, just curious as to why partner margin saw a little bit of a boost in Q4.

We really on an ongoing basis renegotiating some partner agreements as they come up for renewal, and/or we take opportunities to renegotiate our underlying costs with those partner data center providers that afforded us a couple of opportunities to get simply put better pricing from the underlying providers.

And the only thing I'd add to that is, we actually did turn back a little bit of space that you'll see in the details and the supplemental information.

Yeah, I did notice. I'll follow up you guys about some more of that stuff offline. Thanks for all the color. I appreciate it.

Sure. Thanks, Dan.

Thank you. Our next question is from the line of Fred Moran from Burke & Quick. Your line is open.

Thank you. Congratulations on the ongoing EBITDA margin expansion, which is really impressive. But the 2015 revenue guidance looked very conservative, especially given the 60% capacity utilization of the data centers. And if you did 12% organic growth in the fourth quarter and the sector is in the double-digit or mid-teens range, I'm not sure, how we possibly could get to the low end of the range unless partner and IP is in greater deterioration next year. And what can you do to assure meeting the top end of the revenue range or exceeding it, and what kind of goals have you set for capacity utilization, and what sales and marketing are you employing to get there?

So a lot of questions. I guess what I'll suggest is, let's take a step back and consider or develop the full year 2015 revenue guidance by dissecting our revenue into three buckets. Bucket number one, core data center services. You see that was $49.7 million of revenue in the fourth quarter, and we've suggested that market's growing at the mid-teens, apply a mid-teens growth rate to that core data center services as to develop your projection for our fiscal year 2015 core revenue.

The second bucket is our IP business unit revenue. And we've previously indicated and we would continue to guide or suggest on a quarterly sequential basis, typically expect between $400,000 and $600,000 of sequential revenue declined from our IP business unit. If you apply that, you'll develop about a 6% year-over-year reduction from our IP business unit in 2015 over 2014. And then the final element of our total company revenue would be our third-party partner data center revenue. And if our strategy there were really not trying to grow that business, we're simply trying to monetize it. So we experience what I would call natural industry churn and the partner data center revenue rate of decline in 2014 over 2013 was approximately 8%.

We would suggest it's not unreasonable to expect a similar rate of decline on that partner data center revenue for 2015. So if you take those elements and build your own model for our 2015 revenue, you will find yourself right in the range of revenue guidance that we provided. Beyond that, of course there are upside opportunities and there are downside opportunities, but given the strategy we're executing, and the balanced view of those opportunities, we felt the guidance we gave was prudent while still allowing for both positive and negative surprises.

Hey, that's helpful. Would you consider giving some information on new lease signings and renewals, what kind of annual revenue is being created by new lease signings. Yesterday CyrusOne talked about price escalators being built into their new leases at an accelerated pace. Are you building in price escalators now, what percent of the portfolio has such price escalators? And also just talk about, again, the potential to fill up the capacity faster and what kind of capacity utilization goals you would put in place for the next year to three years?

So I'll address those in a little bit of reverse order. So in terms of our capacity goals, I think the best way to think about that is really in revenue terms, and think about growth rates for company-controlled colocation as compared to hosting and cloud. And you will then be able to back into some estimates for utilization rates. At the end of the day, obviously we are expecting our utilization rates to trend up. 2014 was a bit of an odd year given both significant expansions and given the migration and shutting down of 111 8th, obviously our square footage was moving around quite a bit throughout 2014. In terms of price escalations for company-controlled colocation, we typically see 3% on average per year price increases across the retail colocation footprint.

The hosting in cloud is a bit more of a mixed bag. I think on a per unit basis you clearly have seen, from a public cloud provider, fairly consistent trend of per unit price declines. What I would suggest though is obviously our cost of acquisition of componentry also is declining, really subject to the Moore's Law. And I guess, the last point with regard to price protection, recognize Internap's strategy is really designed to differentiate our products for that high performance or performance sensitive customer. My point being, of course, we have a requirement to be quote unquote price competitive, but we are not competing on price per say. We are targeting and seeking customers for whom performance matters, and price isn't really typically the deciding factor for those customers.

And then just a comment on sales and marketing. Do you make any stronger efforts to land bigger customers with pricing discounts, just to fill space, might we see some of that this year? Is there anything exceptional that you can employ to utilize that capacity faster?

We're really not, as you state, seeking big customers to fill our data center capacity. In terms of the colocation footprint we are squarely in the retail colocation provider. We don't compete for quote unquote wholesale data center footprint. And to put some numbers on that it would be uncommon for us to sign an initial colocation contract in excess of 250 kilowatts, that would be uncommon for us to do that. Large majority of our retail colocation initial contracts are significantly smaller than that. Now, of course over time, customers will grow, and we have many customers that are using in total power capacities at or above those levels. But typical RFP contracts with initial start sizes, larger than about 250 kW, aren't really in our sweet spot, and we are not targeting those types of opportunities to fill up our data center. Again I have the ability to monetize my data center footprint with a mix of colocation hosting and cloud infrastructure, and plan to keep it that way.

Thank you for the clarification and all the information. I appreciate it.

Sure. Thanks, Fred.

Thank you. Our next question is from the line of Mark Kelleher from D.A. Davidson. Your line is open.

Great. Thanks for taking the question. I was wondering, if we could talk about cash. It looks like from your CapEx projections and the EBITDA should just about offset, add interest expense in there, looks like we're maybe talking $5 million burn per quarter, I don't know if that's in the ballpark. But could you just talk about what cash levels are you comfortable with? When we should get to some positive cash flow? Do you have enough cash reserves to support your growth expectations this year? Thanks.

Hey Mark, this is Kevin. From a cash perspective, I think as you – you can take the guidance that we've provided here and I think you get to the quick math on, basically, that there is a cash generation prior to the leverage expense. And so the leverage expense that we run in 2014 will be roughly in the same neighborhood, be roughly around $25 million. So there is still kind of a cash burn on the fiscal year 2015. I think what we've said publicly or I've said publicly is that we would expect that the – us, the company to reach a cash breakeven, somewhere in the next, call it, 12 months to 18 months. I think we're on that path. So I think that's – of course, capital expenditure timings will fluctuate, so that could be a little bit earlier or a little bit sooner, but I think that's roughly the timeframe that we're in the hunt there to get cash flow positive.

Do you anticipate more debt to support growth, or do you have cash reserves, $20 million of cash and burning $5 million a quarter [indiscernible] (53:41)?

Yeah. So we also – yeah, sorry. So the second part of your question is, we also have a $50 million revolver, as we talk about here that we've drawn down about $10 million of that. There's a little bit of that capacity that's kind of eaten up by letters of credit, usually around real estate leases, but I think for right now, we've got plenty of capacity and don't anticipate any concerns around our ability to maintain our liquidity, keep reasonable cash on the balance sheet for flexibility and grow through that toward free cash flow positive.

Okay. Great. Thanks.

Okay.

Thank you. That's all the time for questions that we have today. So I'd like to turn the call back over to Michael Nelson for final thoughts.

Great. Thank you, everyone, for joining us today and your interest in Internap. We look forward to providing you an update on our progress next quarter, and I'll pass the call back to the operator.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you again for your participation in today's conference. This now concludes the program, and you may all disconnect your telephone lines. Everyone have a great day.