Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Lois Lee — Director-Treasury & Investor Relations, Invacare Corp.
Matthew E. Monaghan — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Invacare Corp.
Kathleen P. Leneghan — Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Invacare Corp.
Brad Vanino — Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets, Inc.
Mike Matson — Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Invacare First Quarter 2020 Conference Call and Webcast. After the management overview, we will open the call to questions. Investors and analysts interested in asking questions will need to dial in as questions cannot be submitted via the webcast. For the first part of the call, all phone lines have been placed on mute. This conference is being recorded, today Thursday, May 7, 2020.

I'll now turn the call over to Lois Lee, Invacare's Director of Treasury and Investor Relations.

Thank you, Kevin. Joining me on today's call from Invacare are Matt Monaghan, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Kathleen Leneghan, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Today, we will be reviewing our first quarter 2020 financial results and providing investors with an update on our transformation and our response to the COVID-19 pandemic. To help investors follow along, we have created slides to accompany this webcast. For those dialing in, you can find a link to our webcast slide presentation at invacare.com/investorrelations. Further information can be found in our SEC filings.

Before Matt begins, I'd like to note that during today's call, we may make forward-looking statements about the company that, by their nature, address matters that are uncertain. Actual future results may differ materially from those expressed in our statements today due to various uncertainties, and I refer you to the cautionary statement included on the second page of our webcast slides and in our first quarter earnings release.

For an explanation on the items discussed on today's call that are considered to be non-GAAP financial information, such as constant currency net sales, constant currency SG&A, free cash flow, adjusted EBITDA, and adjusted net loss, please see the notes in the Appendix of our webcast slides and in the related reconciliations in the slides and in the earnings release posted on our website.

I will now turn the call over to Matt Monaghan.

Thank you, Lois and good morning. First of all, we want to start today's call with a huge thanks to our associates who are doing a great job creating safe work environment, so our vital products can continue getting to people in need. There are so many critical changes that had to take place to keep our operations safe and running and tremendous work to get through the endless challenges of keeping a global supply chain operating in this dynamic environment. It's been inspiring to see the impact from our creative, hardworking and passionate associates from our customers and from our suppliers.

Obviously, the past few months have been challenging for everyone both personally and professionally as COVID-19 has impacted virtually every aspect of daily life. All of our medical device facilities have been permitted to remain open with safe work practices in place. We're proud to be part of the virus response and we continue to prioritize our associates' safety.

Turning to slide 4, the pandemic has impacted our business units in varying ways creating opportunities for some and challenges for others. We've been experiencing strong global demand for respiratory products primarily the high flow stationary oxygen concentrators, as well as for bed systems. These products are being deployed in expanded medical facilities and are helping patients transition out of acute care settings to convalescent home or in long-term care facilities. While we're taking steps to increase production, we're unable to predict the extent to which we can increase supply due to extensive pandemic related challenges at our suppliers, the additional costs being incurred to operate and the challenging logistics issues of expediting materials. We expect incremental demand of respiratory products and bed systems to continue into the second quarter. For now, we're unable to predict when demand will peak and when it will decline to lower levels.

We were very pleased with the mobility and seating performance in first quarter 2020. As mentioned on prior calls, we've been growing our commercial organization and improving our new product launch processes. The results in mobility and seating, especially with power wheelchairs, was strong. The consequences of the pandemic have limited end users access to conditions and to healthcare facilities where fittings and trials of configured products typically occur. As a result, we began seeing the beginning of a global decline in mobility quotes and orders towards the end of the quarter at varying degrees based on local factors of each country, and we expect temporary decline in orders in the near future.

Mobility and seating demand is expected to rebound with the resumption of elective care, easier access to clinics and the loosening stay-at-home orders. Predicting the exact profile of the change in demand is difficult, but we generally expect recovery to begin as early as third quarter. With all these dynamics taken together, we anticipate second quarter 2020 consolidated financial results will be challenged by somewhat lower sales and potential pressure on profitability. We expect to take actions to offset adverse effects as best we can.

Turning to slide 5, where high demand products have increased staffing levels to help combat supply chain issues and to increase manufacturing output, we have simplified product mix to increase output. In other areas, we have executed actions to protect profitability and preserve liquidity. As a result of quarantine protocols and public health actions, our sales force has found creative ways to connect with support and educate our customers and to engage with end users including performing virtual settings and service. A key enabler to potential non-contact delivery is the LiNX power wheelchair control technology which allows clinicians to wirelessly program wheelchairs from a safe distance. With LiNX, we're able to ship power wheelchairs fully configured and programmed from the factory that were just as a clinician and end user had expected right out of the box potentially without further adjustments.

And for our customers, LiNX provides great remote diagnostics capabilities for power wheelchairs and portable oxygen concentrators. This allows providers to troubleshoot issues remotely and to limit the number and duration of in-person repairs. In terms of cost containment, we have reduced spending where the volume of work has decreased. We're continuing key transformation initiatives for 2020 to simplify how customers do business with us, improve operations and lower costs. To increase financial flexibility, we have proactively borrowed on our bank credit facility. In some countries, we have participated in programs to preserve cash and improve liquidity such as deferring certain testings. And finally, we're prioritizing capital expenditures to concentrate on projects which provide the greatest near-term benefits.

On slide 6, we turn our attention to our first quarter 2020 operating results. We entered 2020 intending to build on our previous transformation progress and I'm pleased to report strong results in the quarter across all business segments. Excluding the gain from the sale of Dynamic Controls, operating loss improved almost 97% to nearly breakeven and adjusted EBITDA more than tripled to $5.9 million. This was driven by real operating prudence that yielded expanded gross profit from better sales mix, improved material and freight costs and reduced SG&A expenses. We also made significant progress in our free cash flow usage which improved by 51%, $12.4 million, driven by higher profitability and reduced working capital. Overall, these results demonstrates the value of our plan and our ability to guide our business through significant change to drive strong results.

Turning to slide 7. A key component of our transformation is the successful introduction of new products to drive profitable sales growth. During first quarter 2020, we launched our new AVIVA power wheelchairs, with the AVIVA FX, a front wheel drive system launched in North America and the AVIVA RX a rear wheel drive system launched in Europe. The AVIVA product family has been designed with great features that benefit end user and our customers. They have great seating and positioning systems and drive incredibly well. The systems are modular and easy to service and include our unique suspension which results in a smooth very stable ride. We've seen tremendous interest in both platforms and expect this to continue.

During the quarter, we built on the strong interest of our recently introduced Maxx Mobility standing power wheelchair with powered seating on a front-wheel drive platform that moves to a standard position for many benefits to the occupant and we've added – we've since added the same standing capability on the AVIVA FX front-wheel drive chair. Both products are eligible for full US Group three reimbursement which we accomplished intentionally through our design, so more people could stand. And in North America lifestyle, we've recently introduced new beds, new therapeutic support services to mean safe patient handling products which have been available in Europe since late 2019.

To support sales growth in North America, we made key improvements in the quarter with a larger sales force, more demonstration units in the field and improved training for our sales force and customers. As a result, in North America, we achieved 16% growth in power and mobility, driven primarily by new products. These overall constant currency net sales growth of 4% in mobility and seating. As the impact of the pandemic recedes, we expect these products [indiscernible] (00:08:19) to drive profitable sales growth.

Beyond driving innovation, we progressed with our plans for process improvements. Our previously announced plant consolidations in Germany and our IT modernization projects each remain on track for meeting their 2020 objectives. Once completed, we expect a better experience for our customers, their engagement with our associates, and ultimately improved results. To leverage our resources and to get the most from the various technology investments, we divested our Dynamic Controls business in early March. We're pleased to have closed that transition with the leading electromotive equipment company which we expect to pave the way for great innovations in the future. These initiatives plus previous transformation actions led to expanded the gross profit across all business segments and lower SG&A expenses in the first quarter.

Looking ahead, our near-term results maybe favorably impacted due to the pandemic. We expect continued improvement in profitability once the environment stabilizes. Overall, I'm proud of our accomplishments in this very challenging environment and I expect our transformation to continue making a meaningful impact in the future. I'll now turn the call to Kathy.

Thanks, Matt. As a reminder, our first quarter 2020 results were largely ahead of the impact of COVID-19 on our business as our European fiscal quarter ended in February and the majority of stay-at-home orders did not take effect until mid-March.

Turning to slide 9, reported net sales decreased 2.2% and constant currency net sales increased 0.1%, primarily driven by growth in respiratory and mobility and seating products. Gross profit increased 130 basis points to 28.8%, primarily due to lower material and freight costs, partially offset by unfavorable foreign exchange. Constant currency SG&A decreased 4.5% or $2.9 million, driven by reduced employment costs and favorable foreign exchange transactions. Operating loss excluding the gain on the sale of Dynamic Controls improved by $4.3 million, driven by reduced SG&A expenses and increased gross profit, offset by higher restructuring costs. Adjusted EBITDA was $5.9 million, up nearly 280%, driven by improved operating results. The company's free cash flow usage was $12 million, a 51% improvement due primarily to higher profitability and reduced working capital.

Turning to slide 10, during the first quarter, reported net sales in Europe decreased 3.1%, primarily due to unfavorable foreign exchange. Constant currency net sales decreased 0.6% as increases in respiratory and mobility and seating products were more than offset by decreased sales of lifestyle products. Gross profit increased 90 basis points, driven by favorable freight and R&D costs. Operating income increased $1.1 million due to reduced SG&A expenses and improved gross profit, offset by lower net sales and unfavorable foreign exchange translation of $500,000.

Moving to slide 11, North America reported net sales increased 0.8% and constant currency net sales increased 1%, driven by growth in mobility, seating and respiratory products, offset by decreased sales of lifestyle products. As previously mentioned, constant currency net sales growth in mobility and seating of 4% was driven by 16% growth in power wheelchairs, primarily driven by improved commercialization of new products and partially offset by a decline in manual mobility wheelchairs. Gross profit increased a 150 basis points and operating loss improved by $2.3 million or 53%, driven by improved product mix, lower cost in material, R&D and freight.

Turning to slide 12. All other, which is composed of the reported sales in the Asia-Pacific region, decreased by 14.8%, and constant currency net sales increased by 2.4%, driven by higher sales of lifestyle and respiratory products. Gross profit increased 270 basis points due to lower warranty and R&D expense. Operating loss improved by $1.6 million, driven by an improvement in the Asia-Pacific businesses operating profit as corporate expenses were flat.

Moving to slide 13, as of March 31, 2020, the company had total debt of $304 million excluding operating lease obligations of $15.5 million capitalized on the balance sheet. To increase financial flexibility, the company proactively borrowed $21.6 million on its bank credit facility during the quarter and drew an additional $9.2 million subsequent to the end of the quarter. At quarter end, the company had approximately $99 million of cash on its balance sheet, the increase was primarily the result of cash from bank debt and net proceeds received from the sale of Dynamic Controls, partially offset by cash used to fund operations.

Our free cash flow is in line with typical seasonality as the company historically has higher cash usage during the first quarter due to the payment of customer bonuses earned in the prior year and the buildup of inventory which will be consumed throughout the year. In addition to reducing discretionary spending, the company will accept government programs to bolster short-term liquidity including the temporary delay of direct and indirect tax payments as well as government based loans as available. The company believes the generation of adjusted EBITDA, cash balances on hand and free cash flow will support the ongoing transformation plans and enable us to address future debt maturities.

On slide 14, we have outlined our financial and operating assumptions for the near-term. Probably, we have experienced elevated demand for respiratory and bed systems. In the short-term, this benefit will be more than offset by the decline in the sales of mobility and seating products. However, we anticipate mobility and seating product sales will begin to recover with the resumption of elective care as the pandemic subsides and countries ease restrictions related to the pandemic. We expect this unusual sales pattern will have an unfavorable impact on product mix negatively impacting margins. As a result, we are taking operational and cost management actions to mitigate this margin dilution such as salary reductions for senior executives, including our board of directors, instituting partial work schedules, furloughing a limited number of associates and adding temporary surcharges to mitigate the significant increases from supply issues and expedited material.

These actions, in addition to proactively borrowing on our bank credit facility, strengthen our balance sheet and preserve liquidity to support our continued transformation efforts. In the near-term, we will continue to actively monitor the impact of the pandemic on our business and we will take action to preserve profitability and free cash flow.

I will now turn the call over to Matt.

Thanks, Kathy. Prior to the impact of COVID-19, we made great progress transforming Invacare with improved financial performance and more new products and better ways to engage with customers. This has been reflected in significant improvement in both adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow usage for first quarter 2020. While we're dealing with many opportunities and challenges, we remain confident in our transformation strategy. We'll continue to take actions to keep our associates safe and when things unfold, we'll take the necessary actions to manage or improve profitability in free cash flow.

Thanks for taking time for our call this morning. We will now take questions. Kevin?

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question today comes from Bob Labick of CJS Securities. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good morning. It's [ph] Pete Lukas (00:15:43) for Bob. Just that we talked...

Hey, [ph] Pete (00:15:46).

Hi. Good morning. In terms of your IT transformation with Birlasoft, has that been impacted by travel restrictions and are you still expecting implementation in 2020?

Yeah. I'll take that one, [ph] Pete (0015:58). The program remains on track, it's been really remarkable how effective the folks working on that program have been despite changes in shelter-in-place orders. I think maybe we've even gotten a little bit of productivity without so many folks on airplanes to and fro every week. There will be times later this year where we'll have to convene to do the normal kind of physical implementation as we get to integrate it into factory systems in North America, but fundamentally, the program is on track for 2020 objectives and we're really pleased with that.

Great. And turning to respi, you talk about elevated demand and hard to predict the peak and when it would return to normal. But from what you're seeing now, do you think that normal could be higher than – a new normal could be higher? Do you think you'll see some longer-term tailwinds from this beyond the current crisis?

Hard to say. There are two elements that I think build to what the future is going to unfold to show us. One is, there will be a crest in emergency planning for expanded care facilities in major metropolitan areas or country responsive. But effectively, with the vast number of people who have suffered from the coronavirus are going to essentially behave like a cohort of new COPD patients or people who probably need some form of long-term respiratory therapy. So, we do have a version of a scenario that says over the medium-term to long-term, there could be some elevated sustained demand for respiratory products.

Great. And then just on mobility and seating, generally you discussed a 90-day lag from order to chair. Do you think once clinicians are back out and serving patients, that number can be reduced?

Good question. That 90 days typically reflects the amount of the insurance reimbursement verification process, so it's different in other countries. In some countries, we've seen a foreshortening or more limited verification process, so there could be a swifter resumption. I think everybody in the United States are great customers who are out trying to contact end users, are looking for any way to make that process faster. There is a fair amount of pent up demand of people who really need these products to get out and about with safe independent daily living. We're certainly doing things on our side to make sure we're ready as quickly as possible in all the locations. So, it could be a little faster, but there generally is an insurance process, so we're not banking on that.

Great. Thanks. And the last one for me just in terms of the supply chain. Can you talk about what you're seeing in terms of your ability to get high demand products to customers in a timely, but cost effective manner? It seems costs have gone up for delivery of products and any changes you've seen over the last few weeks?

Yeah. It's really been a crazy globe of supply chains. As you can imagine, it takes 100% of possible components to make every product. And like lots of companies, our suppliers are all over the world. We buy components from places like Italy and China and even across the United States and you can imagine in all those places, local shelter orders have made it more difficult for those suppliers to us to assemble their workforce and for their suppliers to do the same thing. So we've got a small army of people who are working really hard every day to overcome those and then squeeze into what is effectively more expensive and much more limited logistics capacity around the world. So costs have been extraordinarily high.

We do have elevated outputs, and we're pleased that. We're doing everything we can to make sure that that's getting out to the folks and we'll see how that continues. I assume as markets reduce shelter orders and people become more familiar a way to safely coexist with this virus, our suppliers will be more comfortable and more predictably able to resume production on a payment schedule and it'll take less extraordinary efforts to get those things. We're trying to give you everything as we can; first of all, to prioritize our workers' safety and to get units out because they are in such need. We're going to do whatever we can to offset those costs. Another challenge is to keep margin as neutral as possible.

Very helpful. Thank you.

Okay. Thanks, [ph] Pete (00:20:00).

Our next question comes from Matt Mishan of KeyBanc.

Hey, guys. This is Brad on today for Matt. Hope everyone is doing well and thanks a lot for all the company and your employees are doing to support, their response to this public health crisis. My first question ...

Good morning, Brad. Thanks.

I'm sorry. My first question is around the step-up in profitability really across the business and you cited from SG&A efficiencies in Asia and Europe as some of the key drivers there. I'm wondering if you can speak a little bit of more on some of the actions, put and takes enabling that improvement and whether we should think of them as I guess in the Asia more COVID related or sustainable going forward?

Well, I think Kathy and I can both split the answer on this one. A lot of the SG&A actions really continued to benefit us and shareholders from things we did through July of last year roughly, and then, the continuation of those benefits and good engagement with customers. And Kathy, you want to give a closer breakdown of that?

Yeah. That's absolutely true. The cadence that we saw in Europe on the SG&A side of the house is primarily people related. Those were actions that we've taken last year to release our structure in Europe and we are seeing that benefit in the first quarter results. I would just remind that from a European perspective, they are on a month lag, so their quarter ends in February. So that would have been ahead of the impacts that we would have seen on COVID-19 as we come into Q2. So, really the savings on the European side of house, as well as the North America side of the house are related to actions that we've taken last year and we've seen those benefits in the first quarter.

Yeah. I think generally to amplify Kathy's comments, really we're extraordinarily pleased with first quarter 2020 results, specifically because they are almost entirely ahead of the pandemic response, so good strong sales from intentional actions coming from what we've learned about ourselves including products last year and just good management of the overall business process with a lot of streamlining that's already going on.

All right. Thanks a lot for the additional color. And then, moving onto your 2Q commentary, and this might be a little bit of a tough one, but is it possible to quantify or at least provide some order of magnitude around what the sales volume declines might look like under the base case scenario?

Well, we haven't quantified that so far, mostly because it's quite fluid. There is a chart in the deck page 4, I think, where we've kind of tried to show the two elements at play, there is quite significant extraordinary demand for beds and respiratory, that's going up. That just started at the very, very end of first quarter. The mobility and seating business has been relatively benefiting from this lag from quotes especially in North America and the decline will probably be a little bit later and offset than what we saw from the increase and we'll see how these two things come together.

The size of those businesses are relatively comparable, but the amount of increase for some, decrease in other is different by country, because of pandemic-related health practices and because of the way healthcare is administered and reimbursement and social programs. And of course, the margin is different between our mobility and seating segment, typically higher than it is on beds and respiratory devices ahead of the pandemic, I would say, on a standard basis. So we're just not ready to say how those are exactly going to balance out, but I would say generally, we believe the management team is going to be within our bandwidth to more or less making things work together throughout the balance of the year. Not saying that we're going to end up where our guidance is, we know we're close to that. Tremendous amount of time ahead of us, but in order of magnitude, these things see within the relative bandwidth we've measured and managed in the past.

Okay. Thanks a lot. And then, last one for me. Hopefully, as forecasting the worst part of the crisis, to this point, you guys have been pretty active in drawing on credit facilities and taking other proactive precautions to preserve cash. And just given the reference today to accessing certain government based loans and other programs to bolster short-term liquidity, can you talk a little bit more about, do you expecting this as a cash this year and how much more you may [indiscernible] (00:24:00). And then when you maybe begin to transition back to some level of activity? Thank you very much.

Sure, Brad. I'll start and then probably detail from Kathy here. I think probably most of our listeners today are in the United States who have one perception of what government programs are, but more than 50% of sales for us are outside the United States and governments all over the world are helping local economies and workforces and everyone deal with this pandemic and there has been some very swift opportunities to do simple things like deferred VAT or GST taxes or payroll taxes and some of those were able to take advantage of. We haven't estimated difference in cash flow usage or drawing on credit facilities. So, we're prophylactic, but Kathy I'd love to hear your comments on that.

Absolutely. When we speak to accessing programs, from that point, a significant amount of our business in Europe. There are many programs to defer both direct and indirect taxes during the pandemic timeframe, so later in the year and in some cases into 2021. And thus, we think that we will take advantage of as we go through the year of 2020. But as we noted previously and we're still committed to that, we do believe our focus on generating positive EBITDA, the cash that we have on hand as well as free cash flow generation into the future will provide us the funding that we need for the transformation.

All right, guys. Thanks a lot. Appreciate the extra color.

All right. Thanks again.

Our next question comes from Mike Matson of Needham & Co. Please ...

Yeah. Thanks for taking my questions. So, I guess it sounds like you're expecting at this point a decline, a sales decline in the second quarter. I'm just curious is that – I would assume is that based on what you're seeing in April, in early May with these combined positives and negatives of the two areas that are being impacted by COVID-19? Is that a fair assessment? And just to be clear, you are wanting us to kind of model some sort of decline for Q2?

Hi, Mike. Monaghan here. Thanks for the question. I think what we started seeing or not surprisingly in March and it depends of course by country around the world where we serve customers and clients, shelter-in-place orders really restricted the ability to interact with end users who have to be fitted especially for custom products, custom product wheelchairs, custom manual wheelchairs. So starting various countries in March, we started seeing a reduction in quote volumes which we knew would lag into second quarter and result in somewhat lower sales. It's still evolving and we want to assess the expectation of investors and analysts that if increase in bed and respiratory is not essentially going to be exactly offsetting mobility and seating, we may see a net decline. It's thinking possibly the magnitude of that. And as we entered into – on to the prior costs, we have some flexibility probably in how different governments respond to this or insurance reimbursement respond to this. But yeah, we want to make sure people aren't coming into this overly exuberant about the significant increase in demand on one side fully offsetting everything and we network that way. So probably some slight decline in sales and be prudent, but we do expect that to bounce back as soon as social distancing measures and access to clinics are eased, which we assume will be by third quarter. And Kathy, other comments on that?

No, I think that that's true. Obviously mobility and seating as well is higher margin product for the company which is why we're anticipating that there will be some pressure on margins. But as we mentioned, we will take actions to reduce discretionary spending and we have taken actions already as it relates to [indiscernible] (00:27:38) costs to try and mitigate that decline as much as possible.

Okay. Thanks. And then, what do you think happens to all the extra bed, surplus use in oxygen concentrators have been sold in the pandemic, and is there any risk here that these things sort of get resold in the second hand market, reduce future demand for your products or do you think that they'll end up being sort of stockpiled somewhere not end up being resold or reused elsewhere?

Yeah. Good question, Mike. We're not expecting a sales desert after this peak. I think – and I would look at beds and respiratory devices differently. Beds, it's going to be a long time before the number of people who need to be cared for in a bed goes down to normal level, so we believe that those beds will find their way into places where people need to be cared for. A lot of our beds are very suitable for home care and are therefore are otherwise designed for long-term care. So it's natural that these would go into places where an increased population of people will need care.

On the respiratory side, as I said earlier, it certainly seems like early medical reports are indicating there are some significant long-term respiratory problems for people who have had even moderate or mild forms of coronavirus. So, it's as – though there is a whole another cohort of potentially a large number of people who are going to need respiratory therapy for a long time, and it's really only successfully treated with high flow devices, 5 meters at a minimum and 10 meters per minute more often than that. So we're very fortunate to have a perfectly good product in each of those categories. We expect that to continue to be able to support people convalesce for the long-term.

Okay. Thanks. And then, the Dynamic Controls sale, is there revenue headline from that or was that really just kind of a captive supplier to you guys that you've now sold and sort of being outsourced effectively?

I think you could have some amount of external sales. Kathy, do you want frame that for me?

Sure. They did have external sales. They sold scooters, powered wheelchair control system into European and the Asia as well as the US market. So there will be some headwind. And if you take a look at the Q1 results, the impact obviously since we sold it in March wasn't a full quarter impact of that – that impact for Q1 was estimated at roughly $1.3 million. We will be able to extrapolate that over – further down on a go forward basis. So there will be some headwinds related to Dynamic that we will pull out as numbers from a constant currency perspective [indiscernible] (00:30:14).

Thanks. So you said – I just want to be clear, there was a little – I said the number was a little unclear. Can you just confirm that you saved $1.4 million in the first quarter?

Yeah. $1.3 million was one of the impacts during the first quarter.

When did this deal closed?

March 7.

Okay. All right.

So basically a one month impact. Yeah.

Okay. Thank you. That's all I have.

All right. Thanks, Mike.

And with that, we will conclude the today's question-and-answer session. I would now like to turn the call back to Mr. Matt Monaghan for any additional or closing remarks.

Okay. Thanks, Kevin and thanks everybody for taking time on today's call. Kathy, Lois, and I are available for follow-up questions. You can [indiscernible] (00:30:53). Hope you have a great day. Stay safe. Thank you.

And ladies and gentlemen, that concludes the Invacare first quarter 2020 conference call and webcast. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.