Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Lara L. Mahoney — Director-Investor Relations & Communications, Invacare Corp.
Matthew E. Monaghan — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Invacare Corp.
Robert K. Gudbranson — CFO, Director & Senior Vice President, Invacare Corp.
Robert Labick — Analyst, CJS Securities, Inc.
Matt Mishan — Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets, Inc.
James P. Sidoti — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Invacare 2016 First Quarter Conference Call. I would like to remind you, that all phone lines have been placed on mute for the first part of the call. After the management overview, we will open the call to questions. This conference is being recorded Thursday, April 28, 2016.

I will now turn the call over to Lara Mahoney, Invacare's Senior Director of Corporate Communications and Investor Relations.

Thank you, Deanna. Joining me on today's call from Invacare are Matthew Monaghan, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Rob Gudbranson, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.

We will begin the call with the customary Safe Harbor statement, that this conference call may include statements regarding anticipated or future developments that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

Forward-looking statements are those that describe future outcomes or expectations that are usually identified by words such as should, could, plan, intend, expect, continue, forecast, believe, and anticipate; and include, for example, any statement made regarding our future results.

Actual results may differ materially as a result of inherent uncertainties and risks, including the risk factors described in our Form 10-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and in our earnings release, and we refer you to those risks factors. We may not be able to predict and may have little or no control over the factors or events that may influence our financial results.

On June 2, the company divested its United States medical device rentals businesses for long-term care facilities, which were a part of the Institutional Products Group or the IPG segment. The rentals businesses were not deemed discontinued operations for reporting purposes, and therefore, are included in the results below unless otherwise noted.

On today's call, we will focus on the highlights of the quarter as opposed to covering all the detail, which you can read in the earnings release that was issued earlier today. In particular, I would refer investors to the release for the definitions of free cash flow, constant currency net sales, and the adjusted earnings and loss items, which will be discussed during the call. You can find the release and access to our SEC filings at www.invacare.com under the Investor Relations tab.

I will now turn the call over to Matt Monaghan.

Thank you, Lara; and good morning. I'd like to begin today's call by reviewing the consolidated results for the company's first quarter ended March 31, 2016. This was the second quarter of really driving the company, the shift to a more clinically complex mix of business. The result show we're already making good progress.

In both the North America HME and Europe segments, net sales of mobility and seating products increased. These products comprised the majority of our clinically complex portfolio. As a result of our efforts and excluding the effects of the divested rentals businesses, gross margin as a percent of net sales increased by 1 percentage point.

Given our strategic focus away from lower margins, less differentiated products along with external market dynamics and excluding the divested rentals businesses, consolidated constant currency net sales declined 4.8% compared to the first quarter of 2015. Gross margin will continue to be an important measure as we shift our sales focus and drive more efficiency through our system. In the quarter, constant currency SG&A expense without the divested rentals businesses increased slightly due to changes in employee costs.

On a constant currency basis, including the rentals businesses, SG&A decreased $5.1 million or a 6.3% compared to the first quarter last year. This apparent decrease was driven by the sale of the rentals business in July 2015, which eliminated $5.7 million of expense.

The company's interest expenses increased approximately a $1.2 million to $1.9 million in the first quarter of 2016, compared to $0.7 million in the first quarter of last year. The increase was due to the convertible debt issued in the first quarter of 2016, and to the real estate sale leaseback transactions completed in the second quarter of 2015. Lower net sales, increased warranty expense, and higher interest expense led to an adjusted net loss of $0.25 per share in the first quarter of 2016, compared to an adjusted net loss of a $0.21 per share last year.

On an aggregate basis, the adjusted operating loss was $5.4 million in the first quarter of 2016, compared to an adjusted operating loss of $4.1 million last year. Free cash flow was negative $39 million in the first quarter of this year, due to these same factors, along with increases in inventories, principally due to lower first quarter sales and the higher accounts receivable balance.

I'll now turn the call over to our CFO, Rob Gudbranson to discuss the performance of the segments and additional financial results for the quarter.

Thanks, Matt, and good morning. In the first quarter, constant currency net sales for the European segment increased 2.4%, driven by an increases in mobility and seating products partially offset by decreases in respiratory products. Earnings before income taxes in the European segment decreased $1.8 million compared to last year. This reduction in the earnings was primarily due to unfavorable foreign exchange, unfavorable sales mix and increased SG&A expense primarily related to employment costs.

In the first quarter, constant currency net sales for the North America/HME segment decreased 14.5% driven by declines in lifestyle and respiratory products, partially offset by increases in mobility and seating products.

Loss before income taxes improved slightly compared to the first quarter last year. This improvement was a result of a stronger gross margin and reductions in SG&A expense, partially offset by lower net sales and higher interest expense.

Excluding the net sales impact of the divested rentals businesses, constant currency net sales for the IPG segment increased 10.1%, driven by interior design projects and bed products. Earnings before income taxes improved slightly compared to the first quarter of last year, largely due to the absence of the divested rentals businesses, which had generated loss before income taxes in the first quarter of 2015. This increase in earnings was due to – this increase in earnings due to the divested rentals businesses was partially offset by reduced gross margin and increased SG&A expense related to employment costs.

For the first quarter of 2016, Asia-Pacific constant currency net sales decreased 2.9%, due to the net sales decreases in the company's subsidiary that produces microprocessor controllers and the Australian distribution business. For the first quarter, loss before income taxes improved by $0.5 million compared to the first quarter last year. The decrease in loss before income taxes was largely due to lower SG&A expense and favorable gross margin as a result of favorable foreign currency transactions and manufacturing cost.

During the first quarter 2016, the company issued a $150 million in convertible debt. The company received approximately $144.1 million in net proceeds, of which $15.6 million was used for related convertible note hedge transactions and $5 million was used to repurchase common shares. As a result, total debt outstanding as of March 31, 2016 was $197.9 million with the adjustments as described in the release.

The company's cash balances were $144.7 million as of the end of the first quarter. The increase in cash balance was due to – was the result of net proceeds received from the issuance of the convertible debt during the first quarter 2016, partially offset by free cash flow usage in the first quarter. As of the end of the first quarter, days sales outstanding were 44 days, up from 42 days, as of December 31, 2015 and down from 47 days as of March 31, 2015.

At the end of the first quarter, inventory turns were 4.5, down from 5 as of December 31, 2015 and 4.8 as of March 31, 2015.

I'll now turn the call back over to Matt for a few closing comments. We can then address questions.

Thank you, Rob. In 2015, we established our two priorities; building an enterprise-wide quality culture and generating profitable growth. In the first quarter, we continued to build on the progress we shared in our 2015 year-end release. As previously announced, our independent expert auditor issued a certification report for the third phase of the consent decree in February indicating the company's substantial compliance with the FDA's quality system regulation.

Similar to the first and second certification processes, the FDA has responded to this report with clarifying questions. When the FDA's questions are satisfactorily answered, we will submit our own report as required by terms of the consent decree. If and when the FDA accepts both of these reports, the Agency will re-inspect the impacted facilities. We cannot predict the acceptance of these reports by the FDA, the timing of the inspection or remaining work that maybe needed to meet the FDA's requirements for resuming normal operations in Elyria.

Regardless of what the timing may be, we are continuing to make investments and great strides and quality improvements, and shifting to culture. The changes we are making will drive innovation and efficiency that put us on a foundation for sustainable high-quality results. And we're finding by doing this, we already have great solutions and new combinations of products from across the company that meets existing market needs.

We're off to a good start transforming the business and better leveraging the company's strength. We will continue to drive improvements in gross margin as we build more clinical parts of our business. That's not to say there won't be headwinds along the way including external market factors such as national competitive bidding in the United States, but we're putting money to work for greater commercial success to grow our business and bring more efficiency to how we operate. Invacare is a great platform for growth. We have a good team in place for executing our plans and aligning ourselves with a long-term trends in the industry.

Thank you for your time and attention on today's call. Let's open the phone lines for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Bob Labick of CJS Securities.

Good morning.

Good morning, Bob.

Good morning, Bob.

Hi. So, just wanted to start where you ended there with the FDA consent decree. I understand obviously, that the timing is unknowable, but clearly you're making progress, right. You've reached a milestone, and there is more ahead of you. Can you just talk a little bit about, your plans as this progress goes forward, in terms of regaining your share?

And how has the market changed for Custom Power Wheelchairs in the last few years, as you've been at the low level of production, has it changed? Are you still – do you still have the superior products? How will you regain your previous share over the next quarters, years, whatever it will be?

Yeah. Great questions, Bob. Let me see if I can cover all those parts. So, our plans are really already underway. We continue to take the efforts very, very seriously. We are making really good progress, we look forward to continue to progress there with the FDA. But beyond that we have so many subsidiaries around the world, that have products, that alone or in combination with other subsidiary products, really address very well and uniquely the needs of the complex rehabilitation market, which is the market largely served out of the Taylor Street facility.

And that's part of what's driving the gross margin increase is kind of the new found commercial success that some of those products that have already been out in the marketplace, maybe not in every market, but we're bringing those combinations around the world. Things like the ROVI product that we launched last year, the Freedom Solara, which is a passive manual product. The electric motors and augmented mobility products from Alberta, Germany, which you can put on other wheeled products.

At the International Seating Symposium this year, we brought together all of our subsidiaries and showed what we can do in a total lineup of our therapeutic products. And it was really, really astounding, completing different very broad compared to our competitors in the marketplace and that's a big change going forward.

How will we take advantage of this along the way and regain our market share, is just by doing that, by showing folks that we're more than a consent decree and more than the products in Taylor Street, we have this great portfolio. The things that we're doing with our sales force is to combine our great experts, who previously may have had a narrowness of scope. They might have done one product segment or represented mostly one subsidiary and put them in the marketplace, well trained in deep clinical understanding of all the range of products that deal with clinical rehab.

And then, I think, in terms of share gain, one of the things we continue to see is strong brand reorganization, of Invacare throughout the process. One of the things, that we're still able to do and selling from Taylor Street, is to have these verification of medical needs form signed, which require a therapist to identify something that's unique our product on behalf of the patient that other products can't do, and we still have a heady business doing that.

And the benefit of that, is that our commercial organization is out every day with the same clinical leaders, across North America, having those distinguished differentiating conversations and demonstrating that our products do perform things differently than our competitors. Competitors are still very strong in the marketplace, but we look forward to that share gain, as population grows and incident rates remain the same, and we think there's a greater opportunity in the future for our sales.

Great. Thank you for that color. And then, you talked about this a little earlier in your script, but could you talk about the pivot to more complex solutions in North America? How are your customers receiving them and reacting to this shift? And maybe just give us a couple of examples of some of the more complex products coming out now and the reception for them?

We've had a number of products that have been launched in U.S. and outside U.S. markets over the last year, the ROVI base with the Ultra Low Maxx seating which is best-in-class came out last June. We had the Solara product come out last fall. We have the Freedom P.R.O. CG, which is great unique passive manual chair, that can also to be combined with these powered hubs for single finger control of an attendant, really remarkable despite having potentially a very heavy weight passive passenger in the chair, which is really remarkable for institutional and home healthcare.

And then earlier this year, we came out with the Alber Twion, which is an active manual chair that is able to be driven by the iPhone when the person is not in the chair. So they could bring their share over to the bed side or move it away from their bed or something like that with use of their iPhone, really remarkable innovative products. I think when we're out talking to clinicians, the first reaction is and updated understanding – there's whole constellation of brands can really be had through the Invacare sales team, and that the commercial arrangements are more unified than they've ever been.

The sowing together of rebate thresholds that used to be more compartmentalized among subsidiaries are now more accessible when you buy across our portfolio. And that's really remarkable, gives us a much better standing with clinicians when they realized that our sales team can come in and really be a much broader part of the therapeutic pathway that they select for their patients, all been very good.

Okay, great. And then, maybe one last one for me, the European business has done very well on an organic basis, obviously there's been some currency headwinds and stuff, but the business itself I think has done very well, can you talk about the similarities and differences between the North American business and the European business and what if the opportunity is for North America to eventually look more like Europe and have the strong organic growth and the nice margins are – how do you think about North America in terms of its path to recovery and how similar or different is it from European business?

Yeah, good question. So, we look at Europe as in composite, very similar to North America. Each market is very different country-by-country, but there are some groups of countries when you're considering whole – being very similar to North America. First of all, the size of the business, roughly 47% of our sales has – recent historically – has been in Europe and 49% in North America. So size wise we're talking about something that's relatively comparable.

When you look at the Nordic countries in Europe, very federated. They do tenders, national tenders that are one year or multi-year. So those feel like the VA or a Kaiser kind of contracting process. When you look at the National Health Service in the UK, they're migrating through their budget pressures to alternative forms of supply and they have some attributes that are also similar to the VA in terms of doing fleet management.

There the equipment remains the property of NHS, and when a person is done with something like a powered wheelchair, it'll go back to the NHS to be refurbished. In the UK, we participate in that refurbishment business and the service opportunities that come with that. Those are similar to what our customers are doing in the U.S. to support the VA in terms of providing great care and cost reductions for the provision of healthcare, so that's similar.

And then when I think about France, Germany, Italy and some of the other countries, there is a one tier or two tier distribution system that represents really Medicare, Medicaid and private pay in composite.

So, when I look at our team across North America, it really represents very good management of unfettered access to our complete portfolio and we show how we can modulate the delivery of care and remain very current with our offering. We can grow sales as you've observed. We make good margin there, and to me, that really is the snapshot of what North America should be doing in the future.

Hey, Bob the only thing I'd add to that, just for benefits of investors, who might be newer to the call, just in terms of looking back, I've got 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015, and first quarter of 2016 in everyone of those quarters, Europe has had organic sales – or a constant currency sales growth. So, again I would – I would confirm, what Matt said, I think we're with the right people and the right team and the right access to products in North America, there is really no reason, why we can't show that kind of performance, in terms of our ability to grow the top line on a constant currency basis.

And those markets are just as competitive as in North America, we have good strong competitors in Europe and the payors are very judicious in their use of healthcare dollars, which is what you'd expect. So, that tees us up well for – if we're successful there being able to be successful elsewhere in the solutions we provide.

Great. Thanks very much.

Thanks, Bob.

Thank you. And we'll go next to Matt Mishan of KeyBanc.

Hey, good morning.

Good morning, Matt.

Thanks for taking the questions.

Good morning.

First, this is maybe a multipart question and I kind of hope it all comes together in the end and sounds intelligent. I think, your business is very difficult to assess right now, because of all – because of all the moving pieces. And when you look at the headline numbers, especially in North America and in HME and you see that minus 15% decline, it's a bit surprising how large it is especially given the easier comps and difficult environment that it's been for a significant period of time.

But on the same token what's really impressive is, you see the North America, HME, EBIT on that 15% decline relatively flat on a year-over-year basis. So, first, I was hoping you kind of go through some of the moving pieces of the sales decline where would be the impact of national competitive bidding and the rural rollout, the rationalization of some of the product portfolio and then the improvement in core products and maybe if you can quantity some of those and also, in the context of the North America/HME, EBIT staying flat, talk a little bit about how you managed to do that in a minus 15% decline?

Yeah. A series of good questions, I took a few minutes here, I'll try to hit all those, but if I miss them then we can come back and re-ask. So, you got us, everyone used to really look at Invacare, think about it as a turnaround. So, what do you do in turnaround? You understand, what are strengths and weaknesses of the company, you try to understand the market dynamics from now going into the future that are going to the present over a three year to five year window during which that same transformation is going to take place. And then you try to line up resources to do more of the things you're good at and less of the things you're not so good at or that don't align as well as lucrative areas of growth in the marketplace and then execute with clarity and I really think we're doing a good job with that.

We've indentified areas of the marketplace that fit with Invacare's strength. Invacare is not a high-volume, low-cost supplier of undifferentiated products. We have a very strong legacy of putting engineers and innovators to work, making clinically differentiated results oriented products that really should be appreciated by therapists, patients and users and consumers around the world for doing something different. And in the world where healthcare dollars are ever more scares, we're in a really strong position to stand-up and say, our products do something better, either total cost to serve for fleet manager or a better outcomes or more usability for somebody who's looking at the stark clinical benefits.

So, when we look at the spectrum of products that we provided historically – the company has had one of the broadest portfolios in the industry and historically that's been a really strong selling point to go out into the marketplace and say we can do everything from crutches and canes to very complex powered wheelchairs, as an example of a range.

In the future, there is less room for margin and product differentiation in the basic aides for daily living. And, there is more access of our customers to alternative forms of supply from places like the Far East, where basic aides for daily living are readily available. And, when people are measuring what they can get against the stark declining reimbursement, and those margins are going to get pinched further and further. And, we have some big players in the market who are looking to bring some of those products into new retail channels like big box retailers, because they want to entice people to come into their big box and do their pharmacy business or other lucrative disposables businesses which we don't have.

So, when we look at our portfolio, we clearly want to understand activity-based, value-added assessment. And, we look at our great sales team and we say if we make them work clinically-oriented, we put the patient at the centre of everything we do. We understand what drives our customers' choices between our products and other products, then we can really deploy the sales force to do more with the same kinds of effort. That is clinically-complex products. That's where our products shine, that's where our sales people shine, and that's where we can really have a conversation about why our products do something different.

So, when you think about those things and it's being a turnaround, we're going to shuffle things over and really do things more in the clinically complex base powered wheelchairs, therapeutic support services, safe patient handling, lots of things for residential operators, which is why you see our that business growing so much.

And, despite having lower sales in certain areas, our EBIT can be flatter even better. Gross margin is up as we've discussed. And, there is a shrink to greatness story, that's the front part of this turnaround. So I am looking at shifting the commercial end of our business, so you see the gross margin improve. You see effectiveness improve. We're going to take investments in commercial success, so that's more salespeople, more demonstration units to make salespeople effective. Salespeople need vehicles to move around and they need good training, so that we're great partners for our customers and clinicians around the world.

So, we're going to have better gross margin, we're going to be investing in things that show up in the SG&A for a while. And then, we have investments in a strong pipeline of technically great, clinically differentiated products that will continue to come up. So, that's why we understand that this market is going to change and we're going to be aligned to that kind of difference. Gross margin up, SG&A, tight for a little while, it takes a while for the commercial team to become accretive, six months to 12 months, let's say before that really gets traction. And then, as we've discussed in other calls, this clinically complex area has a relatively long cash cycle. So, working capital is going to grow as we do that too.

Hey, Matt, I'd just add two other points quickly. One would be, even though we don't give specific levels for the increase in sales for the various segments, mobility and seating, lifestyle and respiratory, I would point out to you that both Europe and North America had very good increases in both. And I think that's a good sign, one, that Europe continues to show growth, but the same time, that North America still with the CD in place, is able to show good growth.

So, we're not limited by the CD, in terms of other things we could do. We're limited in terms of Taylor Street, but that team is delivering. So, again, without giving you a specific number, both of them are showing nice growth in that category. The other piece I'd just give you was a more numeric point is that, basically, without going into all the detail, the increase in interest cost hits North America HMA. So, when you really look at that earnings before tax, it's flat, but then you've got to take all that interest too. So, again gross margin has really improved.

So can we talk -

So let me just – just going through my little – my check list Matt which you asked, NCB U.S., but I think the NCB is great conversation starter this year for businesses in North America because there isn't anybody who has historically been in those lines of business that doesn't have to ask a fundamental question about how they're going to improve operations going forward, and we're really well suited to have those conversations, non-delivery oxygen, the durability of our products.

A knee jerk reaction is to say, I need a lower cost product, we get those requests very frequently, but the conversation is really lower cost of total ownership of a product, and any product that is a fleet product, where they need to have cleanability, reusability, serviceability is where we shine very brightly, because our products are incredibly durable and we have that great reputation to build on. So, NCB is going to generate a lot of opportunities for commercial engagement.

We're going to have some lumpiness in the business. I think, as people are hesitating a little bit on the normal steady purchases, deciding what's – [ph] going to be (28:45) future of their business, whether they're going to take cash and instead of buying new products from us, maybe buy the consolidation of competitor of theirs and put their assets to use for a little while.

Bad debt, is or credit risk is obviously something we look at, we've talked about that before. So, that's a potential consequences of NCB, but we have a good track record of managing credit risk through the process.

And there are two major milestones worth noting for competitive bidding on July 1, both surround to re-compete will go into play. That's the 91 MSAs that were originally impacted few year ago. And the 50% reduction, the remaining 50% reduction of the world out will also be applied. So this will be one of the first times that the entire country, except for those nine MSAs are impacted by another hit on reductions.

Okay, got it. I think between the three of you guys, you definitely answered the question. Just a follow-up to that, as you look at your North America/HME segment , Matt, what percentage of sales can meet your definition of clinically complex products?

Well, that's good – that is a good question. So, the model is interesting, because there are three ways to go at it. There's to [ph] head-on (30:13) clinically complex, that's where we're out of the marketplace selling a complex powered wheelchair for example. There is the residential facility, where we're selling a lot of clinically complex products on a B2B basis. Even that residential facility drives through some of the aides for daily living.

So, there's a correlation to some of that. The retail market of aides for daily living is one of the areas that's under most pressure, because there are so many competitors out there right now with channels of trade that are bringing gross margins down.

So, I would look at, Europe is probably a starting point for an overall mix of what, if you're trying to build down the EBITDA, what that looks like and then I think beyond that there are lots of interesting areas, where we can grow clinically complex things even beyond. So, I – we're not giving guidance yet. And talking about what that mix can be ultimately be, but we think there's a lot of expansion in that area.

Okay, got it. And then last one from me. On the free cash flow, – I guess – first quarter is obviously a seasonally weak quarter, but I think it came in a little bit lower than I would have thought, can you give some incremental color around the free cash flow performance in the quarter. In the context, some of the improvements – some of the improvements you actually made last year versus maybe what happened – what happened in the quarter.

Yeah. I think, the bridge of – I'll give the schematic bridge and then Rob can give the more detailed commentary. Going from if we do sequential, our DSO went up a little bit, but it wasn't a wild snapback like we had really crushed at year-end, artificially for a bounce back. We're still practicing good collections and good management of payables.

Inventory did come back. It's a natural cycle and then there's a lag between declining sales in the basic aides for daily living business and where inventory is, so we'll continue to bring inventory down, but that doesn't go down quite as quickly as sales do. That was probably the biggest change in inventory.

Receivables went up a little bit. We're going to continue to have working capital pressure because of the long cash cycle on the complex business. We have some timing changes in bonus payments and employee cost that in previous years may happened more in the second quarter than they did this year. Those are the three constituents that I really see, but Rob, why don't you give the finer points here.

Sure, but I think, Matt you hit some of the key ones right there. I'd really emphasize that even though the DSOs went up from 42 days to 44 days from year-end to the end of the first quarter, we're still dramatically better than the 47 days at the end of first quarter 2015. So again, I think we're still performing very well. I think we're very clear on fourth quarter at least 42 days at year-end was really a historical low and we didn't expect to stay down at that level. So that popped AR a little bit. So, you can see when we get down to the – to the free cash flow in the Q, you might have $7 million on AR.

Inventory, as Matt mentioned was a little bit of a drain. I think the biggest issue there was forecasting. I think, we did not forecast to be down 14.5% in North America/HME on an organic basis, [ph] those would be (33:39) down 4.8%. So, we did have some inventory, probably particularly in the lifestyles and respiratory area that we had not planned on having. So that might be pushing $9 million, $10 million. The loss itself on a GAAP basis was about $8.6 million and then on accrued, yeah, we had some timing in terms of some payments, both externally and internally. That was probably in excess ballpark of $12 million.

So, if you take that $7 million in AR, take $10 million on inventory, the loss of $8.6 million on a GAAP basis and the movement on the accruals for about $12 million, that gets you to the $39 million, which you're right, Matt. It's higher in prior year. Always harder to compared first quarter cash flow versus cash flow in different quarters, but I think the big drivers would be a combination of inventory. So, if we're $24 million last year, we have about $7 million more of a drain on inventory. And because we're not buying as aggressively, given some of the sales decline, currently we have about $6 million on AP and again that would bridge it from the $24 million to the $39 million again.

So, either way you look at it sort of, just how we did in the quarter or trying to bridge the prior year's first quarter in terms of change, I think the logic is there. Obviously it's something we'll continue to work hard on, but $39 million was the result for this quarter.

All right. Thank you very much. I'll jump back in the queue.

All right. Thanks, Matt.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We'll go next to Jim Sidoti of Sidoti & Co.

Good morning. Can you hear me?

Yes, Jim. Good morning.

All right. Just a couple of quick question on timing. First with the FDA, can you just describe how the process works at this point with questions. Is there a clock that starts when you respond to them and they have to get back to it within a certain amount of time, or is it really up to them to decide when to get back to you on the questions – on the responses to the questions that you submitted?

Yeah. The FDA has done a good job in providing detailed timely questions. And as we would hope and expect, we are in the process of answering those questions, it is not – there is no clock in terms of when the FDA has to make a decision on accepting our report, it's really up to us to do a diligent job and satisfactorily answer the questions.

And once that happens, then we'll submit our own company's report. And then, there is a clock, which gives some timing for when the next step in the process would start, and that includes the re-audit of the facility here. And then, beyond that, there is no clock and how long an audit could take or what happens as a consequence of that audit.

All right. And then, in terms of the transitioning of sales focus and products that you've talked about on the call. How long do you expect it to take before you get Invacare to the company that you wanted to be, is that a four-quarter process or is that more like a two-year or three-year process?

Yeah. I think it's a combination, there's a shift and then growth. So, the shift will take many quarters to get to let down the parts of the business where we don't have a common ground with customers and our costs of doing business, where we can make a reasonable margin to return to shareholders. And, that will take some time and get those same resources to really get gross margin where we want and hit on all cylinders in terms of the mix shift. And then, the question is going to be once we've got the right mix, how do we grow at that same ratio going forward?

So, there's probably many quarters of the shift and then there's a long-term growth of the company where we look more in composite like that mix of business and then I think to me this is a long-term turnaround. We're going to see short-term results. So we're looking at that every quarter I was pleased with the fourth quarter that we showed gross margin improvement and cash flow generation and I'm pleased that second quarter of this turnaround. I'll call it more gross margin improvement.

Good investment opportunities and that's what I want to see. The thesis that we have on mix shift in growth is demonstrated at the gross margin line. Below gross margin line is where we demonstrate as a management team that we can effectively grow modulating, bringing in good quality talent, putting good capital to use on an ROIC basis to get the mix shift right and then managing cash as best we can to do that and cash was a constraint in the past due to commercial changes all the way down the income statement. Cash is going to continue to be managed closely by us because that's what's one of the key factors in our growth. So that will continue to work. It's really looking at the gross margin line to make sure that the thesis is working. And the thesis is already demonstrating to work and then below that is how we manage the scaling up of the mix shift in growth.

All right, and then just a follow up on cash, Rob, you had some pretty impressive increases in free cash flow in 2015 as we went from the March quarter through the December quarter. Do you expect this year to play out pretty much the same way?

Jim, at this point similar to last year we really won't give guidance. As Matt said, we're going to work hard to make sure to husband the cash we have on the balance sheet as carefully and for the right projects, but I would also say as part of transformation we're going be making investments.

Okay.

The first half of the year is typically cash consumptive. So that's probably a seasonal pattern that will continue.

Understood. Thank you.

Yeah. Thanks, Jim. [Operator Instructions]

All right. Well, look, thank you for everybody participating today. We really appreciate your interest and attention in the company. It's a great platform for growth. I feel strong about our strategy and aligning ourselves with the most interesting parts of the area that fit with the company's strengths where we can add value and generate returns for shareholders over the long term. We look forward to demonstrating that in future periods. We're available for calls. Thank you.

Thank you for your participation. That does conclude today's conference. You may now disconnect.