Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Lara L. Mahoney — Director-Investor Relations & Communications, Invacare Corp.
Matthew E. Monaghan — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Invacare Corp.
Robert K. Gudbranson — CFO, Director & Senior Vice President, Invacare Corp.
Matt Mishan — Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets, Inc.
Bob J. Labick — Senior Managing Director of Research, CJS Securities, Inc.
James P. Sidoti — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Invacare 2015 Second Quarter Conference Call. I would like to remind you that all phone lines have been placed on mute for the first part of the call. After the management overview, we will open the call for questions. This conference is being recorded Thursday, July 23, 2015.

I would now turn the conference over to Lara Mahoney, Invacare's Director of Corporate Communications and Investor Relations. Please go ahead, ma'am.

Thank you, Lisa. Joining me on today's call from Invacare are Matthew Monaghan, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Rob Gudbranson, our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.

We will begin the call with the customary Safe Harbor statement that this conference call may include statements regarding anticipated or future developments that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

Forward-looking statements are those that describe future outcomes or expectations that are usually identified by words such as should, could, plan, intend, expect, continue, forecast, believe, and anticipate and include, for example, any statement made regarding our future results. Actual results may differ materially as a result of inherent uncertainties and risks, including the risk factors described in our Form 10-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and in our earnings release, and we refer you to those risks factors. We may not be able to predict and may have little or no control over the factors or events that may influence our financial results.

Also of note, except for free cash flow, the financial information for all periods excludes the discontinued operations of Altimate Medical Inc., the company's former subsidiary, which manufactured stationary standing-assistive devices for use in patient rehabilitation and which was divested on August 29, 2014. Altimate was a part of the North America/Home Medical Equipment or HME segment.

On today's call, we will focus on the highlights of the quarter as opposed to covering all the detail which you can read in the earnings release that was issued earlier this morning. In particular, I would refer investors to the release for the definitions of free cash flow and the adjusted earnings and loss items, which will be discussed during the call. You can find the release and access to our SEC filings at www.invacare.com.

I'll now turn the call over to Matt Monaghan.

Thank you, Lara, and good morning. Since joining the company in April, I've been traveling throughout North America and Europe to meet our associates, customers and the people who use our products. These experiences have validated my beliefs that Invacare has significant opportunities in light of the industry's compelling fundamental drivers. Positive demographic trends in the markets we serve, and the proven clinical and financial benefits of homecare.

As CEO, I've spent the last few months focusing the organization on two critical priorities. Our first priority is building a strong, sustainable, quality culture throughout the company. The second priority is generating profitable growth. There are a number of transition activities underway to make that happen, primarily in the North America HME segment, where we are aligning the team to execute.

We've also positioned ourselves for the future by adjusting our capital structure and narrowing our focus on our long-term strength, as evidenced through the real estate sale and leaseback transaction completed in April and the recent divestiture of the United States rentals businesses.

Before I talk more about our short-term focus and strategy, I would like to review our second quarter 2015 financial results. First, let's review the segments. Our European business, which comprises our full portfolio including mobility and seating, lifestyle and respiratory products, had constant currency net sales growth of 2.9%. With the ongoing pressure from foreign exchange, net sales declined 16.7% compared to the second quarter of last year.

The Asia-Pacific business grew constant currency net sales by 6.7% with growth in both the New Zealand and Australian distribution businesses. Foreign exchange rates reduced net sales by 16% to negative 9.3% on a reported basis compared to the second quarter last year.

Now, I'll cover the two North American segments, where we are focusing most of our transitional activity. In the second quarter, the Institutional Products Group completed the supply chain shift of its long-term care bed facility. Driven by increases in bed sales as well as interior design projects, the segment achieved 6.9% constant currency net sales growth and 6.1% reported net sales growth compared to the second quarter last year.

The North America/HME business, which is being realigned to achieve its full potential, experienced the net sales decline of 10.5% on a constant currency basis and a decline of 11.4% on a reported basis compared to the second quarter last year. To offset the sales decline during the quarter, the team continued to manage expenses and still reduced its adjusted net loss by $6.2 million compared to the second quarter last year.

For the company's consolidated results, constant currency net sales decreased 2.1% for the second quarter compared to the same period last year, and decreased by 12.4% on a reported net sales basis compared to last year. Overall, adjusted net loss per share improved to $0.23 from $0.39 last year. The reduction in loss was driven by a decrease in SG&A expense of 17.7% to $82.5 million compared to $100.3 million last year. Foreign currency translation reduced that SG&A expense by $7.3 million or 7.2 percentage points, constant currency SG&A expense decreased 10.5% compared to the second quarter last year.

Gross margin as a percentage of net sales was lower by 1 percentage point compared to the second quarter last year, this was driven by unfavorable foreign exchange, freight costs, and negative sales mix. Manufacturing costs were favorable.

I'll now turn the call over to Rob Gudbranson to discuss earnings performance for the segments and additional financial results for the second quarter.

Thanks, Matt. All the references to earnings or losses before income taxes exclude restructuring costs. For the second quarter of 2015, earnings before income taxes in the European segment decreased $6.1 million compared to last year, primarily due to unfavorable foreign exchange and reduced gross margin, which was driven in part by negative sales mix.

For the North America/HME segment, loss before income taxes improves by $6.2 million, compared to the second quarter last year. The reduction in loss for the quarter was driven by favorable SG&A expense from lower employment costs and by an improved gross margin as a result of favorable manufacturing and warranty costs.

For the Institutional Products Group, earnings before income taxes improved by $1.8 million largely due to favorable SG&A expense, primarily related to lower employment costs and depreciation and amortization expenses. For the second quarter of 2015, Asia-Pacific loss before income taxes decreased by $1.4 million. The reduction in loss before income taxes was largely due to favorable SG&A expense driven by lower employment costs into favorable gross margin, driven by lower warranty and freight cost.

In the second quarter, free cash flow was positive of $9.5 million compared to negative $8.6 million in the second quarter of last year. The second quarter free cash flow was favorably impacted by $23 million received as a result of the real estate sale and leaseback transaction announced in April 22, 2015. Excluding the cash proceeds from the sale leaseback transaction, free cash flow was negative $13.5 million. Free cash flow was unfavorably impacted by increased inventory levels and $1.9 million payment related to the 2014 retirement of an executive officer of the company.

Total debt outstanding, which includes the convertible debt discount as described in the release, was $49.5 million as of June 30, 2015. The company's total debt outstanding consisted of zero drawn on the revolving credit facility, $13.4 million in convertible debt, and $36.1 million of other debt, principally lease liabilities, which increased by approximately $32.3 million as the result of the sale leaseback transaction.

During the second quarter, borrowings on the revolving credit facility ranged from a high of $32.9 million to a low of zero, with an ending balance of zero. The company's available borrowing capacity was $46.9 million as of June 30, 2015. As of the end of the second quarter, days sales outstanding were 49 days, up from 45 days as of December 31, 2014, and equal to 49 days as of June 30, 2014. At the end of the second quarter, inventory turns were 4.7, down from 4.9 as of December 31, 2014 and down from 4.9 as of June 30, 2014.

I'll now turn the call over to Matt for some closing comments and then we can address questions.

Thank you, Rob. Since April, we've implemented multiple initiatives to advance the company's two priorities, establishing an enhanced quality culture and generating profitable growth. On the first priority, we're making progress towards establishing a sustainable enhanced quality culture throughout the organization. I'm very pleased with the work in progress of the cross-functional teams on our quality implementation plans. While we are not talking about timing of the third party certification audit, I want to assure you that establishing a strong corporate quality culture that will enable us to exit the injunctive phase of the consent decree is the number one priority of the organization.

To achieve our second priority of generating profitable growth, we are realigning the folks of the team, particularly in the North America/HME segment. As part of this, I've recently appointed Dean Childers as the Senior Vice President and General Manager of the North America/HME and IPG segments. I've worked with Dean for over 10 years in both private equity and medical device organizations. He has a proven ability to assess the company's strengths and opportunities and link customer needs with innovative solutions. I'm glad to have him as part of our team.

During my travels, I've met many customers as well as people who use our products, who complement the innovation and technology behind Invacare's medical devices. We truly do make a difference in people's lives in a market that's growing. This reinforces the opportunity ahead of us and we are committed to achieving the company's full potential. I'm pleased to be moving forward on this journey of recovery and growth.

I want to thank everyone for the time and attention on today's call. We'll now open the phone lines for questions.

Thank you, sir. [Operator Instructions] And we will take our first question from Matt Mishan from KeyBanc.

Great. Thank you for taking my questions.

Good morning, Matt.

Good morning. I'll start off with – in the press release, you mentioned that there were transitional issues in North America/HME. Could you elaborate on this?

I wouldn't say transitional issues as a full stop sentence. Obviously, the company is not in the place that needs to be for financial performance, so we have a number of transitional items underway. We're looking at all parts of the organization. You could go down the financial statement and look at how we generate revenue and how we incur costs in our manufacturing facility, and what we're doing in engineering and so on. It's a full assessment of how are we orienting ourselves to generate more profitable growth and establish quality culture throughout the company as quickly as possible.

Okay. I just wanted to get a sense of – first quarter, you were flattish in North America/HME and last year, you kind of got a sense that that would have marked the bottom of the sales comparisons. What drove the double-digit decline in North America/HME in the quarter?

I think there were a number of issues in the transition related to sales force focus, re-orienting our priorities, the kind of assessment the teams have to do to determine what they were planning on doing and then realign with what we're now planning on doing going forward. I would also talk about the lifestyle single user product line transition, which continued through second quarter. That was somewhat hampered by a longer duration deployment of inventory because of the West Coast port strike, which didn't allow all that inventory to come in. There were a number of minor issues like that that accumulated to that decline.

Okay. And you also mentioned increased inventory levels, what's driving the increased inventory levels?

I think part of the increased inventory levels were new forecasting for the single-user lifestyle products and then a fair amount of inventory that was stuck in transit through the transition of those products to North America including that West Coast port strike.

Okay. And just last question from me. On the consent decree and I know you don't want to talk about the timing of it, but are the third-party – or have the third-party auditors returned? Have you given them notice that you'd like them to come back at some point over the interim? Where are you at as far as thinking; are we close to bringing them back?

Matt, we're completely focused on building this quality culture and there are a lot of things underway. And I'm not going to talk about the presence or absence of auditors or other artifacts along the way because I think they just don't have any positive predictive value on the timing or likelihood of an exit at any point in time. So I appreciate everyone's curiosity. I can absolutely assure you, it is the number one thing we're focused on, but we're really not going to talk about those details, until there is something that has that positive predictive value we're looking for.

All right, great. I'll jump back in the queue. Thank you.

All right, thanks Matt.

And we'll take our next question from Bob Labick from CJS Securities.

Good morning.

Good morning, Bob.

Hi, I want to start – in the quarter, you talked about the margins in Europe being impacted by mix and I guess, you know, maybe a little FX too. Can you just talk a little bit about the mix there and where it might be going and how we can try to better forecast that going forward and more importantly the opportunity for recovery of margins in Europe?

Bob, it is Rob. I'll cover that. Just to put in context, the earnings before tax were $12.3 million last year second quarter and we're down about $6.1 million. So, the biggest driver and I'd say, easily 80% plus is a combination of FX translation and FX transaction. So, the big issue for the quarter was – and we'll just use one currency though we have many in Europe, the euro last year averaged about $1.38 and this year second quarter, it averaged about $1.09. So that's about a 21% hit. So, translation hurt us and then, additionally, transaction hit us too.

So again, big driver for the quarter would have been by far FX. We did mention the sales mix. Similar to first quarter, we did have a combination mix on products and mix on customers that didn't quite go our way. For instance, some of the bigger buying groups were stronger in certain countries and additionally, if you looked at product, we might, for instance, the example we gave at first quarter was – the power wheelchairs, we were selling more of the lower-margin power wheelchairs than the higher margin, just again a mix of request from customers. So, no – not a major issue on mix, though, obviously, important enough to mention, the big issue for the quarter was FX. Does that help, Bob?

Yes, very helpful. Great, thank you. And then – and we talked a little bit about it before, but Matt, you just mentioned that you brought in a new person to run North America/HME. Can you, I guess, give us a little more of that person's background, and then also, if you've had the chance yet, lay out the primary steps to getting HME back on track?

Sure. So, Dean Childers, I've – as I mentioned, work with for roughly 10 years. He's got a background in finance and manufacturing and operational leadership in warehousing and distribution, sales, logistics and then also in helping lead sales organizations to innovative solutions as markets has changed. In our first couple of assignments together, our working opportunities together, Dean has done a really wonderful job of quickly assessing issues and then implementing transitions very, very pointedly. And, since then, we've worked together in other areas where the kinds of solutions he's been able to bring to market are relatively sophisticated in matching how medical devices are changing more holistic solutions and so on. I'm very pleased to be working with him.

The second part of your question are what sort of issues are going on. I think you can go through the financial statements from top to bottom and look at how we're going to think about selling in the new medical devices era where we have a paradigm shift of accountability by our providers, and payers around the world. We need to be aligned with that. We need to match the way we sell products in terms of the costs incurred in the consultative selling proportional to the clinical complexity of the solutions we have. We've got to look for opportunities to simplify the way we do business and to be a very customer-friendly organization making – doing business with us as easy as possible.

And then I think in terms of the new product development engine, there's a great backlog of products and innovative things that we have to bring out. And I expect to do that with more agility and a complete focus on quality, so that launches are very successful.

Okay, great. And taking a step back just kind of bigger picture stuff; maybe you could tell us a little bit about – and now that you've been there 100 days plus, the biggest surprises, maybe positives and/or negatives, after the 100 days that you've been in your current seat?

Yes, surprise. I don't know if there are surprises per say, but I've been really pleased with the deep clinical understanding that our employees have and the vitality of our sales channel and how customers perceive our brand. They continue to hold our brand in very high regard. We have some of the best solutions for the most clinically-complex medical situations that end users or patients are in and our customers look to Invacare for providing that very high range of products.

I'm also pleased to see how the company has embraced the transition to single-user products and have worked with other parts of our sales channel and customer base as they go through a migration in their world of how they conduct business. Those have been really positive. And I think what's also been very pleasing is the legacy of product development and innovation is still a very fundamental part of Invacare, as it has been for 30-plus years. And that's still very much alive.

Okay, great. And then one last one, I'll get back in queue.

Sure.

It's probably, I guess, a little early for you to be able to do this on a quantitative basis, but just speak about it globally. I mean in the past, the company has had a discussion about $100 million in cost savings from globalization. And so from your seat now, what are your thoughts on the ability to get significant cost savings and what will it take to do that? I'm not trying to hold you to a number, but just your impressions of that opportunity?

Sure. Invacare is comprised of over 50 acquisitions that have occurred over the company's history. And I think the company culture has been very strong in terms of fostering innovation and entrepreneurialism on those small, relatively regional or local levels based on all those little businesses that have great clinical solutions.

My idea of a great company going forward is to have solid global platforms where those efficiencies make sense, but still be a company that's perceived as an agile, locally-competitive company in its markets because we do compete against smaller players in a number of markets that do have the potential to be agile, we can too.

In between having great, strong global platforms and still acting locally, there have to be synergies to come out of the company as we work more quickly, we have better products and we're relevant in all those markets. I don't know whether it's the number you had mentioned. I haven't done the reconciliation back to that number. I think that comes after a structural look, which comes after a strategic look at how we move forward in the first, second and third years going forward.

In the short-term, the quality culture enhancements are our number-one focus and we're putting together plans to understand how we can do the layering of global excellence and regional excellence and from that we'll get to what those cost reductions or profitability changes are. I'm sure they're out there.

Great. Thanks very much.

Sure. Thanks, Bob. [Operator Instructions]

And we'll now take a question from Jim Sidoti from Sidoti & Company.

Good morning. Can you hear me?

Yes.

Yes, Jim. Good morning.

Great, great. So, I guess, I was surprised like everyone else. I've covering the company several years and second quarter is typically stronger than first quarter on a top and bottom line. Were there any one-times that hurt the business in the second quarter or helped the business in the first quarter that accounted for this?

I'll take – I'll give you my version of that and Rob add any other comments. I think I'm – I look at the business in the segments first, as I've mentioned this morning. I think Europe, where we have the full portfolio of products, looks like Invacare in total. I think North America where we have ongoing focus for quality enhancements; we obviously have the impairment of the injunctive phase of the consent decree, we have more transition going on. And you can imagine that when you change some things, other things change consequentially.

And I think the second quarter results in the North America/HME segment reflect the consumption of some of our attention as we migrate from all the things we used to do to a fewer number of focused things in the future. So it's not surprising. But to be good managers, we've got to continue to deliver bottom line improvements, which is why we've continued to focus on overall cost containment and tried to hold or improve and we did improve the overall bottom line in terms of earnings from that segment.

All right. Can you just, can you talk about. [indiscernible]

(25:33)

I am sorry, but can you talk about the changes with a little more specific – and with some specifics? Are you changing sales territories? Are you changing the number of salespeople? Is it just a sales management change? Or can you just give us a little more color as to what those changes are?

Sure. The charge overall is sales effectivity, which is everything from opportunity alignment to training and knowledge base to brushing up on consultative sales skills to making sure that our sales team is very in-tune with clinical outcomes that we can provide with our great solutions. So, I think all of those are all kind of a brushing up on sales acumen. And then overall, we want to make sure that we're aligning our consultative skills-based sales organization towards the appropriate mix of clinical-complex solutions and looking for efficiencies to drive everywhere else in the organization in terms of how we provide products and solutions to market. And that just – that takes time. It's not surprising that it happened and had some impact on the quarter. We expect improvements in the future.

So, would you say that sales force spent less time out in the field than more time back in getting retrained and that was part of the reason why the business was down?

I think – yeah, there [indiscernible] (26:59) we didn't buy a lot of plane tickets to bring people back to headquarters, but there was certainly a measurable amount of time in opportunity assessment, the kind of CRM programming that you do, customer relationship management programming that you do, an assessment of the effectiveness of sales hours towards sales opportunities and making sure we're always able to provide the best clinical outcomes proportional to what our products and solutions can do and that absolutely consume time.

Okay. And has the overall number of salespeople changed?

Not materially – not any differently than it would on a normal basis, not holistically, no.

Okay. All right, and then...

Just back to your original question about the one-times. Now, there weren't any particularly one-time benefits or impacts in the second quarter. It's a relatively clean quarter. But, then again, I just, for the benefits of the shareholders or people listening on the call, the adjusted earnings per share loss in the second quarter was $0.23 and for the year-to-date is [indiscernible] (28:01). So, we're right, very close to where we were on the first quarter. And given the performance on the sales line for North America/HME, I would say that that's a good performance from that vantage point. Again, I think, we managed what we could manage in the quarter.

Okay. All right, and then the last question regarding the FDA. Is the next time we'll get an update when that third audit is complete or do you think you'll give us an update prior to that?

Yes. When we have something that I think it has positive predictive value that really indicates where we are and the outcome with respect to the injunctive phase of the consent decree, we will absolutely do that. My focus and what we can control is building this quality culture. I obviously can't speak on behalf of the FDA. It's our objective to give them an opportunity to audit us and have a good evidence of how we are embracing what we need to do, but timing of that is TBD. We'll be back with shareholders and public announcements when there's something that that has real predictive value.

So – but that would be something with real predictive value, correct, if you completed the third audit?

Well, you know, there is a timeframe there. So, the moment we complete the audit, there may not be anything. At some point, when that's completed there are reports. There's exchange of information with the FDA, for example, and then ultimately a resolution. So where within that timeline we'll have a specific indication of outcome, I don't know.

Okay. Do you think we would hear something when the FDA begins their audit? Or do you think there's a chance we may not hear anything until the FDA has signed off on everything?

Yes, the latter, I think. As part of the privilege of selling a medical device, the FDA can come at any time and the FDA's presence or absence in a company, ours or anyone's, is not particularly indicative at any point in time. So, we may not say anything until it's all over and we have an affirmation or some other change in our circumstances.

Okay. All right, thank you.

Yeah. Thanks, Jim.

And with no more questions in the queue today, I would like to turn the conference over to Matt Monaghan for any additional comments or closing remarks.

Well, once again, I want to thank everybody's support and attention this morning. We look really forward to growing this business and continuing to dialogue with you on changes in the company. Thanks again for your help and I hope you have a good day.

And ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today's conference, and we thank you for your participation.