Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Lara L. Mahoney — Vice President of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications, Invacare Corp.
Matthew E. Monaghan — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Invacare Corp.
Robert K. Gudbranson — Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Invacare Corp.
Bob J. Labick — President, CJS Securities, Inc.
Chris Cooley — Analyst, Stephens, Inc.
Matthew Mishan — Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets, Inc.
James P. Sidoti — Analyst, Sidoti & Company

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Invacare 2017 Second Quarter Conference Call and Webcast. After the management overview, we will open the call to questions. Investors and analysts interested in asking questions today will need to dial in, as questions cannot be submitted over the webcast. For the first part of the call, all phone lines have been placed on mute, and this conference is being recorded, Tuesday, August 8, 2017.

I will now turn this call over to Lara Mahoney, Invacare's Vice President of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications.

Thank you, Savannah. Joining me on today's call from Invacare are Matthew Monaghan, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Rob Gudbranson, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.

Today, we will be reviewing our second quarter 2017 financial results and providing investors with an update on our transformation. To help investors follow along, we have created slides to accompany this webcast. For those dialing in, you can find a link to our webcast on www.invacare.com/investorrelations. On our Investor Relations page, you will also find a copy of the webcast slide presentation that we'll refer to during today's call.

Before Matt begins, I'd like to note that during today's call, we may make forward-looking statements about the company that, by their nature, address matters that are uncertain. Actual future results may differ materially from those expressed in our statements today due to various uncertainties. And I refer you to the cautionary statement included on the second page of our webcast slide and in our second quarter earnings release.

For an explanation of the items considered to be non-GAAP financial information that will be discussed on today's call such as free cash flow, constant currency net sales, constant currency sequential net sales, adjusted earnings and loss and EBITDA, please see the explanatory note in the appendix of our webcast slides and in the related reconciliations in the earnings release posted on our website.

Also, please note that the company completed the divestiture of Garden City Medical, Inc. in the third quarter of 2016. Garden City Medical is included in the 2016 results that will be discussed on the call unless otherwise noted.

With that, I will now turn the call over to Matt Monaghan.

Thank you, Lara, and good morning. We've made meaningful progress in a number of key areas this quarter and looking forward to sharing that with you. As Lara mentioned, our company is undertaking the comprehensive transformation that's essential to reinvigorating the growth and profitability of our business. We're in the process of making subsequent changes through our business, focus on quality excellence, product innovation and commercial execution.

Over the quarter, we reached a major milestone on quality systems improvement. This will be a substantial enabler for our commercial transformation and allow us to build on our strong portfolio to position us for growth. As we've mentioned in prior investor calls, our expectation was to complete the portfolio and sales reductions in the first half of 2017, and to begin driving cost and efficiency around this new scale and mix of business. I think we've done this.

We've made a lot of progress. Specifically, as a result of our commitment and focus on quality excellence, we received notice from FDA that we have successfully satisfied their requirements under the consent decree to resume full operations at our Corporate and Taylor Street manufacturing facility in Elyria, Ohio. As of July 24, we're able to sell without restrictions from our Taylor Street power wheelchair manufacturing facility. I have to say, after years of work, that's big news.

Since the beginning of May, we've announced several new restructuring activities in line with Phase Two of our transformation. These activities are expected to yield $8.3 million in annualized savings. In North America/HME, we're seeing growth for our new products including the Invacare MyON HC manual wheelchair, the Alber Twion power assist device, the Rovi power wheelchair from Motion Concepts, and the Invacare Platinum Mobile Oxygen Concentrator. In addition, we're launching our first new Invacare branded power wheelchair since 2010, Invacare TDX SP2 with LiNX technology [indiscernible] (04:21) of our reinvigorated product pipeline.

Another positive sign is that consolidated gross margin as a percentage of net sales increased as a result of lower warranty costs and the strategic mix shift towards clinically-complex products. And during the quarter, we raised $120 million of gross proceeds from convertible debt offering to, among other things, further fund the transformation, and prepare for growth.

In most of these quarterly calls, we have a number of participants who are new to our story. So before we discuss the financial results, I'd like to go through two brief slides to quickly remind listeners with what our company does and the reason for our transformation.

Looking at slide 3 from our webcast presentation, you will see there are company mix products that help people move, breathe, rest, and perform essential hygiene, and we focus on the areas of congenital, acquired, and degenerative conditions. These are important parts of care for people with a range of challenges from those who are active and heading to work or school each day and may need mobility or respiratory support, to those who are cared for in long-term care settings, at home and in rehabilitation centers.

For decades, Invacare has been a leading global durable medical equipment company serving customers worldwide by providing the broadest portfolio of products. As a result of external challenges like reimbursement reductions from payers to our U.S. customers and internal challenges like the consent decree that affected our Taylor Street power wheelchair production, it was no longer feasible to follow this one-stop shop strategy.

In mid-2015, we made substantial changes to our company's strategy to focus on our stronger technical competencies in clinically complex products. Since making this change, we've focused our resources on providing clinical solutions for complex rehabilitation and post acute care, and have decreased the company's emphasis on products with less sustainable value. This leverages the best that Invacare has done and eliminate the less accretive parts of the business, focusing our resources on patient-centric solutions for significant healthcare needs.

Our transformation program has three phases, as you'll see on slide 4, beginning in 2015 and taking us through the next several years. This is a basic crawl, walk, run kind of program. In the second half of 2015 and throughout 2016, we did much of the heavy lifting on Phase One in North America. We retained and attracted a new talent to our sales force.

We have a pipeline of great new products and programs that are starting to grow. And our commitment to a culture of quality excellence has led us with satisfying FDA's requirement at our Corporate and Taylor Street manufacturing facilities in Elyria, Ohio. As a result, we can sell power wheelchairs from the Taylor Street facility without restrictions.

Now on Phase Two of our transformation, we've exited the injunctive phase of the consent decree. We're seeing growth in new products and we're making consistent progress in reshaping our business for cost and efficiency.

On slide 5, you'll see the results of the second quarter 2017 compared to the key financial indicators of Phase One and Phase Two that we've referred to in prior presentation. Briefly, we're reducing sales to [ph] shed (07:26) less accretive products, increasing gross margin as a percentage of net sales to indicate mix shift, expecting to spend more in SG&A and cash in the early phases before gross profit dollars increase. Ultimately, SG&A will be reduced and free cash flow must turn positive.

In the second quarter, consolidated constant currency net sales decreased 9.3%, excluding the Garden City Medical business that was sold in the third quarter last year. Constant currency sequential net sales declined 0.1% compared to the first quarter of 2017. The constant currency sequential decline was driven by $7.5 million of further North America HME and IPG revenue decline beyond the reductions in the first quarter 2017.

Gross profit decreased $8.6 million to $65 million, with the Garden City Medical divestiture accounting for $1.9 million of the decline. As a result of lower warranty cost and the strategic shift in more clinically complex products, gross margin as a percent of net sales increased 100 basis points to 27.8%. Gross margin continues to be an important measure and we're monitoring to ensure commercial and product effectiveness.

Excluding foreign currency translation and the divested Garden City Medical business, SG&A decreased $0.3 million or 0.4%, primarily driven by reduced product liability and employment costs. Free cash flow was negative $22.4 million, which was a $10.9 million improvement in free cash flow usage compared to the first quarter of 2017. The free cash flow usage was driven by the net loss and increased working capital, which we've typically seen in the first half of the year. We also saw this in the first part of 2016. Historically, the first half of the year has been seasonally our most cash consumptive period.

EBITDA in the second quarter was negative $12 million compared to negative $2.2 million in the second quarter of 2016. The decrease in EBITDA was impacted by lower net sales, restructuring cost of $5 million related to the actions taken during the second quarter and unfavorable foreign exchange.

While not noted on the slide, adjusted net loss per share was $0.63 compared to $0.33 for the second quarter of 2016, the increase in adjusted net loss was driven by lower net sales, restructuring costs and unfavorable foreign exchange. Restructuring charges accounted for $0.15 of a loss per share. The company incurred net interest expense of $4.6 million in the second quarter of 2017 compared to $4.3 million in the second quarter of 2016. The increase in interest expense was primarily due to the issuance of convertible notes in the second quarter 2017.

We want to compare what we've done in the last year or so, to what we said we would do. So we continue to plot our recent quarter with the prior quarter since the transition started. You will see this on slide 6 of the presentation; this is our do-say ratio page. On this page, we show the sequential and year-over-year trends. Here we see that the second quarter net sales decreased as we discussed.

While we expected some continued sales decline in the North America businesses where the transformation is most significant, the quarter was weaker than we expected. This was a mix of intended sales declines in less accretive products, consequences from the transformation and continued weakness in the respiratory business. Gross margin as a percentage of net sales, we're looking for improvement from mix shift. In the second quarter, we once again saw this metric improving.

Gross profit dollars, as we talked about, over time were somewhat variable. That's the result of the titration in what we're decreasing and the new business we're building back. Constant currency SG&A reflects the investments we've been making. In the second quarter, we saw some decrease partially as a result of reduced product liability and employment costs. Free cash flow is negative, but improved compared to first quarter this year.

As we've discussed, Invacare is in the midst of a significant renovation of our business. Looking at these composite metrics since 2016, we can see how this transformation is not a straight line walk to the goal, and not every quarter has mapped perfectly to our expectations. But overall, we believe now we have the foundation in place to start to stabilize sales from North America/HME in the second half of the year.

We're introducing new products, we have new North America commercial teams in place that are building provider and clinical relationships in the field, and we're now free from the restrictions of the consent decree to sell.

I'll now turn the call over to Rob Gudbranson, our CFO, to discuss the performance of the segment and additional financial results from the second quarter.

Thanks, Matt. Turning to slide 7, all comparisons are with respect to the same quarter last year, unless otherwise noted. For the second quarter 2017, European constant currency net sales increased 0.2%. The improvement in constant currency net sales was driven by mobility and seating products, partially offset by declines in respiratory and lifestyle products.

In the second quarter, operating income increased by approximately $0.1 million, principally due to reduced warranty expense, partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency and increased SG&A expense related to employment costs. Gross margin as a percent of net sales increased and gross profit dollars decreased slightly due to unfavorable foreign currency compared to second quarter last year.

For the second quarter, North America/HME constant currency net sales, excluding the divested Garden City Medical business, decreased 23.2%. The decrease in constant currency net sales was driven by lower sales of lifestyle and respiratory products and, to a lesser extent, mobility and seating products. Operating loss increased by $5.7 million, primarily related to the net sales decline and unfavorable manufacturing costs, partially offset by favorable sales mix and reduced employment, warranty and freight expenses.

Gross margin as a percentage of net sales and gross profit dollars decreased compared to the second quarter last year. Constant currency net sales in the IPG segment decreased by 4.8%. Net sales increased in the interior design projects and beds, but were more than offset by net sales declines in the other product categories.

Operating income was largely unchanged, as reduced SG&A expense was principally offset by the reduced net sales. Gross margin as a percentage and gross profit dollars decreased compared to the same period last year.

For the second quarter of 2017, Asia-Pacific constant currency net sales decreased 4.3%. This decline was driven by decreases in the Australian distribution business, partially offset by net sales increases in the New Zealand distribution business and in the company's subsidiary that produces microprocessor controllers.

For the second quarter, operating loss improved by $0.2 million due to reduced employment costs, favorable foreign currency and favorable sales mix, partially offset by net sales decline. Gross margin as a percentage of net sales increased and gross profit dollars decreased compared to the same period last year.

Turning to slide 8, total debt outstanding as of June 30, 2017, was $302.6 million. The company's total debt outstanding consisted of $270 million in convertible debt and $32.6 million of other debt, principally lease liabilities. The company had zero drawn on its revolving credit facilities with availability of $44.6 million as of June 30, 2017.

The company's cash balances were $160.1 million as of June 30, 2017 compared to $124.2 million as of December 31, 2016. The company's cash balances increased due to the net proceeds from the issuance of convertible debt in June 2017, which was offset in part by cash used for operations.

As of the end of the second quarter, day sales and receivables were 47 days, up from 41 days as of December 31, 2016, but down from 50 days as of June 30, 2016. At the end of the second quarter, days in inventory were 79 days as compared to 65 days and 67 days as of December 31, 2016 and June 30, 2016, respectively. The increase in days in inventory from December 31, 2016 was due to lower-than-expected net sales and inventory build related to plant closures.

I'll now turn the call back over to Matt for additional comments. We can then address questions.

Thank you, Rob. As we've noted previously, by the end of 2017, we expect to start stabilizing sales sequentially in our North America businesses through new products and service offerings and increased productivity from our sales force. I'm pleased to have the pieces in place to do this.

As you can see on slide 9, we highlight the progress in our Phase Two objectives; huge progress with the quality excellence and consent decree objectives. Over the next five years, we will have ongoing third-party audits as required by the consent decree. Quality excellence is part of our culture now, and I expect these audits will continue to reconfirm that commitment. New clinical product platforms are an important component of our transformation and we're seeing constant cadence of valued products coming from our innovation pipeline.

As we move into the second half of the year, we expect execution from the commercial investments we've made in Phase One to stabilize the top line. In North America, where our transformation is most significant, the engagement of our rehab and post-acute care sales teams continues to grow. Our rehab products are getting customer approvals in the appropriate places and we're launching the TDX SP2 power wheelchair with revolutionary LiNX technology without sales restrictions. Our rehab sales team is armed with great solutions for end users and providers that should enable revenue growth.

Our new post-acute care sales team is also actively engaged, but we do expect a slight lag in their results following the rehab transformation, as we're engaged in capital selling cycles in because we started a few quarters behind the rehab renovation.

Also in Phase Two, we're making progress in reshaping the business for cost and efficiency. Since May of this year, we have taken actions expected to yield $8.3 million in annualized savings which is in addition to the previously announced $9.2 million of the annualized savings from restructuring actions taken since October 2016.

These actions will help us optimize our infrastructure and reduce costs. For example, in June we announced the closure of our Suzhou, China manufacturing facility. Products manufactured at the Suzhou facility were transferred to Invacare facilities closer to our regional Europe and North America customers.

In July, we announced the upcoming transfer of manual wheelchair production from our Dïo, Sweden facility to our Fondettes, France facility. This will allow us to leverage our manual wheelchair center of excellence in France and focus the Sweden facility on serving the specific needs of our Nordic customers.

Further, we're continuing to take actions to be more efficient with our lower costs through the rest of our business. The scope of our commercial transformation is significant. We're pleased with the progress of our new product pipeline in infrastructure realignment and we look forward to the results of our commercial investments.

As we progress through the transformation, we will expand the scope of what we're doing to include a heavier emphasis on sales, reducing costs and improving efficiency. Our priorities remain emphasizing the culture quality excellence and achieving our long-term earnings potential. We remain confident in the earnings potential of the business and our ability to get there with the current mix of businesses. We appreciate the continued support of our shareholders and associates through this process.

I want to thank you for taking the time to be on the call this morning. We now have time for questions. Savannah? [Operator Instructions]

And we will take our first question from Bob Labick from CJS Securities. Please go ahead.

Good morning, and congratulations again on the consent decree news.

Good morning, Bob. Thank you.

Good morning, Bob.

You talked about the stabilization of business in North America in the second half of the year and going forward, and then growth beyond that presumably is starting in 2018. The drivers being Taylor Street and new products. I know you went through this a little bit [indiscernible] (20:49) little further on the new product introductions? Generally, how long [indiscernible] (20:52) and what gives you the impression that what you have now will be the ones [indiscernible] (20:59) and then what's going to follow behind that in terms of new products.

Sure. Well, thanks for the question, Bob. We're of course very excited about relief from the restrictions on selling from Taylor Street and that's coincident with the launch this week globally of our new TDX SP2 wheelchair with LiNX technology which is, some people may know from various trade events, it's like the first smartphone in the industry. It's a revolutionary technology that allows high-end complex rehabilitation needs to be met with really novel functionality that allows our providers to be more cost effective, provide even better service to their end user customers, and allows clinicians to have a better view of how their end user patients are coming along through therapy and independence.

So we're excited to be bringing that to market without a sales restriction. As we've discussed in various settings, the sales cycle for new power wheelchairs is typically 180 days, let's say, from the first evaluation of an end user who may be eligible for this product, that includes a 90-day cycle often for them to be confirmed for reimbursement and that product to be then configured which really takes us only a few days to be sold and then another 60 to 90 days for receivables collection.

So, we're excited to be selling that new product starting this week without that restriction, but we're not expecting to see material external volume as a result of that in 2017, but we're very bullish on the enthusiasm in the marketplace long term with that complex rehab portfolio. And if I look beyond what's going on in the Taylor Street facility, we have exciting new products in the manual wheelchair space with [indiscernible] (22:36), revolutionary power add-ons from Alber, and in the passive manual space which are people with very high-end needs but who can't use a wheelchair on their own, the P.R.O. CG from Freedom Designs. So when I look across our portfolio for complex rehab, I think our portfolio is really second to none across all the used care settings. There's really no compromises in what we're able to offer end users.

On the post-acute care space that lags a little bit in terms of renovation, we have very competitive products and the sales team that's out there engaged in the marketplace, so maybe a couple of extra quarters before we see the renovation externally and revenue for post-acute care. And then really the big piece that was a little disappointing this last quarter was in respiratory. All right?

I look at, as we talked about the business sequentially and say, we're resizing this business and we look quarter-after-quarter of how this is getting reshaped to the right mix of products and the right size of revenue that we can support. And I look at the difference between Q2 and Q1, it was about $7.5 million in North America/HME, 0.1% decrease overall for the consolidated company which is $7.5 million in North America/HME. The majority of that decrease was in the respiratory business, where we really believe fundamentally, the market is shifting in the kind of products that they're emphasizing. We had seen a decrease in the respiratory market as a prelude to national competitive bidding in fourth quarter 2015. We had assumed the market would bounce back from national competitive bidding with the same mix of business as we had before.

HomeFill is still a great solution for providers who want to save delivery costs. Stationary concentrators are still good business for us. But since national competitive bidding, there's been tremendous emphasis and interest from end users on small battery-powered portable oxygen concentrators.

We're really excited about our Platinum Mobile, which we launched late last year and we're seeing growth in. But that's a very small part right now of our overall mix of business, which is historically not included that product. So what you see in respiratory softness for us, I think is really a reflection of the mix shift that's going on in the marketplace and we're working to emphasize growth in our Platinum Mobile Oxygen Concentrator. So...

And Bob, the only thing I'd add is just, as point of clarification, the $7.5 million is North America/HME and IPG, your points are spot out there.

Total North America. So I don't know if that answered your question, Bob.

Yes. Now, they're very helpful. Absolutely.

Okay. Thank you.

Just shifting gears a little bit. The European margins remain stubbornly down year-over-year. I guess, two-part question in that regard. Should we expect the typical seasonal sequential uplift in the second half? And then beyond that, what can you do to grow or recover the European margins to [ph] where they've been (25:23)?

So Bob, let me hit that one and let's just go back, make sure we're not looking at something different. So again, we know that Europe has benefited not having a warranty accrual that they had second quarter of last year, but that's because we're running the business properly.

So I would say, first of all, let's look back. If I look at the operating margin for Europe in Q2, we're looking at 5.5%. If I look at Q1 2016, we're 5.1%. So we still got room, I get that, to improve. But again, we're up slightly and we're up [ph] in dollars (26:03). So, I think the European business performed well. They still showed organic growth, okay, 0.2%, but that piece seems to be delivering.

And sequentially if I look at it too, if I look at Q1 2017, they were 4.3% and they went to 5.5% in Q2. So I actually feel like the European business is doing well for us. I think sequentially if look at it, it's offsetting some of the pressures in North America. If you look at the gross margin for Invacare overall, the whole company, it's about $65 million in Q2 and it was just slightly bigger, $65.1 million in Q1.

So again, as Matt said, we're very, very focused and stabilized in North America/HME and the IPG business. But at the same time, I actually think Europe had a good quarter and I want to make sure you saw those points.

Okay. No. Thank you. And then in terms of the second half sequential, they should still be seasonally stronger than [indiscernible] (27:06)?

Don't typically talk through guidance, but I wouldn't say [ph] the following (27:12) they typically have better quarters, the third and fourth, historically. But Bob, as you appreciate, we really haven't gotten into guidance. I would emphasize, we're trying to make all the businesses improve, got to limit the loss at North America's two segments and improve in Europe at the same time.

Same kind of program to migrate towards more clinically-intensive products is occurring in Europe; I think that will support margins long term, and the same kind of industrial excellence and cost reductions will be spreading worldwide including Europe.

Great. And then last one from me, then I'll jump back. But you obviously raised some capital again recently and had significant cash balances on the balance sheet. Do you have sufficient capital for the transformation necessary? And how much working capital will be required for the new product introductions and how should we think about cash burn over the next 6 to 12 months?

Thanks. I think, Bob, we have the capital structure that we need to do what's ahead of us right now. So I feel pretty comfortable with that. Obviously, inventory has grown. We've had inventory trailing, declining sales because as we've mentioned, we typically decline sales with higher price. So we want to have inventory available if the customers want to transact with that cost and then we liquidate any excess in an orderly fashion over time.

In addition, we have inventory builds for the product transfers that we've been executing, and the evidence of executing those product transfers has been disclosed in the 8-Ks and press releases, we filed like the Suzhou closure, the upcoming Swedish transfer to France, and then we're building inventory for new product launches like the TDX SP2.

So, we are focused on working capital and cash balances. We will expect to bring inventory down over time as we consolidate the inventory, especially in the lifestyles business as that sales has declined, but it's heading towards stabilizing. And then I think you'll see some increases still due to product transfers and launches for a little while longer.

As I've mentioned before, the complex rehabilitation business that grows has a 180-day kind of evaluation to cash cycle which is coincident with raw material purchase to receivable cycle cash – cash collection cycle. So as we grow sales back in the complex rehab space, especially around Taylor Street, we'll see that balance grow at about 180-day basis.

Bob, I'll just add one other thing. Clearly, we're disappointed in the 79 days in inventory. But I guess what I'd say is, let's take a look at that. If we have been at similar levels to Q2 2016, as we stabilize the sales volume, as we run down the inventory in the plants, that's I wouldn't say a gargantuan effort. That's something that we aspire to and then move beyond.

But if you just made that [ph] recall (30:06) based upon the performance recently, we would be lower by about $23 million in inventory. So, we got a huge opportunity, we know it. The opportunity exists both in Europe and North America. Our key managers for both those locations are very engaged. Exactly what the timing is, look, we'll wait; and more importantly is to show you we can deliver.

But those kind of numbers are – what we have to do, we have to stabilize the sales volume, keep the gross profit dollars stable to up, and then, at the same time, inventory in that environment running down the – after the plant closures and having a more stable forecasting environment, a $23 million target. Again, we'll see what the time is. We got to show you we can deliver, but that 79 days is not a good number for this quarter, but it's an opportunity going forward.

Got it. Thank you very much.

Thanks, Bob.

And we will take our next question from Chris Cooley from Stephens. Please go ahead.

Good morning. Appreciate you taking the questions.

Good morning, Chris. Thank you.

Just two from me, then I'll get back in queue. Could you maybe highlight [indiscernible] (31:24) for us maybe some of the initiatives that you're focused on that give you confidence that you can see that restoration in the second half year when we think about the North America/HME and IPG businesses, and in particular the post-acute on the oxygen side, realizing that the back half really is still kind of establishing the base for next year to see that sustainable year-over-year growth. But just some of the metrics that you're watching that has given you confidence in this earlier portion. Then I have a quick follow up more from a balance sheet perspective. Thanks so much.

Okay. Sure. So, I'd break it down into three areas for this conversation. So if we look at complex rehabilitation, I have a lot of confidence in our complex rehabilitation because of the training and the talent that we have in the commercial sales organization, the products that we've given them, and what we see in the book of quotes and the commercial interest for [ph] appointments to get quotes (32:19) going forward. So I'm relatively sanguine about mobility and seating in the complex rehabilitation part of the business.

On lifestyle, I think we have executed what we said we were going to execute in terms of the client. And so now, I think sequentially we're into very, very shallow declines at this point. And I'm relatively comfortable we can support the line of business that we have today. We're good with the margins. We've found a value exchange with customers that reflect price and what they get with the benefits of our products. And those are more transactional sales, so you don't see the backlog of business in lifestyle as much with the kind of transactions I see are relatively repeatable.

Respiratory for us is an interesting one, and you can see other data points in the marketplace that show areas where there's really incredible growth. And I'm excited to be participating in that where there's real consumer interest in a form factor of a product that's below three meters, it's battery operated, it goes over your shoulder, and we have a really competitive product. Same noise, volume output, size, weight factor as the leading products in the marketplace. We have better battery life, faster-charging batteries, a little more rugged design, and we'll continue to drive that portfolio out there.

We see growth in that product area, although it's not big enough to report externally and we haven't typically broken that out. But the challenges, the marketplace I think is putting their new asset purchase dollars into that category. So for us, the decline in respiratory really reflects our mix shift to a segment of that pie that's relatively small for us. So we see the exciting start of growth, but we've got to manage that mix shift.

HomeFill is an exciting solution for providers out there who are trying to displace delivery costs, and stationary concentrators are an essential part of keeping installed base going. So that's probably our biggest area of focus commercially.

And then the post-acute care space, we have a good line of products. We're diversifying our business and making sure that our sales team is out there in all the right places. We're getting invited to all the right events to compete our products. The challenge there, as we started a little later in the transformation in the capital selling cycle, it's a little lumpier. So you have typically bigger orders, but sometimes they come in a little early, sometimes they come in a little late and those are hard to predict quarter-over-quarter.

So I feel good about that business in terms of the customer engagement, the business we're getting, the RFPs that we're participating in. But I think that will be a couple more quarters before we'll able to see real solid change there in the post-acute care space. That's the North American coverage. Just confirm that I answered that question or we can talk more about that.

No, no, those are great. Those are great points, I appreciate the incremental color. And then maybe just for Rob, just briefly kind of those [indiscernible] (35:06) initial round of questioning. But the capital structure is a little different now here post the offering there in June. Just kind of curious how you're thinking out going forward? Does the allocation of that capital go more towards the infrastructure there to support growth, or does that provide more of a cushion for you to maybe accelerate rightsizing efforts when you think about realizing greater efficiencies throughout the organization?

So I guess, I'd say a couple of things. I think one, you're right, it was really important to get that additional capital resource in place. And with the $160.1 million of cash on the balance sheet and availability on the ABL of $44.6 million, I think we've made some good movements there.

As Matt mentioned earlier, we have $8.3 million in annualized savings that we think are on the way in terms of actions we've taken on exiting your facilities or giving a good exit for employees. We don't take these lightly, but those are right things to do. So I really emphasize, I think there's still money obviously to support the additional rightsizing or focus on what we need to be ultimately.

I think the other key point is that, this does continue to support the sales force we have in place and the costs we have in place in North America. So, it was really important for me and for us to be able to say that we've got some support going forward as we are turning around North America/HME and IPG, and in particular that operating loss in North America/HME has moved the right way. So there's really a balance of being able to take actions like you mentioned, Chris, on the exit costs and the rightsizing of the corporation. But then additionally, it's continuing to support the business as we have it structured right now, as they stabilize and start moving the right way on the gross margin – gross profit dollars and on the operating income loss.

And if I may, can I just squeeze in one more quick one here and I will get back in queue. Just when we think about the R&D spend here, I think I may be mistaken here, but I think this year has been the most new products you had some time for essentially the same R&D dollars as what you've spent in the past. So, good leverage there. But help us think about that allocation as we go forward, because clearly beginning 2018 more of a growth mode. Just trying to think about how that investment is leveraged going forward? And thanks, again.

Sure. We see the R&D spending as a percent of sales being relatively consistent and the productivity we're getting out of the R&D team and all the folks involved in new product development, really come because we've curtailed the disproportionate amount of effort that had been going into lifestyle portfolio which was a vast, vast portfolio with less clinical intensity.

So as we take that same relative spending and focus it on a narrow part of the portfolio, we're able to sustain this really unbelievable cadence of [indiscernible] (38:14) products. I can't emphasize enough that the novel clinical valuable features of the TDX SP2 with LiNX, and the things we believe it'll do for end users and our great provider customers to make better care. So on the CRT space complex rehab technology space, I think we're going to continue to see that kind of cadence of greatness in product portfolio.

And then, we see a smaller portfolio in post-acute care, but really sound that we'll continue to renovate over time at beds, and lifts and the transport wheelchairs and other things that make residential care so effective outside the hospitals, where we know many dollars are going. That's also very good margin for us and large markets to serve.

And then respiratory, the R&D dollars are relatively focused on a small portfolio. We have a battery-powered portable oxygen concentrator, we have HomeFill, we have a couple of sizes of stationary to support HomeFill. And we think there are innovations that we can get across that narrow line of product space where there's exciting growth opportunities. But we've got to manage the mix shift along the way.

I remain confident that we can continue to see a good cadence of product innovation that supports revenue growth, that drives gross profit dollars as a percentage of sales to continue to increase in our share to grow in those markets.

Thank you.

Okay. Thank you, Chris.

And we will take our next question from Matthew Mishan from KeyBanc. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good morning, Matt, Rob, Lara.

Good morning.

Good morning, Matt. Thanks for calling.

I guess, first off, in your script I think you mentioned consequences of the transformation and I was hoping you could kind of go a little deeper into what you meant by that.

Sure. The majority of the sales decline in the quarter, if I look sequentially – and I think sequentially as we talked in the last few calls and investor presentations because the business we have is a quarter-to-quarter, month-to-month business. And as you look at the overall consolidated sales decline and I look back one quarter that $7.5 million decline, the majority of it was respiratory.

Beyond that majority of respiratory, we had a tranche of reduced sales that were a consequence of closing our Suzhou facility in the quarter. That Suzhou facility had included external sales to the China market. Those rolled up into the North America business because the North America plant was there, that's an artifact of how we account for that. So there were some meaningful sales declines in the China business.

And then, as a result of decreasing consumer power or eliminating consumer power in North America, in the spare parts business that has supported a legacy installed base complex power, those were also a smaller tranche, but a measureable amount of that decline. So because we had elected to decrease consumer power, we had elected to decrease the options in our complex rehabilitation space in fourth quarter last year, we continue to see some smaller pieces of that reflected in this quarterly result. Majority, though, was the respiratory decline sequentially.

Okay. Got it. That's helpful. And then you mentioned that you expect stabilization in North America/HME as you get into the back half of the year.

Yes.

What does stabilization mean? Does it mean stabilization at the actual current dollar amount? Does it mean stabilization of the sales comps? And how does that square also with slide 4 where you – I think it still says you expect growth in sales in GP dollars later in 2017?

So for me, I want to end the year sequentially flat quarter-over-quarter, so Q4 over Q3. We'll see how close we can get on Q3 over Q2. When I look at the backlog of the business for post-acute care, we're still maybe a little bit longer away from real growth in that area due to the capital cycle. Complex rehabilitation, I'm excited about, and there's a lot of commercial enthusiasm.

But when you lift the gate on Taylor Street, it's a little hard for us just 10 days into that ability to sell freely to very accurately predict how quickly that's going to come back. So we're trying to report externally some conservatism and not be too bullish on what we expect in terms of growth in complex rehab in the balance of the year, but we'll see how that comes through. And then it's really focused on respiratory mix shift in North America.

Okay. Got it. And on Europe, it was albeit a tough comparison, but has anything changed in Europe? Because from the constant currency sales growth, it was the lowest in kind of multiple years and you've been very consistent in that business.

Yeah. I'd say, no fundamental shift. You win some tenders, you don't win some tenders in any given quarter. But I think no fundamental shift in Europe, and in fact, we're starting to see the clinical mix shift in certain markets in Europe take place.

So, I think that's okay. I want to continue to see constant currency revenue growth at some point in a streak of quarter-over-quarter growth, maybe a quarter someday if we don't make it. But I'm focused on continued revenue growth, but also margin shift there as we see things like the TDX SP2 with LiNX technology pervade the markets in Europe.

Now, it goes a little slower in Europe because some markets restrict the entrants of new products based on you not being aligned with a particular tender, a multiyear tender that may or may not be available at a particular point in time. But we're looking for both sales growth and margin mix over time. I'd say, in summary, no fundamental shift in Europe.

Okay. Got it. And a longer-term question. It's been about a year since you issued the long-term targets for where you think this business can go. Can you give us an update on what you're thinking around the timing of the long-term targets? And your comp – and especially with all the moving pieces over the last year, your confidence in achieving them at a reasonable timeframe?

Yeah, no change in the long-term targets. A year ago, we said we'd get to $100 million of EBITDA run rate by the end of 2019. Given some delays in remediation over the last year, we pushed that out two quarters in I'd say mid-2020. But fundamentally, I stand here at the end of second quarter and I think the earnings potential of this institution is vastly improved over the last year and especially over the last quarter.

We have a product portfolio especially in complex rehabilitation worldwide, second to none. Our sales people can be engaged with our provider customers in the presence of clinicians and the end users, and there are no compromises in what we have to offer in the complex rehabilitation space. Post-acute care is a couple of quarters in North America behind that, because we started later. But again, good products, good features, competitive pricing. I think respiratory is the thing we've got to watch in the next couple of quarters, but I'm excited about the product we have to offer there. So I look at our future ahead and I think it's as good as we have predicted it being, and I'm very confident in that timing.

All right. Thank you very much and congratulations again on the consent decree progress.

Thanks, Matt. We're very excited about what that represents for the business and shareholders. [Operator Instructions]

And we will take our next question from Jim Sidoti from Sidoti & Company.

Good morning. Can you hear me?

Yes. I can, Jim. Good morning. Thanks for calling.

Great. If you look at the business now, Europe is roughly a $500 million business, maybe a little bit higher than that, but substantially, higher now than North America. Can you just tell me why that is – the products that you offer in Europe other than the motorized chairs that aren't available in North America. And at some point, do you expect North America to be larger than Europe?

I don't look at it exactly like a horse race between the two. I look at the two independently and there is definitely a difference. The single-payer markets and the markets out – so there aren't single payers in Europe, still appreciate that they can administer total cost of population healthcare by buying very durable products and they're willing to spend decent money to do that. We can make good money providing durable medical equipments. So in Europe, we're still able to sell lifestyles products at good margin, reflecting the value that our products provide because they're so durable and reusable.

In North America, with national competitive bidding which cut the reimbursement rates of those products in the United States by roughly 50%, many user communities and customers of ours have elected for less expensive products to purchase even though they may be less durable and less reusable. And that's not in alignment with where our ethos is. So, we can't typically compete with a less durable product that either is imported or comes to the U.S. market some other way. And that's really the impetus for the strategic change in the United States to decline our lifestyles business, where there isn't that agreeable exchange of value. That's the fundamental difference.

Beyond that, both markets have a post-acute care business that we served very well with durable products that working to home and residential care settings. Our respiratory products are global products that are effective in both areas, and our complex rehabilitation portfolio is really strong in both areas too. So we expect those to grow.

I think with the elimination of the sales restrictions from the consent decree in North America, you'll see a disproportionate growth in that market because we've been suppressed for a number of years. Whether they get to be exactly the same size or how they compare long term, I'm less focused on as much as I'm focused just on good margin growth with good cost and leverage on SG&A over the next few years in North America.

Okay. And then with the consent decree now that it's lifted, are there any consultants or monitors that the FDA has put in place to keep an eye in the business for the next couple of years? Are there any extra costs over the next two or three years related to [indiscernible] (48:31)?

Yeah. Thank you, Jim. That's a good point to raise in this call. So, we typically reported when asked what our quarterly costs have been for managing the consent decree. That's something that was put in place in 2013. Our quarterly costs this year were $2.9 million, which was the same as it was in first quarter. And I think at this point, we'll probably quit reporting that externally.

I think that's a stable level of spending versus the baseline from five years ago and it'll relatively be baked into the baseline. We wanted to make sure that the company really own quality. So a number of quarters ago, the consultants have been disengaged and the employees only own this quality culture now. So there's not really a matter of eliminating any more consultants at this point. And then...

Okay. There's no one from the FDA that's going to monitor?

Well, the FDA has their normal oversight with us as they do with any company, and that is at any time they're welcome to visit any of our facilities or examine anything. The consent decree does require over the next five years that we have our expert audit firm come in and do an examination. That'll happen twice in the first year and then annually for the subsequent four years.

So we'll have six audits in the next five years, and that clock starts in July, let's say, this year. So we'll have one inspection within six months, another in six months, and then ongoing. And the report from that expert would be submitted to the FDA, but not direct FDA oversight.

Okay. Then my last question for Rob, on the balance sheet. Goodwill is up about $20 million for the beginning of the year, and other assets up about $30 million for the beginning of the year. Can you just tell us why?

Yeah. The goodwill is just FX impacts, Jim, as currencies have strengthened, just balance sheet gone up. And then on other assets, I think what you're referring to is the fact that we went out and we did, as part of the convertible transaction, we did do both the bond hedge and we had warrants out there. So we basically protected the existing shareholders who are in the stock from dilution until we get to a higher level. So again, that bond hedge is shown as an asset.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you. You're welcome.

Thanks for the call, Jim, questions. Appreciate it.

And with no further questions, I'd like to turn the conference back over to Matt Monaghan for any additional or closing remarks.

Thanks, Savannah, and I want to thank all of our shareholders and prospective shareholders, interested parties that called in today. We're very excited about the renovations that's occurring in our business, the improvements in our ability to get out products, institutionalize the culture in our platform to grow from this point forward. We look forward to a positive second half and committed to achieving our long-term earnings targets.

Bob, Lara and I are available for follow-up questions today. Have a good day.

And this concludes today's conference. Thank you for your participation and you may now disconnect.