Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Gerald B. Blouch — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Invacare Corp.
Robert K. Gudbranson — Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer & Senior VP, Invacare Corp.
Bob M. Goldman — Analyst, CL King & Associates, Inc.
James Sidoti — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC
Greg W. Halter — Analyst, Great Lakes Review

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Invacare 2012, First Quarter Conference Call. I will begin with the customary Safe Harbor statement that this conference call may include statements regarding anticipated and future developments that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

Forward-looking statements of those that describe future outcomes or expectation that are usually identified by words such as should, could, plan, intend, expect, continue, forecast, believe and anticipate and include for example any statement made regarding the Company's future results. Actual results may differ materially as a result of enhanced uncertainties and risks.

Including the risk factors described in the Company's Form 10-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and in the Company's earnings release. The company may not be able to predict and may have little or no control over the factors or events that may influence the financials results.

Before I turn the call over to Invacare's President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Gerry Blouch I would like to remind you that all phone lines have been placed on mute for the first part of the call. After the management overview we will open the call to questions. This conference is being recorded Thursday, April 26, 2012.

I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Gerry Blouch, President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Blouch, you may begin.

Thank you, Jarred. With me on the call today is Rob Gudbranson, Invacare's Chief Financial Officer, in the following comments Rob and I will focus on highlights of the release as opposed to covering all of the details which you can read in the release after the call. In particular, I would refer investors in the Company's earnings release to review the definitions of free cash flow and some of the adjusted earnings items which should be mentioned during the call, you can find the release as usual at www.invacare.com.

I like to begin by explaining throughout the first quarter of 2011 Invacare continued to dedicate significant resources towards its regulatory and quality systems improvements including those related to observations made by the United States Food and Drug Administration. The Company continues to list the support of third party expert's to accelerate the comprehensive remediation and standardization at its quality systems worldwide, these incremental and regulatory and compliance investments in the quarter aggregated approximately $2.8 million after tax expense or $0.09 per share on an adjusted basis in the first quarter.

As a result of these incremental costs adjusted earnings per share in the quarter of first quarter of 2012 decreased 22% to $0.25 per share compared to $0.32 per share in the first quarter of 2011. Excluding the impact of the incremental investments I referred to adjusted earnings per share in the first quarter would have been $0.34 per share.

In the first quarter of 2012 the company increased net sales by 1.2% and organic net sales by 0.2% compared to last year. This growth was achieved virtually by the strength of Invacare's diverse footprint as organic sales growth in Europe and Asia Pacific offset declines in the North America HME, Asia Pacific and institutional product grew business segments. The market in general has continued to slow spending for entitlement programs that are being scrutinized in most major markets, everybody is aware of that. We continue to believe the market uncertainties and adjustments will settle that Home care will emerge as a stronger component of the Health care continuing because it is patient preferred most cost effective and delivers better outcomes.

Gross margin as a percent of net sales for the first quarter was lower by 1.1% compared to the last year's first quarter the margin decline was principally related to sales mix favoring lower margin product lines and lower margin customers. Pricing pressures as well were a factor principally in the European segment and increased warranty expense for a factor as well. These were partially offset by the favorable impact from the rentals acquisition we finalized in the third quarter of 2011.

Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 1.6% to $107.5 million in the first quarter compared to last year's first quarter, excluding foreign currency translation and acquisition expenses, SG&A expense decreased by 1.8% compared to the first quarter of last quarter, primarily related to reduce associate cost and debt expense which was partially offset by increased figures of clients cost, which I have already mentioned. And that those totaled $4.1 million on a pre-tax basis and were incurred again, as you look at the sectors those were incurred principally in the North American HME business segment.

With that, I would like to have Rob review the additional financial highlights for the first quarter of 2012. Rob?

Thanks, Jerry. For the quarter ended March 31, 2012, organic net sales for North American HME decreased 3.0% compared to last year driven by declines in mobility and seating and respiratory therapy products. Earnings before income taxes declined $5.5 million as a result of incremental costs mentioned previously related to quality systems improvements, unfavorable product mix away from higher margin products, unfavorable sales mix favoring lower margin customers, volume declines and warranty expense. These costs were partially offset by reduced bad-debt expense.

Net sales in the first quarter for ISG, Invacare Supply Group, increased 6% compared to the same period last year. Earnings before income taxes were comparable to last year primarily as a result of volume increases and reduced SG&A expense offset by an unfavorable sales mix favoring lower margin customers and higher freight costs.

Organic net sales for Institutional Products Group decreased 3.3% with declines in institutional beds and case goods partially offset by increases in therapeutic support systems and dialysis chairs. The first quarter of last year benefited from an incremental funding available to customers, in Canada which did not repeat in the current year.

Earnings before income taxes decreased $0.7 million compared to first quarter of last year as a result of volume declines and increased SG&A expense, primarily related to associate costs. This was partially offset by reduced freight expense and the benefit of an acquisition finalized during the third quarter of 2011.

The European organic net sales for this quarter increased 5.3%, principally due to increases in oxygen therapy and lifestyle products. Earnings before income taxes increased $0.8 million compared to last year largely driven by volume increases and reduced SG&A expenses, primarily in associate costs. This was partially offset by an unfavorable sales mix favoring lower margin product lines and lower margin customers, pricing pressures primarily in lifestyle and power mobility products and increased warranty costs.

In the first quarter, Asia Pacific organic net sales for the quarter declined 16.6%, caused primarily by net sales declines in the Company's Australian and New Zealand distribution businesses; this was partially offset by net sales increases by the Company's subsidiary which produces microprocessor controllers.

For the first quarter, earnings – income taxes decreased $2 million to a loss compared to last year's first quarter profit. This was primarily attributable to the Australian distribution business as a result of significant reduction in sales volumes in lifestyle products as well as net sales into the rental market principally due to loss sales contracts.

Total debt outstanding which includes the convertible debt discount as described in the earnings release was $271.6 million as of quarter end. The company's total debt outstanding consists of $249.4 million drawn on the revolving credit facility, $13.9 million in convertible debt and $8.3 million of other debt.

I'll now turn the call over Gerry for a few closing comments, we then can address questions.

Thanks, Rob. At this point the company is still not in a position to provide guidance for 2012 and it does not expect to be able to do so until the terms of the FDA's proposed consent decree of injunction are finalized. The company continues to discuss terms with the FDA and in the meantime it's working expeditiously to make systemic improvements to ensure compliance with the FDA's Quality System Regulation.

In addition to the incremental costs mentioned previously, the company has diverted significant internal resources to accelerate progress and quality system improvements. These diversions have temporarily impacted other areas of the company's business including delays in new product introductions and progress on its globalization initiatives.

The globalization initiative is company's long-term strategy to harmonize global product lines and reduce complexity which we projected to generate an additional $100 million in annualized savings by 2015. This is expected to drive gross margin expansion – these benefits are expected to drive gross margin expansion, increase investments in research and development and help offset pricing reimbursement pressures over time.

The company is making progress in its remediation efforts and we will redirect those internal resources next to reaccelerate new product development and as globalization programs which are critical to the company's future success. The company is making significant progress on remediation efforts and in the fourth quarter, the company expects to engage a third-party to conduct an audit of its compliance at its corporate headquarters of the facility and manufacturing facility in Elyria, Ohio.

All of the improvements that we're making will form the foundation for Invacare's corporate life quality system and the company is confident that the improvements that it is making out of quality systems will make Invacare an even stronger company.

On behalf of the company, I appreciate your time and your attention during this call. We'll now open the call, phone lines for your questions.

[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Robert Goldman.

Yes, thank you, and good morning.

Hi, Bob.

Hi, Bob.

Hi, Gerry. Hi, Rob. A couple of questions, first, on the $4.1 million of pre-tax incremental expense related to the regulatory compliance...

Yes...

...could you break that down a bit and as far as where these expenses are? And I'm trying to understand to what extent these expenses are ongoing relative to one-time?

The bulk of the expense – at this point, I couldn't give sufficient detail on that because we – because we're using internal and external resources where the process is transferring our external consultants out of the process as we build up our own staffs. So there is certainly – clearly, there will be some additional ongoing expense, how much that will be at this point is uncertain. I do want to note – on the first part of your question where they are being spend, it's – you have to think of it is three broad steps.

First of all, we've to – since we're – we need to redesign the quality system slow and partly because there were some efficiencies and partly because we want to standardize them for the whole company. So the first step is to do that with our experts and then get third-party assessment to insure that they are consisted and compliant with QSR. The second part is training people and implementing the procedures. And third part is, now that they're verifying that the systems are working, while that's going on what is going on is there is some work to do consistent, the other big flows would be into auditing the processes as they're being implemented, auditing various home care compliance and also going back and doing re-documenting some device history files. Those are kind of the big pictured things that we're working on.

And related to that, Gerry, through the audit, which you say is the fourth quarter 2012, should we assume that this quarterly run rate of $4.1 million of incremental expense continues and then the issue would be how much of that goes away in 2013?

It will probably – this probably be slight – continue to increase, but then again as we move and past the training implementation, the verification efforts will – won't be as rigorous and expenses should drop-off in advance of the portfolio.

And then, Bob, I'd add one more thing. Last year and, Bret mentioned this in the 10-K, in fourth quarter we spend an additional, I think it was 2.1, it might have been 2.2, I don't have it right in front of me, but it was right around there. So, Gerry is right. I think we'll continue to go down and be more efficient as we get rid of external resources at some point. We're bringing in more staff. I'd also point out the fourth quarter was already the decent spend for us, not as big as first quarter, but a good number.

Okay. And can I sneak in one more question here?

Okay.

On free cash flow, Rob, I know you gave some detail on what turning the free cash flow negative in the quarter, but frankly, I didn't write it down fast enough. So could you just take us through why it turned negative and then what are the drivers to get it back to normal positive going forward?

Let's talk about a few things, one, let's just give a little bit historical perspective here as a starting point. This year first quarter we were negative 2.5%. 2010, 2011 first quarter we were positive. But if I go back to 2009, first quarter was negative 4.5%. So we're always sort of floating there, between a little negative to a little positive.

Clearly, we target it to be positive every quarter, but I want to make sure for investors who are particularly new, they understand that depending on what, you look at the last four quarters twice we've been slightly negative twice we've been positive.

What was the big drivers? We mentioned in the release it was primarily inventory, buildup inventory. And there's actually some good news in that if we sort of look forward, particularly I'll mention our European organization. We have and we mentioned in the release, very strong growth in respiratory and we didn't fill all the orders and we've got respiratory in the pipeline. Respiratory is made in our Chinese plant, our Suzhou plant near Shanghai and shipped to China where – it's shipped to Europe for the European market, so we got more goods in trans than we normally have.

So there are a lot of inventory build and we're going to be running that down in that area. Some of it in fairness being very focused on both the good and the negative. Some of it was we didn't quite hit the organic sales growth we wanted, 0.2% was not where we were targeting. So we do have some excess inventory, which we build for what we thought going to be a little stronger plan. But again there's some good silver linings there and Europe respiratory being one. So we plan on riding that inventory, focusing out over the next few quarters and getting our sales back to where we expect to be.

Okay, thank you I'll get back into the queue.

Thanks, Bob.

Your next question comes from Jim Sidoti.

Hi, Jim.

Hi, good morning, can you hear me?

Yes.

Yep.

All right, can we just real quick go over the adjustments between GAAP and non-GAAP in the quarter, particularly the one, I think it was one on the tax line?

Well, ultimately there's a difference between our – and this is true every quarter, there's a difference between our adjusted earnings effective tax rate and our GAAP tax rate because a number of our locations, the U.S, Australia, New Zealand some others we, for GAAP purposes, we're in valuation allowances where we lost money over history. We were not booking taxes.

For adjusted earnings, we're treating all the divisions as if, well, let me rephrase that, we're treating particularly the U.S. as though it's making money and we'll be paying taxes currently. So again there's a different treatment. The reason why we do that, Jim, is when we – as we expect over time to get the U.S. back to profitability, we don't want to suddenly see a big change in the tax rate because we – for adjusted earnings purposes stayed with the GAAP tax rate. Does that make sense?

Sure. And so, what was the effective tax rate in the quarter there?

The effective – I'll give you each, because again, if you want to talk GAAP, the effective tax rate for GAAP was 20.7% and the adjusted effective rate for adjusted earnings was 28.5%. And again, you can get that right off the – you take the taxes we paid and compare them to either the adjusted earnings or the GAAP earnings you can get that number off of the schedule in the release.

Okay. And then on the top-line, you talked about increased scrutiny and that being some of the reason for the soft top-line, what do you see over the next couple of quarters and do you see that turning around?

Well, we – in the fullness of time, I wouldn't parse it down to quarters, but in the fullness of time, the home care is going to be the one of the [inaudible] of the solution, to the cost of healthcare. And there was a senate hearing this week or last week, remember where representatives from the GAO and CMS spoke to the finance committee and the broader topic of the context was their efforts to reduce fraud and abuse and the witness is referred to the fact that they think that substantially completed with respect to DME and that's a good thing because there are efforts underway to increase access to home and community care for patients.

So it's – you know, we call it the trifecta. There is – any time you get something as major as the healthcare reformat or typically referred to as Obamacare, there is a lot of uncertainties and complexities as those are put into place. And in the United States uniquely, we have competitive bidding which is creating – creates uncertainties when you – when your – you could imagine Jim, if you are in a market and you're in the – you have to bid to stay in that market, you get conservative on your capital spend.

So that's – we'll get through those things. The underlying drivers for the industry are demographic and are compelling and are [inaudible] true, and you couple that with, again, homecare being patient preferred, being more cost effective and where you get better outcomes. It's going to be acknowledged that even – even by government officials as a pillar of healthcare and the healthcare continuum going forward. So it's a good – the future is good. How long it's going to take to get through that is anybody's guess.

Okay, and then in terms of the FDA, I know you can't really say too much, but the fact that you've – you are putting to have auditors in by the fourth quarter, appears to me that at least you have a pretty good understanding on what the issues with the FDA are, what you need to do to correct them and how long you think it will take to correct them. Is that a fair assessment?

That is precisely true; we've got a very good idea. We've got – we've got with – we've developed it with the assistance of outside specialists, we've got project management details, which is incredibly precise because a lot of these processes interact, so you have to coordinate the timing and the execution of the improvement.

And all that work's – all that work is – the work that we developed with the collaboration of outside experts has been audited by other experts, so we've taken the time and checked and rechecked all this work. We're very confident we know exactly what needs to be done.

Do you think we will hear the final terms of the consent agreed by the end of this quarter?

I don't know, this is my first rodeo. I would say that that's possible, but that most likely it's not, is my estimate.

Okay, thank you.

[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from Greg Halter [Great Lakes Review].

Yes, good morning guys.

Hi Greg. Good morning.

I wonder if you could provide an update on your progress in the Negative Pressure Wound Therapy area?

We continue to work on developing a new product – as you know from the past, we had a small asset acquisition that we brought in, and we continue to work that issue in this environment. But again, don't have any specifics on timing today, but it's an area that we think, over time, will be an opportunity.

All right.

We've been adding – we've added to our clinical sales capabilities and the acquisition we made on the West Coast was a boost there. So now we've got 25 to 30 clinical specialists who do clinical sales and Negative Pressure Wound Care, patient handling, pressure relief mattresses. So our capabilities are improving, we are working on the commercialization of the IP portfolio that we acquired that Rob mentioned. So we are moving forward and we are looking to partner with some people on the dressing. So we are making good progress.

Okay. And relative to that, the acquisition, I believe you are referring to the Dynamic Medical solutions.

Correct.

Yeah, I wonder if you could provide, how that's going in terms of integration in their business?

Rob, do you want to take that?

Yeah, sure. It's going well. The division has basically done what we expected it to do; it has helped in terms of the operating income. I think it contributed around $700,000, $800,000 in the quarter, in terms of operating income, so we're pleased with it.

Ongoing, there will be systems work to do – we currently sort of have East Coast or West Coast and I call it sort of the middle of the country, running through three different managers and we are trying to get better information in place, but I can say that the team is working on that from the financial side. It gives us good information every month and the businesses are doing well, so we're putting emphasis in it and the acquisition is off to a good start.

The administrative work is, as Rob said, moving ahead nicely. The – we're beginning – well, the businesses, broadly speaking, were doing the same thing; they developed different specialties, in terms of their clinical sales programs so there is synergy between the two so, so the integration of the clinical selling specialties that are complementary is progressing and it's really pretty exciting.

We were out there about three or four weeks ago, so the enthusiastic, talented team and I've been – have been to – I was at the East Coast last week and a month ago on the West Coast and we're making good progress.

Okay and given that and with the backdrop of the FDA and competitive bidding in CMS and so forth, what are your current thoughts on acquisitions for the company?

Our current thoughts are: it would have to be extraordinary to – obviously we don't want to gamble on our remediation efforts, I don't want to do that, that's first and foremost. That's not – there are opportunities out there, we continue to work on that portfolio.

But right now, there's few parts of the organization that aren't actively involved in the remediation, and HR's working on training and recruiting, Finance is working on dashboards and integrations. So everybody is in the game – so throw in an acquisition of any consequence wouldn't be wise at the moment.

Okay. And with that last piece there, relative to CMS and the national competitive bidding, can you provide an update on what's going on there? What you see, there's been some rumblings about expansion of the program, which I think we know about, but they're trumping up success and I think you guys are on the other side, saying that the program is flawed. If you could provide your thoughts there, I'd appreciate it.

I think there is – I think the fact that CMS is going to so much trouble to trumpet its success is evidence of the fact that they're struggling to sell it but – and the issue isn't whether it's saving money and – which is what they talk about and obviously, they say it's money, the issue is patient access, the issue is whether the competitive bidding process, the flaws in the competitive bidding process which has been pointed out by outside Nobel Prize-winning economist, whether those flaws will in fact hurt access, will hurt the quality and availability of product.

That's the question so that – and the industry doesn't and I don't, I don't – it's going to be an uphill battle, because it's been scored in today's environment. One thing has been scored i.e. that there's a commitment by our Federal Agency that benefits probably so much money, any change has to step over that hurdle so I think we're working hard. Most of you on the call are aware that now there's a lot of energy as the spiritual and intellectual leaders in Washington are working these issues, but for us, we're planning for the worst and hoping for the best.

Okay, and one last one if I could, relative to your operations in Mexico; I just wonder if you've expanded down there any further in terms of product lines, or where you stand currently?

That's an interesting question. We have a difference of kit age on the economics of China, so we have brought some things back into North America, because of freight costs. And as part of the globalization program, we'll probably be remapping the mission of that facility and several of our facilities, so this I would – the changes wouldn't be something that an outsider would see or feel, but would be a more significant realignment going forward once we – again, that's once we can focus more energy back into the globalization efforts.

Great. Thank you.

Yep.

And we have no further questions. I will now turn the call back to Mr. Jerry Blouch.

Thanks and thanks to all of you for getting on the call. I appreciate your time and attention. Rob, Laura and I will be available for the balance of the day and the balance of the week, if you questions, if you like to address one on one. Thank you once again.

Thank you for participating. This concludes today's conference. You may now disconnect.