Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Lois Lee — Director, Treasury and Investor Relations, Invacare Corp.
Matthew E. Monaghan — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Invacare Corp.
Kathleen P. Leneghan — Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Invacare Corp.
Bob J. Labick — President, CJS Securities, Inc.
Chris Cooley — Analyst, Stephens, Inc.
Matthew Mishan — Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets, Inc.
James P. Sidoti — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Invacare 2018 Second Quarter Conference Call and Webcast. After the management overview, we will open the call to questions. [Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded, Wednesday, August 8, 2018.

I will now turn the call over to Lois Lee, Invacare's Director of Treasury and Investor Relations.

Thank you, Michele. Joining me today on today's call from Invacare are Matthew Monaghan, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Kathy Leneghan, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.

Today we will be reviewing our second quarter 2018 financial results and providing investors with an update on our transformation. To help investors follow along, we have created slides to accompany this webcast. For those dialing-in, you can find a link to our webcast slide presentation that we will be referring to during today's call at invacare.com/investorrelations. Further information can be found in our SEC filings.

Before Matt begins, I'd like to note that during today's call we may make forward-looking statements about the company that, by their nature, address matters that are uncertain. Actual future results may differ materially from those expressed in our statements today due to various uncertainties and I refer you to the cautionary statements included on the second page of our webcast slide and in our second quarter earnings release.

For an explanation of the items considered to be non-GAAP financial information that will be discussed on today's call such as constant currency net sales, constant currency sequential net sales, constant currency SG&A, free cash flow, EBITDA and adjusted net earnings and loss, please see the notes in the appendix of our webcast slide and in the related reconciliations in the earnings release posted on our website.

Today, we will review the financial results for the second quarter 2018 as well as provide an update of our transformation strategy and progress to-date. We will close with any questions you may have. I will now turn the call over to Matt Monaghan.

Thank you, Lois. Good morning. As you'll notice, we've revised the format of our webcast slides to make it easier to follow today's call and to understand our progress. The charts will offer a better comparison to last year and sequential quarters as well as highlight some of the more detailed explanations included in the earnings release and 10-Q. We hope you find this new format informative.

Before jumping right into the numbers, I want to reflect on our last year of progress, especially in North America, on the anniversary of resolving the selling restrictions of our consent decree and of launching the industry's first complex powered wheelchair system with informatics.

We've continued to make progress across the company, working to reinforce our quality culture, drive profitable sales growth, enhance our product portfolio and be more efficient. As we will discuss in a moment, the results have been positive where we've had strong focus and pleased with the improvement over the past year in the mobility and seating and lifestyle product categories. We expect continued progress in these areas.

And with that underway, we've recently shifted our focus to channel performance in the continuing care and the very dynamic respiratory product categories to ensure we are connecting with customers and visible to end users with great products and brand presence.

In Europe, as previously guided, our mild renovation continues. Good things are happening in Asia/Pacific with the teams there. There's still significant work ahead of us for the next two years. The environment we have created for executing our plan looks good. Our emphasis on a quality culture and increasingly efficient operations gives us a solid business foundation. Alignment with customers and our strong portfolio of solutions should continue to enable growth. We expect a methodical approach to the transformation to deliver the projected results.

What makes the biggest difference, though, is our associates. Well, I can't thank enough for what they've accomplished as we execute this transformation. On balance, the heavy lifting ahead seems reasonable compared to the incredibly heavy lifting the team has already done so well.

Now let's talk about the results from the quarter. Slide 4 provides key highlights of second quarter 2018 compared to last year. We had good results in many areas. Reported net sales increased 5.4% from $233.5 million to $246.2 million. Operating loss was $6.8 million, an improvement of $8.9 million. EBITDA was negative $3.2 million, an improvement of $8.8 million. GAAP loss per share improved $0.22 to a loss of $0.50 and adjusted net loss per share improved $0.22 to a loss per share of $0.41. Free cash flow usage was $24.6 million compared to usage of $22.4 million last year.

Reported sales increased 5.4% globally compared to last year primarily due to favorable foreign exchange, growth in North America/HME, continued growth in Asia/Pacific, partially offset by a decline in IPG. Constant currency net sales decreased by 0.5% with a predicted slight decline in Europe, offset by growth in North America/HME and Asia/Pacific, especially powered by mobility and seating product results.

These results reflect the company's continued focus on and investment in more clinically-valued higher margin products as well as continued benefit from exiting the injunctive phase of the consent decree in the United States in July 2017.

Gross profit increased compared to last year by $2.3 million and gross margin declined by 40 basis points. The gross margin decline was entirely driven by expedited freight costs in the North America/HME and Europe segment. Constant currency SG&A expense continued to decline compared to last year by $5.1 million or 6.7% as a result of actions taken in the second half of 2017 and including lower stock compensation.

Compared to last year, operating loss improved $8.9 million to a loss of $6.8 million. EBITDA improved $8.8 million to negative $3.2 million. Both operating loss and EBITDA improved due to improved operating results in the North America/HME and Asia/Pacific segment and reduced restructuring cost.

Operating loss and EBITDA also benefited from a decrease of $2.6 million in equity compensation expense compared to second quarter of 2017. Sequentially, both operating loss and EBITDA declined primarily due to increased SG&A expense, primarily driven by employment cost. Interest expense increased compared to last year by $2.2 million due to the convertible debt issuance in second quarter 2017.

I'll now turn the call over to Kathy to review segment performance and balance sheet.

Thanks, Matt. Turning to slide 5, during the second quarter 2018, reported net sales in Europe increased 8.1%. Constant currency net sales declined 2.3% compared to last year with declines in all product categories. As guided, sales in Europe were expected to decline as we strategically applied the transformation to this segment to focus on more clinically-valued higher margin products. Sequentially, constant currency net sales grew 6%.

Gross profit dollars increased compared to last year primarily as a result of favorable foreign currency, partially offset by unfavorable manufacturing variances and expedited freight costs related to previously announced facility consolidations, which are expected to continue into the fourth quarter 2018. Operating income decreased by $1.9 million principally due to the same items which impacted gross profit as well as increased SG&A expense.

For North America/HME, reported sales increased 2.8% and constant currency net sales increased 2.3% compared to last year. As a result of some key commercial wins in the first quarter and continued benefit from exiting the injunctive phase of the consent decree, we realized sales growth of greater than 10% in mobility and seating product compared to the same quarter last year.

Lifestyle products also reflected growth while respiratory sales declined. The decline in respiratory products was in stationary concentrators and wholesale product, partially offset by an increase in portable oxygen concentrators. This is the fourth consecutive quarter of flat to positive sales growth for North America/HME primarily driven by mobility and seating products.

Gross profit and gross margin decreased compared to the second quarter last year primarily due to higher expedited freight expense, partially offset by reduced warranty and R&D. Operating loss improved by $4 million compared to last year related to net sales increases and reduced SG&A.

In the IPG segment, reported net sales decreased 10.6% and constant currency net sales declined 10.8%. The decline was principally due to lower bed product sales as a result of a supply disruption, which was resolved by the end of the quarter. Gross profit declined as a result of lower sales while gross margin improved. Operating income declined $0.3 million compared to last year principally due to a decline in sales, partially offset by reduced SG&A and warranty expense.

In Asia/Pacific, reported net sales increased 13.8% compared to the same period last year and constant currency net sales increased 13.1%, primarily driven by mobility and seating products. Gross profit and gross margin increased compared to the same period last year. Operating income improved by $1.7 million to a positive $1.6 million compared to the second quarter 2017 as a result of net sales growth, favorable manufacturing variances and reduced R&D expense.

Free cash flow in the second quarter 2018 was negative $24.6 million, an additional usage of $2.2 million compared to the second quarter 2017, primarily due to increased working capital related to inventory and higher interest payments due to the convertible debt issuance in the second quarter of 2017. Historically, the first half of the year is the most cash-consumptive due to the timing of certain payments. As example, customer rebates, employee bonus when earned and increased inventory built in the first half of the year.

As previously communicated, we estimate free cash flow usage for 2018 will be $40 billion, consistent with 2017 and including incremental investments in capital and working capital to support growth. We believe the cash balances and available borrowing capacity under our credit facility should be sufficient to fund our transformation. As of June 30, 2018, we have zero drawn under our revolving credit facility.

As reflected in the cash conversion days, days sales and receivables were approximately 48 days at the end of the second quarter compared to 47 days as of December 31, 2017. Days in inventory were 69 at the end of the second quarter as compared to 67 as of December 31, 2017. The increase in working capital is consistent with increased sales in mobility and seating, which has a long quote to cash cycle.

I'll now turn the call back over to Matt.

Thank you, Kathy. I'd like to provide an update on our strategy, the actions we've undertaken towards our goal and progress to-date.

On slide 11, you'll see the outline of our path to profitability and $100 million EBITDA run rate target by third quarter 2020. Plan is divided into four equal parts. In Europe, we look to increase sales by an additional $25 million to $40 million through third quarter 2020, which would contribute $12.5 million of EBITDA. We have a strong portfolio of products and a great sales force and we're confident that this is achievable.

Additionally, we see opportunities to streamline operations and improve efficiency, which should lead to $12.5 million of lower annual operating expenses. Previously, as part of this initiative, we announced the transfer of manual wheelchair manufacturing from Sweden and Switzerland to an existing facility in France to create a Center of Excellence in this product category. We incurred higher freight costs in the quarter, which unfavorably impacted gross margin. This may not [indiscernible] (00:13:05) until fourth quarter as we complete the operational transition. Once fully integrated, we anticipate annual cost savings of $3.3 million.

In North America, 50% of the contribution to EBITDA will come from additional sales of mobility and seating, post-acute care and respiratory products. Our recently introduced TDX SP2 Powered Wheelchair with LiNX Information Technology and our Platinum Mobile Oxygen Concentrator with Connectivity have industry-leading informatics platforms, which we believe will change how providers interface with end users and effectively manage their business. In mobility and seating, we are in good alignment with our customers, helping them more effectively address patient needs. For portable oxygen concentrators, we plan to increase SG&A expenditures to stimulate growth, build brand awareness and further develop our channel presence.

We may continue to see the negative impact of mix shift and cannibalization in respiratory in the short term as we emphasize our ambulatory oxygen solutions. Our great product portfolio and strong customer relationships gives us confidence we can rebuild this part of our business with stronger product mix, greater brand awareness and efficient channel trade.

Finally, in North America, we have completed over $24 million in cost savings since late 2016 and continue to look for opportunities where we can be more efficient and cost effective. In 2018 and 2019, we will continue to make foundational investments in the business that we can ultimately operate more efficiently and better serve our customers. These changes will continue through 2019, as we've discussed in our overall transformation plan.

On slide 12, we repeat our vision and goal for the company. Our vision is to leverage our strong technical capabilities for solving clinically complex needs and making life experiences possible for the people who use our products. It's something that I and all of our employees are proud to be part of doing. Our goal is to execute well with the products that will enable solid financial performance to our investors. The company will continue to emphasize a culture of quality excellence and achievement of its long-term earnings potential.

We've made tremendous progress towards reshaping the company. We've seen very positive encouraging growth in mobility and seating segment with sales increasing by greater than 10% in North America/HME compared to last year. Both operating income and EBITDA have improved significantly year-to-date compared to 2017. Although it will not be a straight line path every quarter to a $100 million EBITDA target, our recent performance gives us continued confidence in our plan.

Europe is poised to be strong and in a competitive position going forward in 2019. We expect continued growth in mobility and seating products, stable lifestyle products, focused on growth in respiratory and IPG and continued good performance in Asia/Pacific.

We appreciate the continued support of our shareholders and associates throughout this process with a long-term strategy to rebuild this business to be a sustainable leader in the markets we serve.

With that, I'd like to thank you for taking time to be on the call this morning. We'll now open the phone lines for questions. Michele?

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Bob Labick with CJS Securities.

Good morning. Thanks for taking my question.

Hi, Bob.

Hi. I wanted to start in mobility and seating. Congratulations on a really nice ramp and recovery there after one year out from under the injunctive phase. Can you talk about the next steps, next products, milestones, how you go about regaining that share and how long this can take, what should we be looking for? Is this just a slow and steady recovery? Is there new milestones to pay attention to? Talk about the pathways.

Sure. Thanks for the question, Bob. Seating and mobility is an incredibly strong portfolio segment for us where I think our product solutions reflect a good understanding of end-user needs and alignment with our customers, so it's a combination of things.

We had a huge decrease in sales from a part of the seating and mobility segment, which had been coming from Taylor Street as a result of the consent decree, but building back that business we look at the whole portfolio, not only our great SP2 Powered Wheelchair products, but other products in that category. We continue to launch software updates, now that we have an informatics platforms to that and we see other areas where we can expand that same kind of technology. But beyond powered wheelchairs, we have a great lineup of active manual wheelchairs, passive manual wheelchairs and the [indiscernible] (00:17:53) power augmentation system, which makes really high-end unique solution combinations for end users that our customers should find useful as they deal with user needs.

So we expect a continued strong portfolio, a great pipeline of products to come out, in combination with minor software updates along the way, like we all encounter in our electronic lives elsewhere, and then just timing the market to continue to grow. That product portfolio already has been successful in North America, starting to grow. There will be continued slow steady improvements into the future we expect and that product portfolio is also demonstrating good growth outside the United States.

Okay. Super. And then jumping over to the portable oxygen concentrators, it seems there's an increased focus and shift in focus into that category for you. Can you talk about decision to spend behind it and what your expectations are and how you hope for this to play out?

I think we're incredibly proud of the product that we have that has novel features and connectivity that help the user get more utility out of the product and help providers interact with their customers in more efficient ways, which is good for everybody, based on the same proprietary technology we have for other products, like our powered wheelchair.

One of the big problems that we see in the marketplace today is consumers confuse a certain product brand name with the product category. And I think as you'll see, many manufacturers getting into this product space are more directly making consumers aware that there are alternative and great alternative products out there. So, for us, number one is making sure consumers understand that our product is out there and we're confident once they realize it's a multi-product category and do product comparisons, we're going to show very well. So our number one focus is on brand awareness and then just making sure the channel is really efficient out there, so consumers can transact easily in the marketplace.

Okay.

We'll be spending some more SG&A dollars in the second half of this year to make those efforts effective.

Got it. And I assume not only the second half, but that if successful you would carry that into – that spending next year as well. Is that correct?

Yes. Probably yes. We assume we're going to be able to demonstrate that that's effective by the end of this year and we will continue on.

Okay. Great. And then last one for me. The European margin was impacted you said obviously by some of the facility consolidation and the freight, et cetera, which could carry on through Q4. Do you expect more of that next year with additional cost savings? Should margins recover into next year and how generally should we be thinking about European margins?

Maybe I'd comment on gross margins generally, this quarter, we had a slight decrease in gross margins overall in Europe entirely due to manufacturing variances and expedited freight with that Center of Excellence we're creating in France. If those had gone away, we would have shown gross margin improvement, which is what we expect overall. We're just at the beginning phases of driving efficiency into our European operations. We have great systems work underway that help customer self-service and lower friction ways of transacting with Invacare in Europe and I think over the long term we'll continue to see good gross margin improvement this quarter and consume that with temporary costs. As we undertake other transitions in Europe, there may be periodic times where that happens again.

In North America, we have had another quarter where inventory wasn't quite in the right place. We had some bed supply issue and we chose to [ph] sell (00:21:27) backlogs in the short term by expediting freights [indiscernible] (00:21:29) some of our gross margin there. But generally we look very favorably on continued gross margin progress. Seating and mobility growth is favorable for us in gross margin. Lifestyle is stable. We've seen several quarters now of good growth in that area. We may have a little bit of negative mix shift as we change our respiratory products and emphasize POC a little bit more and the IPG business should get better as we start to see sales growth in the future.

Super. Thank you very much.

Thanks, Bob.

And next we'll move to Chris Cooley with Stephens.

Thank you. Good morning. And appreciate you taking the questions. Also congratulations on impressive continued progress in the transformation.

Good morning, Chris. Thank you.

Hey, thank you. Maybe just two quick ones for me and then I'll get back in queue. When we look at slide 11, which of course kind of outlines and it's a great summary there of your $100 EBITDA run rate target and how you get there. It looks like you are clearly at or ahead of plan when we think about Europe, North America, mobility and seating and then the overall cost reductions in North America. With respiratory making progress in North America is a little bit choppier there. Would you just kind of maybe handicap for us how you – your overall confidence level and maybe how you see ways to get to that $25 million in incremental EBITDA contribution from post-acute and respiratory in North America during the stated timeframe? And then I have got one quick follow-up. Thanks so much.

Sure. Thanks, Chris. So page 11 is a updated version of a slide we've been using for a while that consistently show these four tranches of $25 million of contribution with Europe sub-divided into two equal parts – the sales growth and cost reduction. If we kind of go through those top to bottom, the Europe piece we feel very confident about. We have good presence in the marketplace and good products. We've got to trim a little bit of the low margin product market combinations, which we've accumulated over time, and we're going to choose to do that in 2018. We have confidence we'll be back to growing in all the right ways with positive mix in 2019 and beyond.

And then cost reductions, there are lots of inefficiencies in our system, which comprises many acquisitions over time, and we don't have yet the ability to take advantage of common electronic systems and phone systems and things like that, fully enabling customer self-service, things that delight customers and help us preserve margin and will continue to implement those. Given the size of the business and the diversity of products and markets in Europe, I have very strong confidence that that will be achieved on time.

North America, similar level of confidence by performing better and eliminating the injunctive phase in the consent decree in one of our strongest product categories globally, we expect the ability to grow $50 million to $80 million in sales in North America in seating and mobility to be quite good. And we expect just to continue to crescendo over the next couple of years as people discover our products and get used to ordering and we perform well. And then in cost reductions at the bottom of the page there, as we've noted, we've taken out I think $23.4 million of costs last year, most of which is annualized, not all of it yet. And we think there are more elements of efficiency still to be had in North America that again delight customers, make us easier to do business with and reduce costs.

Probably the risk area on the page is the post-acute care and respiratory sales growth, which should be externally evident because our sales have been declining recently. Two different reasons, in post-acute care, we've had some temporary disruptions from time to time on big products like beds, which if you're not careful, you lose it all in freight when you try to expedite the recovery of those things because they're big and heavy, they don't ship well very far. But we think we have those problems solved and then it's just working with customers to make sure they appreciate the value of not only our products, but the services that we offer with products. People in skilled nursing facilities and post-acute care not only have product needs to serve the residents, but they have other operational needs that we can uniquely help them with in the aftermath of an audit. As an example, we can go in and help them with service audits, documentation audits, help them with training and recordkeeping and do follow-up actions to help them perform better and often that includes equipment, but not always. And we're really partnering with post-acute care customers in that way and we expect that to continue to drive growth in the post-acute care business.

Respiratory sales growth, a year ago, it was 100% the modalities of products that are not as fashionable as battery powered portable oxygen concentrators. So, for us, growing in portable oxygen concentrators is really important and we have a great product that has some unique benefits compared to all competitors out there. We look forward to that brand having a consumer-known presence, but people should recognize that going from 100% of everything else to some percent of portable oxygen concentrators will involve some cannibalization.

Our HomeFill system has been a great deliverer of ambulatory oxygen since the late 1990s and it's a favorite of providers because of cost-effective care and for consumers because it delivers long oxygen with light weight and zero cost, but currently anything with an aluminum cylinder is not fashionable. So, with our portable concentrator, we expect to once again be a leader in the ambulatory space that we've been in since the late 1980s or 1990s, but it's going to take some mix shift and some marketing dollars to compete with a lot of spending that's going on out there with consumers. We look forward to making those expenditures effectively with a lot of experimentation here in the second half of this year that, as I mentioned on the prior question, would continue once we demonstrate how to make that effective.

Appreciate that detailed response. And then maybe just last one for me and I'll get back in queue. Could you just kind of help us walk through kind of the transition here? Obviously, the decline in the stationary and HomeFill, the growth in the POC, help us just kind of model across the lines there in terms of the margin contribution and better understand when we look at the current – or I should say the most recent quarter's results, when we look at the corresponding margin, how much of that is a function of the deceleration in growth versus the mix shift from a margin perspective? Thanks so much.

Sure. That's a good nuanced question about respiratory. We have three essential products families in respiratory – two are in ambulatory oxygen and one in the stationary. The ambulatory oxygen is the legacy HomeFill system, which is a good margin product for us, reflecting the great value that it provides our providers and then users. It is really great unit to put out in service. These things typically last a decade with little or no maintenance. They go for a very long time and they're easy for our providers to do justice with their customer serving their ambulatory oxygen needs without a lot of hassle.

Next in the margin line is the portable oxygen concentrator, which is a really effective way to get out in the community and the ambulatory, but not quite the same margin as our HomeFill system. And then on the stationary side of things, we go from a 5-liter to 10-liters or more. The 5-liter category depending on the market and competitive responses in certain periods of time can be relatively low margin and the discounts or freight giveaways or things like that in the 5-liter space, so [indiscernible] (00:29:09) we're careful on what we try to chase there in terms of deals to make sure that we have some minimum profit for a product that we think is a pretty stable provider of oxygen for providers. But that's the mix.

So, as we kind of manage a reasonable amount of stationary to manage margins and keep our facilities at capacity or efficient, that's one part of how we manage the business. And then the other is how much money we're spending and how much efficacy we're having delivering the new battery-powered portable oxygen concentrator, which typically offsets customers' capital use that would have otherwise gone to something like HomeFill and that ends up economically looking like slightly negative margin. But in the long run, the battery powered portable oxygen space is growing at such a rate that we think the volume of that slightly lower margins will be net positive for our gross profit line as we get going there. Does that help?

That's great. Thank you so much.

Okay. Thanks, Chris.

And next we'll hear from Matthew Mishan with KeyBanc.

Hey, great. Thanks, Matt and Kathy. Good morning.

Good morning.

Good morning.

Hey, I just wanted to get – it's a lot of really good detail on the path to $100 million of EBITDA in that slide. I just wanted to get a sense from you, Matt, kind of where you are in the path today versus maybe where you thought you'd be kind of a year ago?

Sure. I'm thinking about how to [ph] quickly (00:30:42) go through this. Let's do it geographically. So if we go across North America first, difficult to predict the resolution of a consent decree and we had probably a 9 to 12-month window of when we thought we could be effective getting out of the injunction and injunctive phase of the consent decree and we got that done a little sooner than planned and it was really well-timed with our launch of a powered wheelchair the TDX SP2 with LiNX out of that facility, but we were able to take advantage of both a great new product and the freedom to manufacture and sell that product into North America. That was a little better than planned.

Respiratory has been a little more challenging. That's a channel that we're not accustomed to being so effective in, in terms of the amount of efforts that has to go into consumer awareness. Normally we are selling to providers and the providers have the local presence that's always required to be effective, but there's so many dollars going into media and forms of selling that we got to compete with that in a different way. So while we have a really great product that we're excited about and continue to innovate on, we got to do more in channel presence that's new for us, that's probably a surprise, the level of that versus a year ago.

IPG continues to be a business in transition, really strong market that we address, very good products. We had unique services that we offer in addition that are competitively different and better I think than some product-only competitive offering. We've got to get that channel working and we've been working with our direct sales force and our providers to make sure that customers have a line of sight on how to transact with us and IPG.

And then really good on lifestyles. We've shed hundreds of millions of dollars of lower margin products in that business to focus on high value products. And I'm really pleased to see the effectiveness of our product combination, the confidence of our customers and our sales channel that have shown several sequential quarters of growth there. So, in North America, I would say on balance a little surprised on channel for respiratory and how we're going to go after that, a little surprised on the duration of the transformation of IPG and very pleased and more than half of the business which is the [ph] resp (00:32:50).

Europe, not surprising after years of constant growth that we had accumulated some product, market, contract combinations that were a little lower in the margin. We need to get the team the opportunity to be able to get deeper into clinically complex products. So we're confident in North America we're giving a little bit of relief to Europe to move up market and to focus on selling some of these other products, we think we can continue that into 2018. I wouldn't say it's a surprise, really it's an effort that we should have expected. It's mild. And we're really excited about the opportunities that we think will happen in cost and efficiency savings and continued sales growth in 2019 and beyond.

And then in Asia/Pacific, that's a mighty team that's getting a tremendous amount done in the markets we serve there and we're really pleased with the progress there. We saw those results very clearly this quarter.

Okay. Thanks, Matt. That's very helpful. And then on the freight cost, the expedited freight cost, why would those continue over the next several quarters? Like, what kind of catch-up do you need in Europe to continue to run those kind of costs?

Well, to make Fondettes, France a real Center of Excellence, our objective is to make sure that not only are they great at what they're doing, but they get the efficiencies of doing a lot of similar types of things. And by going from a facility that was a relatively small facility with a narrower product band to all of a sudden doing things that are coming from two additional facilities, which were in themselves already relatively high volume, they got a huge ramp-up in France. It's a great operations team and technical support team, so we have confidence to do it.

That's part of why we chose the French facility. We also chose the French facility because it's in a great geographic location in Central Western Europe. So we get logistics savings and we will be able to serve customers very well with rapid deployment. It's just a huge ramp-up in a short period of time. And as we run into the kind of normal challenges of that much concentration of incremental volume, end up spending a little bit more on incremental freight that the combination of the movement from Dïo, Sweden to France and Switzerland to France will take a little bit longer than just one move. We didn't do those exactly at the same time, we started the Dïo move. It's overlapping with the Küschall move from Switzerland. It's not all going to get done in one quarter. And so we want to make people comfortable that there maybe a little bit of tapering, expedited freight as we resolve backwards and get the Center of Excellence up and running by the end of the year.

Perfect. And then can you give us a sense of the uptake on the Connectivity strategy? Have you been able to collect enough data on cost of service to begin to sell the portfolio on that? And are you willing to go out and guarantee savings on cost of service in contract for your customers?

It's an interesting question. We are really confident in the ability of our product to save our customers' money in providing service and importantly beat better service providers because we are more integrated with their customers and their customers' immediate needs. In competitions where our products that have informatics that faced off with our competitors' products, we have definitively been chosen because of our customers' self-assessment, their own contests or evaluations that they've run to determine to their own satisfaction that our products do save that kind of money.

So there are lots of variables that go into costs to save. It's not exactly like maintenance cost on a CT scan or where it's limited to X-ray tube used in a very fixed environment. These people use cars or they use powered wheelchairs, a combination of cars and sneakers and everything else that folks do and there are a lot of factors in it. So what we are very confident that cost to operate that equipment in a fleet will be better. I don't know that we're sophisticated in isolating all the variables that go into incurring costs to guarantee what that specifically will be. But on a relative basis, we're very comfortable that it would be better than the alternatives.

Okay. Okay. That's great. And then last question, kind of bigger picture, you're comfortable giving free cash flow guidance for the year, you've kind of laid out a path towards a run rate in 3Q 2020, which in reality is only two years from today. Why not be comfortable enough to give kind of sales and EBITDA guidance for 2018 at this point?

Yes. Good question. We're very interested to give guidance to help people understand what waypoints we're going to go through to get to that target. I am comfortable that the results we've accumulated to-date show that our ability to execute is reasonable given where we're trying to go. What's important in giving guidance is hitting it exactly and with the level of detail that we've become accustomed to provide by segment, by country product growth and so on, there's still a lot of moving parts to do that. We'll look at it as we get later into this year and see more predictability at the low level of detail, so we can provide that level of guidance. And we continue to be confident in managing the guidance – to the guidance that we've given and cash flow, which has an implied operating income guidance factor and people can draw a line over the last three years of progress and come to a pretty narrow triangulation of where we're going to be in the short term. So it's a combination of those things we'll continue to evaluate that.

All right. Thanks, Matt and Kathy.

Thank you.

And next we'll move to Jim Sidoti with Sidoti & Company.

Good morning. Can you hear me?

Jim, good morning.

Great. Great. Just trying to get a sense of the magnitude of the improvement for the mobility and seating products. You indicated in the press release that sales for the North American/HME business were up $2.3 million year-over-year. Should we assume that that's all seating or could seating be bigger than that? Because some of the other products actually were losing some ground or smaller than that.

So, the question, I'll take that call. So the consolidated growth for North America/HME quarter-over-quarter was 2.3%. But if you take a look at mobility and seating alone, it was well over 10%.

Okay.

Year-over-year.

Okay. I'm sorry. On an absolute sales basis, it was it was up about $2 million in sales. So, is that $2 million, is that all mobility and seating?

The majority of that would be mobility and seating. Mobility and seating will be well over $3 million, lifestyle was up as well, but that would have been offset by respiratory declines.

Okay. All right. That's really where I was trying to go. So mobility and seating was up a little over $3 million. And then when you talk about increases in investments in the sales and marketing, can you just give us some sense, are you're talking tens of millions or somewhere in the $5 million for that?

I think well under $5 million, maybe $2 million or $3 million to get started. We will definitely increase spending to reinforce anything that we determine is a good recipe to get brand awareness out there. So we're starting small and in focused areas. As we figure out that recipe, we'll spend more. But I think it's a $2 million or $3 million probably maybe in the back half and we will see what next year looks like, but no – I don't know see $10 million in the short term.

Okay. And then on the balance sheet, inventories up a little bit from the beginning of the year. Can you just tell us why that is?

Sure. Part of that is related to the product transfers that we alluded to in Europe, but trying to grow inventory as a result of those product transfers to make sure that we have the right inventory for the transition. But also in the U.S., the U.S. we had some issues on the supply chain side of the house where we brought inventory in, in the first half of the year. And historically we do that. Historically the first half of the year we do bring inventory in and then we sell through it by the end of the year. So part of it is timing, part of it is the product transfers. And at the end of the day, we will sell through that by the end of the year and that will help us with the cash flow in the second half of the year, which we historically have done.

Okay. All right. And then the last question is – I know you're hesitant to give guidance, but you are making a lot of progress with the transition. And I just want to be clear. I mean, if sales do remain flat for the next three or four quarters, we shouldn't take that as a sign that you're not making progress. It sounds like the way your plan is going to roll out, we could see flat sales for at least another three or four quarters, but you still could get to those targets in 2020. Is that correct?

Absolutely. There's still a fairly large range of margin in our product portfolio. We're comfortable we've trimmed off things that are below an acceptable threshold. But within what we've kept, which is a combination of products that are needed to be complete for our customers and that operate well within our facility footprint, we have this range. We'll continue to see mix move forward we believe, but there may be periods where we have revenue flattened, a little revenue decline. The example I mentioned a little earlier on respiratory. We can have great product moves in one category, it can depend on product mix that's driving margins. But the EBITDA accretion has got to come from some combination of both and we might have a few quarters that are up and down along the way.

I think the strength in mobility and seating, the strength in lifestyles, we don't have a product problem in IPG and lifestyle as a channel. So that's a little easier to solve and we'll get that recipe sorted out here pretty soon. And then in Europe, after we do a little bit of culling through the balance of this year, I think we have lots of room to grow in the future across all the markets and all our products categories there. No worries on Asia/Pacific, that team continues to do really well. So I think just a little interlude here in the back half of 2018 as we have some ups and downs across our different segments and geographies.

So, as we look at the business over the next six or nine months, what do you think is the most important factor for us to look at to determine how you're doing, is it the gross margin?

No. I'm going to have to say it's multi-factorial and it's going to depend. The investments that we've made in North America with seating and mobility and lifestyle have to continue to grow, they should continue to grow. Things are all set up to make that happen. We need to have a reversal in the decline of respiratory, reflecting consumers understanding we have a great alternative and IPG's channel. So we've got growth in more than 50% of North America. We should expect we got to solve the channel challenges we have in IPG and respiratory in North America. Europe is two more quarters of – I think we've guided kind of 2% decline, maybe a little over 2%, it's $10 million or $12 million constant currency in the total year. And then we're on to growing again across all categories and I think no issues in Asia/Pacific.

Okay. Thank you.

Sorry for the complicated answer. I think we're just going to have to keep having the discussion of that segment geography level.

That 2% decline that was for the North American/HME business or that was....

For Europe.

For Europe, sorry. Okay. All right. Thank you.

Okay. Thanks, Jim.

And that will conclude the question-and-answer session. At this time, I'd like to turn the call back over to Matt Monaghan for additional or closing remarks.

Thank you, Michele, and thanks to everybody for your time and attention on today's call and support of us during this transformation. Kathy, Lois and I are available for follow-up questions, which can be coordinated through Lois. Have a good day. Thank you.

And that will conclude today's call. We thank you for your participation.