Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Robert K. Gudbranson — Interim President and Chief Executive Officer; Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Invacare Corp.
Lara L. Mahoney — Director-Investor Relations & Communications, Invacare Corp.
Matthew Mishan — Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets, Inc.
Bob J. Labick — Senior Managing Director of Research, CJS Securities, Inc.
James P. Sidoti — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Invacare 2014 Third Quarter Conference Call. I will begin with a customary Safe Harbor statement that this conference call may include statements regarding anticipated or future developments that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

Forward-looking statements are those that describe future outcomes or expectations that are usually identified by words such as should, could, plan, intend, expect, continue, forecast, believe, and anticipate and include, for example, any statement made regarding the Company's future results. The actual results may differ materially from the result of inherent uncertainties and risks, including the risk factors described in the Company's Form 10-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and in the Company's earnings release and we refer you to those risk factors.

The Company may not be able to predict and may not have little or no control over the factors or events that may influence these financial results. Also of note, except for free cash flow, the financial information for all periods excludes the impact and discontinued operations.

Discontinued operations include Invacare Supply Group, the Company's former domestic medical supplies business that was divested on January 18, 2013; Champion Manufacturing, Inc., the Company's former domestic medical recliner business for dialysis clinics that was divested on August 6, 2013; and Altimate Medical, Inc., the Company's former manufacturer of stationary standing assistive devices for use in patient rehabilitation that was divested on August 29, 2014. Champion was part of an Institutional Products Group segment and Altimate was a part of North America Home Medical Equipment segment.

On today's call, the management team will focus on highlights of the quarter, as opposed to covering all the detail, which you can refer to in the release that was issued earlier. In particular, I would refer investors to the Company's earning release to review the definition of free cash flow and some of the adjusted earnings items which may be mentioned during the call. You can find the release and access to the Company's SEC filings at www.invacare.com.

Before I turn the call over to Invacare's Interim President and Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Robert K. Gudbranson, I would like to remind you that all phone lines have been placed on mute for the first part of the call. After the management overview, we will open the call to questions. This conference is being recorded Thursday, October 23, 2014.

I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Gudbranson. Mr. Gudbranson, you may now begin.

Thank you, and good morning. With me on today's call is Lara Mahoney, Director of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications.

We'll begin this morning's call with a review of four of the Company's key activities in the third quarter. First in August, we took an important step to improve the profitability in North America/HME and Asia-Pacific businesses by announcing a restructuring that is expected to generate $14 million to $15 million in annualized pre-tax savings in 2015. The restructuring impacted approximately 150 associates and 40 temporary associates.

Second, we continue to be focused on managing our debt exposure during the third quarter. We announced the sale of Altimate Medical in August and used the net proceeds of $21.9 million to reduce total debt outstanding to $26.9 million, which included only $8 million drawn on the revolving credit facility as of September 30, 2014.

Third, the Company announced an amendment to its existing credit facility on September 30 that provides us with additional flexibility in calculating our financial covenants through the duration of the credit agreement. Specifically, the amendment allows for the add back to consolidated EBITDA of warranty expense accruals up to $10 million and the subtraction of related cash payments when paid. And finally, the Company continued its negotiations during the quarter to enter into a new credit facility, as its existing credit facility matures in October 2015.

Before presenting Invacare's consolidated results, I'd like to spend a few moments giving you background on the $9.3 million warranty expense for three specific product issues. First, the Company reported a warranty expense of $6.6 million for a potential field action that is under review related to a component in stationary oxygen concentrators that were manufactured in the Company's Suzhou, China facility and sold globally. The component is no longer used in current production.

The Company is reviewing reports in Europe of four incidents, none of which caused any patient injuries. While there have been no reported incidents in the U.S. or elsewhere, we take patient safety very seriously, which is why we are evaluating the need for field action. The expense was reported in the European and North American HME segments.

Second, the company recorded a warranty expense of $2.1 million for the recall of a sieve bed component within stationary oxygen concentrators manufactured during August 2014. This expense was recorded in the North America/HME segment. The third warranty expense of $0.6 million related to the previously announced joystick recall, and that was accrued as a result of product mix towards higher cost joysticks. The expense was recorded in North America/HME and Asia Pacific segments.

Now I'd like to review the Company's consolidated third quarter results. Despite the organic net sales decline and the pressure on the gross margin, primarily due to the warranty expense I just described, the Company did improve earnings before tax in three segments, as we will describe later, and generated free cash flow during the quarter for the whole company. In the third quarter of 2014, organic net sales declined by 6% compared to the same period last year, as increased organic net sales in the European and Asia Pacific segments were more than offset by organic net sales decline in the North America/HME and IPG segments.

Gross margin as a percentage of net sales in the third quarter was lower by 1.6 percentage points compared to the third quarter of last year. Excluding the incremental warranty expense, gross margin as a percent of net sales for the third quarter of 2014 increased by 1.3 percentage points, in large part driven by product cost reductions.

In the third quarter, SG&A expense increased by 0.6% to $98.2 million, compared to $97.6 million in the third quarter of last year. Foreign currency translation increased SG&A expense by $0.8 million, or 0.8 percentage points. Excluding the impact from foreign currency translation, SG&A expense decreased by 0.2% compared to the third quarter of last year, despite an increase in regulatory and compliance expenses and an incremental expense related to the retirement of an executive officer. These increased costs were entirely offset by reduced associate and bad debt expenses.

Excluding incremental warranty expense and the write-down of intangible assets, the European, Asia-Pacific and institutional product group segments all showed improvement in earnings during income – in earnings before income tax during the quarter. That improvement was offset by continued pressures in the North America/HME segment.

Consolidated adjusted loss per share was $0.56 in the third quarter of 2014, compared to an adjusted loss per share of $0.26 in the third quarter of 2013. While the adjusted net loss per share for the third quarter of 2014 was greater than that for the third quarter of 2013, it was impacted by a loss of $0.27 per share related to incremental warranty expenses and the expense of $0.06 for the retirement of an executive. Without those two changes, the adjusted net loss per share would have been flat with prior year. However, I want to emphasize that we recognize that we have more work to do to improve the business.

Finally, the Company reported free cash flow of positive $14.3 million, compared to negative free cash flow of $17.3 million in the first six months of 2014. The third quarter 2014 free cash flow was primarily driven by decreased accounts receivable and increased accrued expenses, partially offset by the net loss for the period.

I'll now turn the call over to Lara to discuss additional financial results for the third quarter.

Thank you, Rob. All of the references to earnings before tax exclude restructuring costs. The European business segment's organic net sales in the third quarter increased 2.7%, related to increases in net sales of lifestyle and mobility and seeding products. Earnings before income taxes decreased by $1.4 million. This decrease in earnings before income taxes was attributable to an increased warranty expense of $3.4 million recorded in the third quarter of 2014 related to the previously described potential field action that is under review.

Excluding this incremental warranty expense, Europe's earnings before income taxes increased $2 million, primarily attributable to volume increases and an improved gross margin, driven by favorable customer and product mix and lower product cost, including favorable foreign currency transactions. These benefits were partially offset by increased SG&A expense primarily attributable to associate costs.

For the quarter ended September 30, 2014, organic net sales for the North America/HME segment decreased by 14.8% compared to the third quarter last year, driven by declines in all product categories. Loss before income taxes for the North America/HME segment increased by $9.2 million. The increased loss for the quarter was primarily driven by volume declines and reduced gross margin, which was impacted by increased warranty expense of $5.6 million. This increased loss was partially offset by decreased SG&A expense, which was primarily attributable to reduced associate costs and bad debt expense. This was somewhat offset by increased regulatory and compliance cost.

For the third quarter 2014, organic net sales for the Institutional Products Group decreased 10.3%, driven primarily by declines in bed sales. Earnings before income taxes declined by $7.7 million compared to the third quarter last year. The third quarter of 2014 net loss included an intangible asset impairment charge of $8.3 million. Excluding this charge, earnings before income taxes increased by $0.6 million, primarily attributable to reduced warranty and associate costs, partially offset by volume declines.

In the third quarter, organic net sales for the Asia Pacific segment increased 2.9% due to volume increases at the Company's distribution business in Australia. This increase was partially offset by declines in both the Company's subsidiary that produces microprocessor controllers and the New Zealand distribution business. For the third quarter, the Asia Pacific loss before income taxes improved by $0.8 million. The reduction in loss before income taxes is attributable to volume increases and reduced SG&A expense, partially offset by increased warranty expense.

Total debt outstanding, which includes the convertible debt discount as described in the release, was $26.9 million as of September 30, 2014. The Company's total debt outstanding consists of $8 million drawn on the revolving credit facility, $13.4 million in convertible debt, and $5.5 million of other debt. The Company's debt levels as of September 30, 2014 decreased as compared to June 30, 2014, primarily as a result of the application of $21.9 million of net proceeds from the divestiture of Altimate, as well as positive free cash flow.

The Company's ratio of debt to adjusted EBITDA for the trailing 12 months was 1.8 as of September 30, 2014, compared to 2.8 at the end of the second quarter 2014. The September 30 ratio includes a net positive adjustment to adjusted EBITDA of $9.1 million as permitted under a provision of the recent debt amendment, allowing for the add-back to consolidated EBITDA of warranty expense accruals up to $10 million, and the subtraction of related cash payments when paid.

I'll now turn the call back over to Rob for a few closing comments. We then can address questions.

Thank you, Lara. At this point, I'd like to address our status relating to the consent decree. Since the beginning of August, I have been actively engaged with our quality and regulatory team, which we have expanded over the past few years, on developing action plans and next steps related to our quality systems remediation.

With the help of the new consulting firm that we engaged earlier this year, we are working diligently to improve the functionality and capabilities of certain quality subsystems, most notably complaint handling and CAPA. We have weekly meetings with our consultant to track progress. We have also put in place daily and weekly reporting from the internal team to give visibility into the quality of system performance and to hold the teams accountable for progress.

One improvement that we have made since August was to streamline our complaint handling system. As I mentioned on the second quarter earnings call, we had been entering complaint data into two separate systems. This was resource intensive and not sustainably compliant. Earlier this month, all data entry was transitioned into one system which allows us to focus resources on other critical projects. While we are making progress, we have more work to do in order to have a sustainable and integrated quality system.

I want to thank everyone for their time and attention on today's call. We'll now open the phone lines for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We'll go to Matthew Mishan with KeyBanc first.

Yeah, good morning and thank you for taking my questions.

Good morning, Matt.

Rob, could you give a little bit of color around some of the moving pieces in North America/HME? I think in particular, you called out declines in the Lifestyle business, but as well as a tough comp in HomeFill and you exited the scooter business in North America. I was hoping you could – put a little bit of – some numbers around those?

Sure. As you know, the first thing I'd say is, we did have declines, as we mentioned, in all three pieces, so Mobility and Seating, Lifestyles, and Respiratory. So obviously we have more work to do on all three. But the largest decline, both in dollars and percents, was in Respiratory. And you're right. We had a national account that had a large purchase of HomeFill. So we knew that would be a tough comparison. The part we still have work to do on is – probably more so than anywhere else – is on Lifestyles. That's an area where we mentioned in the second quarter we're seeing some pressure. We really focus on having product line that was focused on what we call fleet management, which is a lot of – let's say steel wheelchair, the Homecare Bed, they are primarily rented out by our customers. And [ph] if I ask to our (17:27) customers – our view has consistently been, those are products that you want to make sure you have one manufacturer focused on that product. You want to have the ability to use that consistently, in our view, as you want a low cost for the total lifecycle, not necessarily save $5 or $10 on a short term purchase.

I think we found, in some cases, that there are players out there in this environment, with natural competitive bidding, other pressures who want to have what we refer to as a single user product, which means they are more concerned with the purchase price upfront than they do the total lifecycle cost. We have moved some product that way, but additionally, we're working hard on offering a more complete line that we expect to start doing in the fourth quarter, to get ourselves better on track for addressing that part of the market.

So I think those are probably the key things. I'd also emphasize that we've had some weakness for a while in Lifestyles. I think many investors in the sales side realize that. We did make a management change, in terms of the person who is running that business in North America/HME. It was a change that we needed to make. So I think focusing on the single user products, focusing on our new manager we have better faith in; we feel good about those steps, but clearly we've got to get North America/HME turned around, a lot of work to do there.

And your decision to exit the scooter business, can you give us an idea what kind of headwind that's going to look like for the next several quarters?

Not dramatic. I think our bigger issues are clearly what were just talked about. It's a business that we were never particularly big in.

Okay. And then just moving to Europe, just based on what we calculated, I think we had the euro relatively flat year-over-year as far as the average euro price, but it looks like you guys had 2% to 3% of currency gains coming through there. Is there a little bit of a delay in the impact there? How should we think about the impact of the euro on the quarter?

Matt, good question. Couple things, just to remind you and investors. We do have one month lag in Europe. So we – actually, the final month in the quarter was August. So there was some benefit if we just focus on the euro. It's just an example and we do have exposure to sterling, all the Scandinavian currencies, among others. But if we focus on the euro third quarter 2013, euro for us was about – average rate we used was 1.32. And this year, third quarter it was 1.35. So there was some slight benefit. Going forward, fourth quarter last year, the euro was about 1.35. And right now today, I think it's trading around 1.26. So there is 6%, 7% headwind on that front. And if we just looked at the euro alone.

Okay. Should we be just looking at it on a translational basis, or would this potentially have a more of a detrimental impact on margins?

Good question. In general, there is a lot of manufacturing we actually still do and – or I should say, really more assembling we still do in Europe. Additionally, where we are purchasing from overseas, whether that be Eastern Europe or China, we are typically hedging transactions 60% to 80%, 90%. So there is a little exposure on transactions, but the biggest issue is purely translation. So I think I'd answer it by saying, generally, if I was sitting in your shoes, I'd focus on translation.

Okay. And just last question, I think in the press release it was mentioned – in the last press release as well, in regards to re-doing the credit facility, renewing the credit facility. [ph] That said (21:18) you're kind of reviewing options related to your capital structure. I was just – what's your thinking about the various possibilities are?

We are still thinking through a number with the banks. So, particularly with our agent PMC, I'd say we've looked, and will continue to look at, maybe using an asset-based lending facility. Those typically give you less of a focus on financial covenants and more of a focus, as it says, on your assets values. I think that's probably, in this near term, a good situation for us, for the bank group, for the agent. So we'll continue to look at that. That's the most likely but again, still working on that facility.

All right. Thank you, Rob.

Thanks, Matt.

And we will now go to Bob Labick with CJS Securities.

Good morning.

Hi, Bob.

Hi.

Good morning.

Why don't we start with the consent decree? Rob, you've obviously had a little more time and gotten more intimately involved in it than previously. It sounds like there's been a bit of – a little change of course from maybe previously doing work-arounds or patch works to the system to fixing the entire system. And you talked about the streamlining just moments ago. I wanted to know, A, is that accurate? And B, please walk us through the process, globally speaking. I know you don't want to give a timeline, but of the steps going forward to – in your view now, with more insight, to get into full compliance.

Just a couple of comments. One, I don't want to say that we had patchwork in the past. I would just say that I think, as we've gone through the process and made some changes, there have been cases where we've looked back and said – for instance the two systems where we're entering complaints into two separate systems. Without going through a lot of detail, there was a logic to that at one point. The danger is, is that that's [ph] stowing (23:15) a certain amount of people at it.

I think we've found since – I think it was October 6 that we put in the one system. It's made a number of people, both in customer service down the chain very happy with the change because it's easier and less resource intensive. So I wouldn't want to say we had patchwork. I'd say more – I think we're making continued improvements to make sure that it's sustainable. And I think the other piece we found, which is why we brought in the consultant, is that we've probably looked at some of the sub-systems a little more to have standalone capabilities. And I think what we've really noticed is, we need to think about some of the key sub-systems tying in so we don't find out that we have additional issues when we get to either the third-party auditor or the FDA.

But again, I think it's constant improvement, it's not patchwork. And then I'd just add one further thing. You mentioned global. And I know you didn't mean it, but we're really focused at this point on the consent decree, which is really for Taylor Street and Corporate. That's not to say we won't be using it on all facilities worldwide that send products – or our product in the United States. But to start with, I want to make sure to focus the listeners for the first time that it's one plant in Elyria, Ohio, our Taylor Street plant and our corporate facility which supports that.

And just to add to that, regarding some of the changes we've made or improvements we've made. Rob has put into place with the team, daily, weekly reporting to get better visibility to where we're at, some of our quality systems data, and that type of visibility to kind of hold each other accountable to our quality systems progress. So that's just another improvement, another part of the maturity that we're seeing as part of the process.

It's a good point, Lara. And then Bob, maybe to try to answer your question, you're right. We're not going to mention timeframe, because many of these things are ultimately out of our control when we look at the third party auditor and we look at the FDA. But I think our next steps are to put in an additional work with this consulting firm. More importantly, I should emphasize this is being driven by our team here at Invacare, consulting firm's helping us, but our quality and regulatory team are driving the improvements, particularly on these core subsystems. When we get those through and we've made those changes, improvements, at that point we'll make sure we verify that they are effective – once we're comfortable they're effective, we will be aligning up and arranging for the third party auditor to come back in.

And maybe just to be a little more clear on that point, I think as we get close to seeing that we can verify that we're truly effective on the changes we're making to make this more sustainable, more integrated, we'll contact the third party auditor and get them lined up. This is a busy industry, and we need to make sure we give them a little notice. They can't show up on a dime.

Okay. Great. Thank you very much for that clarity. And then, looking at the impact on this, obviously I think you mentioned in your remarks the Taylor Street facility output was roughly flat year-over-year. So you've kind of reached that plateau, but it's obviously materially down from before the consent decree. Can you just remind us and tell us what you're doing out there in the market to stay in contact with customers and to create new product that will be ready for launch once you get into compliance, and how that process is unfolding?

Sure, I'd be glad to. A couple things. One, I want to emphasize, our sales force is a generalist sales force. So our sales force in North America, and the U.S. in particular, is focused on Respiratory, Mobility and Seating and on Lifestyles. In other words, they do all three lines. Additionally, I'd emphasize to you that there are products in Mobility and Seating that are not impacted by the consent decree. So our sales force is still talking to our Mobility and Seating products [ph] It's (27:00) customers, we're still talking about Power Wheelchairs. And then finally, as you pointed out, with a verification of medical necessity, our customers are still buying product from Invacare, power wheelchairs that are impacted by the consent decree, and I think that was about 11% of the volume compared to going back two years ago.

So again, much lower volume, but we're in front of these customers talking about products that aren't impacted by the consent decree, custom manual, lightweight, built-to-order product. We're still talking to them about power wheelchairs, and they are still ordering. In certain cases both replacement and product that is really critical for our customers to have Invacare capabilities. But those are the things that we do with the sales force.

Now you mentioned new products. I'd emphasize that we do have a new product that we're working on right now. We are getting, we've got a 510-K in and we're answering questions, TDX SP2. So there are things we're doing to make sure that, when we get through this as quickly as possible, if not right when we're there, we're ready to put that new product out there and make sure that it's not just the sales force can go back and say, I'm ready to sell you the product you used to buy, but a new and improved product. Maybe I'll stop there and see if that helps, Bob.

Yes, no, that's excellent. I appreciate it. Just jumping on to – you discussed pre and post audits and the effect on the North American business. Is that kind of a one-time step down effect and then a leveling off of business, or is there continuing decline or are we too early in that process? Where do you see that? How do you see that playing out?

A couple of things. One, it's been going on for a while. So I want to be clear that it's not something happened in the last quarter or two. I'd say at some point, I would assume there would be a little more stable result from that. If it has an impact on our customers in terms of both their delay of getting – being shipped [ph] thorough (29:17) in terms of getting approval for product, and then potentially too, maybe at least a little less utilization, I think at some point that will potentially stabilize. It will depend a little on how tough the audits are. They change in terms of becoming tougher or not, a little less tough. So again, hard to say exactly, but at some point we would expect that the impact would be more stable and we wouldn't be able to say that impacted from last year.

It's worth noting that a lot of the RAC audits that are taking place, those auditors are incentivized to find issues as they are looking through the [indiscernible] (29:55) provider's files and past information. And I mean the industry is learning, improving, it's a lot of education of the physician toward writing [ph] the prescription lines, (29:57) very precise level of detail that needs to be part of all of this documentation. So it's a lot of work. It's still very aggressive, because of what I mentioned. So it just continues to be something that our providers have to deal with.

Okay. Great. Thanks. And finally, just on the warranty accrual, you gave some nice detail, I appreciate that. Obviously, respiratory has been a good driver over the last several quarters or years. So it sounds like it may have been on, not HomeFill, which I think had been a bigger driver. Can you just talk a little bit about, has this affected in any way your competitive positioning or the future sales in respiratory related to this new warranty accrual?

A couple things. One, you know the three – we mentioned three accruals. One was in Power Wheelchairs. So put that aside for a minute. Two were on respiratory, you're right. We wrapped up – I wanted to make sure we referenced both the first one, and the second one is related to the stationary oxygen concentrators. They were not related to HomeFill, just to be clear on that point.

Secondly, I'm not going to try to predict how customers will respond. I think our view is, what we take very seriously is, I think our customers want us to, and ultimately the patients want us to take care of issues that are out there. If we see an issue, like for instance the [indiscernible] (31:32) issue in August of 2014, the answer is, we're going to move quickly, we're going to take care of that and we're going to move on.

So my view would be, I think the customers know we make a quality product and we stand behind it. If there's an issue, we will take care of it and we'll fix it, make sure that our customers and their patients can move on. So I don't think it will impact our competitive position, but obviously time will tell and the customers will respond accordingly, but I want to emphasize, patient safety is critical and we stand behind the product.

And just to add to that, I want to emphasize that the stationary oxygen concentrator component that we are currently reviewing, no decision has been made on that just yet, and it is related to past production. This is not part of current production, so it wouldn't impact any business going forward.

Okay, great. Thank you very much. [Operator Instructions]

And we'll now go to Jim Sidoti with Sidoti & Company.

Good morning. Can you hear me?

Yes, Jim.

Hi, Jim.

Good morning.

Great. Would you characterize the pressure or the scrutiny on your providers as more aggressive this quarter than last quarter, or is it starting to level off?

My gut is, and again this would be total anecdotal, it's comparable to the past. So I don't think there is a big change up or down from what we're hearing from the field.

Okay. And on the institutional products, one of the issues you had was, I guess, a lack of new products. Are you any closer there to launching products on that line?

We are focused on a couple different things there. But in terms of exact timeframe on new products no, I think we still have the premier bed in the long-term care industry. I think for our customer base, particularly – directly to the nursing homes and long-term care facilities, are still the best product in the industry. So I think we're still in the right spot there and we'll continue to look at improvements.

Okay. And then on the consent decree, just – has the number of auditors or the partners change at all, or do you still have the same people that were there three months ago? Not auditors, consultants – I'm sorry, consultants?

Same team, same team. It's a good team, both internally and who we have involved from the consultants and no, we've not changed that.

Okay. Thank you.

Thanks, Jim.

This does conclude our question-and-answer session. Mr. Gudbranson, I would like to turn the call over to you for any additional or closing remarks.

I'd like to thank everybody on the call for their time and attention during today's call and I'd emphasize, as always, Lara and I are available for any follow-up questions. Have a good day.

Thank you.

This does conclude today's conference. Thank you for your participation.