Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Lara L. Mahoney — Director, Investor Relations & Corporate Communications, Invacare Corp.
Matthew E. Monaghan — President & Chief Executive Officer, Invacare Corp.
Robert K. Gudbranson — Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Invacare Corp.
Bob J. Labick — Analyst, CJS Securities, Inc.
Matt Mishan — Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets, Inc.
James P. Sidoti — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC
Gregory Macosko — Analyst, Montrose Advisors, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Invacare 2015 First Quarter Conference Call. I would like to remind you that all phone lines have been placed on mute for the first part of the call. After the management overview, we will open the call for questions. This conference is being recorded on Thursday, April 23, 2015.

I would now like to turn the call over to Lara Mahoney, Invacare's Director of Corporate Communications and Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Thank you, Kyle. Joining me on today's call is Matthew Monaghan, Invacare's President and Chief Executive Officer; and Rob Gudbranson, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.

We will begin the call with the customary Safe Harbor statement that this conference call may include statements regarding anticipated or future developments that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

Forward-looking statements are those that describe future outcomes or expectations that are usually identified by words such as should, could, plan, intend, expect, continue, forecast, believe, and anticipate and include, for example, any statement made regarding our future results. Actual results may differ materially as a result of inherent uncertainties and risks, including the risk factors described in our Form 10-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and in our earnings release, and we refer you to those risks factors. We may not be able to predict and may have little or no control over the factors or events that may influence our financial results.

Also of note, except for free cash flow, the financial information for all periods excludes the discontinued operations of Altimate Medical Inc., the company's former manufacturer of stationary standing assistive devices for use in patient rehabilitation, that were divested on August 29, 2014. Altimate was a part of the North America/Home Medical Equipment segment.

On today's call, we will focus on the highlights of the quarter as opposed to covering all the detail which you can read in the release that was issued earlier today. In particular, I would refer investors to our earnings release to review the definitions of free cash flow and some of the adjusted earnings items which will be mentioned during the call. You can find the release and access to our SEC filings at www.invacare.com.

I would now like to turn the call over to Matt Monaghan.

Thank you, Lara, and good morning. I started at Invacare as President and Chief Executive Officer on April 1, 2015. I believe that Invacare is in a market with significant opportunity in light of the industry's compelling fundamental drivers, positive demographic trends and a proven clinical and financial benefits of homecare, and I'm excited to be here.

But before we discuss some of my initial impressions, I'd like to review the company's consolidated first quarter 2015 results. Excluding the impact of unfavorable foreign currency translation, the company delivered net sales growth of 2.3% compared to the first quarter of last year, driven by increases in European, North America/HME, Asia Pacific segments.

Gross margin as a percent of net sales for the first quarter of 2015 was lower by 0.5 percentage point compared to the first quarter of last year. Excluding the incremental warranty expense of $2.2 million or 0.7 percentage point related to the joystick recall that was recorded in the first quarter of 2014, gross margin as a percentage of net sales for the first quarter of 2015 decreased by 1.2 percentage points as compared to the first quarter of last year. This decline was primarily driven by unfavorable foreign currency transactions and sales mix.

As a result to the previous cost reductions and a continued focus on reducing selling, general and administrative costs, SG&A expense decreased by 16.1%, to $81.2 million for the first quarter of 2015 compared to $96.8 million for the first quarter of last year. Foreign currency translation reduced SG&A expense by $5.2 million or 5.3 percentage points. Excluding the impact from foreign currency translation, SG&A expenses decreased 10.8% compared to the first quarter of last year.

For the first quarter of 2015, adjusted net loss per share was $0.21 compared to an adjusted net loss per share of $0.52 for the first quarter of 2014. The reduction in adjusted net loss for the first quarter of this year was driven primarily by lower SG&A and warranty expense, partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency impacts and a reduced gross margin in part due to unfavorable sales mix.

Free cash flow was negative $23.7 million in the first quarter of 2015 compared to negative $8.7 million in the first quarter of 2014. This difference was principally due to $9.1 million in benefit payments related to the 2014 retirements of two executive officers of the company, and to increased accounts receivable driven primarily by net sales growth excluding the impact of foreign currency translation.

I'll now turn the call over to Rob, to discuss additional financial results for the first quarter.

Thanks, Matt. All the references to earnings or losses before income tax exclude restructuring costs. Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, net sales for the European segment increased 4.3% in the first quarter of 2015 related to improvements in all three major product categories.

For the first quarter 2015, earnings before income taxes decreased $2.1 million compared to last year, primarily attributable to unfavorable foreign currency impacts and reduced gross margin, driven in part by unfavorable sales mix.

Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, net sales for the North America/HME segment increased 1.3% in the first quarter 2015 due to improvements in all three major product categories. Loss before income taxes improved by $8.5 million compared to the first quarter last year, primarily driven by volume increases, improved manufacturing costs, lower warranty expense and decreased SG&A expense.

The reduction in SG&A expense was primarily related to reduced employment costs, depreciation and amortization expense and consulting costs, including regulatory and compliance costs. The loss before income taxes for the first quarter 2014 compared to 2015 had $2.7 million in discrete items, including an incremental warranty expense for the joystick recall of $1.3 million, an increased expense of $1 million related to the retirement of an executive officer and an additional $400,000 related to bank fees.

Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, net sales for the Institutional Products Group segment decreased 4.1% in the first quarter 2015, driven primarily by declines in sales of beds and case goods. The decline in bed sales was due in part to lower availability of beds during the company's supply chain transition.

Earnings before income taxes improved by $500,000, largely attributable to reduced SG&A expense, which was mostly driven by reduced employment costs and depreciation and amortization expenses, partially offset by volume declines.

For the first quarter 2015, excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, Asia Pacific net sales increased 1.9% attributable to the volume increases in the New Zealand distribution business and at the company's subsidiary that produces microprocessor controllers. This was partially offset by volume declines in the Australian distribution business.

For the first quarter 2015, losses before income taxes decreased by $1.6 million. It is worth noting that the first quarter of 2014 included an incremental warranty expense of $900,000 related to the joystick recall. The reduction in loss before income taxes is largely attributable to lower warranty expense, volume increases and lower SG&A expense that was primarily driven by lower employment costs and depreciation expense.

Total debt outstanding which includes the convertible debt discount as described in the release was $24.7 million as of March 31, 2015. The company's total debt outstanding consists of $7.1 million drawn on the revolving credit facility, $13.4 million in convertible debt and $4.2 million of other debt.

During the first quarter 2015, borrowings on the revolving credit facility ranged from a high of $35 million to a low of $4 million with the ending balance of $7.1 million. The company's available borrowing capacity was $38.5 million as of March 31, 2015.

I'll now turn the call back over to Matt for few closing comments, we can then address questions.

Thank you, Rob. As I mentioned earlier, I believe that Invacare is in a market with significant opportunities and led the industry's compelling fundamental drivers. I've been in medical devices for nearly 20 years starting with General Electric's Medical Systems division; and carving out of a division at Baxter Healthcare while working with Texas Pacific Group; and most recently leading Zimmer's Global Hips Division and Reconstructive Research focusing in orthopedics.

Healthcare is a vital part of the economy and it is fundamentally growing in every area of the world. With a push to new patients out of acute care settings, more and more technologies are moving into the home and long-term care environments. This is Invacare's strength. And I think my advantage being new to the company is having a fresh perspective on how we can differentiate ourselves both in technology and services so we can meet these market needs.

However, the way forward is not necessarily the way of the past. We need to make changes in key areas of our business in order to take advantage of this growth. In particular, I believe that the North American business needs specific attention to deliver improved financial results. My direct involvement in the business will be critical. And with that in mind, I've made a leadership change and now will run the North America/HME and IPG businesses directly on an interim basis. Turning around to North American business is one of two key priorities for our long-term success.

My most important priority is to establish a sustainable quality systems culture that clearly demonstrates the spirit and the letter of U.S. FDA requirements and allows us to exit the injunctive phase of the consent decree with the FDA. My preliminary review of our quality system improvements is that our associates are making good progress on the key quality implementation plans that will help us achieve sustainable compliance. I'm familiar with many of the quality systems consultants that the company has engaged and I believe the company has a clear vision of its plan forward. As CEO, I will ensure the team's prioritized appropriately.

Over the next 90 to 100 days, I will be getting grounded on the fundamentals of our business in developing a plan to move beyond the injunctive phase of the consent decree and accelerating the financial results of the business. These short-term initiatives must happen in order for us to move forward. Beyond that, we'll be looking at how to take advantage of the great markets in which we operate, we will involve our main stakeholders in this strategic process. It's an exciting time to be in Invacare.

I want to thank everyone for their time and attention on today's call. We will now open the phone lines for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We will take our first question from Bob Labick with CJS Securities.

Good morning.

Good morning.

Good morning.

Good morning. Hi. And, Matt, congratulations on your new role.

Thank you, Bob.

I wanted to start with one of the last points you raised. You talked about a management change, you stepping on an interim basis in North America/HME and IPG. Was this part of the plan all along or what precipitated it, and do you still tell us a little bit more about how it came about?

This was not necessarily part of the plan. Obviously, I have an on boarding plan focused proportionally on the most important parts of the business. North American performance is clearly one of the most important parts and it's vital that we get better performance out of that segment. This is simply a delayering. So I've got unfettered access to the functional leaders in that area and I can quickly get an understanding and help make improvements directly.

Okay, great. And it's probably unfair given your 22 days in office so far to ask, but do you have a timetable for as opposed to specific items that you're going to address, the timetable for a turnaround in these areas?

I've got an internal objective of 90-day to 100-day plan which will be a full long-term strategy for the business, but that'll be the plan to get the most important things going as we need them.

Okay, great. And then, Europe, obviously there's the FX headwind, but performance has been fantastic, and the 4.3% organic growth is very, very strong. You mentioned it was across all segments. But could you talk a little bit more about the key drivers there and if they're sustainable throughout this year and what you're looking for, not numbers specifically, but on a go-forward basis for this strong growth?

Bob, a couple of things, really focused on the fact that we have a very strong team over there. I think we've mentioned before that number of the key, I'll call them country and business managers who've been with Invacare for quite a while and even more importantly in the industry for long time. So again, we have very strong management team. I think the 4.3% organic growth which you indicated was an indication of that team performing. I'd also emphasize that even with the FX pressures, if you look at their earnings before tax margin, prior year first quarter was about 6.7% of sales and it was 5.9% this first quarter. So that was down given again the pressures they've got on some of their transactions, purchases on Asia, I think the team's doing well. In terms of looking forward, again, we're relying on that team, but as you know we're really not giving guidance, but we feel the team's in good position.

The one thing I'd just add which I think people are aware of, but I think it's important to just reemphasize is, we mentioned in the year-end release that there's pressure on currency in the first quarter. The euro was approximately about $1.18 for first quarter 2015, and I think we all know that's trading at $1.07 today. So we obviously have more work to do as a management team to offset that pressure and work hard on that, but that is pressure out there that we're aware of.

Okay, great. Thanks. And then, one more and I'll jump back. Could you give us an update just, I guess, on a regulatory basis on House Resolution 284 as it relates to the binding bid for competitive bidding and, if this passed, how it might impact your business?

Well, it's great news, Bob. I mean, this is the first time Congress is addressing one of the flaws of National Competitive Bidding. Unfortunately, the language as they currently stated that the changes for contracts must not be implemented any earlier than January 1, 2017 and not later than January 1, 2019. So the next opportunity for this binding bid bill to be influencing the competitive bidding process would be really the round two rebid that's effective in 2019. Though I know the industry is working hard and hopeful, that will be [indiscernible] (17:08) around one re-rebid later this year. So it's great for the industry, but we have a little bit of time here before it'll have to an impact.

Okay, great. Thanks very much.

Thanks, Bob.

We'll take our next question from Matt Mishan with KeyBanc.

Great. Thank you for taking my questions.

Good morning, Matt.

Hey. I guess excluding Taylor Street in North America/HME segment, it looks like you're no longer comparing against large HomeFill order and you're over a year into National Competitive Bidding, and I believe that the sales comps were flat there versus double-digit declines pretty much all of last year. Do you think you've reached a floor in the underlying business? [ph]

Analagous to (18:03) say a couple of things. One, you're completely right. If I look back at the organic declines last year, they were difficult and, as you said, they were double-digit. So we're glad to see the organic growth to 1.3% in North America/HME segment. I think at this point a data point of one probably makes a tough line to draw. But I would say we're very focused on the fact that we need to show that we can grow that business to ourselves, to our associates and to our shareholders. But again, I think we'll celebrate where we are right now and then we'll see how we do going forward this year as we report.

And how did the expansion of the ProBasics brand contribute in the quarter?

Matt, that's very early still. I think we indicated in the last call or at least in a number of different forums that it's going to take some time to roll out those products and get them fully through the Invacare systems, for the Invacare sales force, the single-user strategy for benefits of other participants on the call is a good one, given that we had pressure in that category of lifestyle. But again, it's going to take some time. So I'd say it's too early to really judge that yet, particularly given the fact that the port delay out in the West Coast really kept us getting some inventory in. So very early days on that still, but we're working hard on that project.

Okay. And last quarter, you had talked about actions around complaint handling as far as the consent decree goes. Can you give us an update on some of the progress you've made, maybe around the complaint handling?

Without getting too deep into the details there and there are a lot of details, I'll say the team is oriented towards a streamlined process and we're making really good progress on moving forward in Phase III of our quality improvement program.

Okay. And I also believe you have a new wheelchair that was under consideration that you're going to be marketing potentially under your Motion Concepts subsidiary. Have you gone forward with that? And, if so, maybe comment on short-term and longer-term strategic positioning there versus necessarily your resumption in Taylor Street?

Sure. I think what you saw or referring to is the extreme max share from our Motion Concepts business headquartered in Canada. It's a great production-ready concept chair. As you know, Motion Concepts makes best-in-class seating and they make those with various OEM basis, and that combination that you saw have some really great attributes. We're not quite ready to bring that production, but we think there's a lot of opportunity there and that represents the fundamental technological pipeline that Invacare has continued to have despite the consent decree.

The only thing I'd add to that, Matt, just to give a little bit of clarity, is the base actually will be manufactured by a third party. They'll be responsible for that base, but in terms of both its performance and in terms of its compliance. And then Motion will use the seating. So as Matt said, this is very typical for Motion, they'll do the power seating, they'll do the seating on the product, and they'll put – marry that with the base from a third party. You just want to make sure that's clear. If we move ahead with that, that's how it will be responsible.

Okay. And then last question for me before I jump in the queue. What were the QARA costs in the quarter?

Good question. I think we were $4.7 million in terms of our performance – our spend in Q1 2015. And I should emphasize for our callers, that's a combination of corporate and our Home Medical Equipment business. That's not worldwide QARA spend, but it's the number we normally reference on these calls. So it's $4.7 million this year, Q1 last year. For your benefit, Matt, that was $6.3 million. So we're down which we mentioned in the release.

All right. Thank you very much and welcome, Matt.

Thanks, Matt.

We'll take our next question from Jim Sidoti with Sidoti & Co.

Good morning. Can you hear me?

We can, Jim. Good morning.

Great. So let's just start [indiscernible] (22:21) the decline in QA expense in the quarter, or I assume that's a decline in consulting expense. Can we read anything into that in terms of progress you're making towards a consent decree? Is the fact that you have less consultants in-house now mean that you think you're closer, and what's the next milestone?

I think I guess I'd focus on the following, Jim. I think we've tried real hard during the last year to make sure our spend is the right spend. So I think we saw some decline towards the end of Q4 last year and that's continued at this point. I wouldn't necessarily read into the spend whether that tells you anything about the timing. I think the important thing for the shareholders is we're trying hard to do the right thing, spend the money wisely as opposed to just spend money and have a lot of consultants. I think the other thing is an indication we're trying over time to make sure we have stronger associates internally so that associates own this, which they do by the way, and not third-party players. But in terms of reading between the lines and timing, I think the answer is we're just trying to be smart on our spent.

Okay. So I assume the next milestone would be the start of that third audit?

You're talking about the third party consulting and third party external audit?

Exactly.

Okay. Those are the next steps and, again, in terms of timing, we're not going to talk about that today, but I can guarantee, both Matt and I are focused on getting to that as quickly as possible.

And will you let us know when that audit starts, or will you wait until it's completed to let us know?

No, I think we're going to wait in terms of committing to any sort of timing until we have better visibility. But my guess is we probably would be when we complete. But let's wait and see how we get through that as opposed to committing to any terms of communication to that.

Okay. And then on the IPG group, the supply issue that you referenced, is that something that will continue to impact you in the second and third quarter, or was that a one-time event?

Well, as you know we're transitioning bed production among facilities and affiliates and suppliers, and we're in the ramp-up phase of that. So we expect to out of that as volumes ramp up through that new source of supply and we should be in the normal range there pretty soon.

Okay. And then in terms of the improvement in the sales out of the Taylor Street, was that – what happened there? Was that more re-orders of outdoor chairs or what prompted that?

Yeah, just for benefit of the people on the call, we have the ability under our Taylor Street facility even though we're in the injunctive phase of the consent decree, we have the ability to still do replacement product and additionally new orders coming through. And as long as those are clearly medical necessity and a verification of medical necessity assigned. So I guess the reaction I'd have is, we had some uptick which is good. I think it's really, Jim, more than anything else, an indication that we're sort of at a steady phase. But I'd also remind everybody we're drastically down from where we were because the injunctive phase has impacted us substantially. So when I think about our unit volume coming through North America/HME, [indiscernible] (25:55) depending on the quarter in sort of the 10%, 11% level from where we were back in 2012. That's a substantial hit and why we're very focused on getting through that.

All right. And then the last question, just on general terms, the European business has done very, very well in the past five quarters or so. What's the big difference there with the HME business in North America? Is it primarily just the fact that you can't shift the out of Taylor Street, and, if you could, do you think you'd have similar results in the U.S.?

A couple things, one, I think both businesses are good long-term businesses. I think I'd have to say very clearly that, yes, that's a huge impact. I think we shared on earlier calls that the sales through Taylor Street were in vicinity of $174 million before this all started and got down to, I believe, last year around $43 million. So huge impact in terms of the sales line. I know we don't break out margin, that's a very profitable piece of us. So we have work to do to obviously get out of the injunctive phase with the consent decree. I would be very forthright though, Jim, that we've also had pressures on lifestyles which is why we've talked about the need for a better single user product line and the ProBasics brand. So there are things that picks beyond just mobility and seating, but clearly that's a huge impact.

Do you have similar pressures in Europe, or is it not an issue there?

They are still, let's say, in a row. First of all, they're performing well on power. We have a German assembly plant that continues to manufacture and assemble, and that business is doing well. Additionally, on the lifestyles, there are some pressures there, but I think generally that marketplace and that performance of the team has been strong. So again, are there pressures throughout all medical devices in terms of the reimbursement and pricing pressures, yes. But I think the answer is we have more to fix today in North America, but these issues are important issues worldwide.

And do you think in North America the pressure is at least leveled off, or do you think you're continuing to see more pressure in 2015 and 2016?

I think Jim, we'll show you performance over time as opposed to necessarily project going forward, but clearly we're focused on trying to deliver the improved performance on both those fronts.

Okay. Thank you.

Thanks, Jim. [Operator Instructions]

And we'll take our next question from Gregory Macosko with Montrose Advisors.

Yes, thank you. Yes, welcome aboard, Matt. I'm pleased to hear you're taking a fresh perspective.

Good morning, Greg. Thanks.

Yes. Just with regard to the SG&A and restructuring, clearly, the SG&A was down a lot, but compare that with respect to how much is kind of core and ongoing and, obviously, a lot of that is related to the FDA and all that. But can you give us a sense of – it was relative to the $1.1 million restructuring charges. Are those restructuring ongoing and are we still – are we seeing some – any kind of a consolidation on the SG&A line relative to that?

Well, Greg, let's just start and revisit where we're at. We're down, I think, approximately $15.6 million on a reported SG&A and over $10 million on organic. I think we've done some important things including last August the reduction in force. That was very critical, it was a fun decision, but I think it was important one for the management team to make. I think we've done the right things on those fronts. I think additionally you heard a minute ago that the QARA cost, though, still $4.7 million for corporate and HME were down from $6.3 million first quarter last year. So I think we're doing all the right things. I think with Matt here, we'll continue to look at what SG&A makes sense, and we're going to manage that particularly in light of some of the currency pressures we talked about to make sure that we're doing the right things and spending the right money.

In terms of really saying what's core SG&A today, I think that's going to depend a lot on how we do in the top line too. So I think we've done the right actions. I think the team's very focused on not spending any more than we can really afford. And when you look at the performance on the adjusted operating income or, I'll call it, say adjusted earnings, we really lowered that loss substantially, more work to be done.

Okay. And then with regard to Asia Pacific, was up 1.9%. Talk about the micro-processing there, I know that that's an area where you supply yourself as well as external. Could you talk about kind of what is driving that business? Are the external sales growing, or is it more internally-driven?

They're doing fine on the external front, Greg. I think for them really to turn and if we really look at the critical number for that in a group, Asia Pacific, we really need to get back to being able to order and from North America/HME for the joysticks for the microprocessor. So I'd say it's very clear on our mind that part of fixing Asia Pacific is to continue to get through the injunctive phase of the CD. I think we've made some progress on the distribution businesses in terms of profitability, but we've got some more room to move there too. So I think we've made progress in both businesses, but I have to say very clearly to really fix the business of the microprocessor controller division, it's going to be critical to get out of the injunctive phase of the CD in North America.

Thank you.

Thanks, Greg.

And it appears we have no further questions in queue at this time. I would now like to turn the conference back over to Matt Monaghan for any additional or closing remarks.

We'd like to thank everybody for their time and attention today during the call. Rob, Lara and I will be available for any follow-up questions. If you have any, please let us know. Have a good day.

Thank you.

And this does conclude today's conference call. Thank you all for your participation. You may now disconnect.