Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Gerald B. Blouch — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Invacare Corp.
Robert K. Gudbranson — Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Invacare Corp.
Bob M. Goldman — Analyst, C.L. King & Associates, Inc.
James Sidoti — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC
Anthony Nicholas Gikas — Analyst, Allerion Asset Management LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Invacare 2012 Second Quarter Conference Call. I will begin with the customary Safe Harbor Statement that this conference call may include statements regarding anticipated and future developments that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

Forward-looking statements are those that describe future outcomes or expectations that are usually identified by words such as should, could, plan, intend, expect, continue, forecast, believe and anticipate and include for example any statements made regarding the company's future results.

Actual results may differ materially as a result of inherent uncertainties and risks including the risk factors described in the company's Form 10-K or other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and in the company's earnings release. The company may not be able to predict or may have little or no control over the factors or events that may influence its financial results.

Before I turn the call over to Invacare's President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Gerry Blouch, I would like to remind you that all phone lines have been placed on mute for the first part of the call. After the management overview, we will open the call to questions. This conference is being recorded, Thursday, July 26, 2012.

I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Gerry Blouch, President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Blouch, you may begin.

Thank you very much. With me on the call today is Rob Gudbranson, our Chief Financial Officer. In the following comments, we will focus on highlights of the release as opposed to covering all the details, which you can read yourself after the call.

In particular I would refer investors to the company's earnings release to review the definition of free cash flow and some of the adjusted earnings items which will be mentioned during the call. You can find the release at www.invacare.com.

Throughout the second quarter of 2012 we continue to invest and made significant progress on our quality system improvements related to previously disclosed observations made by the FDA. The incremental regulatory in compliance investments in the second quarter aggregated approximately $7 million pre-tax the majority of which was for the third party experts. After-tax expense was $4.7 million, or $0.15 per share, and as a result of this incremental cost, adjusted earnings per share decreased 33% to $0.30 in the second quarter of 2012, compared to $0.45 in the second quarter of 2011. Obviously, the impact of the incremental regulatory and compliance costs were excluded adjusted earnings per share in the second quarter would have been $0.45.

Sales in the quarter were unexpectedly slow with organic net sales decreasing 1.2% over the same period last year. Organic net sales for the Invacare Supply Group, Europe and Institutional Product Group segments grew, but were offset by declines in North America/HME and Asia/Pacific segments.

As previously disclosed, sales have been adversely impacted by delays in new product introduction due to the company's diversion of internal resources to accelerate progress on our remediation efforts. The company also felt the impact of external challenges, including ongoing global reimbursement pressures faced by Invacare's customers, most notably competitive bidding that will be rolled out to 91 metropolitan statistical areas in July of 2013. Uncertainties surrounding the outcomes of the bid is causing providers to be more cautious in their capital spend.

In addition, the company continues to see slowness of our wheelchair sales in the United States due to the ongoing uncertainty and general slowness in the market where mobility and seating customers are dealing with prepayment reviews, post-payment reviews and other types of audits of power mobility devices from Medicare and Medicaid.

Free cash flow for the quarter was $4.8 million. Cash flow was adversely impacted by $10.7 million increase in net working capital. In retrospect, we did not respond early enough to the sales slowdown in the quarter, and as a result, inventories grew in the quarter and accounts payable declined. We expect to have inventory substantially corrected before year end, receivables as well, but DSOs are within our marketing range.

Gross margin as a percent of net sales for the second quarter was lower by 1.2 percentage points compared to last year's second quarter and margin decline was principally related to a favorable mix that favored lower margin products and lower margin customers. These factors were partially offset by favorable impact on the – of an acquisition finalized on the third quarter of 2011.

Selling, general and administrative expense decreased 0.6% to $111.8 million in the second quarter compared to last year's second quarter, excluding foreign currency translation and an acquisition, SG&A decreased by 1.2% compared to the second quarter of last year by primarily related to the reduction of associated cost and bad debt expense, which was partially offset by the $7 million pre-tax increase of regulatory and compliance cost related to quality system improvements.

With that I would like to have Rob review additional financial highlights for the second quarter.

Thanks, Gerry. For the quarter ended June 30, 2012, North America/HME organic net sales were down 7% compared to last year driven by declines in respiratory therapy and mobility and seating products. The sales decline is in part related to uncertainty in the home care industry, as it gets closer to the fall 2012 announcement of bid rates for the next round of National Competitive Bidding. Customers are trying to leverage their existing product inventory in light of that bid. The sales decline in the segment also was related to the company's previously mentioned delay of new product introductions.

Earnings before income taxes decreased $7.9 million compared to last year as a result of the incremental costs mentioned previously related to quality system improvements, volume declines unfavorable sales mix favoring lower margin customers and unfavorable product mix away from higher margin products. These costs were partially offset by reduced bad debt expense and lower associate costs.

Net sales in the second quarter for the Invacare Supply Group increased 8.5%, compared to the same period last year.

Earnings before income taxes for the second quarter increased by $0.3 million, compared to second quarter last year, as volume increases were partially offset by higher freight costs.

Organic net sales for Institutional Products Group increased 5.8% driven primarily by strong sales, net sales in the dialysis chairs, respiratory therapy products and interior design projects for long-term care facilities partially offset by declines in institutional beds.

Earnings before income taxes were comparable with the second quarter of last year. As volume increases and the benefit of an acquisition finalized during the third quarter of 2011 were offset principally by increased freight expense and research and development costs.

For the second quarter, European organic net sales increased 2.3% principally due to increases in respiratory therapy and lifestyle products.

For the second quarter, earnings before income taxes decreased $2.1 million, which was largely attributable to an unfavorable sales mix favoring lower margin product line, lower margin customers, as well as unfavorable foreign currency transactions and translations. These factors were partially offset by reduced SG&A expenses and by volume increases.

For the second quarter, Asia-Pacific organic net sales decreased 13.4%, caused primarily by net sales declines in the companies Australia and New Zealand distribution businesses, partially offset by external net sale increases by the company's subsidiary, which produces microprocessor controllers.

For the second quarter, earnings before income taxes declined $2.4 million, compared to last year. The decrease in earnings before income taxes, primarily attributable to the Australian distribution business, as a result of significant reduction in net sales volumes. Total debt outstanding, which includes the convertible debt discount is described in the release, was $262.8 million as of June 30, 2012.The company's total debt outstanding consisted of $242 million drawn on the revolving credit facility, $13.4 million in convertible debt, and $7.4 million of other debt.

And now, I'll turn the call back over to Gerry for a few closing comments, we can then address questions.

Thanks, Rob. The company is continuing to negotiate the terms of the FDAs proposed consent decree of injunction related to the company's corporate and wheelchair manufacturing facilities in Elyria, Ohio. As previously stated, the company is not in a position to provide guidance for 2012 until it understands the final terms of the consent decree.

The company is making significant progress on our quality systems remediation and as announced in the first quarter, we remain committed to conducting the third-party audit of our compliance in the fourth quarter of this year and have begun pre-audits in several or newly implemented work streams.

I'm proud of the Invacare's team, the Invacare team's dedication in driving this towards remediation and continuing to hold the business result steady despite the challenges that we've mentioned. while remediation and quality systems remains the company's first priority, the Company wants to assure its shareholders that, we' are addressing the pressure on its gross margin through the benefits of the company's long-term globalization strategy to harmonize product lines and reduce complexity, as well as through introductions of new products, especially in custom power

These initiatives combined with the quality system improvements will make Invacare an even stronger company. We are confident in the strength of our long-term plan, and we are well positioned in the market with strong underlying fundamentals and positive demographic trends. While Invacare's spending has continued to be pressured in a variety of government reimbursement programs that helps the company believe these market uncertainties and adjustments will settle and then home care will emerge as an even stronger component of the healthcare continuum because it is patient preferred, more cost-effective and delivers better outcomes.

On behalf of the company, I appreciate your time and attention during this call. We will now open the phone lines and take your questions.

[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Robert Goldman from C.L. K. Your line is open.

Well, thank you and good morning.

Good morning, Bob.

Gerry, Robert, a couple of questions and I know that you won't be at liberty to say much relative to the consent decree if anything. But Gerry, what gives you the sense of confidence that the third-party audits, which is to occur some time in the fourth quarter will be in line with what the FDA is looking for? In other words, what can you share us with the nature of the conversations with FDA so that we have a sense of confidence at what your auditing is in line of what the FDA is looking for? Hello?

Go ahead Mr. Blouch.

Yes, are we reconnected? Yeah, we got disconnected.

You may begin again.

Bob, it's Gerry. We had an equipment failure and I apologize for that, it got cut off at you were in the middle of what gives us confidence on the outcome of the third party audits in the fourth quarter, was there more to that or do you want me to go ahead and answer?

Sorry to interrupt. Mr. Goldman, could you please press star one again to rejoin the queue.

Bob? Well, I, mean we lost – we had a compound system error, I guess.

Okay.

I will answer Bob's questions, it's a good one. There is really – his question was whether discussions with the FDA gives us confidence, that said, it has little to do with our discussions with the FDA and more to do with $7 million of expert help and including most importantly, the verification audits that we've already begun. So we think we are – when the third-party audit is conducted, it will be the second or third or fourth time that these work streams will have been audited.

So we're not leaving this to chance. We're not doing all those work and then team up for our first and only plan to that. So is it, yes I actually do feel very confident. The outcomes of the audits are coming in daily. There's been no shocker, no problems, few things tweaked here and there but the closer we get to this, the more confident I feel.

Are you also able to share Gerry as far as what the experts are telling you relative to when you might expect to in fact receive the consent decree?

Bob, it's all over the board. Off the record, if you would have asked me in December 8, I would have thought we'd be full into it. But before the end of the first quarter and at the end of the first quarter, [indiscernible] (15:16) will be at end of the second quarters. I can't, I don't have any useful – I've got a lot of the normal speculations, but no useful insight into why it's taking time. I'd say that we are quickly responding to every and all requests made by the FDA. I think the good news is they are engaged in the issue and we're having constructive dialog. So...

And if I could just ask one final question just with sort of closed the loop on the regulatory issues, anything new to report relative to the Florida plant?

Nothing from the FDA side. I think as we said this in the past, while we are not just working on Elyria headquarters, we are not just working on the Elyria headquarters, we're installing to the extent that the procedures are facility, plant related. We are simultaneously implementing those procedures at the Florida facility as well.

Okay. Thank you, Gerry.

Sure, Bob.

[Operator Instructions] And our next question comes the line of Jim Sidoti of Sidoti & Company. Your line is open.

Good morning. Can you hear me?

Yes.

Great, great. A couple of questions, one, just following up on the FDA situation, would you start this audit in the fourth quarter, if you would not under the consent decree at that point or do you wait for the consent decree to be finalized before you start this third party audit?

We'll start, we will do the third party audit irrespective of when the consent decree is concluded, they're signed, they're executed I should say.

Okay, so you could have this third party audit completed theoretically by the time the consent decree is executed?

It's possible and it's happened, but I wouldn't say it's probable.

Do you think you will get the consent decree prior to that?

That's my guess, but honestly, Jim, I don't – honestly, that's my educated guess, but it's a future statement and we don't have – we're not the one who control the situation.

Right. Well, now I understand. All right. And then...

In some respect, we like to have it conclusive. But that falls into the – that is just, it would be nice to certainty around us, for you, for us, for the employees. So we are doing everything possible to co-operate with the FDA to get this resolved.

Okay. And then my second question on the power wheelchair sales which were down in the quarter and you mentioned some uncertainty with its competitive bidding. How long do you think this lasts? Because there is obviously not going to be a resolution in the third quarter, do you think this continues to the remainder of 2012?

I think that, it's an educated guess that the – Invacare is a sales driven company, so we all spent a certain amount of time calling customers. I had a number of calls at end of the July, and I was kind of really taken aback not the usual [indiscernible] (18:44) relationship thing, and getting into an order, that's part of the persona of Invacare like I said, we are a sales driven organization. I was really surprised, because it doesn't happen until – doesn't go into effect until the July of 2013. So, I was kind of taken aback. I think as the bids are now in, and I think that gives us – that makes it more tangible and real and people are now thinking about winning or losing.

And the issue is [indiscernible] (19:22), I'd say that the power wheelchairs, particularly high end are not high end power wheelchairs are not included in the competitive bidding. So it's a less of an issue there, but it is more of an issue in rental items and would be beds and some wheelchairs and concentrators. So the theme – the hard on theme was unless I know everybody needed, I'm not going to buy it. I don't know whether I'd be out of that category altogether from July of next year, and if I'm, I don't want to have a bunch of money tied up in money tied up in assets I can deploy.

So I think once they sell, there was a set up for, I think once people know whether they are in or they are out, that they can start making business as usual decisions.

Hey, Jim, this is Rob. I'll just add one more thing and Gerry said in his comments – our prepared comments, particularly on power, the real issue probably more than anything else is the combination of prepayment reviews and post-payment reviews, and other audits by Medicare and Medicaid. So Gerry rightly said, the good news about competitive bidding is, it doesn't impact the high end power, which is a very important part of the business for us.

Now, to finish the response, the FDA has said that they will announce who the winners are in the fall. So I don't so – don't know sometimes but they will do it when they are ready to do it and [indiscernible] (20:48) because people have had an opportunity to opt out, they want to give themselves runway to get final commitments for the bid process. So the stated time is the fall, no precise date just the fall this year.

Okay, so by – you would think by fourth quarter some of that uncertainty should be at least starting to subside?

Yes.

Great. All right, thank you.

[Operator Instructions] And we have a follow up question from Jim Sidoti of Sidoti & Company. Your line is open.

Hi. I guess this is just Bob and I today. Can you just follow-up on currency with the euro down here around the $1.21, what do you have in places, is it more natural hedges or are there any other kind of artificial hedges to help offset the decline in the euro?

Two things, I think we're pretty consistent every year in doing the same thing pretty much on currency. On transactions for instance, Europe is buying a certain amount of product from China paying in U.S. dollars in some cases. We will go ahead and hedge anywhere from 60% to 90%, we'll probably hedge ballpark 70% of exposure for the back half, but again that's a transaction.

On translation, we are exposed as I think most companies are, you can't really get the right accounting over quarter-end, so we pretty much see where that falls. I think we are pretty clear in the investor presentation, but to just reiterate it for the call's purposes, probably about 60% of our exposure over in Europe is a euro-based, maybe another 15% sterling. So you've got three quarters in those two currencies.

Okay, all right. Thank you.

Okay.

And our next question comes from the line of Tony Gikas from Allerion Asset. Your line is open.

Hi, good morning, guys. I joined the call late. So I apologize if you have already addressed this. But as far as the potential shutdown of the Ohio facility, are you hearing from customers that they are cancelling orders in advance? Is this sort of already impacting that business? I guess are you losing customers in advance of this happening and as well as the government, are they pulling back on orders in that category?

No to the latter. But on the former, factually, I'm not aware cancellations because of that, but I think it would be more people placing what I wouldn't know, but I would be hard pressed to convince myself or you of that selective customers are rather than taking risk or placing orders with competition. We don't think that's a big factor, but it's hard for me to imagine that hasn't happened. Most of our big customers, we have active dialogue with them and so it's not certainly isn't wholesale. But like I said, I think it will be a little foolish to assume that's not an issue.

Okay. And then I know this is a difficult question to answer, but if there is a shutdown, how long typically do these types of things last? Have you seen other – are there any comparable occurrences in the market?

I think no, not that I'm aware of it, but the whole thing hinges on our successful implementation of remediation, which we spent $7 million in the second quarter, Tony, and if I could have spent $10 million usefully, I would have done it. So, getting it done, getting it right is the most important thing and that's the linchpin to the resumption of normal operations.

Is it possible that it could be a very short lived occurrence, maybe one, two, three months?

The longer it takes to conclude, [indiscernible] (25:24) the more likely it is.

Okay, thank you, guys.

Sure.

[Operator Instructions] . There are no further questions in queue at the time. Mr. Blouch, I turn the call back over to you.

Well, thank you for your attention and thank you for taking the time to call in. I apologize for our technical glitch here, but if you have any further questions obviously Laura, Rob and I will be available at your convenience. Thank you again.

Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today's conference call, you may disconnect.