Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Gerald B. Blouch — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Invacare Corp.
Robert K. Gudbranson — Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer & Senior VP, Invacare Corp.
Bob J. Labick — Senior Managing Director of Research, CJS Securities, Inc.
James P. Sidoti — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC
Matt P. Daniel — Analyst, Prosight Management LP

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Invacare 2013 Fourth Quarter and Year-end Conference Call. I will begin with the customary Safe Harbor statement that this conference call may include statements regarding anticipated and future developments that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

Forward-looking statements are those that describe future outcomes or expectations that are usually identified by words such as should, could, plan, intend, expect, continue, forecast, believe and anticipate and include, for example, any statement made regarding the company's future results. Actual results may differ materially as a result of inherent uncertainties and risks, including the risk factors described in the company's Form 10-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and in the company's earnings release. The company may not be able to predict and may have little or no control over the factors or events that may influence its financial results.

Also of note, except for free cash flow, the financial information for all periods excludes the impact of discontinued operations. Discontinued operations include Invacare Supply Group, the company's former domestic medical supplies business that was divested on January 18, 2013 and Champion Manufacturing, Inc., the company's former domestic medical recliner business for dialysis clinics and was divested on August 6, 2013. Champion was a part of the Institutional Products Group segment.

On today's call, the management team will focus on highlights from the company's fourth quarter and full year 2013 results. For additional details, please refer to the earnings press release that was issued earlier today. In particular, I would refer investors to the company's earnings release to review the definition of free cash flow and some of the adjusted earnings items, which will be mentioned during the call. You can find the release and access the company's SEC filings at www.invacare.com.

Before I turn the call over to Invacare's President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Gerry Blouch, I would like to remind you that all phone lines have been placed on mute for the first part of the call. After the management overview, we will open the call for questions. This conference is being recorded on Thursday, February 6, 2014.

I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Gerry Blouch, President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Blouch, you may now begin.

Thank you, Celia. With me on today's call is Rob Gudbranson, Invacare's Chief Financial Officer. We will discuss – as we'll discuss, we faced many challenges during 2013, but throughout our European business segment delivered excellent overall performance, and I want to [indiscernible] (3:00) and thank the European associates for generating strongly improved year-over-year growth and profitability.

In 2013, organic net sales for the European segment increased 4.4% and earnings before income taxes improved by $8.5 million compared to the prior year. Unfortunately, the excellent performance in Europe was more than offset by financial results from our remaining three business segments, which struggled, primarily as a result of three issues.

First, the company's consent decree with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration which limits sales and productions from our Taylor Street power wheelchair manufacturing facility. Second, the lack of significant new product introductions over the past two years as a result of our focus on quality systems remediation and limitations initially imposed by the consent decree. And finally, an unfavorable sales mix favoring lower margin products and lower margin customers.

Primarily as a result of these factors, financial performance for the full year resulted in an adjusted net loss per share of $1.20 compared to an adjusted net earnings per share of $0.22 in 2012. Organic net sales for the year decreased by 6.3% compared to last year. But despite this, we achieved positive free cash flow of $6.3 million during the year. Using the net proceeds from the successful divestitures of the Invacare Supply Group and Champion Manufacturing during the year as well as free cash flow from operations, we reduced total debt outstanding by $190.1 million to $48 million as of December 31, 2013.

I will now cover more detail on the consolidated results from continuing operations for the fourth quarter. The fourth quarter of 2013 adjusted net loss per share was $0.19 as compared to an adjusted net loss per share of $0.10 in the fourth quarter of 2012. The adjusted net loss for the quarter was negatively impacted primarily by lower net sales and reduced gross margins. This was partially offset by reduced SG&A and interest expense.

Organic net sales for the fourth quarter decreased 6.6% over the same period last year, as increases for the European business segment were offset by declines in all of the other three segments. Gross margin, as a percentage of net sales from continuing operations for the fourth quarter was lower by 1.7 percentage points compared to last year's fourth quarter.

Gross margins for the fourth quarter included an incremental warranty expense accrual for the power wheelchair joystick recall, the accrual of $3.4 million pre-tax, which represents 1 percentage point. The joystick recall was launched in October. Thus far the customer response for the recall has surpassed our expected response paid rate and this rate was established based upon our prior experience. This expense was recorded in the North American/HME and Asia Pacific reporting segments. We'll continue to monitor the recall closely and the reserve is subject to adjustments as appropriate.

Gross margin was also negatively impacted by the North American/HME sales decline in custom power wheelchairs, which historically is one of company's higher margin product lines, and an unfavorable sales mix toward lower margin customers. Gross margins for the quarter improved as a result of an amendment to our VAT filing in Europe. The benefit recognized was $1.4 million or 0.4%.

Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, expense decreased by 8.9% compared with the fourth quarter of – I'm sorry, SG&A expense decreased 8.9 % compared to the fourth quarter, primarily as a result of reduction in regulatory and compliance cost as well as reduced associate cost. Thanks, Rob.

With that, Rob will now review additional financial highlights for the fourth quarter.

Thanks, Gerry. All the references to earnings before tax exclude restructuring costs and intangible impairment charges. For the quarter ended December 31, 2013, organic net sales for the North American/HME segment decreased by 12.1% compared to last year, driven by declines in mobility and seating and lifestyle products. This was partially offset by increases in respiratory products, which were driven primarily by a large order of Invacare HomeFill oxygen systems by a national account.

The sales decline in mobility and seating products was primarily driven by the impact of the FDA consent decree, which limits sales of previously disclosed mobility products from the Taylor Street manufacturing facility to products having properly completed verification of medical necessity documentation.

Loss before income taxes for the North America/HME segment increased $9.1 million compared to the fourth quarter of 2012, primarily as a result of volume declines, unfavorable sales mix towards lower margin customers and lower margin products and higher warranty expense, primarily due to the joystick recall. These factors were partially offset by reduced regulatory and compliance cost as well as lower associate costs.

Organic net sales for the Institutional Products Group decreased 18.1% driven by declines in all product categories partially due to delays in new product introductions and strong net sales for interior design projects that occurred in the fourth quarter of 2012 that did not repeat in the current quarter. Earnings before income taxes decreased by $1 million compared to the fourth quarter of last year, as volume declines and increased depreciation expense were partially offset by favorable product mix towards higher margin products and by decreased freight in research and development expenses.

European organic net sales for the quarter increased 2.8%, principally due to increases in lifestyle and mobility and seating products. These increases were partially offset by decline in respiratory products. Earnings before income taxes increased $4.7 million compared to last year. The increase in earnings before income taxes was largely attributable to higher net sales volumes and reduced purchasing and freight costs, partially offset by increased SG&A related to associate costs and unfavorable foreign currency transactions. The fourth quarter of 2013 also benefited by the $1.4 million related to the amended VAT filing.

In the fourth quarter, Asia-Pacific organic net sales decreased 13.2%. The decline was in the company's subsidiary which produces microprocessor controllers and was primarily related to its decision to exit the contract manufacturing business for companies outside of the healthcare industry. Also the company's Australian and New Zealand distribution businesses experienced a net decline in sales, primarily in lifestyle and mobility and seating products.

For the fourth quarter, loss before income taxes was reduced by $0.3 million compared to last year's fourth quarter. The reduced loss before income taxes is primarily attributable to lower SG&A expense, primarily associate costs, as a result of the company's restructuring efforts, partially offset by higher warranty expense due to the joystick recall and by reduced sales volumes.

Total debt outstanding, which includes the convertible debt discount is described in the release was $48 million as of December 31, 2013. The company's total debt consisted of $28.1 million drawn on the revolving credit facility, $13.4 million in convertible debt and $6.5 million of other debt.

As more fully described in our February 3 press release and the SEC filing, the company has successfully amended its credit agreement, the amendment increases the company's maximum leverage ratio for the first three quarters of 2014 compared to the prior credit agreement.

In calculating the company's EBITDA for purposes of determining the ratios, the credit agreement also allows the company add back to EBITDA up to $20 million, a one-time cash restructuring charges representing an incremental increase of $5 million from the prior credit terms.

In order to align its debt capacity and related costs with anticipated needs, the company also has reduced its revolving credit facility to $100 million from $250 million through the October 2015, maturity date of the facility. I would like to thank our lenders for their support in completing this amendment.

I'll now turn the call over to Gerry for a few closing comments. We can then address questions.

Thank you, Rob. I'd like to take a few moments to update you on the progress relating to the consent decree covering our corporate and Taylor Street manufacturing facilities in Elyria, Ohio.

Throughout 2013, we continued to make progress on demonstrating our quality system improvements to our third-party expert auditor, and we have received the FDA's acceptance on two of the three required third-party certification reports earlier in 2013. During the final expert certification audit, the auditor indicated that some additional work was required on our updated complaint and risk review processes before the final and most comprehensive certification report could be completed and provided to the FDA. I would refer you to our December 23 press release where we discussed this in greater detail.

Since that meeting with our auditor in December, we have been thoroughly and purposely executing our action plan related to their comments. As previously stated, we expected that the third-party expert will return at the end of February to recommence this final audit. We are unable to predict the timing and the outcome of the audit. Our priority is to resume production at our Taylor Street manufacturing facility in Elyria, Ohio, and we are working hard to demonstrate our quality systems compliance to the third-party expert and ultimately to the FDA. We appreciate the ongoing support of our associates, customers, and shareholders as we work through this process. Despite these short-term challenges, I continue to be encouraged by the fundamental strength of the markets in which Invacare participates.

Trends including the ageing population, the growing prevalence of chronic diseases and comorbidities, as well as policy initiatives associated with the healthcare reform are expected to contribute to growing demand for our products. Public policy is shifting to support transition of patient care from acute care to long-term care. The Affordable Care Act will drive shorter length of stay and reduced patient readmissions which will result in more patients spending more time in lower cost home settings, such as home to care and long-term care.

I might refer you to the latest edition of Health Affairs and there is a great article that gives us a study of approximately 106 ACOs which touches on these issues. I'd shared with many of you before homecare is the trifecta of healthcare. Patients prefer to be at home. There are better clinical outcomes at home and homecare is more cost-effective than institutional care. While the volume of patients coming into the home channel is increasing, the channel itself is evolving as domestic home medical equipment providers adjust their business models to handle increased pressure from pre and post payment audits, as well as National Competitive Bidding.

Since July 1, 2013, we have been closely monitoring the rollout of the second round of National Competitive Bidding which expanded to 91 additional MSAs. It's hard for us to measure the direct impact of National Competitive Bidding on sales, but we do not – as we do not have zip codes visibility to our customers revenues or Medicare fulfillment data. While we expect some market realignment and temporary dislocation, this will stabilize, and homecare will be a major contributor to driving down healthcare costs and more patient care will continue to migrate through this channel.

We've seen an increase in sales of HomeFill Oxygen Systems, which we believe demonstrates the providers are actively seeking opportunities to reduce cost and transform their business models by improving patient care. Excluding the one substantial order mentioned by Rob for HomeFill oxygen systems, we estimate that sales in the 91 impacted MSAs were slightly weaker than MSAs outside of those markets. Continued uncertainty, as the industry realigns and adjusts itself to a small number of bid, bid winners and contracts.

We're confident after we emerge from remediation process, we will continue to strengthen our product portfolio to serve the needs of the market with innovative and cost-effective solutions.

On behalf of the company, I appreciate your time and attention during this call. We will now open up the phone lines to take your questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Bob Labick with CJS Securities.

Good morning and congratulations on another excellent free cash flow quarter.

Thanks, Bob.

First question, I just wanted to start there with the cash flow. Obviously, very good cash flow, debt's been paid down a lot, and you appear very comfortable versus your covenants. You just amended your credit facility and I was hoping you could talk a little bit about that and the thought process behind that. Is this – have you seen safe? Is this more because there is seasonality of working capital in the first half? Are you signaling something or is this just to be conservative and stay ahead of anything that might happen?

Bob, I'll take a shot at it and Gerry can add some comments too. Last May, we reset some position with the banks. We had our – at that point, it was our fourth amendment to the credit agreement and we really were looking to get two things. One, we wanted to have a little flexibility on the covenant calc and we asked from the bank for some support on non-operating expense that would be excluded from the EBITDA calculation, which allows us to, where needed, resize the business and make some good decisions in the short-term that don't necessarily hurt the covenant calculation.

We ended up not needing those leverage ratio changes, because we did well in terms of selling the Champion business and as you pointed out on cash flow. But I would point out to you and to the investors, it is a very sensitive calculation as the EBITDA has declined from the performance, the difficult performance of the business particularly North America/HME. It does not take a big movement to change the leverage ratio pretty dramatically. So again, we want to make sure that in this Fifth Amendment to have both those things again, some flexibility for three quarters on the leverage ratio. And then additionally the banks were supportive in putting another $5 million back into the non-operating expense basket that would be excluded from the EBITDA calculation. So I think all those things together and then maybe building a little on what you said, we're clearly not giving guidance, but it's not atypical, historically, that we see some pressure in the first quarter on cash flow. Again, don't want to get into whether that will be true for 2014, but historically the first quarter is a tough quarter.

Okay, great. Thank you for that. And just moving over to globalization. You have given us the update on the audit – you expect it by the end of this quarter, but then timing beyond that is still out of your control. So, I was just wondering, is there anything that you can do on globalization before the consent decree is lifted. So, where does that stand on timing? Just help there, please.

I'll throw in – I suspect last time it was how do you feel about the $100 million, so I'll start with that.

Start with it, yeah.

You usually start with that. I'm very confident, $100 million. As we said, we're focused like a laser and exiting the injunctive phase of the consent decree. That globalization project is a global leaning of the medical device businesses and leverages on globalizing product lines, reducing SKUs, addressing rooftops, and so it's kind of all pivot against the timing of exiting the injunctive phase of the consent decree, so we actively tune up and refine the projects to just to keep fresh and circumstances change, so it's alive and sitting in the bullpen, and as soon as we know when we are going to be or as soon as we're going to announce that we're out of the injunctive phase of the consent decree, we'll be getting more color on the timing.

Okay. Great. Skipping over to Europe, as you mentioned, you had a fantastic year there, particularly in the second half margins were pretty even adjusting for the value added tax in Q4. Could you talk a little bit about the drivers of the success in Europe, and without giving guidance, give us some sense of an outlook there if the strength can continue?

Give the sense of the outlook without giving guidance, it's a very strong business and mature accomplished management team, so again it starts with people, good people and great products and just the pedigree of the people and their tenure is excellent and so we got a great team and we continue to make improvement on products, costs, pricing and IT systems, so that they're running a tight business and continuously improve.

Just Bob, I'll just add one thing, which I could agree more with Gerry, I think we've got of a very good management team over there with a lot of history and they also realize this is the time that we're counting on them to perform well. I would just point out that one of the things that really helped us in the year beyond the fact that they did grow the sales line and they did improve their process was the euro was quite strong. So that's just a factor that I only can pretend to be able to predict where it goes from there going forward, but that's just a factor for investors to keep in mind.

Okay, great. And then last question, I'll let others ask. You highlighted you had another strong sale in HomeFill. That's been doing very well in North America. Can you talk a little bit about the – I guess, attributes of HomeFill and why that's – has the success it has had of late? And if there is other opportunities for different products and different categories that could have similar attributes and you could gain some market share in those.

Great question. The attributes – it's a double win. It's a product, which is great for patients and great for providers. So, it's an easy sale. The challenging part is, it's a more expensive upfront capital investment and but that is palatable, if not desirable because it reduces – the payback on that investment is huge. The reduction of all the infrastructure required [ph] to buy action (22:54) involved to transfill it down in a government approved facility into smaller tanks to deliver those tanks to patients. And the interesting thing is that some of the big moves are being undertaken by businesses that have been taken over by venture capitalists and these are tough minded numbers people and they have been run the numbers and they see the value and they're putting the money on the line, because it enhances the patient outcome, it enhances great patient benefits. And so, it's unique, it's best-in-class. We created the class.

But the other part of your question – I think generally our theme in dealing with competitive bidding is the fleet cost. We preach – the product they buy from us, they are products that are rented by and large, rented over 5, 10 years. So our products are known for reliability, durability, cleanability, reparability. And so, when we get pressure on the pricing of products, our theme is total lifetime cost. And so to save $10 in a product, which is a $200 product or 5% for a product is going to last a third as long is a bad investment. And that's what we deliver to our customers and that's what we preach to our customers. You've got to change your business model. Desperate people do desperate things. There is always a market for cheap and cheerful product, but where we – that's our theme, products – selling products and product portfolios and product philosophies that give you the best total lifetime cost.

Great. Thanks very much.

Thank you, Bob.

We'll go next to Jim Sidoti with Sidoti & Company.

Good morning. Can you hear me?

Hi, Jim. Yeah.

Great, great. Few questions and start to with that – this last audit, you said that you expect the third-party that'd be back in the building later this month. Can you just give us a sense of what's involved at this point? Do they have to start from scratch or do they start from where they left off in the fall?

The number one focus, I mean, first of all, they're independent auditors. So they'll do what they think is right. And there is no fixed protocol. There is no pre-agreed audit plan. Part of the value of an audit is the spontaneity of it, but clearly the key focus is on those things which they felt were just not in sufficient shape to justify a clean opinion as probably [indiscernible] (25:44) and then that's in the complaint systems and the risk review systems. So that will clearly be the main focus and where else they go is, I would – the only thing that track me is if they didn't do anything else.

Okay. All right. And then, if we look at the results in the quarter, I just want to be clear, the pro forma results include the charge for the recall. So, excluding that, had you not had the recall, you would have showed an operating profit in the quarter, is that right?

Well, I guess I'd say a couple of things, Jim. We had the benefit of the VATs. We call that out separately. We shouldn't just be calling out the things that hurt us. It's important to tell investors things that helped us. So even you can net those two and then say what the impact would have been on the adjusted operating income. I think the other thing is just as part of a normal year end process, we always do, for instance, we count our inventory and make sure our inventory is in good shape in for fourth quarter. We always reserve for that and there is some benefit from there that came through to us. Again, there are other things that help, but those would be the big two items that we would adjust for.

Okay. And then, moving to Asia, it looks like you're anniversarying the changes you made there to restructure. Do you expect that business to turn to a profit going forward?

The expectations is a trend – the clear trend we established in 2013 should continue. The moving part here, Jim just to make clear, let's put the two businesses up, I think that the management team over and what we call the Australia and New Zealand distribution business, they did a restructuring, they removed a lot of personnel, they are showing progress, which is why we showed progress in the whole segment. I'd also point out, that the team in our microprocessor control division also made some tough decisions and exited a portion of the business that really didn't make sense going forward. So they are making some progress too in terms of making that decision. Obviously they are very driven by making microprocessor controllers for HME, for the power wheelchair market, and so we really need that to turn for there really to be a turn in that piece of the business too. So that'd be the only thing, I'd add to Gerry's comment.

Thanks, Rob.

Okay. All right. And then on the restructured debt, can you let us know what the interest rate on the debt is at this point?

Yes, it's approximately LIBOR plus 2.25% and LIBOR as you know is very low.

Okay. And how does that compare to before you restructured?

It's pretty much the same – to same spread that we had before from the May vantage point.

Okay. And then, the last question on competitive bidding, are there any other products other than your respiratory products that will be impacted by competitive bidding?

Yeah, there were 10 products, 10 or 11 products, some which we don't deal with like Sleep Therapy, but there was six, seven products and Laura can give you the list that were not respiratory products.

And then Jim, we do show those on the IR presentation, so you can see that in the back.

Okay. And can you just give me a sense on what percent of revenue those seven products accounted for in 2013?

We put in the third quarter 10-Q a breakdown of the logic for how we put that together. So I'd refer you to that, it's in the outlook section, I believe. And I'd like the investors to read that so they see the logic of how we built it up.

Okay.

To be clear, it's our customers that are affected by competitive bidding and the best we can ever do since we don't have visibility to their revenue sources, their reimbursement sources. The best we can do is use the kind of common industry accepted principles of how much is Medicare, how much is Medicaid, how much is private pay, how much is cash. So we assembled the pieces, as Rob said, that leads into that, but it's a – as I say, a wag.

Okay. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

We'll go next to Matt Daniel with Prosight Capital.

Hi guys, good morning.

Hi Matt, good morning.

I guess to start off, can you talk about what the remediation spend was in the quarter?

Yeah we can. We look just at our corporate QA/RA I think it was right around $4.6 million and last year for the quarter it was about $8.3 million. So there was some pretty – as we mentioned in the release, it's a pretty substantial decrease in terms of that spend.

Okay. And then how do you think about the stickiness of that spend going forward?

There will be – two big factors, of course we're at a sprint to the finish. So, we're kind of at a sustainable level. I wouldn't expect until we get out from under the consent decree that you'd see any further material declines from what we saw in the fourth quarter, maybe perhaps even a little bit more. But the fact of going forward are, once we get going forward, meaning once we get out from one of the injunctive phase of the consent decree, we will – the intensity level will go down, there is a bulge factor and, kind of, think we created targeting processes than we had to retrain and realign the paper flow and the documentations through those processes and a catch up, maybe, this certain level of retrospective remediation.

So the real bulge factor as you implement and fine tune those, that will be beyond those. And we'll be working on – we've learned a lot because the FDA expects you to use continuous improvement just like Six Sigma. So we're enhancing the processes. So we've got improvement, the surge factor, the debugging on working through the procedures. But then as we've said, that we have already begun and we'll accelerate extending those procedures globally to all of our FDA registered sites. So, we've got a tail on standardizing and – but the big nut is the initial investment of the procedures, the implementation of the procedures and debugging those processes. And we've allowed that we should see – once we're out from one of the consent decree, a healthy level of reduction.

Okay. And then can you speak around how much of that's current spend is consultants or third party spend that will go away over time?

Yeah. Matt, I probably say the following. We really need to get beyond the third-party audit and get through the FDA. And then I think we'll have a lot better visibility to that. But I think we really need to clear that and understand how clean the processes are and whether we have to add any more. Clearly, as Gerry said, we're going to work hard to make sure that spend is proper. It's the right spend, it's lean, but right now that's just very hard to give color on.

Okay. And then this was the second quarter in a row where you had a large one-time order of the HomeFill product by a national account. I guess I was just curious if you expect this to continue each quarter and then to what extent the large orders are sold at discounts to the customers?

The order realized early in the year, so it's the business each quarter from one block order that was expected to rollout over into the third quarter and a little bit into the fourth quarter. So, it was the same order, it was just a fulfillment of that order. So that was one of a kind, I think that there isn't any one customer who has the capacity or appetite for that much.

Okay. So, if we try to back that out, is there any way you can speak to the magnitude of that order in Q3 and Q4?

We love to, but our customer prefers not to have a lot of publicity.

Okay. And then moving on to Europe, in the fourth quarter, the European division reported growth of 6%, 3.2% of this was from foreign currency translation, I think you called out the strength of the euro is primarily the source of that. I was just curious if we'll reach some point in 2014 where we anniversary the effect of the stronger euro?

Yeah, a couple of things. One, during the quarter, yeah we grew in Europe, reported was up 6% and the organic was up 2.8%. I mean I'd be glad to tell you sort of what the range was on the euro over time just to give you a sense of the euro and that's not the only currency for Europe, I should emphasize we have sterling, we have all the Nordic currencies and we have Swiss francs there are other currencies, but maybe using the euro is just an indicator for a big portion of the business. In fourth quarter of 2012 it was about average in that quarter about $1.29 and in fourth quarter this year it was $1.35. So, that's a quite a big move there. During this year, it was $1.30 in Q1, $1.30 in Q2, $1.32 in Q3 and $1.35 in Q4. And so I guess I'd sort of say, yeah, you can make your own view on how you think things will go forward and between the GDP and the euro we typically say that might be two-thirds to maybe a little bit more of the profitability over in our European business, but again that's trying to predict where currency will go, I think I'll just give you an indication of what we saw in the past.

Okay. And then moving on to competitive bidding, I think you used the words realignment and dislocation that you're seeing with your customer base. Just curious what you're hearing if you can comment on what you're hearing from providers about inventory in the channel.

I'd say a better – I won't say better – a useful litmus test was at the trade show, we had several brokers there buying and selling inventory, which I've never seen here in the past. So, we know it's there, we know it's happening and – but I wouldn't know how to give you color, but it's a common sense thing. But again the – I think the importance today of competitive bidding is, it was a massive project, any implementation of any massive project is going to have some confusion and chaos at the onset and the industry will get through that including pre and post payment on it, because they enhance their systems and protocols to get the right data at the right time to have a smooth delivery of product for patients being discharged. The key thing is that the underlying drivers, the aging of the population, chronic illnesses and policy shift getting a pay for procedure protocol that attracts people and institutions to a protocol that encourages a reward moving patients to the lower cost settings sooner, and with lower readmissions.

The only thing I'd add just for further background, I think Gerry said the important business points just from our vantage point we make this clear in all our communications on national competitive bidding, the biggest issue for us is to keep a very close eye as best we can on the accounts receivable exposure. We are the biggest creditor in the industry and we have a very good team to do that and it's a combination of both our financial services credit team and our sales team. We're doing our best to make sure we don't have exposure to those accounts as there is dislocation, but that's an ongoing issue. We're going to have to keep a close eye on the longer we get into competitive bidding.

Great point, Rob.

Okay. To follow up on Gerry's comment, you mentioned the brokers selling products at [indiscernible] (38:35), does that mean providers were selling excess inventory to other providers?

Yes, they are moving product sideways and they are moving products from people who have too much for any reason, but largely because of competitive bidding one would assume that's the biggest single event affecting the industry, moving that from people who have it and don't, can't use it to people who don't have it and need it. And so in simple economic terms, the pipeline is shrinking and because you've got a massive consolidation of providers.

Okay.

But that's a temporary thing that'll work its way out.

Okay. Then lastly on the auditors and – maybe I'll be a little tough on you here. But your timeline flips around getting the final – third and final auditor reports to the FDA. I think it was originally at the end of June 2013 and then sort of mid-November and now it appears you're not giving a target. Can you speak to why that's happened and why you're perhaps not giving a new target now?

The – not giving a new target is we demonstrated our inability to frame all the variables that are affecting the timing. There is a number of issues. There is the availability of auditors. There is the pool of auditors hasn't expanded usefully to accommodate the expansion of enforcement actions by the FDA. There is the – anything as complex as this, it's difficult to predict the outcomes and the opinions of a third-party. There is no FDA playbook, and so it's broad guidelines on what you should accomplish. How you do that is up to the discretion of the individual company. So there is a fair amount of ambiguity and greater bias to the process, so we have learned through that, we continue to get better, and we continue to march forward.

Okay. Thanks, guys.

And there are no further questions in the queue. At this time, I'd like to turn the conference back over to Mr. Blouch for any additional or closing comments.

Thank you, very much for your time and attention. We appreciate your support. And again if you have any further questions, Rob, Laura, and I will be available at your convenience. Have a great day.

And that concludes today's conference. We thank you for your participation.