Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Lara L. Mahoney — Senior Director of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications, Invacare Corp.
Matthew E. Monaghan — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Invacare Corp.
Robert K. Gudbranson — Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Invacare Corp.
Matthew Mishan — Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets, Inc.
Bob J. Labick — Senior Managing Director of Research, CJS Securities, Inc.
James P. Sidoti — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC
Gregory M. Macosko — Officer & Director, Montrose Advisors, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Invacare 2016 Third Quarter Conference Call and Webcast. After the management review, we will open up the call to questions. [Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded Monday, October 31, 2016.

I will now turn the call over to Lara Mahoney, Invacare's Senior Director of Corporate Communications and Investor Relations. Please go ahead, ma'am.

Thank you, Amy. Joining me on today's call from Invacare are Matthew Monaghan, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Rob Gudbranson, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.

Today, in addition to reviewing the third quarter 2016 financial results, we are pleased to give investors an update on our transformation from being a generalist, durable medical equipment company to one that focuses on solutions for clinically complex and post-acute care.

To help investors follow along, we have created slides to a company this webcast. For those dialing-in, you can find a link to our webcast on www.invacare.com/investorrelations. On our IR page, you will also find a PDF of the webcast slide presentation that we'll refer to during today's call.

Before Matt begins, I'd like to note that during today's call, we may make forward-looking statements about the company that by their nature address matters that are uncertain. Actual future results may differ materially from those expressed in our statements today due to various uncertainties, and I refer you to the cautionary statements included in our webcast slides and in our third quarter earnings release. For an explanation of the items considered to be non-GAAP financial information that will be discussed on today's call such as free cash flow, constant currency net sales, adjusted earnings on loss, and EBITDA. Please see the explanatory note on the first page of our webcast slides and in the related reconciliations in the earnings release posted on our website.

Also, please note that the company completed divestitures of certain of its businesses in the third quarter of 2016 and in 2015. Those businesses are included in the 2016 and 2015 results that will be discussed on the call unless otherwise noted.

Finally, investors should be aware that as of the third quarter of 2016, we have redefined the measure by which the company evaluates segment profit or loss to be segments operating income or loss. This replaces the previous measure, which was earnings or loss before income taxes. We believe this metric more accurately reflects how we manage the business. Please refer to our third quarter earnings release for its full definition of segment operating income or loss.

With that, I will now turn the call over to Matt Monaghan.

Thank you, Lara, and good morning. As Lara mentioned, our company is undertaking a comprehensive transformation that is essential to reinvigorating growth and profitability. With a good feedback from investors over the quarter, I want to put today's quarterly release in the context of the plan we are executing to our investors and perspective investors can more easily understand the long-term value being created.

Looking at slide 2 from our webcast presentation, you will recall that our company makes products that help people move, breathe, rest, and perform essential hygiene, and we focus on areas of congenital, acquired, and degenerative conditions. These are important parts of care for people with a range of challenges, for those who are active and heading to work or school each day and may need additional mobility or respiratory support; to those who are cared for at residential care settings at home and in rehabilitation centers. Invacare has been broadly one-stop shop provider of these products for its nearly 40-year history.

With the help of slide three, I want to describe the compelling need for strategically refocusing our company. On the first strap, you will see a sales margin histogram showing the distribution of economic value for the range of products the company has historically exchanged with its customers, where customers value durable solutions for ease for daily living. We have had good margins to reinvest and continue development of those products.

Similarly, were more complex, clinical issues are being addressed. We have been able to get a proportionally higher return needed to reinvest in the more intensive cost of developing those solutions. In many countries, where the government or private payers focused on total cost of care, this exchange of value and our sustainable business model continues to be helping. But in some markets, the economics can be very different.

In the United States for example, where reimbursement reductions to our customers have been significant, some customers are now focused more on the cash price for basic living needs than on total cost of care. And in some areas, customers are opting for single-used products to leave behind with each patient, if it is more cost effective than retrieving the product to redeploy with other consumers. As this happens, the market price is being reduced and the margin opportunity decreases. The impact of this shift in value is shown on the second graph where the lower end of the sales margin curve is drawn down closer to zero.

Invacare's geared to design and produce robust solutions for the needs we serve. So, at a point, there are certain minimum economics needed to foster good design and execute production, which is part of the company's promise.

This shift and the lack of ability for the company to generate a return for these products in certain markets has forced us to relook at our strategy and focus on markets and products where our core capabilities match what markets and, ultimately, patients are looking for. The best total care solutions and products that best solve the toughest clinical issues. With this realignment, we will have better returns needed to re-invest and grow.

And where do we add the most value to our customers and the people who use our products? On slide 4, we have depicted a typical person in a power wheelchair with complex needs. In the case of a person without the use of their legs and partial use of their arms, there's a great need for more than just a wheelchair. Seating and positioning are important starting points for posture control, stability and good functional outcomes. From there, an electronic control system must be matched to specific needs and adjusted to specific abilities.

Invacare has best-in-class solutions for these integrated systems, and beyond the wheelchair, this person will have special needs throughout the day, including resting in a safe bed that promotes security, tissue health and ease of care. He or she will need safe and easy transfers throughout the day and may have many specialized hygiene needs. In the graphic, we have depicted the need for supplementary respiratory support at night or throughout the day.

Globally, no other company can provide such comprehensive 24-hour support with product solutions for people with complex needs. We have a heritage of innovating in this space, and we are reorienting our work to emphasize this in a way that we expect will maximize our returns for growth and reinvestment.

So what do we need to do to get there? On slide 5, we talk about the phases of the transformation which began in 2015. Since then and through 2019, we have three phases of change to get us to a reshaped, well operating enterprise. We won't stop there. There is work and even greater opportunity beyond 2019 and those initial phases, but for now we're focused on this initial period.

The three phases of this transformation are: first, stressing our strengths and reorienting our business to match long-term market trends; followed by phase two, build and align, which is about rebuilding the company in alignment with our new direction; and finally phase three, which is growth and acceleration built on the foundation of phases one and two.

We have used this slide a number of times in investor presentations, and I won't go through all the details here today. But briefly, we are in phase one now, which is especially intensive in the North America/HME and IPG segments, as you would expect. In this phase, we are focused on having a strong balance sheet, expanding talent, accelerating quality efforts, strengthening the North American commercial team, shifting product mix, and accelerating innovation.

This is clearly an investment phase with significant shift in the mix of our business. Reductions in sales, gross margin improvements, SG&A increases and cash consumption are all indicators of the work we are doing. In later phases, we expect increasingly broader signs of economic improvement with sales and gross profit growth in phase two, and margin, operating income and cash flow growth in phase three. Refocusing the company on these clinical solutions is a significant transformation we expect will lead to a good outcome.

On page 6, we lay out our expectations for the company's performance at the end of phase three, which we believe will yield better returns for investors and sustainable long-term growth. By the end of phase three, we expect to have a company with this kind of performance. A company at least the size it is now, with $1.1 billion in sales; growing above market with our competitive products and resulting share gains; mix shift will get gross margin as a percent of net sales over 30%; SG&A should be back down in the mid-20% range reflecting resizing and sales leverage as we grow. That will lead to operating margins in the upper-single digits, and the company should be generating at least $100 million of annual EBITDA when we're done.

As you'll see on slide 7, we've already made substantial progress on phase one. I'd like to bring your attention to the most recent milestones noted here in brief. In terms of strengthening the balance sheet, at the end of the third quarter, the balance sheet had over $138 million in cash. Regarding leadership and staffing changes, we've appointed a new general manager for Europe, Ralf Ledda, who has had a remarkably successful career with our important German subsidiary, Alber GmbH. Alber is a high-tech subsidiary with holistic excellence being led by Ralf, and we are pleased to have him joining us to run all of Europe effective November 1.

Also in October, we had restructuring actions in North America, which reflect the change in emphasis in our business. This should impact the company by about $2.6 million of annual savings.

We continue to make progress on our quality efforts, and we spend a significant amount of energy strengthening our commercial team. We started with a good team facing a lot of change. We've been investing in North America sales force by attracting new associates with clinical backgrounds. They're going through a robust clinical products on-boarding program to help them hit the ground running. These new team members complement the incumbent sales force, which has also been going through robust clinical training and realignment. I greatly appreciate their hard work and commitment to this transformation. Between our ongoing training and these new additions, our commercial team is having deeper conversations with our customers about clinical needs and care.

Regarding our product mix shift, we divested Garden City Medical business for approximately $14 million in cash. That business primarily sourced the single use products that we're moving away from. Divesting this asset helps us focus even further on products and solutions that serve more clinically complex needs.

And importantly in innovation, we launched the first wave of our new LiNX power wheelchair electronic system, the world's first wirelessly programmable complex wheelchair control system, which is really important to help therapists do the best job they can to program many parameters for the drivers of those chairs and also help service technicians understand the status of the chair and make more effective service calls. This technology has been in customer evaluation for some time and the feedback has been very positive.

In North America, the company launched the Alber Twion power assist device for active manual wheelchair users, which has a novel smartphone interface and leading features for simple, daily use.

The un-qualitative indicators to progress, it's obviously important to talk about financial measures along the way. On slide 8, you see key indicators of the three phases of change. These are the channel markers on our journey to phase three.

Revenue in a short term, as I mentioned, has to come down as we reduce less strategic business and focus on growing the part of our business that provides more value in complex rehabilitation and post acute care. Over the long-term obviously, sales have to go up. Along the way in phase one and two, we expect gross margin is going to shift, first the gross margin percent increasing and later the gross profit dollars increasing.

In the meantime, there may be some periods where the dollars not exactly follow; this is because we're working to titrate the declining and increasing areas of our business along the way. We're working to keep gross margin moving forward.

We have talked about the important investments we are making in our commercial teams and business infrastructure. So on phase one, we expect SG&A spending will go up followed by a later reduction as the business is reshaped to fit our new mix and as we get leverage from sales growth. As a result of near term investments, we expect periods of negative cash flow followed by what has to be long-term positive cash flow.

Importantly, because this is a substantial transformation with a lot of moving parts, not every quarter is going to be smoothly interpolated between where we started and where we're going. In terms of metrics by analogy, this is going to be more of a walk through a forest to a destination than a walk in the straight line.

So, let's talk about the third quarter of 2016 financial results on page 9. Constant currency consolidated net sales were down 4.5% for the quarter compared to last year's third quarter. This comprised the mix of increases in Europe and Asia Pacific, which were more than offset by declines in the North America/HME and IPG segments.

And while sales were down, we managed to keep growth margin percent flat, compared to the third quarter of last year. Gross margin was impacted by a reduced manufacturing cost and favorable sales mix offset by increases in R&D expense. Gross margin as a percent of net sales increased for the North America/HME and IPG segments with declines in Europe and Asia Pacific segments.

Gross profit dollars declined $4.2 million, principally in the North America/HME segment, largely as a result of sales declines from our continued transformation.

Constant currency SG&A was up slightly by 0.8%, which is a reflection of our continuing investments. Free cash flow was positive for the quarter at $1.5 million, driven by lower accounts receivable, partially offset by the net loss increases in inventory and reductions in accounts payable.

Finally, while the company saw a positive product mix shift in certain areas of the business, especially in the North America/HME segment that is being substantially transformed, the consolidated net sales declined led to lower gross profit; as a result the EBITDA for the quarter was negative $1.1 million.

With our long-term goal of over $100 million in EBITDA, there is opportunity more ahead of us, and while not noted on the slide, I'd also like point out that our adjusted net loss per share was $0.37 for the quarter compared to adjusted net loss per share of $0.13 for the third quarter last year. The increase in adjusted net loss was driven by unfavorable net sales and increased interest expense. The company incurred net interest expense of $4.4 million in the third quarter of 2016, compared to $1.0 million in the third quarter last year. The net increase was primarily due to interest payable on the company's 2016 convertible debt issuance.

I'll now turn the call over to our CFO, Rob Gudbranson, to discuss in more detail the consolidated results, performance of the segments and additional financial results for the third quarter.

Thanks, Matt. For the third quarter of 2016, Europe constant currency net sales increased 4.4%, compared to the third quarter of last year. The improvement in constant currency net sales was driven by all three major product categories. For the third quarter operating earnings decreased by $2 million compared to third quarter last year. This decrease in operating earnings was primarily due to increased SG&A expense related to employment costs and a slightly lower gross profit impacted by unfavorable sales mix and pricing.

These impacts were partially offset by increased net sales and reduced manufacturing and warranty costs. Gross margin as a percent of net sales and gross profit dollars both decreased in the quarter compared to the third quarter last year. For the third quarter, North America/HME constant currency net sales decreased 14.5% compared to the third quarter of last year. The decrease in constant currency net sales was driven by lifestyle and respiratory products, partially offset by increases in mobility and seating products.

North America/HME's operating loss increased by $2.6 million as a result of reduced net sales and increased R&D expense partially offset by a stronger gross margin and reduced SG&A. The increase in gross margin was a result of favorable sales mix while reduced SG&A related primarily to lower regulatory and employment costs.

For the quarter, gross margin as a percentage of net sales increased slightly and gross profit dollars decreased compared to the third quarter of last year.

Constant currency net sales in the IPG segment decreased by 12.9% due to case goods and interior design projects. Operating earnings were up slightly largely due to reduced SG&A related to employment costs cost and a favorable gross margin due to reduced freight costs largely offset by net sales declines.

During the quarter, gross margin as a percentage of net sales increased and gross profit dollars decreased compared to the third quarter of last year.

For the third quarter of 2016, Asia Pacific constant currency net sales increased 0.5%. The improvement in constant currency net sales was due to the net sales increase in the New Zealand distribution business.

For the third quarter operating loss $0.2 million largely due to an unfavorable gross margin related to an increased R&D expenses. Gross margin as a percentage of net sales and gross profit dollars decreased in the quarter compared to the third quarter of last year.

Total debt outstanding as of September 30, 2016 was $197.2 million. The company's total debt outstanding consisted of $163.4 million in convertible debt and $33.8 million of other debt, principally lease liabilities. The company had zero drawn on its revolving credit facilities as of September 30, 2016.

The company's cash balances were $138.4 million as of September 30, 2016, compared to $125.3 million as of June 30, 2016 and $60.1 million as of December 31, 2015. Cash balances increased in the third quarter of 2016 compared to the second quarter of 2016, primarily due to cash proceeds from the sale of Garden City Medical. The increase in cash balances compared to December 31, 2015 was principally the result of the net proceeds received from the issuance of convertible debt in the first quarter of 2016.

As of the end of the third quarter, days sales outstanding were 45 days, up from 42 days as of December 31, 2015 and down from 46 days as of September 30, 2015. At the end of the third quarter, inventory turns were 4.4 times as compared to 4.9 times as of December 30, 2015 and 4.6 times as of September 30, 2015.

I will now turn the call back over to Matt for a few closing comments. We then can address questions.

Thank you, Rob. So, as we have discussed over several quarters, this is a journey to a great destination, and I want to reflect on the pattern of performance that we see.

Page 12 is the [ph] dos day (21:41) ratio page, which is where we show whether we're doing what we said we would do. You may be thinking the strategy sounds good; the market is very interesting; I like the transformation plans; so how is this actually all playing out? So on page 12, we look at the same metrics discussed earlier versus the last four quarters of results.

On this page, you see sales continuing to come down over four quarters, which primarily reflects the shift in sales mentioned earlier. Gross margin as a percent of net sales, here we're looking for improvement from mix shift. You see three to four quarters of positive growth, and this last quarter we saw more of a transition, but still balancing at flat after a lot of shift in sales.

Gross profit dollars, a mix of up and down that have been roughly within $4 million of breakeven contribution. With constant currency SG&A, we can see the reflection of the investments we've been making. The free cash flow, this has been positive and negative in recent quarters, which is the combination of the semi-annual cash flow seasonality of our business and the investments we've been making.

Our fourth quarter last year was tremendously positive, as we ended the year with great working capital levels stacked in Invacare's more generally cash accretive part of the year. In the third quarter this year, we got back to positive cash flow. So looking at these composite metrics over the past four quarters, we believe this reflects consistent execution of our substantial transformation.

Turning finally to page 13 for a recap, the transformation of the company continues with the net sales decline including the shift away from non-core plus accretive sales and increases in strategic areas. The gross margin percent shift, especially in North America/HME shows the effect of our work there. Overall, we kept gross margin in balance and flat with last year, and cash flow was positive for the quarter.

In addition, we have appointed a new leader of our Europe business staring November 1. We talked about the foundational new electronics platform, LiNX, which we launched in Europe to bring new advanced wireless control technology to complex power wheelchairs, and gave an example of our technology in the manual active category with the launch of Alber Twion power [ph] add-ons (23:49). And we continue to take the necessary steps to reshape the business as our strategic actions take hold.

I appreciate everybody's support for the quarter and taking time to be on the call this morning. We have time for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And our first question is from Matthew Mishan from KeyBanc.

Hey. Good morning Matt, Rob and Lara.

Hi, Matt.

Hey, could you help us parse out the decline in North America/HME between the ongoing rationalization and maybe the underlying performance of the business?

Well, I think principally we've been focused on North America/HME, and that's the same kind of culling that we've been doing for some time, and as we talked about last quarter, Matt, IPG is following that transformation a few quarters later, and we started broadly last year and really accelerated the HME business earlier this year, and then second quarter, we got at the IPG segment.

I think we probably still feel a little bit of softness in respiratory and the lingering effects of national competitive bidding, but beyond that it's the same as we've seen recently. I don't know, Rob, if you have any quick comments.

No, Matt. I think I'd agree with that. I'd just add just a little more color. I'd emphasize, Matt, that if you look at mobility and seating, as we mentioned, that had sales increase. As Matt mentioned, lifestyles and respiratory were both under some pressure on the sales line. That inevitably led to some pressure on the gross profit, as we've talked about in the release.

I think the SG&A is actually slightly down, so we're showing some good decisions there. And I think also this performance led to some decisions too to, maybe call it, rightsize the business. We don't necessarily treat that lightly. It's not something that we don't do – we'd like to do and we do it properly by making sure that we're treating the associates who are leaving with the proper treatment and severance and other support. But that $2.5 million annualized action was primarily focused in North America.

Okay. Got it. And then just a follow-up to that: you've spent a lot of time talking about your complex rehab portfolio and the Aids for Daily Living products, but I think, I'm not necessarily sure what – where respiratory stands, and what you're doing to improve the performance of respiratory within, let's just say, let's wait in for the impact of national competitive bidding to be behind us. Can you talk a little bit more about how to improve the respiratory performance?

Yeah. I guess two of parts of that. One part, I think, with the final roll out of the last big step-down on reimbursement, which took effect in July, a number of customers are starting to see the full P&L in their business impacting that, though a lot of – probably scrutiny of their P&L. We see as we've expected some increased interest in home fill, which can substantially improve profitability for our customers who are willing to shift away from the infrastructure required to drop-off and pick-up oxygen canisters each week. So that's relatively positive.

But I don't think that part of the market has really shaken out, let's say. We are still too close to those step downs. But that reimbursement shift in the rural areas, those are affecting customers who have the highest number of unproductive windshield powers or miles driven to serve an average customer, so we think that impact will be substantial enforcing customers to really consider how best to operate their business.

And then the second part is, we think this is still an important part of investment in our innovation pipeline, the company has a long heritage of real seminal developments in this space, and we've got a pipeline that over a periods of time here in future will help other developments that will keep that product portfolio right on.

Okay, great. And then, moving to Europe, can you give us a little more color on the margin declines over there? And within that, we should expect that to be like an ongoing headwind, or is that something which is like transitory?

I'd say just transitory. Sales went up, so occasionally you get a little margins bump along the way. I don't think there's anything structural there that we're looking at, but Rob?

Yeah. Matt, the only thing I'd add, I agree with Matt's summary. They were down, and in terms of the gross margin percent, I think here as we said that it's pretty much mix, sometimes that mix has been for us some quarters and sometimes against us. But again, with a 4.4% sales increase on a constant currency basis, they were just slightly down under gross profit dollars. And that's an important metric for that business right now and again those slightly down, again, we're really seeing that there isn't a major issue there in terms of what we saw in Q3.

Okay, great. And then, just last question for me. What are some of the next – on the consent to clear around the – around, how are you looking at it, and what are the next announcements that you can potentially be making with that?

A good question. So as folks who remember, in June we received feedback from the FDA on the next stage of work that we have to accomplish or absolutely focused on doing that, which is around design history file remediation, we assume that we'll take us a few or several quarters to get that work done to present to FDA and then from there we're back on to the normal schedule that everyone understands, the phases two and phases three of the other program.

As far as disclosures go and we did a meaningful milestone, we'll talk about that, worth we have so many people involved in the work that's nonpublic in nature than we typically look at the risk of reg FD and we make a disclosure that way. But we're in the middle of that – that intensive work right now.

All right. Thank you very much.

True, thanks Matt. [Operator Instructions]

We'll take our next question from CJS Securities in Bob Labick. Please go ahead, sir.

Good morning.

Good morning, Bob.

Good morning, Bob.

Hi. I wanted to start with North America, just – as it relates to the pivot to more complex solutions, I guess two-part question, can you talk about how your customers are reacting to your shift? And then the second part is, is there a more direct root for you to sell clinically complex or you're going to stay 100% for your existing network of distribution?

We look at our customers as great partners in this industry and, Bob, as you know and others I'm sure know there are nearly an incident combination of product features that can be assembled to suit a particular individual's needs in terms of complex care. So we think we're very allied with our customers in terms of putting a very well trimmed clinicians and technical sales people in the care setting. So we can really bring right to their conversation at the deepest level of understanding and dialogue about configurations and options that are available. And we've already seen results in terms of our ability to quickly help patients in need of selective, yet some of the best products.

At the end of the day, you need lots of people with wrenches and service centers and we don't do reimbursement in the United States. So, we absolutely need that partnership with our customers and I think likewise they're very well served by us having more people in the field to help them to solve patients' needs.

Okay. Great. And then, can you give us an update on the sales force hiring and training you mentioned it in the release from the call a little bit. How long do you think until – how long does it take to get the right number of folks on board so you reach, so they become more productive, reach breakeven et cetera. What's the timing on behind that?

Yeah, probably two parts of that answer. One is that the hiring really started in April of this year, the training was essentially done kind of the first bolus of training was done by August. So, that's the big – the first big cohort that moves through the system and effectivity is probably at average nine months let's say and six months if you have somebody who's quickly familiar with the products and goes to a familiar territory and this may be closer to 12 months for someone, who is familiar with the products, but he is getting into a new territory, so on average let's say, may be nine months for effectivity.

But then in terms of number of sales folks, there's at one cohorters or big bullish that went through the system into second quarter and third quarter. We'll continue to increase our sales team over the long-term as we look at a certain metropolitan areas that we want to saturate more deeply or we have other opportunities, but right now, we've got the team largely in place on the complex rehab. As we've mentioned on that, I think the prior call from last quarter, we're started to do the same kind of work in our post-acute care business, which has different customer call points and different product mix. So, we're going to have another set of folks going through that program.

Okay. Great. And then, if shifting back to Europe for a second, you've discussed a little bit of mix change and some higher SG&A that lead to the operating income decline year-over-year. From the outside, how do we see that model that and what's the best way to model profitability of the European segment eventually North America going forward?

Yeah, it's a good question, Bob. So let me take a shot at it, it's Rob. On Europe, I think one of the things I'd really like to emphasize for the quarter, is if you look at that operating income as a percent of sales was about 8.1% last year it was 9.7% that was one of our best quarters ever, so in terms of percent. So I really want to make sure to emphasize that the team is doing well in the third quarter 2016, clearly it's down and reporting it down and rightly so, but again, I do want to emphasize that was a very, very strong third quarter last year.

the toughest thing probably as we look forward is – we probably got some currency pressures that we're aware of, I mean the Euro sort of hang in and they're recently well, if I look at the Euro for third quarter of this year versus third quarter of last year, third quarter of this year is about 12%, third quarter of last year about 11% and right now it's trading I think $109 ballpark, so a little more pressure there maybe a couple percent.

The one that I think a lot of multinationals are looking at is the FX on the pound, that was about $35 this quarter, third quarter 2016 versus $156 last year, so that's a big dip in terms of movement and costs us some – some money on translation, but also hurts us on transactions, so since then this count from $135 to I think it's $121 high today, so probably get another 10% pressure there.

So I think, if I were thinking about it from your last point, I think again margins holding up easily well, teams doing well, we got a new leader who – who hits the ground running those are all very good things, got a little FX pressure, but given that we're not necessarily giving guidance at this point I have kind of leave that to those maybe key points that we would make.

Okay, great. Thank you.

Thanks, Bob.

And next we have Jim Sidoti with Sidoti & Company. Please go ahead, sir.

Good morning, can you hear me?

Yes, Jim. Good morning.

Great, great. So just following up on the consent decree based on the fact you didn't really talk too much about it in your – in your script in the commentary and the press release was pretty similar to three months ago, I assume that it's just kind of status quo here, you're continuing to work and that there were no major changes in the quarter, is that correct?

Yeah, absolutely. It's a – it's a big focus for us. I don't want it to be a distraction for folks that have to do other things. So we don't put it at the center of what we're discussing. But for folks that are working on it, it is a good focus and progress along way. We're at one of these interim quarters where we don't have a milestone we expect to cross.

All right. And some of the changes you're making in Europe, some of the new products that you're – you're releasing in Europe, can we assume that once the consent decree is lifted, you'll be able to sell those products in the U.S. as well?

Yeah. I think there's a lot of opportunity for all these products globally. It turns out to fit on the European platform very immediately. So for example, with LiNX we've started that in July this year. Great, great results so far.

And the Alber Twion product that Matt mentioned with the launch in North America. So we've had a lot of great new products that we've launched over the past year, really just from our subsidiaries that are now available across our entire North American sales force as part of the transformation of breaking down some of the various barriers that have previously existed in our subsidiary silos.

Right. And – and I know you don't want to get too specific on timing, but can you just give us a sense, do you think you'll be starting phase two at some point in 2017?

Well, phase two of the transformation?

Right.

There isn't a particular day on the calendar where one stops and the other ends, so we -- if you think about the layers of transformation, we started broadly with the North American commercial team in July 2015 with the new compensation plan and new focus on a subset of product.

We started 2016 with even more emphasis on certain products that we wanted to move forward and more strong de-emphasis of other products. We started with hiring of the sales team for our more complex rehab part of the business in April. And so, you can imagine there is a stream of things that happened over the next several quarters in that business.

In second quarter, we started a similar process with our IPG business, and that's got probably the same overall timeline, but that started in second quarter of this year as opposed to a couple of quarters earlier, so that will go through periods in 2017. Along the way, though, where we see subsidiaries and certain product lines that we can start increasing, we do that anyway, and there are whole parts of our business that don't have to go through this transformation at all.

Okay. All right. Thank you.

Okay. Thanks, Jim.

Gregory Macosko from Montrose Advisors is up next. Please go ahead, sir.

Yes. Thank you. Hi, Matt, Rob, Lara.

Good morning, Greg.

Hi, Greg.

Good morning. Just a couple of questions, I did log on a little late. I hope I didn't miss anything there. But with respect – two things, with respect to the gross margins, particularly in North America, two operations have been sold, but those operations are still there for the quarter. Can you give us an idea of how that will affect gross margins next year?

So, Greg, it's Rob. Just in the third quarter, just to be clear, the rentals business was sold on July 2, 2015. So for all intents and purposes it was gone. So, we're not having an impact in the third quarter on the rentals business. And Greg, that was really the key one, from the vantage point that it was a very different business. It was an exceptionally high gross margin as a rentals business compared to our normal equipment business.

Hitting the second business that has been sold too is the Garden City Medical. That was in for the whole third quarter. So again, the apples to apples for third quarter were pretty good, and again going back to rentals going forward, yeah, we'll have to sort of give some visibility to Garden City Medical going out, but their margins are not so different as the rentals was, which was very high margin.

And different mixes in SG&A.

Yeah. That's true too. So again, I think, yeah, we'll give visibility to that, Greg, but again, third quarter was pretty clean.

Okay. And then, with regard to R&D, give us some color as to how that affected the quarter, if you could, and what you're doing there that's increased that spending?

Yeah. I guess there are two parts of it. Obviously, around the company, we have many groups of engineers and engineering activities that are advancing our product portfolio. And then at the same time, especially in North America, we have engineers working on design history filed remediation, and in this quarter, we elected to keep the product portfolio enhancements going on at the same time, emphasizing our effort to keep the commitments on our DHF remediation and make sure that's done as timely as possible. So, we elected to do that, which resulted in the slight increase in R&D. I don't know, Rob, if you want to talk a little bit more about that?

Yeah. I think couple of things. One, we were up in actual dollars spent. And to Matt's point, it was a mix. The majority was focused on North America, and very much focused on the design history filed remediation. But also, I'd emphasize that there was a substantial portion which was down in Asia Pacific that was focused too on new products.

So again, I want to make sure that we're really getting both pieces of that. We've got to continue to support the work on the CD and the DHF, but we are continuing to put money into the -- dollars into new products. That's really focused in R&D dollars.

Now, let's talk about R&D percent. Because the sales have come down substantially this quarter, the percent of having R&D still be slightly up was even bigger in terms of a headwind. So I think, right things to do, I don't think we want to necessarily cut back on R&D in this environment, we want to do the right things, we want to do the right things on remediation, but just mathematically, it works out to be a little more headwind than you might expect. So we mentioned that in the release.

All right. Thanks very much.

Okay. Good question. Thanks, Greg. [Operator Instructions]

We do have a follow-up question from Matt Mishan from KeyBanc. Please go ahead, sir.

Okay, thank you. Just a couple of quick clarifications for me.

Yes.

What were sales at Taylor Street and then what were mobility and seating in North America/HME up, if you could quantify those in the quarter?

Well, mobility and seating, well we never really give a specific level just because of competitive reasons, as we said North America/HME, we were down in lifestyles, down in respiratory, those were down pretty substantially. And mobility and seating was up, it wasn't up dramatically, but it was up. So that should cover that issue.

The other question was Matt, remind me...

Yeah. Sales at Taylor Street.

All right, right. That was about $9.9 million and I think last year similar time it was about $10.9 million ballpark, so down a little bit. But I'd emphasize that mobility and seating being up and again there are lot of other areas where we're focused on moving those products, clearly focused on Taylor Street, but at the same time, those would be the two numbers.

What will be for example, which fits in that same space of Taylor Street but comes out of our Motion Concepts division, which isn't reflected in that number.

Okay. Got it and then the QA/RA class in the quarter and if you could, could you quantify on a percentage of sales, what exposure you do have to the account?

If I remember correctly, I think the $3.6 million is what we had for this quarter, which is down pretty substantially...

From $5.3 million last year.

Yes, we're down by – more – almost pushing $2 million down, so a nice decrease there. In terms of percent of sales, we're really don't look at it per se on that basis. I think we really look at it as getting the most value for the dollars we're putting to use. And again we're really focused on making sure that John Watkins and the quality team have what they need to proceed. We mentioned earlier, we also are focused on the fact that some of the spend needs to be in other areas like engineering, where again North America – in North America on the design history files. So, again it's a measure, but it's not the only measure I would focus on.

Okay. Yes. I think I got mixed – I think we got mixed up there. I was thinking percentage of sales to the UK or the pounds?

Ohh. Sorry, sorry. I misread you. I thought you're thinking of different percentage point. No, we haven't broken that out. At this point, Matt, so we've not given visibility to that. But I think it's important you're aware of the pressures and the fact that the GDP has got another 10% down from where it was before. I think that's part of the reason why you saw in the third quarter the fact that the currency was a headwind is really driven by sort of the U.S. dollar GDP, so you might be able to back into a little bit, but at this point we cannot broke that up.

Yeah. But can you help with the size and the magnitude of the change in the pound? Could you please help us out and like try and ballpark if for us?

Ballpark, what?

Can you just try to ballpark is for us. The magnitude of that sales decline is significant. So if we could have any chance, you can kind of ballpark it as 100% of your team sales may be and anyway you can kind of help us out with that?

Understood, we'll give it some thought.

All right. Thanks, Rob.

I mean, It's not our biggest translation currency, the dollars and euros are kind of ahead of GDP. We have a factory in Wales, these people would know, but the mix of products that we consume in the GDP territory is bigger from outside of that factory. So we don't have that natural hedge.

I think the bigger issue to manage it well, the bigger issue is probably less the pure translation. The translation is important, and it impacts us. I think the bigger issue is that the vast majority of what they buy comes from plants in Euro land, plants in Switzerland for us and one coming out of Sweden among other exposures. So we hedge those as best as we can, but when you get a big movement and we're looking at an additional year out. You obviously got to look at those hedges again. So the bigger issue, Matt, is probably less pure translation. It's probably more of the exposure to transaction.

But already having an access in Wales with that facility gives us as, the management team a long-term option to optimize as best as we can as what's going to happen on with Brexit and the currency effects.

Okay. That makes a lot of sense. Thank you very much, guys.

Thanks.

Thanks.

It appears there are no further questions at this time. I would like to turn the conference back to our presenters for any additional or closing remarks.

Thank you. Thanks to everybody for joining us this morning. We're endeavoring to communicate more fully with everyone, so they understand the context of this transformation. We've changed our earnings release call to today, which we thought was the day where fewer companies released their results. We've tried to do a webcast so that you can see a visual presentation in addition to just hearing us. We love to hear your good comments and your support as we move forward. Thank you very much.

This concludes today's conference. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.