corrected transcript


Invacare Corp.
 
IVC
 
Q2 2007 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 31, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the


Invacare Second Quarter 2007 Results Conference Call. We are now ready to begin the call.


Before I turn the care over to Invacare’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Malachi Mixon,


[Operator Instructions]. After the management overview, we will open the call up to questions.


This conference is being recorded Tuesday, July 31, 2007. I would like to turn the call over to Mr.


Malachi Mixon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. You may now begin.


A. Malachi Mixon III, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you very much. For today’s call I have with me Greg Thompson, Chief Financial Officer. I’d


like to begin with our summary Safe Harbor statement; that is that this conference call may include


statements regarding anticipated and future developments that are forward-looking statements


within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Results may differ


materially as a result of the risk factors included in the company’s filing with the Securities and


Exchange Commission, and other factors over which the company has no control. Specifically the


company discusses adjusted earnings before income taxes, and adjusted earnings per share,


excluding the impact of the following items which are quantified in our earnings release. First,


restructuring charges incurred in the first and second quarters of 2007 and 2006. Secondly, 2007


expenses related to interest, finance charges, and fees associated with the company’s completion


of this recent capital structure refinancing.


I’d like to start by reviewing our second quarter performance. Our European businesses represent


our more profitable segment, and continued to deliver strong sales results and increased profits,


with gathering momentum driven by volume increases, cost reduction initiatives, and strong foreign


currencies versus U.S. dollar. Our North America/HME business showed sequential improvement


in the second quarter, but continues to be negatively impacted by last year’s reimbursement


changes and related pricing reductions in 2006.


Medicare reimbursement changes have particularly impacted our rehab and respiratory product


lines, causing competitive price reductions, and a shifting away from higher performance products


within the custom power product line that historically have driven higher average selling prices and


more favorable margins. The quarter reflects a 5% net sales decline in our respiratory business


due to reduced volumes on oxygen concentrators, resulting from a loss of one large national


provider, and continuing asset management program by providers along with pricing declines in


concentrators.


On a positive note, our home fill oxygen system net sales increased 57% due to increased


purchases from both national and smaller providers. We’re encouraged by this increasing interest


and continuing market acceptance of this proprietary and patient preferred oxygen technology.


We’ve also successfully launched home fill in Europe, and we are now generating home fill


revenues from our European businesses. Pre-cash flow improved significantly in the second


quarter versus the first quarter due to improved inventory management, and improved profitability.


We were able to use our cash generation to reduce our debt levels during the quarter.


Inventories, which decreased $12 million versus the first quarter, should continue to show


improvement as progressed throughout the year. I’m encouraged by our continuous strength in our


European businesses, our home fill oxygen market penetration, and our pre-cash flow results in the


second quarter. I’m also pleased that we exceeded both our first quarter and second quarter cost


reduction budget by delivering 16 million in cost reductions during the first half of the year.


Our first half performance provides us further confidence that we are on track and will be able to


achieve our 38 million cost reduction budget for the year, and deliver improved operating income in
corrected transcript


Invacare Corp.
 
IVC
 
Q2 2007 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 31, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


the second half of 2007. With that, I would like to turn it over to Greg to review the financial


highlights of the second quarter.


Gregory C. Thompson, Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President


Thanks Mal good morning. I will go through our revenues and profit drivers by business segment


for the second quarter before going through the full income statement, and then I will wrap up with


some comments relative to 2007 guidance and related initiatives.


Overall we reported revenue growth of 5.8% for the quarter as compared to last year’s second


quarter. Acquisitions increased net sales by 1% and foreign currency translation increased net sale


by 3%. The North America HME [ph] net sales declined 3% compared to last year driven by rehab


and respiratory product lines. Rehab product line sales declined 6% due to last year’s Medicare


reimbursement changes, which drove price reductions and a continued shift away from higher


performance products within the custom power product line that normally drive higher average


selling prices and margins. Uned [ph] lines were up at a high end custom power wheelchair


product line but were offset by lower volumes in consumer power wheelchairs. Pricing declines


and the less favorable sales mix I mentioned negatively impacted the rehab product line


profitability.


Respiratory product line sales declined 5% primarily due to reduced unit volumes of oxygen


concentrators resulting from the loss of one large national provider. Continued asset management


programs by providers along with pricing declines in concentrators were contributing factors to the


decline. As Mal mentioned, we are pleased to report the net sales of our home fill oxygen system


product line grew by 57% due to increased purchases from a continuing system wide roll out by a


large national provider as well as continued increases in sales to smaller and regional providers.


Standard product line sales again increased 0.7% driven by increased volumes particularly in


manual wheelchairs and beds partially offset by the pricing reductions implemented in 2006.


Invacare’s supply group sales continues strong with 12% growth driven by an increase in volume of


home delivery program and volume increases in diabetic and incontinence and intrals [ph] product


lines. While profit, excuse me, while profits benefited from a strong sales performance, this was


more than offset by lower margins due to the sales mix and higher distribution costs associated


with the increased sales volumes. Institutional product group sales decreased 4% due to reduced


purchasing by a large national account. The previously announced closure of our St. Louis case


good manufacturing facility and consolidation of those activities into other manufacturing locations


is on track and due to be completed in the third quarter.


Turning to our European business, sales growth was strong once again with a 14% increase as


compared to last year. Organic revenue growth in Europe was 7%. We achieved strong sales


performance in most of the sales regions. Increased sales and profitability were primarily driven by


volume increases and cost reduction initiatives and also benefited from a weak US dollar. In our


Asia Pacific segment the region reported a sales increase of 37% due to acquisitions and foreign


currency. On an organic basis, revenues declined 7%. Performance in this region continues to be


negatively impacted by US reimbursement changes in the consumer power wheelchair market


resulting in decreased sales of micro processor controllers by the company’s New Zealand


subsidiary.


I’ll review the full income statement, which is included in the press release. I’ll be reviewing certain


non-GAAP measures that exclude restructuring charges and costs associated with the then


capitalization completed in the first quarter. Total revenues for the second quarter were 393.3


million up 5.8%. On those revenues we are in a gross margin of 109.9 million or 28%. This margin


achievement was slightly lower compared to last year second quarter as a result of pricing