Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Gerald B. Blouch — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Invacare Corp.
Robert K. Gudbranson — Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer & Senior VP, Invacare Corp.
Bob J. Labick — Senior Managing Director of Research, CJS Securities, Inc.
James P. Sidoti — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC
Nik A. Pai — Analyst, Lord, Abbett & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Invacare 2013 Third Quarter Conference Call. I will begin with the customary Safe Harbor statement that this conference call may include statements regarding anticipated and future developments that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

Forward-looking statements are those that describe future outcomes of expectations that are usually identified by words such as should, could, plan, intend, expect, continue, forecast, believe and anticipate and include, for example, any statements made regarding the company's future results.

Actual results may differ materially as a result of inherent uncertainties and risks including the risk factors described in the company's Form 10-K and other findings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and in the company's earnings release. The company may not be able to predict and may have little or no control over the factors or events that may influence its financial results.

Also of note, except for free cash flow, the financial information for all periods excludes the impact of discontinued operations. Discontinued operations include Invacare Supply Group, the company's former domestic medical supplies business that was divested on January 18, 2013 and Champion Manufacturing Incorporated, the company's former domestic medical recliner business for dialysis clinics that was divested on August 6, 2013. Champion was a part of the Institutional Products Group segment.

On today's call, the management team will focus on the highlights of the quarter as opposed to covering all the detail, which you can read in the release that was issued earlier. In particular, I would refer investors to the company's earning release to review the definition of free cash flow and some of the adjusted earnings items which will be mentioned during the call. You can find the release and access to the company's SEC filings at www.invacare.com.

Before I turn the call over to Invacare's President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Gerry Blouch, I would like to remind you that all lines have been placed on mute for the first part of the call. After the management overflow, we will open the call for questions. This conference is being recorded Thursday, October 24, 2013.

I would like to now turn the call over to Mr. Gerry Blouch, President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Blouch, you may begin.

Thank you, Sheila, and good morning. With me on today's call is Rob Gudbranson, Invacare's Chief Financial Officer. During this morning's call, we will begin with a review of the company's third quarter earnings. Following Rob's comments, I will highlight the company's progress relating to our consent decree with the FDA at our Corporate and Taylor Street facilities in Elyria, Ohio.

To begin I'd like to congratulate our European associates on a strong third quarter. While this segment has experienced a ripple effect of the consent decree, particularly the lack of new products, the strength of their performance continues to be the highlight of our 2013 financial performance to-date and I'd like to thank the team once again for delivering another fine quarter.

The other three business segments, the North American/HME segment, the Institutional Products Group and the Asia Pacific segment continued to be negatively impacted by pressures primarily related to the consent decree, the lack of significant new product introduction over the past two years as a result of our focus on quality systems remediation and limitations imposed by the consent decree and finally an unfavorable sales mix favoring lower margin products.

Principally as a result of these pressures, overall adjusted loss per share was $0.18 in the third quarter compared to adjusted earnings per share of $0.05 in the third quarter of 2012. Organic net sales declined by 7% compared to the same period, with an increase in Europe being more than offset by lower sales for the other three business segments.

Despite the sales decline, we managed to decrease inventory levels and increase inventory turns in the quarter. We also had stronger than expected collections of accounts receivable and held days outstanding consistent with the solid performance if the second quarter of this year. The great efforts of our associates to reduce net working capital helped us achieve positive free cash flow of $29.4 million, which we feel is particularly strong in these challenging conditions.

Also in the quarter, we divested our Champion Manufacturing business for approximately $42.9 million in net proceeds. This sale, combined with our free cash flow, allowed us to reduce the company's total debt outstanding to $58.9 million at the end of the third quarter.

Gross margins as a percent of net sales in the third quarter was lower by 1.9 percentage points, compared to last year's third quarter. The margin was negatively impacted, principally by the North American/HME sales decline in custom power wheelchairs, which is one of our highest margin product lines.

Also the negative impact of reduced order volume through our Taylor Street manufacturing facility caused an unfavorable absorption of fixed cost. Gross margin was also negatively impacted by a sales mix favoring both lower margin products and lower margin customers. These pressures were partially offset by a reduced – reduction in warranty expense. Excuse me, I'm suffering the effects of the first cold snap of the region.

SG&A expense decreased 4.4% to $98.7 million in the third quarter, compared to $103.3 million in the third quarter of last year. Excluding the impact of foreign currency translation, which increased SG&A expense by 0.9 percentage point, SG&A expense decreased by 5.3%, compared to the third quarter of last year, primarily related to a reduction in regulatory and compliance cost and reduced associate cost. These reductions were partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency transactions and increased bad debt expense.

With that, I'd like to have Rob to review additional financial highlights of the third quarter. Rob?

Thanks, Gerry. All of the references to earnings before tax exclude restructuring costs. For the quarter ended September 30, 2013, organic net sales for North America/HME decreased by 11.2%, driven by declines in mobility and seating, and lifestyle products. These declines were partially offset by increased net sales in respiratory products, which were driven in part by a large order of Invacare HomeFill Oxygen Systems by a national account.

The sales decline in mobility and seating products was largely attributable to the impact from the FDA consent decree. Earnings before income taxes for the North America/HME segment decreased $9.3 million as a result of volume declines, unfavorable sales mix, unfavorable absorption of fixed costs at the Taylor Street manufacturing facility and increased bad debt expense in part due to the early impact of national competitive bidding on a large customer. These negative factors were partially offset by decreased SG&A expense related to regulatory and compliance costs as well as reduced associate costs, interest expense and warranty costs.

For the third quarter 2013, organic net sales for the Institutional Products Group decreased 16.1% driven by declines in virtually all product categories. It is worth noting that organic net sales in the third quarter of 2012 increased 22.2%, principally as a result of increases in interior design projects for long-term care facilities that did not reoccur to the same extent in 2013.

Earnings before income taxes increased by $0.5 million, which is largely attributable to reduced SG&A expense, partially offset by volume declines. The reduction in SG&A expense was primarily related to the absence of the earnout expense that was recorded last year due to the profitability achievement of a rentals acquisition.

The European business segment's organic net sales in the third quarter increased 1.5%, primarily related to increases in net sales of lifestyle and mobility and seating products. This was partially offset by declines in respiratory products.

Earnings before income taxes increased by $3.0 million largely due to volume increases and lower freight and warranty expenses, which were partially offset by increased SG&A expenses, primarily related to associate costs.

In the third quarter, Asia-Pacific organic net sales decreased 20.1%. The net sales decline in the company's subsidiary, which produces microprocessor controllers, was primarily related to the reduced sales of those controllers as well as the decision to exit its contract manufacturing business with companies outside the healthcare industry.

The company's Australian distribution business experienced net sales declines in lifestyle and mobility and seating products. For the third quarter, the Asia-Pacific loss before income taxes increased by $0.2 million. The increase in the loss was primarily attributable to volume declines at the company's subsidiary, which produces microprocessor controllers, which was partially offset by reduced SG&A expense, primarily in associate costs. The loss for the quarter was reduced for the company's Australian and New Zealand distribution businesses as a result of a significant restructure to the business implemented in the fourth quarter of last year.

Total debt outstanding, which includes the convertible debt discount as described in the release was $58.9 million as of the quarter end. The company's total debt outstanding consists of $39 million drawn on the revolving credit facility, $13.4 million in convertible debt and $6.5 million of other debt.

I'll now turn the call back over to Gerry for some other comments and then we can address questions.

Thank you, Rob. At this point I would like to highlight the progress that we've made relating to the company's consent decree with the FDA. As you may recall, under the terms of the consent decree, we must complete three third-party certification audits, that will be followed by a comprehensive FDA inspection before we can be permitted to resume full operations in our Taylor Street manufacturing and corporate facilities in Elyria. Each of the three audit reports is submitted to the FDA for their review and acceptance.

On May 13, we announced that the FDA accepted the company's first expert certification report, and as a result of that, we were able to resume manufacturing of parts and components at our Taylor Street facility that are used in the manufacturing of products at other Invacare facilities. On July 16, we announced that the FDA accepted the company's expert certification audit relating to design control systems at the company's corporate and Taylor Street facilities. As a result, we resumed new product development on critical products during the quarter, including complex power wheelchairs.

We expect the final and most comprehensive expert certification report stating the company is in compliance with 21 CFR Part 820 of the Quality Systems Regulation to be completed by the third-party expert and filed with the FDA by our previously announced mid-November 2013 target. In addition to the third-party certification report, the company will file its own report as to its compliance with the FDA's QSR as well as responses to any audit observations noted in the third-party certification report.

In accordance to the consent decree, the FDA is expected to commence its own inspection of the impacted facilities within 30 days of the receipt of the final certification report and the company's report. If following the FDA's inspection the agency finds the company to be in compliance, it will issue a written notification permitting the company to resume full operations at the corporate and Taylor Street facilities. Throughout 2013 we've made substantial progress on our quality systems improvement. I am proud of the ongoing efforts of our associates to drive this effort and support the audit process.

On behalf of the company, I appreciate your time and attention during this call and Sheila will now open up the phone lines for questions. [Operator Instructions]

. Your first question comes from the line of Bob Labick from CJS Securities. Your line is now open.

Good morning.

Hi, Bob.

Hi, good morning, congratulations on some excellent cash flow and nice performance in the quarter.

Thank you, Bob.

Thank you.

First question, just wanted to start with sales in North America. Looks like if I did the math quickly and correctly, the sales excluding Taylor Street were up about 3.9%. I was wondering if you could tell us, you alluded to a little bit, some of the drivers there? And then also I know it's early but talk about the impact of national competitive bidding on your customers and what you're seeing from that so far?

Bob, just to be clear first on the Taylor Street number we referenced, that's Taylor Street products which actually go into a number of the segments, so you can't back that out exactly just from North America/HME, so I wouldn't want that conclusion to be drawn. So again there's some pressures there as we mentioned during the write-up and in the release. We did well in respiratory, but in the other categories we had pressure. But again Taylor Street; that's more of a plant selling globally.

Okay.

On the consent decree, I'd say honestly it's too early, the...

You mean competitive bidding.

I'm sorry, competitive bidding, it's too early to tell. It just went into effect on July 1 and it was a shocker. There was far fewer, given the magnitude of the MSAs covered which was 91 this time compared to nine last time. The number – the shocker was the depth of the average reduction in reimbursement rates which was 45% and the relatively small number of winning awards made by the government.

So that's been – it's created a lot – and on top of that honestly they did – and this is all public information the – not only were the number of awards proportionately significantly smaller than round one, but there was, the number winners who were out of market, who came from outside of the [indiscernible] (15:28) bid market was remarkably high. In some cases more than half of the bidders were from outside of the market and didn't have facilities, therefore they had to put – once they won, they're scrambling to put in place the capability to service the business.

And a lot of – and also another shocker was the number of winners who didn't even have credentials within the states that they were awarded bids. And so again they added there, so there's a lot of scrambling going on. And it's just simply too early to say. I'd say that it'll sort itself out in the fullness of time, but there's nothing conclusive that we could share with you that wouldn't be at peril of later being unfounded. So no point in speculating, but there's a lot of chaos right now.

Okay, fair enough, and thank you for the detail. Just as it relates to HomeFill, is that a potential solution for people going into this lower reimbursement environment? Does that have anything to do with the strong sales or is it coincidental in that regard, but it should help your customers in the future?

It's not coincidental. I know there's been understandably a lot of concern about pressure on pricing, and there's always pressure on pricing. But we're – our solution with marketplace is technology and quality, the large part of – the majority of the products included in the Competitive Bidding were rental fleet products, so products that are both rugged and reliable and also reduce operating costs for the provider are – is the smart solution. And we've seen with the consent decree, a renewed vigor and with the HomeFill and adopting technology and actually spending more money to save money to have a more robust infrastructure, and the same thing on other products.

So people get the fleet management story, the people get that saving 10% on a product that'll last half as long isn't a great trade off. And we certainly continue to forge that line, that – [ph] it's horses for horses (17:50), desperate people do desperate things. And I'm not saying it's universally and wholly adopted, but that's the right solution for our customers and we continue to stay the course on it.

Okay, fantastic. Thank you. And as it relates to the consent decree, obviously happy to hear you're still on track for the mid-November third-party submission of the audit. Can you tell us what has to happen between now and then for you to reach that goal in mid-November?

And then typically what happens in the process beyond, and maybe if you could set our expectations; there'll be the 30 days, the FDA will do an inspection and it's usually some give and take after that or is that you don't hear anything until it's over? Or how does the process unfold, first in the next 30 days and then not giving a timeframe but the process beyond that?

Well, a multi-part question, Bob. First, the first part, the auditors are – have completed their fieldwork and now they're compiling their reports and reviewing those with the senior management and we're kind of back and forth looking at clarifications. So that's where the process is in terms of our third-party certification and their work.

On the – aside from – the answer will even be shorter on the rest, is the consent decree calls for them to respond within 30 days and then they're obliged to initiate the audit work. We've consistently said, I think their intent is to get it over and done with, that is they'd like to get these things cleaned up.

But they have all sorts of things to deal with. If a crisis comes up in spinach someplace or they – or a farmer crisis, they have to manage their resources just like any other operation. And while we expect that they'll want to align a team, a field team to do the audit and get in and complete, that there's no way for them to predict that and therefore there's no way for us predict what other external things may impact their work.

Okay, great. And then I guess one last question and I'll jump back into queue. As it relates to your globalization initiative, can you just update us on progress and tell us what can be done during this injunctive phase and what do you have to wait until the FDA process is more complete to implement?

Well, the – what we call the fulcrum is product development. At the core of globalization is globalizing the product platform so we simplify the business. And that requires engineering and that's been forestalled. I mean we've made some progress, but we're considerably behind where we originally expected to be.

So it starts with – but we're doing things, and we're – but the fulcrum is product, simplifying product, simplifying the infrastructure, the product platforms, simplifying the supply chain and simplifying the administrative infrastructure all following in order. So we were – we've been realigning the [indiscernible] (21:21) in fact we've been actively working to go back to square one and look at the plans and see if there's anything that transpires via the consent decree that would cause us to re-prioritize. And we've been refreshing the product plans, the product roadmaps. And so we've got the blueprint and I'd say that there is ironically increased incentive and enthusiasm for – to lock and load and get moving on this.

Great. All right. Thank you very much.

Your next question comes from the line of Jim Sidoti from Sidoti & Company. Your line is now open.

Good morning. Can you hear me?

Sure.

Great. Just trying to get a little more color on timings for the consent decree. Can you just remind me the first two audits, after you completed those, the FDA got back to you relatively quickly, but there was no FDA audit involved in those first two...

There was no – that wasn't a fortuitous thing, that was part of the plan so...

Right.

They had questions that – they asked clarifying questions and there was some additional [indiscernible] (22:37) but they did not do a field audit themselves.

All right. And they responded to those first two audits in a matter of weeks, I recall, is that correct?

Pretty much.

Okay. Now this third one, you said they have 30 days to get back to you. Now that's just to, I assume, schedule their audit or what do they have to get back to you in 30 days with?

The key thing is scheduling the audit. But I would expect that they'll have questions. I mean these are complicated things. But the principal thing is to schedule the audit, to get the clarification on when they're going to be here and when we should expect them to start that.

Okay. And when – how long did it take your third-party consultant to complete their audit?

Wow. It's hard – there's been – it's kind of, it's hard to say because audit one and two created building blocks for three, so it's a more complicated question. So I'd say there have been things they've been doing for most of the course of the time since we started have contributed to the final audit, but to parse out how much of it was specifically related to the third audit, it would be difficult to do it and I wouldn't have any way of doing that, honestly.

And Bob (sic) [Jim] (23:56), ultimately, it wouldn't really be an indicator – sorry, Jim, it wouldn't be an indicator only from the vantage point that while the FDA can clearly do what they want and they're going to be setting their own timeframe, so regardless of how long it took our third party to do it the FDA's going to their own timeframe, Jim.

Okay. So I mean is it possible that this could drag out three or four months?

That's possible.

Okay. All right. So assuming though that sometime middle of 2014, the audit's complete, the plant's back online, what's your plan to go out and regain some of the share that you've lost this last 12 months since you've been offline?

We've got a detailed plan that we're presenting to the Board. It's an eight-part plan and it deals with products, it deals with – it said what would I – Jim, what would you do? My guess is we covered all those things. So it deals with promotions, education, products, supply chain initiatives, a whole host of things that we will be launching. And the ink is dry on that report and we're giving the formal presentation to the Board shortly.

All right. And over the last 12 months, I assume you've kept in touch with your base of customers. I mean how difficult do you think it'll be to get them to reorder?

There is a guide, true blue customers and that'll happen quickly and there's other people that'll take longer. It's not going to be a walk in the park, it's not going to be a walk in the park. We fully expect that we're going to have earn their business back and we're prepared to do that.

Hey, Jim, just one other comment just and I know you know this but just for the benefit of the call. We are still in contact with all these customers. So for instance, a number of them are still ordering product under the verification of medical necessity. Our salespeople continue to call on them, we have relationships with them. So I just want to make sure to leave the impression very clearly that we still are talking to these players as we have, obviously, a limited production at Taylor Street, but we're still supporting the customer base and doing everything we can on that front.

And as well, we've stayed in front of the major rehab centers and senior management as well as with our field sales territory managers.

Okay. So while it would be a little unrealistic to think you'd get 100% of that business back year one, you think you're going to get a significant piece of that business back within the first couple quarters when you come online?

I don't – other than to say it is not only unlikely, but highly improbable that we'll get 100% of those back in year one.

Yeah. [indiscernible]

(26:57).

No, no, that's not what I'm saying but you're going to get more than 25% back, it sounds -

Hey, Jim, I guess I'd answer it this way, given that we're not even giving guidance on Q4 this year, trying to predict timing on FDA and trying to predict timing in getting those accounts back would be difficult to sort of foolish. So let us get through the consent decree. Clearly, as Gerry said, we have an excellent plan to go back into the marketplace which we're going to implement when the time's right, but I think trying to give you any more at this point is tough.

Okay. All right. Two other quick questions, in Asia, I know it's been about a year since you got out of that VA contract in Australia and now you've got out of the contract manufacturing business. How many more quarters before that turns to – before all those anniversary and that levels out?

I think the two wholly independent businesses, there's the trading business in Australia and New Zealand, which operates under one management group. And the performance – year-over-year performance there has been dramatic and we're – wasn't just the DVA, their version of the VA, there was a comprehensive consolidation of facilities and then actually getting a number of smaller business to focus on core businesses. But certainly the biggest single piece was the DVA business.

But I think the – most importantly we have – we're very optimistic about the financial performance of the business, the operating income and that is heading in the direction consistent with our plans and we're confident we'll have good news to report next year.

Sales, we expect we – the timing on the revenue recovery will be a little slower. But I think that's like – like our Board you're probably more interested in the operating income than the sales. But in the fullness of time, that'll correct as well. Yes, and the...

Right.

On the DCL business, that is totally linked in, shackled in with the consent decree and our recovery of market share. So that's – that will move with and in accordance with our recovery of share and I'd say you should think of those as one and the same with the HME – the core business.

Okay. All right. And then finally the balance sheet, Rob, you've been very successful paying down debt throughout this whole ordeal. Are you at a point now where you're comfortable regarding your covenants or do you think you'll need to take more steps in the next 6 to 12 months to continue to reduce debt?

I think as we said last quarter and I think previous quarters, we'll continue to keep a close eye on where we are on a couple different fronts. One, the operating performance of the business; two, we've shown some really nice improvement in turns. Not necessarily where we'd like to be in longer term, but given the environment, as Gerry mentioned, it's a good improvement. DSOs are at very low levels for the company. So we'll continue to keep an eye on where we are in terms of the working capital, the operating performance of the business.

And then on that front, we'll look at where we are on the EBITDA. So at this point, we don't perceive an issue. But if we do we're going to look hard at what we can do on working capital. And if we need to then we'll look at potentially another non-core business and whether or not that business at this point would be better in somebody else's hands than in ours. So we're going to keep all those things on the radar screen, but we're very pleased with the performance in Q3 where we got the leverage ratio down to two to one.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you.

Thanks, Jim. [Operator Instructions]

Your next question comes from the line of [ph] Matt Daniel (31:13) from [ph] ProSite (31:14). Your line is now open.

Hi, there. Good morning.

Good morning.

Just wanted to start, can you discuss or help provide some color around how large the size of that one-time order of HomeFill Oxygen was in the quarter?

Yeah, we have not broken that out at this stage. But it was a very important part of the growth for the respiratory group. But no, we haven't broken that out.

Okay. Was it sort of in double-digit millions, is it $15 million to $20 million?

Again, at this point, they're keeping that here, we're just talking about respiratory in general.

Okay.

That's for several reasons. We're a public company, but also the customer prefers it that way as well.

Okay. I was going to follow up with some of the questions around kind of [indiscernible] (32:07) something to address specifically, but I was just thinking about how to think about the timing of the third-party auditor, so they started, if I'm reading the notes in your filings correctly, they started their third and comprehensive audit in late March.

And if the scope and scale of an FDA audit might be similar, it's taken them approximately eight months if they submitted by middle of November. Is there any reason to think that a comprehensive FDA audit should be shorter than sort of the scope and scale of what the third-party auditor had to do? [audio gap]

(32:55-34:15)

Ladies and gentlemen, we are experiencing a slight technical delay. Your lines will be placed on music hold until it starts.

Well, this is Rob Gudbranson, is there anyone on the line?

Your line is open.

Okay, so Sheila?

Mr. Blouch, you're in the main room.

Okay. And are there people on the line, because we got disconnected.

Yes, the lines are still active.

Okay. And then the gentlemen who asked the question, I'm afraid we didn't hear it. So if you could ask it again. [Operator Instructions]

Sheila, I have a feeling that a lot of people got disconnected because our leader line got disconnected, we got disconnected, so my fear is – can you see, are people still on the call?

I can still see a few people here.

So we've lost of a lot of them, I take it.

You do have a question in line, Nik Pai from Lord, Abbett. Your line is now open.

Hi. Could you flesh out a little bit of the bad debt issue that's happened with one of your customers?

Sure. I'd be glad to talk about that. Won't go into huge amount of details, obviously just because we're always sensitive towards specific account. It was an account that had an issue in terms of they were looking at some refinancing, they were looking at a variety of different activities and they did not win bids and that actually led to some difficulty in terms of their bank lines.

And so we're a little concerned about where they are right now, so we put a reserve on. So it was triggered, I'd emphasize it was triggered by the fact they didn't get – win on bids for National Competitive Bidding. But I would also emphasize that we don't think this is a trend or anything from the vantage point that it's still early, you would be very surprised to see something happen this quickly given that most of the accounts can continue to serve their patients, grandfather their patients and continue to get cash.

So this was a very special situation. We are very focused on this because as we've always said, accounts receivable could be a big risk for the National Competitive Bidding, if it ends up being that fewer providers are servicing Medicare long term. But again this was very specific to this account. Wouldn't have expected something this early, but given that it did happen we wanted to give some color to it. Does that help?

Yeah, certainly. Can you talk about, too, your reach out efforts to the winning bidders on the Competitive Bidding that perhaps weren't in the market before or weren't your customers already?

We've tried as part of our credit process and our sales process. So we really work carefully in our North America/HME business to have both the credit people who are approving credits and the salespeople working together. Obviously anybody who's out there who we feel is comfortable with the credit, we'll put that in place. And again, the nice part about the system right now is the two teams are working together as opposed to in some companies I've been at, credit and sales don't necessarily see eye to eye. So we've been reaching out to the right players, the winners.

But we've also stayed close to the people who didn't necessarily get the bid because in some cases if they have good private insurance that they have or other exposures where they're going to do well, we may be better off sometimes with people who didn't, I guess I shouldn't say win the bid, didn't get awarded the bid from the vantage point they still may be good credits and good accounts we'll continue work with.

Got it. Is it fair to say though considering your national scope and size compared to competitors that even these new winning bidders, though they might not have been in those particular markets, are still known entities to you?

I don't have the exact numbers in front of me for round two, but I think they were similar to round one. There were quite a few winning bidders who we either didn't know or were bidders that we really didn't have much of an exposure to at that point. So there's always work to be done and there are some cases where people weren't really in the industry at all. So there's kind of a mix here in terms of going through the detail, you're going to be quite a range in terms of who were the people awarded bids.

Got it, got it. And amongst your competitors, are you seeing any changes in pricing or financing terms?

Yes, I hope [indiscernible] (38:43) excuse me, I'm fighting a cold. I don't think any have announced – any of the majors that have announced national program, so I think we hear anecdotes of things happening. But that's – nobody as a matter of policy has published Competitive Bidding pricing. You see more these featured products out, because that's, again these anecdotes. So I'm sure it's out there, it's not widespread as well as the featured products.

But again there's not – the margins on the manufacturing side of the house are not substantial enough. And once again there's the amount of pricing reduction for the winning bidders was, I think in all cases greater than what the provider was paid for for the products. So the product is a meaningful part of their cost but not the majority of their cost by any stretch.

Got it. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

. Your next question comes from [ph] Matt Daniel (40:00) from [ph] ProSite (40:01). Your line is now open.

Hi, there. Can you hear me?

Yes, we can.

Great. So I was asking a question around sort of understanding the timing of the consent decree and I think the whole call got cut off. But my question is as we think about sort of how comprehensive the FDA audit will be, how does that compare in scope to what the third-party auditor has done with their third and final audit?

Well, the third party looks at everything. So their portfolio is to ensure that to do audits on all of the individual processes, every one, and then to do horizontal audits to see how the processes naturally link with one another. So their work is top to bottom, soup to nuts, and the FDA will not be as comprehensive.

Okay. That's helpful. So if they – I'm just trying to think about the timeline. So the third-party auditors started their third and comprehensive audit in late March, and if the timeline around that finishing is mid-November, approximately eight months or slightly less than eight months. Is it unreasonable to assume that FDA could be in doing their audit for a similar period of time?

That would be unusual.

Yeah, guess what I'd say, Matt, from just this side is that there was a lot of different work done by the third-party auditor between cert one, cert two and cert three during that timeframe. But again, we've been, and I think it's good advice, we've been pretty well coached that we shouldn't try to guess what time the FDA is going to need either short or long, only from the vantage point that that's clearly their prerogative and they take seriously making sure we are in compliance. We believe we will be, but they have to determine that themselves.

Okay. And then in your prepared remarks, you mentioned an impact to one of your large customers from the rollout of round two. I may have missed any color that you provided there as I was dialing back into the call. Can you provide any color as to what you meant there?

Sure, I'll try to do it again. And again just for the record, we got disconnected too, Matt. So don't think that we were avoiding the call. But to answer your question on it, and I think it'll be consistent I believe with what I already said. We had a very specific account which was in the process of doing some bank refinancing, some other activity, they did not win on the bid, the Medicare bid was very important to their business, it caused immense difficulties with their financing. And so we put an additional reserve in place. I would emphasize though that we don't think that is an indicator yet for what's going to happen on national competitive bidding.

Though clearly, not winning the bid was a trigger for them, I would also emphasize that this is very special. You would not have expected us to have any bad debt issues this quickly because most of the accounts have the ability even if they don't get awarded a bid to grandfather and continue to support patients at the new bid rates. And I think in general most of them would do that just to keep the flow going, plus they'd have all the receivables to collect from Medicare business they had before the bid was awarded.

So again, very special but given that it did relate to NCB and given that that will be a big focal point for us because there is risk obviously, as we're the biggest creditor to the industry, we did want to make sure to highlight it. But again, don't see it as being an issue yet; one we'll continue to watch very closely.

Okay. That's helpful. And then as we look at rate of business that's still getting [indiscernible] (44:02) in complex rehab, I think you said in your release it was 11.2%. Should we view that sort of as a fair run rate going forward while you're still under the injunction phase of the consent decree?

Yeah, that's kind of hard to answer only from the vantage point that it'll depend a lot on what customers want to do with the verification for medical necessity. You can make an argument as people get comfortable with that, they maybe do more. You could also make the argument that, that might be a strain on paperwork and efforts that they reach a point that they struggle with that.

So I guess at this point similar to just the status we're in right now, we haven't given guidance for fourth quarter and I'd probably at this point say that's a tough one to answer until we get through the fourth quarter.

Okay.

Again, it's been nine – we're going on 10 months since the consent decree was approved by a federal judge. So I'd say that it's probably stable to slightly improving. I wouldn't expect any dramatic changes, but it's kind of sorted out to the people who understand it, want to deal with it and I just wouldn't expect any significant changes from either direction.

Okay. And did you say what you spent on remediation costs in the quarter?

We did not but I'm glad to share that information for quality and regulatory and I'm focusing here just on our corporate and HME efforts. We spent about $5 million in the quarter, so that was down and we're moving the right way. Tough answer always is how much more that could come down. But again, focusing on our corporate efforts and HME efforts on the remediation and quality, it's about $5 million.

How much of that is consultant spend?

I don't have that in front of me. We're still spending on consultants but I don't know the split on that.

Okay. Okay. Maybe I'll finish up on the Institutional Products Group, even after backing out Champion I guess it was a little bit weaker than I had thought it would be. Can you provide any color as to what's contributing to the weakness there?

A couple things, one just so it's clear, for IPG we back out Champion from both the prior year and the current year. So it really is continuing ops, continuing operations. So I wouldn't want to imply that Champion, losing Champion changed that. We try to – we make an apples-to-apples comparison.

The big issue is, and we emphasize this in the release, the organic net sales in the third quarter of 2012, so last year's third quarter, grew 22.2%. There were a variety of projects for interior design projects for long-term care facilities that pulled in a lot of products across the whole product line. That was a very, very strong quarter. We're organically down 16% this third quarter. The business does tend to be, compared to some of the other ones, a little more project based.

And so that was really the big driver, was we just didn't get the same number of projects. We got very strong projects, it's not often we're up 22% in the quarter. And so that was a little bit of the reason and the driver for seeing the decline organically this year. Does that help?

Yeah, that's helpful. Thank you.

There are no further questions at this time. I'm going to turn the call back over to Mr. Blouch for closing remarks.

Thanks, Sheila. Again, apologize for the technical interruption, I'm not sure what that was but it wasn't on our end. But again I want to assure our shareholders that our Board and management team are committed to making the right decisions to ensure the company's continued progress and implementation of a comprehensive quality system that is both compliant and sustainable.

We also are committed to ensuring the company is well positioned to reestablishing the profitability and improve shareholder value once we resume full operations at the Taylor Street and corporate facilities.

Thank you for your time and attention. I appreciate the questions. And if obviously, if you need to get a hold of Rob, Lara and I during anytime today and tomorrow, please feel free to do that. Have a great day.

This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.