Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Gerald B. Blouch — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Invacare Corp.
Robert K. Gudbranson — Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer & Senior VP, Invacare Corp.
Robert J. Labick — Analyst, CJS Securities, Inc.
James P. Sidoti — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC
Matt Mishan — Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets, Inc.
Greg M. Macosko — Officer & Director, Montrose Advisors, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Invacare 2014 First Quarter Conference Call. I will begin with the customary Safe Harbor statement that this conference call may include statements regarding anticipated and future developments that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

Forward-looking statements are those that describe future outcomes or expectations that are usually identified by words such as should, could, plan, intend, expect, continue, forecast, believe, and anticipate and include, for example, any statement made regarding the company's future results. Actual results may differ materially as a result of inherent uncertainties and risks, including the risk factors described in the company's Form 10-K and other filings with the Securities Exchange Commission and in the company's earnings release. The company may not be able to predict or may have little or no control over the factors or events that may influence its financial results.

Also of note, except for free cash flow, the financial information for all periods excludes the impact of discontinued operations. Discontinued operations include Invacare Supply Group, the company's former domestic medical supplies business that was divested on January 18, 2013; and Champion Manufacturing, Inc., the company's former domestic medical recliner business for dialysis clinics. That was divested on August 6, 2013. Champion was part of the Institutional Products Group segment.

On today's call, the management team will focus on the highlights of the quarter as opposed to covering all the detail, which you can read in the release that was issued earlier. In particular, I would refer to – refer investors to the company's earnings release to review the definition of free cash flow and some of the adjusted earnings items which will be mentioned during the call. You can find the release and access to the company's SEC filings at www.invacare.com.

Before I turn the call over to Invacare's President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Gerry Blouch, I would like to remind you that all phone lines have been placed on mute for the first part of the call. After the management overview, we will open the call to questions. The conference is being recorded Thursday, April 24, 2014.

I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Gerry Blouch, President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Blouch, please go ahead.

Thank you, Augusta, and good morning. With me on today's call is Rob Gudbranson, Invacare's Chief Financial Officer. We'll begin the morning call with a review of the company's first quarter financial results and we'll follow with an update on the consent decree.

The high point of the quarter is our European business segment which continues to perform well for the company. During the quarter, Europe achieved growth in both revenues and operating income. The other three business segments, North America/HME, Institutional Products Group, and Asia Pacific, continued to be negatively affected by pressures primarily related to the following: the consent decree impact on our Taylor Street and headquarters operation; the lack of new product introductions over the past two years as a result of our focus on quality systems remediation and limitations temporarily imposed by the consent decree; as well as unfavorable sales mix favoring lower-margin products and lower-margin customers.

In addition, we're now seeing pressure on utilization of certain lifestyle products in the U.S. Medicare market, precipitated by a number of CMS initiatives which I'll speak to in more detail in a moment. Principally, as a result of these pressures, overall adjusted loss per share was $0.49 in the first quarter of 2014 compared to an adjusted loss per share of $0.41 in the first quarter of 2013. The quarter's organic net sales declined by 7.2% compared to the same period last year with the increase in Europe being offset by lower net sales for the other three segments.

We reported free cash flow of a negative $8.7 million, which has improved compared to the first quarter of 2013 when cash flow was a negative $36 million. The first quarter 2014 free cash flow was primarily driven by the net loss for the period and higher inventory levels, partially offset by an increase in accounts payable. For the first quarter of 2013, free cash flow was negatively impacted by one-time items totaling approximately $16 million associated to the sale of the Invacare Supply Group.

Gross margins as a percent of net sales in the first quarter was lower by six-tenths of a percentage point compared to last year's first quarter. Gross margin was positively impacted by improvements in the European and IPG segments but offset by the North American/HME segment.

The quarter gross margin reflects an incremental warranty expense for the power wheelchair joystick recall of $2.2 million pre-tax, or seven-tenths of a percentage point. The joystick recall was launched in October of 2013 and as we previously indicated, our reserve is subject to adjustments if developments change the company's estimate of the total cost of that matter.

As the recall progressed during the first quarter, we recognized that implementation rates from larger customers in the United States and Canada were higher than previously expected. This led to the adjustment of our warranty expense accrual which was recorded in North American/HME and in the Asia Pacific segment.

SG&A in the quarter decreased by 5.1% to $98 million compared to $103.2 million in the first quarter of last year. This decrease was primarily driven by a reduction in regulatory and compliance costs attributed to lower spending on third-party consultants compared to the first quarter of last year. This, in part, is due to the fact that we've hired more internal personnel with medical device experience. But overall, we've had reduced associate costs corporate-wide.

Spending was also adversely impacted by an amortization expense of $1.1 million to write off debt fees related to an amendment to our bank credit agreement and $1 million related to the retirement of an executive officer of the company. Excluding these items, SG&A expense decreased by 7.1% compared to the first quarter of last year.

Before I turn the call over to Rob to review additional financial highlights of the first quarter, I'd like to take a few moments to discuss the evolving market dynamics that are impacting our lifestyle product category in the U.S. The situation within the lifestyle market at the moment is a result of interactions of several initiatives by CMS. First, competitive bidding has caused many bid winners to abandon certain products and geographies due to inadequate margins. Second, pre- and post-payment audits have caused providers to be far more conservative in fulfilling demand.

And third, recently expanded documentation requirements for proving medical necessity have not been supported with effective advanced orientation material by CMS. This has resulted – the result has been a market decline for marginal users; that's patients whose needs are on the margin, which was the intent of CMS. And consumers who are lost in the gaps, which wasn't an intent, okay, must – and must decide whether to do without or purchase products themselves, so the Medicare utilization is down. There appears to be a meaningful shift towards retail sales for certain lifestyle products and we'll continue to evaluate this market shift in our distribution footprint.

I will now turn the call over to Rob to discuss additional financial results for the first quarter.

Thanks, Gerry. All of the references to earnings or loss before income taxes exclude restructuring costs.

For the first quarter ended March 31, 2014, the European business segment's organic net sales increased by 1.4%, primarily related to growth in net sales of lifestyle products and mobility and seating products. This was partially offset by a sales decline in respiratory products. Earnings before income taxes increased by $3.7 million, largely attributable to volume increases, favorable product mix, favorable product costs and decreased SG&A expense.

For the first quarter, organic net sales for the North American/HME segment decreased by 14.4% driven by declines in all product categories, although the decrease was primarily driven by equal declines in mobility and seating products and lifestyle products. Loss before income taxes increased by $6.5 million. The loss was primarily driven by volume declines, unfavorable sales mix towards lower-margin customers and lower-margin products, incremental warranty expense of $1.3 million related to the power wheelchair joystick recall, higher amortization expense of $1.1 million for the write-off of debt fees, and an increased expense at $1 million related to the retirement of an executive officer of the company. These factors were partially offset by decreased SG&A expense related to reduced regulatory compliance costs and reduced associate costs.

For the first quarter, organic net sales for the IPG segment decreased by 13.7% driven primarily by declines in bed sales and sales related to interior design projects. Earnings before income taxes increased by $0.1 million. This increase in earnings before income taxes was largely attributable to reduced research and development expenses and reduced SG&A expense, primarily related to lower associate cost.

In the first quarter, organic net sales for the Asia Pacific segment increased by 0.4%, primarily attributable to growth in the company's Australian distribution business. Loss before income taxes increased by $1.1 million. The increase in loss before income taxes was primarily attributable to incremental warranty expense of $0.9 million related to the power wheelchair joystick recall and related to unfavorable absorption of fixed costs at the company's subsidiary which produces microprocessor controllers as a result of reduced volumes.

Total debt outstanding, which includes the convertible debt discount as described in the press release, was $51.5 million as of March 31, 2014. The company's total debt consists of $31.8 million drawn on the revolving credit facility, $13.4 million in convertible debt, and $6.3 million of other debt. The company's ratio of debt to adjusted EBITDA, as defined in the press release, was 2.7 as of March 31, 2014, compared to 2.3 as of December 31, 2013, and 1.8 as of March 31, 2013.

I'll now turn the call over to Gerry for a few closing comments. We can then address questions.

Thank you, Rob. At this point, I'd like to address our status relating to the consent decree. We have previously indicated that under the terms of the consent decree, we must complete three third-party certification audits which will then be followed by a comprehensive FDA inspection before the FDA will permit us to resume full operations at our Taylor Street manufacturing and corporate facilities in Elyria, Ohio.

We have already received the FDA's acceptance of two of the three certifications and we continue to work on the third expert certification audit process. This audit is the most comprehensive and challenging of the three third-party certification audits, encompassing all areas of our corporate and Taylor Street quality systems. With respect to the comprehensive nature of the audit process and we are working – we respect the comprehensive nature of the audit process and we are working diligently with the third-party auditor with the ultimate goal of demonstrating our compliance with the FDA.

While we are making progress, we cannot predict the timing of a completion of the third-party expert certification. When the FDA completes its own audit and finds the company to be on compliance, it will issue a written notification for many in the company to resume full operations at the corporate and Taylor Street facilities. While this is a complex and exhausted process, we are diligently working our way through it. I appreciate the ongoing effort of our associates to drive this effort and support the audit process.

On behalf of the company, I appreciate your time and attention during this call. And we'll now open the call lines for questions. Augusta?

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from Bob Labick of CJS Securities.

Good morning.

Hi, Bob.

Hi. I wanted to start with a question on pre/post audits on the Medicare side; if you could maybe just take a few minutes to elaborate on the impact on your customers. Is Medicare calling into question the necessity for the lifestyle products or the cost, or how is it impacting your customers? And I guess you mentioned the shift to retail a little bit, too. Is that an opportunity for you, or what do you see changing to address this impact?

Okay. Several questions there, but it's not a cost issue. CM – it's more of a utilization issue. CMS has expressed concerns over utilization. Its principal tool to address that risk or exposure has been to require more comprehensive diligence on documenting medical necessity, and that when the – with the launch of the latest updated round of competitive bidding, pretty much concurrent with that, they amped up the rules.

And as I said, that was compounded by the fact that there was – the process of educating clinicians as to what the new protocols were appears to have been less than fully robust. So the issue is not cost. The issue is utilization, and CMS has a legitimate need to ensure that people who are entitled to equipment are getting equipment, but also ensure, at the same time, it's not a gratuitous process and people who aren't entitled don't get it.

So the objective is legitimate. I think that one of the problems is you had the convergence of two events. You had competitive bidding being closed off and new winners and losers being identified. So you have a process of transferring patients from legacy providers that they don't want to grandfather and referral sources running through the new authorize providers are and clinicians learning about new documentation. So you had a perfect storm with a lot of change going on simultaneously.

And like I said, that created gaps and some – so sick people who might have, in a more casual documentary-based environment, may have gotten equipment aren't getting it today, so that's the nature of it. And the first tangible evidence of that was a GAO report that came out recently where industry doesn't have real time awareness of what the data is. GAO came out with a report indicating that demand was down in many categories which would embrace the lifestyle product category.

The retail – so some people who should have got things are faced with – hospitals are faced with like discharging even though they don't have all the pieces of equipment they want, or do we keep them here, even though I don't get more money for that. If I'm discharged as a patient and I need some things that I haven't – that the system hasn't been able to document for me to get, do I buy it myself or do I just wait? So it's a muddle right now.

Retail – and when I said retail, that cash business would have been just as apt. We have our own providers who do retail business, so some of that business is flowing to cash business at retail through the provider channel. Part of it is walking into your corner drug store and picking up something that you wish you would have gotten at discharge that you didn't get and part of it is e-tailing.

And I can speak to that from personal experience, having a brother – a mother who – on Medicare and had a transition of provider care and I understand what it means to be lost in the shuffle. So some of it will sort out in the fullness of time. Retailing, I think retailing – the retailing will continue to evolve to be a more meaningful part of home medical device and that's an area that we're looking at now, particularly e-tailing, the e-tailing part of retailing. Did it answer your question, Bob?

Yeah. That was very helpful color. I appreciate that. And then just speaking with, I guess, kind of the second part of that, the National Competitive Bidding, can you talk a little bit about what you're seeing on the impact of your customer base, in aggregate? There's thoughts of consolidation and a changeover, and how is that playing out and how much longer do we have to go with that and how it's been impacting you?

There was a – massive is an abstract word, but I think massive probably qualifies in terms of the reduction in qualified – not only reduction in approved suppliers for Medicare, but at the same time, the introduction of new players who have never been in the business before, some of whom didn't have local licensing, local locations, and any participation on local market, and that can be – so you had – so we've got a lot of new faces in the market and a massive shift of business from providers and it's been a frantic chase to figure out where the business has migrated to and I think we've done a reasonably thorough job on that side, but it's not clear at this time that we've even tracked down all the new players, so that's huge.

And there's some – probably the most – and it's been significantly disruptive to some markets. And the most notable one that's been written about is Hawaii where they were, I suppose, because it's a paradise, a lot of people from outside of Hawaii bid and it happened at almost all markets, if not all markets. But Hawai'i presented a major logistics problem for people who won bids to get themselves set up and there was a huge disservice for a time. And CMS actually went back in and authorized a couple of new providers to cover the Hawaiian market.

So last question is what are we seeing, the business – competitive bidding – I think the most interesting thing is, which has been documented in a letter from the CEO of a prominent – one of our prominent customers, we haven't asked permission to mention it but it's publicly documented, and if you want, Laura can help you track that down. But they talked about markets that, again, in competitive bidding, the bid rates for each individual markets are set based upon the average bids of the people who through CMS determined were – provided an adequate base of suppliers in the service department.

Some people dropped out. And some people – gamesmen made – just to see what the average would be and that dragged the price down. When they replace a bidder with someone new, they don't change the price. So there are folks who bid legitimately, but the average was – didn't allow them to have a sustainable business model for certain products in certain geographic markets and it's documented that people have just walked away.

And so there's a lot of dislocation going on and then kind of – those are some of the gap problems that are referred to. And the gaps have – it's not – by and large, it doesn't appear to be in the very sophisticated, expensive equipment. So, by and large, it seems that the average person can – has access to on the web and in drugstores, from a medical equipment provider whether or not he's authorized under – anybody who was authorized under the old Medicare, they're still authorized to sell products retail. So it's a challenge. I don't think it's – the – it doesn't appear, as we've said in the past, the demand – the needs don't change. How those needs are fulfilled and by what channel is the adjustment that Invacare and all manufacturers have to make.

Okay, great. Last question and I'll get back in queue. Yeah, earlier in the quarter, I think in February, you discussed the London, Canada operations and shutting that down and moving it to some of your other facilities and outsourcing some of the operations and manufacturing from there as well. Can you talk a little bit about how that is progressing and if that's maybe part of the roadmap towards globalization and where globalization – your globalization plan stands?

It's – end with the last question, we've kind of held ourselves in a freeze frame globalization because our number one priority for resources and systems was remediation. So as we've kind of moved through the process and have stabilized and validate a lot of the QSR – the procedures that we have into the QSR, we've now moved back into some of the One Invacare and One Invacare is definitely the manner and the philosophy that we'll need the company to do stronger and a stronger global future. So it is a piece of that puzzle. It was an identified piece all along. So the train is starting to move, that project specifically is moving through the project phases and progressing on a timely manner.

Okay, terrific. Thank you very much.

Our next question will come from Jim Sidoti of Sidoti & Co.

Good morning. Can you hear me?

Yeah, Jim.

Can you give us an update on how the respiratory therapy products did in the quarter?

Respiratory therapy was pretty solid, particularly, and the highlight is HomeFill which is our – a nice entree, thank you for that, to talk about our response to competitive bidding. Our – we've got a two-fold response to competitive bidding; the – number one is fleet management, the total lifetime cost of a product. So we continue to believe that if you kind of go through the competitive bidding on the cheap, you're going to be, in the fullness of time, regret that and that's been echoed by, again, some prominent providers. And again, that's included in the document I mentioned to Bob; again, Laura can steer you to that.

So we stand by that; having said that, there are some value points that we think we need. It's not pricing on existing products, it's value propositions because reimbursement codes are fairly broad on what we can provide in the reimbursement code and we have some products coming to market that would address that. And HomeFill, back to respiratory HomeFill, it is a device that cost – the up-front cost for a provider is greater than conventional methods but the downstream costs, the back-end costs, the benefits there far exceed the cost of that investment and we're seeing more demand shift towards that modality for ambulatory oxygen.

Hey, Jim. The only other thing I'd add would be just, I mean, we did reference in both Europe and the U.S. that we had some weakness there. But I think Gerry hit the key point, particularly when we talk about the U.S. HomeFill was still a very positive performance. In comparing the prior year, I think, hopefully, people won't remember, but the flu season was incredibly strong last year. The fact that we might not show exactly the same performance this year should not be a shocker, but Gerry is completely right. The HomeFill product line is still very good play for us going forward.

Right. And then can you just give us a little more color on the third audit? I think, on the last call, you had the issue with some of the processing of the complaints that was really holding it up. Is that still the issue? And...

I think the core of what needed to be remediated was in complaints and we've added some people to – we added some contractors to drive that down. We've realigned our order intake customer service complaint team to have specialists handle complaints, which is ultimately giving those now much more timely and accurate coding of complaints, which helps with the risk assessment process, so we've made a lot of good changes there.

But every – all audits, view it as a three-step process. You've – are the processes as designed, as written, compliant with QSR, A. B, are you following those processes? And C, do they see the adjacencies? They're not silos, they're – it's an integrated system. So it, by nature, bleeds into other things and that's the process we're working through.

So the next time we'll give an update, I guess, will be when this audit is submitted to the FDA?

The third-party experts' report is submitted to the FDA along with our report as a company. With our report we have to – we're – the protocol is we have to provide an update on the changes that we addressed that were issues leading up to the consent decree and if there's any comment in the third party's report, that we have to address those as well. So it'll either be when that report is submitted or with the next quarterly release.

Okay, all right. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

We'll go next to Matthew Mishan of KeyBanc.

Great, thank you, Gerry, for taking my questions.

Glad to, Matt.

I'm just generally trying to get a sense of incrementally from the second half of last year to the first quarter, what was the change – what was the impact of the increasing audits and National Competitive Bidding? I know that you had said that you had a large order of HomeFill that was helping you guys out towards the back half of last year. Did things really incrementally change from the fourth quarter to the first quarter or was it – was HomeFill kind of masking things?

Wow, that's a good question. Rob, do you want to go grab that?

I think what I'd say is a couple of things. One, let's talk about maybe the lines and the performance across the income statement. First of all, let's look at the gross margin. I mean, we're down a little bit but you have to remember that from fourth quarter, let's say, to first quarter, we had some noise in both quarters on the warranty. I'd say we're sort of in the right range in terms of our gross margin.

And then I'd say on the SG&A, even though we were a little bit up, Gerry referenced and I referenced the fact we had some one-time events in terms of additional costs for that retirement and the bank fees, which we knew we'd have coming, but if you back those out, we're similar.

So I think when we look at the performance from the income statement, no big surprises. I think what you'd normally see, if we look fourth quarter to first quarter in terms of sales, is we see a much weaker first quarter. So I don't think there was anything necessarily masking performance. I think we've had some pressure during the year in lifestyles. I think we also had a very strong, as I mentioned earlier, flu season last year first quarter.

So, again, I don't think there's anything particularly masking. I think the issue is, again, normal movement is sales are weaker in the first quarter. Gross margin was somewhat close, but not shocking that it'd be a little bit lower, at least on a reported basis. And I think we controlled SG&A. So I think from my vantage point, it looked like a pretty logical quarter one movement, Q4 to Q1, but maybe that's not addressing your question.

I think that – just emphasizing the two points Rob makes, there's normal seasonality, which there's a host of theories as to why. But in the industry going from the fourth calendar quarter to the first calendar quarter is down. The only bright spot, if you will, the only lift normally in the first quarter was the flu season which Rob mentioned, which this year was weak. And the fourth quarter last year was buoyed a bit by the big order that you mentioned for HomeFill. So the flow for quarter to quarter, fourth to first, was probably a little more accentuated than normal.

Okay. And then just moving on to Europe, kind of in that – these past three quarters, kind of in that 1% to 3% on an organic basis. I mean, I know you've hesitated to give guidance on Europe. But is that the right range to kind of look at Europe now for – on an ongoing basis, that kind of 1% to 3% organically?

Yeah. Again, you answered the question by saying we're not really giving guidance. But I guess what I'd reference back is that's a team that's done very well and that we've been able to have some new products over there. They had particularly strong growth organically in the first two quarters last year and third quarter and fourth quarter, sort of 1.5%, 2.8%; and now it's 1.4% in the first quarter.

So I think it's been pretty consistent with maybe some stronger quarters in the history, looking at Q1 and Q2 last year, when it was almost 8% and 6%. So again, those are sort of where they've performed so far. I think we'll dodge the going forward, but I think we have good faith in the management team there that they'll work hard to continue to perform.

And then I'm sorry if I missed this. I was doing a little bit of work here at the very beginning of the call. But what – could you – did you say what the QA/RA costs were in the quarter?

No, we didn't, but since you asked, we would point out and as Gerry mentioned in his statements, it was down but it was $6.3 million this quarter versus $7.6 million first quarter last year. So as he mentioned in his comments, we had lower costs on external and we've hired in some people, so we've got some more talent inside. Yeah, we we're down – we're down from $7.6 million to $6.3 million.

Last question for me. Product launches, and I know you're kind of stuck at least on the power wheelchair side until the consent decree is over, but are there any new product launches in some of the other groups that we should pay attention to for the back half of the year?

Again, we've started with a trickle of launches last year and we've got more coming this year. But we're not giving guidance; we're starting to fill the pipeline up, then gradually getting back to a normal tempo of new product introductions.

All right; thank you, guys.

Thank you, Matthew. [Operator Instructions]

We'll go next to Gregory Macosko of Montrose Advisors.

Yes, thank you. Just a...

Hey, Greg.

Hey, hi. How are you?

Good, how are you?

Good. Just with regard to the utilization issue. Sorry about the noise. Are you following up with documentation or helping the dealer to resolve that documentation problem? And the second question in that regard is have you felt an impact on the retail side? Are you sensing it from the purchases there and the like?

Our retail business which is for us – there isn't, A, much that we can do or are doing to help the providers because for us to go in and reach thousands of clinicians would be impractical. They have the documentation. They've been going through the training process and that's a call pattern that they already have. There's not much we could do to – that would be cost effective or useful there.

We're seeing our e-tail business increase and that has gone up. Whether that's directly attributed to this, it's hard to tell. It's something that we've done, and if it's going through a number of providers, we never have visibility to how a provider's reimbursed and we believe that some of that business is being captured by traditional providers who are – when they drop off the things that they have documented for – documentation for and they're asked if they have other things, we'll provide that but explain to the patient that they'll have to pay cash for it.

So it's a lot of threads. The single thread that is clearly retail is e-tailing and that is up. To say that that's directly as a result of this or there's other issues involved would be a stretch. But in the piece that's clearly retail, we do seek to improve.

Thank you.

Okay. Good to hear from you.

And it appears we have no other questions from the queue at this time.

Okay. Well, very good. I appreciate everyone's time and attention, and I want to assure the callers that the shareholders, our Board and management are committed to making the right decision to ensure the company's continued progress in demonstrating a comprehensive and sustainable quality system to the FDA, and we appreciate your time and attention during the call. Have a good day.

That does conclude today's conference. Thank you all for your participation.