Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Lois Lee — Director, Treasury, Investor Relations and Corporate Communications, Invacare Corp.
Matthew E. Monaghan — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Invacare Corp.
Kathleen P. Leneghan — Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Invacare Corp.
Bob J. Labick — Analyst, CJS Securities, Inc.
Matthew Mishan — Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc.
Michael Matson — Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC
Chris Cooley — Analyst, Stephens, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Invacare Corporation Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2020 Conference Call and Webcast. After the management overview, we will open the lines to questions. Investors and analysts interested in asking questions will need to dial in, as the questions cannot be submitted via the webcast. For the first part of the call, all phone lines have been placed on mute. This conference is being recorded, Thursday, February 11, 2021.

I will now turn the conference over to Lois Lee, Invacare's Director of Treasury, Investor Relations and Corporate Communications. Please go ahead.

Thank you, Emma. Joining me today on today's call from Invacare are Matt Monaghan, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Kathy Leneghan, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Today, we will be reviewing our fourth quarter and full year 2020 financial results and providing investors with an update on our transformation. To help investors follow along, we have created slides to accompany this webcast. For those of you dialing in, you can find a link to our webcast slide presentation that we will refer to during today's call at invacare.com/investorrelations. Further information can be found in our SEC filings.

Before Matt begins, I'd like to note that, during today's call, we may make forward-looking statements about the company that by the nature address matters that are uncertain. Actual future results may differ materially from those expressed in our statement today due to various uncertainties, and I refer you to the cautionary statements included on the second page of our webcast slide, and on our fourth quarter earnings release.

For an explanation of items considered to be non-GAAP financial information that will be discussed on today's call, such as constant currency net sales, constant currency sequential net sales, constant currency SG&A, free cash flow, adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net loss, please see the notes in the appendix of our webcast slides and in the related reconciliations in the earnings release posted on our website.

I will now turn the call over to Mat Monaghan.

Thank you, Lois, and good morning. Let's begin on slide 3. We started 2020 enthusiastic for a strong year of commercial execution, launching new product and continuing to simplify our business. I'm pleased that, despite the unforeseen pandemic challenges, we still managed to do all of those things and achieved remarkable results.

For the full year, we delivered higher profitability on lower net sales, while expanding gross margins and reducing SG&A expense. We also achieved breakeven cash flow by prudently managing working capital with a special emphasis on reducing inventory. At the same time, we strengthened our financial flexibility by retiring debt and extending the maturity of a significant portion of convertible notes.

It was another great year of new products. Our innovation team added great new products expected to drive incremental sales and improve profitability. We also managed through challenging global supply chain disruptions and took steps to optimize our manufacturing network. We did this while quickly adapting to a new work environment to take the measures for our associates and creative ways to engage our customers. Our ability to conduct virtual training and support our customers' non-contact clinical assessments and the unique ability of many of our products to perform remote programming and diagnostics really put us ahead. We'll invest in best of these to widen our competitive advantage in the future.

2020 has made our business stronger. Invacare participates in durable healthy markets, and serves a persistent need for its products with a tremendous opportunity to grow by commercializing new products and servicing pent-up demand for purchases. We continue to simplify the business, so we can better serve our customers and make transactions easier. At the same, we have a great team of people working to drive efficiency and financial performance. After strong results in a challenging 2020, I have even more confidence about the bright future ahead of us.

On slide 4, you'll see the fourth quarter, we delivered stronger operating income with a substantial increase in free cash flow. This was a result of overall good sales performance, cost containment measures and less restructuring in the period. As guided, in the fourth quarter, we achieved improvement in sequential consolidated net sales of 5.7% and constant currency sequential net sales increased by 4.2%, driven by continued strength in respiratory products, increased sales of lifestyle products and growth in North America mobility and seating. These results were consistent with our expectations about the lessening of pandemic restrictions in the period.

Compared to prior year, operating income increased by $5 million, and free cash flow increased by nearly $12 million. I'm pleased with the continued progress in the business and the improved financial results achieved during the quarter.

Turning to slide 5, with fourth quarter adding to the strong results from the three prior quarters, full year operating income increased by $21.7 million and adjusted EBITDA grew by over 11% to nearly $32 million. During the year, we launched new products, improved gross profit margin and effectively managed SG&A expense to achieve these results. Importantly, after years of improvements, North America returned to profitability with more than $17 million increase in operating income and modest growth in constant currency net sales.

As mentioned previously, we generated breakeven free cash flow as a result of prudent working capital management. I'm pleased with the significant improvement in our key metrics. This demonstrates our strategic initiatives are working and that we have built a strong business foundation.

As demonstrated on slide 6, having a full pipeline of compelling new products with meaningful innovation is at the core of our growth strategy. In 2020, our innovation and commercial efforts continued unabated. We launched the power wheelchair products in adults and smaller sizes, active manual, passive manual and bariatric wheelchairs, folding compact power wheelchairs, power add-on, beds, lifts and hygiene products. It was really a great year adding to our portfolio, which will help us find more ways to engage with clinicians and help them engage with end users looking for the latest solutions for independents and great healthcare aides.

In 2020, we also introduced the Pico Green product line, the first shower chair using renewable materials from sustainable forests and which eliminates 99% of surface bacteria, particularly maintaining a safer patient environment. These products come in many varieties, and will help us engage with customers to provide better solutions for 24 hours of care. This is the kind of pipeline we expect to continue in the future. Also in 2020, we completed the previously announced structural business improvements. We outsourced all of our IT infrastructure, and began deploying our modernized IT system in the first stages in Canada and New Zealand. We're pleased with the system's new functionality and look forward to using these new systems to improve our customers' experience transacting with us and providing our associates with modern tools to simplify their work and improve results.

Additionally, in December, we successfully completed the German plant consolidation, which was anticipated to generate approximately $5 million in annual cost savings starting in 2021. In 2021, we'll turn our attention to further optimizing operations and our manufacturing facilities into working with our logistics partners, which should further improve results. In summary, 2020 was a good year in both results and from fundamental improvements that will help us grow and improve in the future.

On slide 7, I'd like to take a brief moment to address how our ESG initiatives support our mission and enhance shareholder value. At our core, Invacare is a company focused on a mission of inclusion. After all, our products are designed to maximize the person's independence and to help people achieve the best lifestyle and outcome in any setting they choose. Our business results are what we do every quarter, and ESG guides us on how we achieve them. As an employer and community member, it's important for us to align our mission-driven purpose that yields great healthcare solutions for people and to do that in a way that engages all of us that work with us. Three years ago, we began a concerted effort to ensure Invacare is a responsible environmental steward with employment practices and community outreach that engage with this. You can see the areas we're focused on to leverage our efforts to reduce waste, consume energy responsibly and engage with social purpose.

I'll now turn the call over to Kathy to discuss the performance of the segments in additional financial results for the fourth quarter and full year.

Thanks, Matt. Turning to slide 9, during the fourth quarter, while constant currency net sales decreased compared to the prior year, revenues increased sequentially as healthcare restrictions began to loosen. During the early days of the pandemic, there was no playbook. And now, every day, we learn how to be more effective in this new environment.

We achieved a higher gross profit margin both year-over-year and sequentially, despite continued supply chain challenges with the benefit of previous initiatives and product mix. To offset lower sales, we took actions to reduce SG&A expense and improved operating income by $5 million. As we will discuss later, some of the reduction in SG&A expense was a result of lower sales and related business activities. However, of the available actions we implemented, many of them are durable.

That said, as revenue grows back, we expect that selling expenses like commissions will return, but this is a good thing and will allow us to scale against our SG&A expense. At the end of the year, free cash flow was helped by the increase in third quarter sales that were collected in the fourth quarter. In addition, our colleagues around the globe were diligent in managing down inventories, which peaked in the second quarter as sales declined faster than fulfillment levels could be reasonably adjusted. I am pleased with how quickly we were able to adapt.

Turning to slide 10, while the pandemic had little to no impact on sales in the first quarter, by late March to early April, the whole world had gone into a simultaneous and hermetic shutdown, which lasted throughout mid-summer. Access to healthcare was oftentimes limited to only pandemic related or urgent care with elective care suspended or delayed. As a result, consolidated net sales declined significantly in the second quarter, and have continued to improve throughout the year, but have not yet returned to pre-pandemic levels. Each of the product lines was impacted differently, which I'll address in more detail on the next slide.

Despite lower revenues, gross profit as a percentage of sales improved by 60 basis points due to favorable sales mix and prior actions taken to expand margins. As mentioned previously, we executed both temporary and durable actions to reduce SG&A expense to match the lower sales level. As a result, in 2020, we managed to grow operating income, reversing course from an operating loss in 2019, a significant turnaround in results. In addition, adjusted EBITDA improved over 11% from 2019 and free cash flow exceeded our expectations.

Turning to slide 11, as Matt discussed in the previous two quarters, the pandemic had a different impact on each one of our product lines. Mobility and seating product sales began to see early signs of recovery as consolidated sequential net sales improved modestly. North America sequential sales growth of 3.3% was more than offset by weakness in Europe as more stringent public health restrictions imposed during the fourth quarter continued to limit access to our customers and end users. As our products mainly serve chronic conditions, we believe these sales are generally non-perishable and these delayed sales will be fulfilled in 2021.

Our new mobility and seating products are beginning to contribute as well and we expect their contributions in 2021 to help lift the category even higher. Lifestyle products grew sequentially, driven by Europe, with strong demand in all product categories, primarily bed and bed related products. Respiratory, which continued to experience elevated demand globally, increased by over 75% compared to the prior year, and also grew sequentially, driven by sales of stationary oxygen concentrators used for the COVID-19 response.

Global supply chain issues that were almost insurmountable during the second quarter have improved considerably. But still impacts our ability to meet the outsized demand. We continue to experience global demand in excess of our ability to supply, currently impacted by transportation and logistics delays.

Turning to slide 12, Europe constant-currency net sales during the fourth quarter decreased compared to the prior year as growth in respiratory was more than offset by lower sales of mobility and seating and lifestyle products. Sequentially, reported net sales increased to 10.8%, driven by increases in lifestyle and respiratory products.

Europe continues to be impacted by more recent pandemic-related measures, which may limit our end users' ability or willingness to obtain healthcare, although our customers generally remain open. As a result of the lower sales, both gross profit and operating income declined, and we incurred unfavorable manufacturing variances from the lower volume.

For the full year, although we saw sequential improvement in net sales in both the third and fourth quarter, overall sales were limited by the pandemic. Historically, the second half of the year is seasonally stronger due to higher sales of mobility and seating products primarily scooters in Europe, which are popular during the warmer months. Strict healthcare restrictions in many of our key markets dampened sales as our end users had limited opportunity to enjoy being outside or travel freely. As a result, we saw the same impact on gross profit and operating income for the full year as we did in the fourth quarter.

Turning to slide 13, in North America, we achieved higher constant currency net sales in both the fourth quarter and the full year, driven by two primary factors. First, we saw tremendous growth in the sale of respiratory products, primarily stationary oxygen concentrators. Not only did we see higher unit volumes, we also realized a favorable mix shift towards higher acuity products. Although sales increased significantly, fulfilling these orders was not easy. We had to battle multiple global supply chain challenges early on when our suppliers were closed due to not being deemed essential businesses, had difficulties assembling a workforce, and inefficiencies driven by the scarcity of transportation and logistics. While most of these issues have resolved themselves, we feel an impact today.

The second factor is that the individual states in the US never fully shut down cohesively as the countries in Europe. As long-term care facilities closed their doors to new residents, we saw a shift towards home healthcare, an area where we have a strong presence.

With improved sales, we were able to expand gross profit, which improved 510 basis points for the quarter and 260 basis points for the full year. This was largely driven by favorable sales mix and lower freight and material costs. Importantly, operating income improved by $4 million for the quarter and by $17 million for the year, as we realize the benefit of transformation initiatives, which return the segment to profitability. I'd like to commend the team on all their hard work which led to such great results.

Turning to slide 14, we made great progress in Asia Pacific as constant currency net sales improved year-over-year and sequentially. In the fourth quarter constant currency net sales increased 16.2%, driven by all product categories with a nearly 36% improvement in mobility and seating sales. Sequentially, reported net sales increased 11.5%, driven by mobility and seating sales. Operating loss for All Other improved, driven by higher operating profit in the Asia Pacific business and decreased SG&A expense related to corporate stock compensation expense.

Moving to slide 15, as of December 31, 2020, the company had approximately $273 million of total debt and approximately $105 million of cash on its balance sheet. In 2020, we took proactive steps to improve our financial flexibility by retiring approximately $25 million of convertible notes in 2021. In addition, we extended the debt maturities to November of 2024 of a significant portion of our convertible notes, which were due in 2021 and 2022. As a result of these actions, the remaining balance of $1.3 million of the 2021 notes will be settled in cash this month. As always, we will continue to assess opportunities to further optimize our capital structure.

I will now turn the call back over to Matt.

Thanks, Kathy. Let's shift from talking about strong results in 2020 and talk about the future as we provide our outlook for the company's expected performance in 2021. We now know so much more about operating in a pandemic and we anticipate it's going to have a heavy influence in 2021, both in restricting access to healthcare and affecting supply chain and logistics much like it did in 2020. We also have a view on improvements we're going to make in 2021 to make it another great year.

On slide 16, we showed guidance with expected operating results for the full year 2021 to consist of the following. Constant currency net sales growth in the range of 4% to 7%. We're giving a range of revenue reflecting good growth over 2020 with the range providing for variations in sales by product line in key the markets depending on how the pandemic unfolds. Given these assumptions, this is expected to result in a 41% improvement in adjusted EBITDA, taking us to $45 million and free cash flow generation of $5 million.

Based on the healthcare restrictions currently in place, especially severely in Europe, consolidated reported net sales in the first quarter may be down slightly to mid-single digits compared to prior year, which was not impacted by the pandemic. We're bullish for the full year, expecting a strong uplift in the second half as public health restrictions were lifted. While it's impossible to project the exact path of the pandemic in 2021, we remain confident that as weather gets warmer in the northern hemisphere, where we do most of our sales, and as people desire to get outside and as vaccines become more widely available, we'll see strong sales growth driven by new products and pent-up demand from 2020.

As I mentioned earlier, we expect some increase in SG&A expense primarily to support increased sales, although it should remain below 2019 spending. Not yet factored into guidance is the anticipated benefit related to improved customer experience and efficiency from the IT modernization initiative as it's rolled out in North America.

Finally, free cash flow is expected to be lumpy in the quarters especially in the first half, as we fund seasonal inventory early in the year and payments for 2020 programs like severance from the German plant consolidation and deferred taxes. Our guidance demonstrates the continued confidence we have in our strategic plans and our ability to drive future growth.

We'll put a bow on it at this stage on page 17 with a summary and [indiscernible] (00:20:40). While we could not have predicted the pandemic that tested the resolve of our customers, suppliers, associates and the people who rely on our products every day, I am incredibly proud of all we accomplished. This would not have been possible without the inspired and tireless support of our associates who battled through global supply challenges, found creative ways to engage with our customers and end users and adapted quickly to new working environments, all while ensuring the health and safety of our colleagues.

Looking ahead, we have clear objectives with a focus on delivering sales growth and generating gains in our key markets, which we expect will result in significant improvement in profitability and free cash flow. We're confident the long-term economic potential for Invacare remains strong. Later this year, we'll provide an update on the timing of our longer term targets, which we believe will achieve according to our priority and ongoing strategic initiatives, as they continue to gain traction and as consequences of the pandemic subside.

I want to thank you for taking time for the call this morning. We'll now take questions. Emma?

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We will now take our first question from Robert J. Labick from CJS Securities. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Good morning. Congratulations on Q4.

Good morning, Bob. Thanks.

And a strong performance for the year of course. Sorry, I was taken aback by the Robert J. Labick part.

Yeah. It's formal.

So, I wanted to dig into your revenue guidance for a second, seating and mobility – or mobility and seating was down about $60 million in 2020. And as we've discussed on prior calls, I think you mentioned today too that shouldn't really be lost. It should be kind of deferred and coming back. So, assuming that comes back, what are kind of the offsets or what are – how much impact from COVID are you building in? I feel like given, if that $60 million comes back in, you could be a little bit conservative. And so I'm just trying to see what the other offsets are or if that shift just keeps going to the right a little bit into mobility and seating.

Yeah, it's a good question, Bob. Although I think we've all become accustomed to dealing with the pandemic generally, when we look into markets we serve, there is still some raging consequences. And it's different by country that we serve or provider payer. Europe is still very closed in some markets and starting to open in others. So what we tried to do is just triangulate where and in what fashion this is going to come back, especially considering mobility and seating is especially strong in the second and third quarters, in the fair weather months in the northern hemisphere.

So, we looked at a market that's probably low-single digits in typical growth 4% to 7% maybe two to three times that. And it's probably not going to happen in first quarter. So we're trying to figure out how that comes in maybe transitioning in second quarter, but stronger in the second half. And that leads us to a 4% to 7% to start the year in our outlook for full year.

Okay. Great. Just kind of following up there, obviously, North America was a relatively flat and Europe took the bigger hit in 2020. How do you see, generally speaking – I don't know if you're not going to number of per se, but just the revenue recovery or the growth on a constant currency basis by region?

By region, yeah, I think it's kind of a mix in the sense that North America, given social pandemic measures haven't been as severe, there probably isn't quite as strong a bounce back, as it wasn't as strongly depressed. We have a more balanced profile seasonally in the year based on the different product segments. So, I think it – I don't know whether it looks like the historic strong seasonality that people may be familiar with, I'm sure you're familiar with. But I think a little more balance. In Europe, there's some countries that are still pretty severely restricted. UK, in particular, I think has never really come back since March of last year. So, it's really predicting the timing and complexion of how those European markets come back and superimposing it with calendar seasonality of warm weather. So I think as Europe has come down more severely, it's probably going to grow more back to prior levels with the normal amount of catching up that you'd expect. So, it's kind of a only way to answer your questions. It's a little less down in North America, so a little less of a strong recovery. More severely down in Europe with the expected stronger recovery especially in the warm weather months, two and three quarters.

Got it. Great. And then, as it relates to the IT transformation, and the Birlasoft and everything in North America, did you say the expected future benefits? Obviously, there's been plenty of cost savings in North America, but did you say the future cost savings from that or not yet factored into your guidance? Or how are you thinking about the further expected cost savings that you have discussed, you're not quantified but discussed, from the IT transformation?

Yeah, there should be three kinds of benefits. First and foremost are going to be benefits to our customers, who will have a much easier time transacting with us with modern mobility tools to order and browse and catch up with order status and so on, much like all of us probably have with Amazon or platforms like that. On the inside with our company having better tools to optimize how we operate, we'll have lower costs of transactions, and we'll have better working capital, because we'll have tools that allow us to manage inventory and other kinds of purchases more definitely.

We have not factored those into 2021. We want to do is make sure it's implemented well. It'll probably be feathering in over the year. And I don't know that we'll get enough of it done to standing here right now in first quarter, make a big commitment on exactly how much that savings is going to be for full year 2022. It should be very important, but we'll see how it goes in 2020, and primarily, we're struggling with how do you estimate the revenue impact of being so much easier to do business with when we already have a fantastic portfolio of products. So, that's really the starting line that we'll get into. And I'm sure as we get into the year, we'll have visibility as we bring our customers into working with us on the system rollout.

Okay, great. I will jump back in queue. Thank you very much.

Thanks, Bob.

Thank you. We will now take our next question from Matthew Mishan from KeyBanc. Please go ahead. The line is open.

Hey. Good morning, Matt, Kathy, and Lois. I hope all is well.

Hello, Matt. Good morning.

First is, I just want to – I just want to – help us out with some modeling. Can you provide what your full year 2021 FX assumption is? And then also for 1Q net sales flat to down mid-single digits, what does that imply for a constant currency growth or declines?

Kathy?

Sure. So, Matt, from an FX perspective, we model at basically the Q4 rates, the Q4 rates that you would have seen in 2020 is what we model out to on a go-forward basis. And so, the rates are actually a bit stronger than what we saw in the first three quarters of 2020 from that perspective. From a constant currency perspective, the constant currency would be similar to the [ph] $4.7 million (00:28:29), actually the [ph] $4.7 million (00:28:31) is – the guidance that we're giving is on the reported numbers, obviously. But it would be consistent with the Q4 2020 FX assumptions.

Okay. And then just switching over to post-acute respiratory, as we've seen like – as you kind of seen the progression of it through like several surges, how long are patients typically on that continuous high milliliter oxygen flow? Is there a sense of recovery after several months as our percentage moving off therapy and then moving to like ambulatory solutions, where you could go from the stationary to seeing some kind of uplift in transfill or POCs?

That's a bit of a clinical question. Matt, I can give you maybe a general answer, of course, with the number of people suffering from the pandemic or COVID-19, there are full distribution of consequences. People who never need oxygen and people who never recover or don't survive – I can't say that we have data yet to track how long the average or some percentile of patients are on oxygen, but we see high demand for all modalities of oxygen increasing.

And I think as we had said on a previous call, we even see increases in portable now, because – at the margins, there are some people who only need a little bit of oxygen, I don't know that it's because it's ambulatory or it's just because they need to lower volumetric rates that are available from portable forms of oxygen. But people who need a little bit could solve that problem by using a portable device. And we see an uplift in all the modalities that we have. But most strongly in stationary, the WHO recommends an incoming triage of oxygen that starts at five liters a minute, and goes up from there as a person's case progresses, quickly getting into 10 liters or above. So that's normally the threshold, but we see all modalities increasing.

Excellent. And then, on seating and mobility, I think the last quarter you talked about quoting and orders improving that give you confidence into the fourth quarter or through the remainder of the year. But sequentially, in North America, 3Q to 4Q was flat and, really, it was flat from the 2Q troughs. I get why Europe is more restrictive. Why do you think there wasn't more of a sequential back half improvement in recent of pent-up demand in North America?

Well, I think if you consider where the big population centers are, 10% of the United States is in California. You'd know from recent reports, California is in a worse situation than Manhattan was in the second quarter. Other population centers like New York are still struggling and I think that's kind of the profile of where we see, if you were to look at the total population that's being affected by COVID. Fourth quarter wasn't as strong a pandemic relief as we had maybe thought it could be. But we were pleased with the strong sales through the end of the year and continued strong demand into this year.

And I would highlight...

Thank you.

...mobility and feeding sales in North America did grow sequentially by 3%.

All right. Thank you, Kathy.

We will now take our next question from Mike Matson from Needham. Please go ahead. The line is open.

Good morning. Thanks for taking my questions. I just wanted to ask about the new stationary concentrators that you're planning to launch. Can you give us an update on the timing of that and whether or not this strong demand that you've seen from COVID patients has affected the timing there at all that launch?

That launch is in the final pre-market work, so we can't say too much about it at this point, but essentially, no change in our excitement about having the product launch and having it come out relatively soon. We think the pandemic demand will continue for some time and extraordinary value of this new system which provides great customer benefits including total cost of ownership benefits and great consumer end user benefits will make this an exciting segment for us for a long time.

Okay. Thanks. And then, I wanted to ask about the supply chain challenges that you're facing. Is it primarily logistics and shipping related? Is it component shortages or is it a combination of both? And then, we've seen some headlines about these chip shortages that affected Invacare at all?

Definitely. And it's not isolated to Invacare and our industry, it's definitely not related – or isolated to our industry. People would have seen, I think, in The Wall Street Journal this week Ford Motor Company capping production of its most profitable product line F-150. So, Ford is having problems with their leverage and component needs. You can imagine every other industry and company around the world is probably facing some kind of challenge.

Shipping companies took container ships off the water years ago to secure whatever the pricing equation they were going after that, really it's hurting the whole world. Now, it's tough to get on containers. And then you have all the consequences of COVID-19 affecting shipping crews and stevedores, and ports and getting things onto distribution and logistics provider. So I think our whole economy, speaking more than just our company or industry, are going to be plagued by this all year.

I'm excited about what our employees have learned to do to combat this in the last year, but it is going to be I think the theme for 2021 is just challenging to think through supply challenges, which I'll just call generically whether it's electronic components that have been highlighted in the automotive industry, where electronic component manufacturers are taking orders now through fourth quarter to make sure they understand how to allocate supply to logistics companies, which are facing their own challenges every day and working really hard to serve us. But it's still different than the normal year.

Okay. But I guess the important point that you just made there that you contemplated this continuing through the year and the guidance that you've given us?

Yeah. Yeah. As we see it today...

Okay. All right.

...I'm sure it could get worse, but I think we've got a reasonable assumption about how it'll operate this year.

Okay. Great. Thank you.

Thanks, Mike.

Thank you. We will now take our next question from Chris Cooley from Stephens, Inc. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Good morning, everyone, and congratulations on really impressive results in a less than a normal year there last year.

Good morning, Chris. Thanks.

Just two quick ones from me here this morning. First, this is the first time that you all have provided positive constant currency sales growth guidance for the full year. And if we look back to the model, like six, eight, nine plus years since the company grew, and you've done a phenomenal job to get the company to this point to inflect this next kind of phase. Just curious conceptually what types of investments and what kind of mindset changes you have to implement now transition to the growth orientation versus a cost reduction, cash preservation type mindset to kind of right-size the business to get prepared for this level? And then how we should think about those from investments that will be taking place throughout the course of the calendar year and possibly into 2022? And then, I'll just kind of follow up as well.

Okay. Yes. It's a great area to discuss, because it is a shift as our organization transitions away from focusing on the transformation or the turnaround that we've been talking about for five or eight years and talking about growth. It starts with great commercial organization. We have a super, super sales team in all our regions who have gotten even better in 2020 figuring out how to support customers when customers are having a tougher time themselves and doing that with all the crazy constraints that the pandemic has placed on. So, it starts with having the great talent and a sales team, great leadership to guide and plan.

Then, you have to have a combination of reasons to be excited to engage with an Invacare commercial representatives. And we think products focused on what the customers are trying to do to serve their end users and do it cost effectively. And what end users really want that's new and different is the recipe there. So we have great people. So, you can check that box very strongly, based on what we've presented this morning and talked about previously. Hopefully, people see easily we have a phenomenal portfolio of products that should give our sales team a lot of confidence to engage with customers and customers a lot of curiosity to engage with us.

Investments per se come in the form of demo units and production tooling, but that all fits in the normal level of CapEx. That is typically in our budget. So that shouldn't change too extraordinarily, and then just making sure that we're efficiently forecasting how that demand escalates, so that we can have inventory flowing nicely through the system. That's really the recipe.

R&D is led by a great team of leaders and staffed by a wonderful team of associates that get that work done. And we're so pleased with the amount of innovation that comes out of our roughly 2% of sales that goes into R&D every year and that should continue. And I think that's the other thing is that accounts can not only buy into Invacare for products, but by into Invacare in terms of being easy to do business with and being here to support all their needs very broadly which we should be able to do based on the breath the company has to offer. Really excited about starting to do that from now on.

Well, appreciate that additional so color and the answer. And then maybe just two quickies here for me to wrap things up. When you look at the guidance for this current year again, positive constant currency sales growth is a huge one. Very significant influx in their adjusted EBITDA, and it's great to see positive cash flow. But when you think about the adjusted EBITDA number roughly 5% there, if I look at the midpoint of the revenue guidance, longer term, what type – and you look at the model today with the cost that you've taken out to put it in terms of the mix, is this from an adjusted EBITDA perspective a high-teens business, low-20s business or is it may be closer to high-single digit, low-double digits? I'm just kind of curious what you think about in terms of the margin profile of your longer term now that you can start to drive growth again?

Yeah. All our products are designed – or all our new products which we've been coming out with in the last couple of years are designed to do really compelling things for end users and customers and to flow more effectively through our infrastructure of distribution and manufacturing. So, our margin profile should continue to improve. Now, there's some things that haven't scaled yet, and so we would expect as sales continue to grow that our SG&A is leveraged and we don't grow SG&A at the same amount. The sales component of SG&A will increase a little bit this year, as Kathy and I both commented on previously, as we support higher sales. We look forward to that. And we should get leverage on the G&A portion, especially this year towards the back end in North America and next year 2022 in Europe as we continue to deploy this IT system that makes transacting with us very efficient in the lowest cost.

But in the long term, our outlook for the business and our ability to generate EBIT doesn't change from what we've been talking about I think just really here in 2021, We've got to see how 2021 plays out, [indiscernible] (00:40:59) post that target out there. We want to be pretty precise in timing and it's a little bit early for that. But fundamentally, our outlook for the ability for the business to generate EBIT or EBITDA hasn't changed from what we've been talking about that's the long-term outlook in the last couple of years. Really no change.

Super. I appreciate that, and congrats on all the progress.

All right. Thanks a lot, Chris. Good to talk to you.

Thank you. I will now turn the call back to your host.

Thank you, Emma, and thanks everyone for taking the time this morning and attention to today's call. Kathy, Lois and I are available for any follow-up questions and you can contact Lois to coordinate that. Hope you have a good day. Thank you.

Ladies and gentlemen, that will conclude today's conference and you may now all disconnect.