Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Lois Lee — Director-Treasury & Investor Relations, Invacare Corp.
Matthew E. Monaghan — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Invacare Corp.
Kathleen P. Leneghan — Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Invacare Corp.
Bob J. Labick — President, CJS Securities, Inc.
Chris Cooley — Analyst, Stephens, Inc.
Matthew Mishan — Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets, Inc.
James P. Sidoti — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC
Mike Matson — Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Invacare Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2018 Conference Call and Webcast. After the management overview, we will open the call for questions. [Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded Thursday February 14, 2019.

I will now turn the call over to Lois Lee, Invacare's Director of Treasury and Investor Relations.

Thank you, Bryce. Joining me on today's call from Invacare are Matt Monaghan, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer and Kathy Leneghan, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.

Today, we will be reviewing our third quarter 2018 financial results and providing investors with an update on the transformation. To help investors follow along, we have created slides to accompany this webcast. For those dialing-in, you can find a link to our webcast slide presentation that we will be referring to during today's call at invacare.com/investorrelations. Further information can be found in our SEC filings.

Before Matt begins, I'd like to note that during today's call, we may make forward-looking statements about the company that by their nature, address matters that are uncertain. Actual future results may differ materially from those expressed in our statements today due to various uncertainties and I refer you to the cautionary statement included on the second page of our webcast slides and in our third quarter earnings release.

For an explanation of the items considered to be non-GAAP financial information that will be discussed on today's call such as constant currency net sales, constant currency sequential net sales, constant currency SG&A, free cash flow, EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net earnings and loss, please see the notes in the Appendix of our webcast slides and in the related reconciliations in the earnings release posted on our website.

I will now turn the call over to Matt Monaghan.

Thank you, Lois, and good morning. Before we jump in and discuss our results, I want to take a moment to reflect on where we are on our exciting path forward. Since we last spoke, we have made tremendous strides to mitigate external unknowns, while taking deliberate action to keep the business on a path towards profitability. To that end today, we will share an updated transformation plan that will enable us to achieve our long-term goals.

Our fourth quarter performance set the foundation and we're confident that 2019 will provide clarity on our roadmap to achieving these targets. With that let me now turn to slide 4 to discuss our quarterly performance.

We entered 2018 on a high note, reflecting the progress we've made on our transformation plan. After a challenging third quarter, we rebounded strongly with 9.3% growth in reported net sales of mobility and seating products, the largest and strongest part of our portfolio. As part of our transformation, we guided that while net sales would decline in the near-term, gross margins would improve, which is reflected in the 60 basis point expansion realized during the quarter.

Through operational improvements and focus on SG&A expense reduction, we achieved positive EBITDA of $3.1 million, an improvement of $7 million and a GAAP loss per share of $0.04 compared to GAAP loss per share of $0.54 in the same period last year. We're entering 2019 with momentum and feel confident that the company is on track for profitable growth in 2019 and beyond.

Turning to slide 5 and our full year financial results, we delivered strong growth and reported net sales of mobility and seating product, which increased 10.6% globally and 8.5% in North America HME. As part of our cost containment initiatives, we realized meaningful reductions in constant currency SG&A of $19.9 million. The combination of these factors led to a $23 million improvement in EBITDA, a significant accomplishment in one year's time. Europe, IPG and Asia Pacific are positive contributors and we continue to emphasize returning North America/HME to profitability.

On slide 6, you'll see that 2018 was an extremely busy and productive year. We made significant progress in our transformation by taking actions that should yield positive results in 2019 and beyond. In innovation since exiting the injunctive phase of the consent decree in July 2017, we've introduced new products that add clinical value and drive profitable sales growth.

On our TDX SP2 wheelchair, the world's first to include a wirelessly programmable control systems with remote diagnostics, we've added a captain's seat option and increased the weight capacity, which will allow us to pursue additional market opportunities. In Europe we launched our E-pilot and E-motion power add-on products that allow manual wheelchairs to operate like powered wheelchairs. Also in Europe, we expanded our lifestyles product line with the introduction of the Birdie Evo patient lifter and Ocean Ergo bath lifter, the products which assist patient and caregiver safety.

In our adapted sports product line we launched the Top End Eliminator NRG racing chair which has already assisted athletes to more than 20 podium finishes, consecutive wins in the Chicago and New York marathons and two world records. These are just a few examples of how our continued focus on innovation is helping drive the shift towards higher margin profitable sales growth.

At the same time we implemented cost optimization initiatives expected to result in annualized savings of $10.8 million in 2019 and beyond. We completed the transfer of manual wheelchair production lines from Sweden and from Switzerland to an existing facility in France, which is expected to generate annualized cost savings of $3.3 million.

In November, we took actions to optimize the cost structure in both North America and Europe, which are expected to yield $7.5 million in annualized cost savings. With some additional investments in IT and infrastructure, there are further opportunities to reduce cost from the many acquisitions that have not been fully integrated over the company's history. In terms of regulatory and quality compliance, we're proud of the culture of quality excellence and regulatory compliance we've built over the past few years. In 2018, we successfully closed two warning letters related to our Albstadt, Germany and Sanford, Florida facilities.

Since August 2018, the company has been operating globally without any regulatory selling restriction, the first time since 2010. In addition, our main facilities in Europe, Asia and North America have certified to the latest version of ISO 13485 requirements, a stringent international standard for medical device quality management systems.

Regarding governance, throughout our journey, the company's management and its Board of Directors have been aligned with the business strategy and have operated in a strong governance framework. During 2018, we added two new board members, one with expertise in Europe to help guide our success in our largest business segment and another with financial and consumer products experience to guide our alignment to the emerging trends in healthcare.

We're proud of the diverse board we've assembled, all of whom have public company experience, the majority with broad healthcare backgrounds and four with CEO experience. The board has continuously refreshed with 75% of Directors having tenures of less than five years to ensure we have new ideas and skills, while maintaining independence and engagement. We are committed to achieving our transformation and growth plan as well as increasing shareholder value. The accomplishments we achieved in 2018 will set the stage for continued momentum in 2019 and beyond.

Turning to slide 7, while we've made great progress in our transformation, we also took immediate actions last year to build resilience against two external headwinds that impacted the North America HME and IPG segments, U.S. tariffs and changes in reimbursement. Regarding tariffs, as you recall in 2018, the U.S. government implemented three waves of tariffs on imported goods at rates of 10% to 25%. Like many other companies, we experienced higher costs as a direct result of tariffs and material cost increases from domestic suppliers raising prices. Because imported finished goods were not affected by tariffs, we have faced the disadvantage as a vertically integrated U.S. manufacturer versus competitors, who directly import finished goods. We continue to work to offset this disadvantage.

Based on the current tariff levels, we had previously guided that a full year's unmitigated impact would be $5 million to $7 million. To lessen that impact, we took deliberate actions during the fourth quarter, which are expected to mitigate approximately $5 million of these costs in 2019. We were able to qualify some goods for duty-free status under existing rules and we took certain supply chain actions to limit additional exposure.

Going forward, we will continue to identify opportunities to offset costs. Also during the third quarter and fourth quarter, anticipated changes in national competitive bidding reimbursement impacted sales of respiratory products in the United States. Effective January 1, 2019, CMS opened reimbursement to any qualified provider willing to transact at the existing reimbursement rates in the bid areas that had previously been awarded to sole bid winners. We believe this change significantly reduced respiratory sales to providers who were cautiously evaluating the impact of this change. Lifestyles products were affected to a lesser extent. We expect the market uncertainty for respiratory and lifestyle products to persist until these new reimbursement dynamics are settled and future changes are defined.

CMS is expected to release information on the next round of competitive bidding in the next few months. To mitigate the impact on sales and operating margins, we continue to optimize the cost structure of these product lines. For respiratory products, we have minimized production as we sell through the inventory on hand until buying patterns normalize.

Turning to slide 9, we are sharing our enhanced transformation plan and updated to account for the previously discussed external factors that began affecting North America in 2018. These factors have prompted the company to accelerate its actions to drive growth and improve operations. We are taking these actions to maintain the timeline to achieve the previously disclosed EBITDA targets by late 2020. The enhanced transformation and growth plan balances innovative organic growth, product portfolio changes across all regions and cost improvements in supply chain and administrative functions. We have engaged third party experts to help assess, plan and support the execution of improvement opportunities to ensure that best plans are adopted across the entire enterprise.

The key elements of the enhanced plan are, first, globally we're reevaluating all business segments and product lines for the potential to be profitable and to achieve a leading market position. On our path to profitability, we are creating a more agile organization and narrowing our focus to more clinically complex products that offer higher margins. Second, in Europe, we're leveraging centralized innovations and supply chain capabilities while reducing the cost and complexity of our legacy infrastructure. For instance, we have introduced new more valuable products in mobility and seating while also optimizing our footprint to the previously noted production transfers. We believe actions such as these will enhance our profitable growth across the region and unlock additional value. Third, in North America, we will adjust the portfolio to consistently grow profitably amidst cost increases by adding new products, reducing costs, continuing to improve our customers' experience. For example, revolving the way we do business by increasing investments in our B2B e-commerce platform, which will simplify the ordering process for our customers.

Fourth, in Asia Pacific, we remain focused on sustainable growth and expansion in Southeast Asia, with initial focus on opportunities in Thailand. And finally, we're taking global actions to reduce working capital and to improve free cash flow. By prioritizing our highest value-added products, improving our cost structure and reducing working capital, we will be well-positioned to deliver free cash flow and sustainable long-term profitability. This enhanced transformation and growth plan will guide us towards our long-term goal of $85 million to $105 million in adjusted EBITDA run rate by year-end 2020.

As you can see on slide 10, our updated adjusted EBITDA guidance range varies slightly from our previous long-term goal. On the left hand side is the original target, where we previously guided to $100 million EBITDA run rate by third quarter 2020. We now expect to achieve a similar long-term adjusted EBITDA run rate of $85 million to $105 million by year-end 2020, with a combination of low single digit sales growth, gross margin improvement and substantial cost reduction. While it's still early in the development of external factors, we think we're well-positioned to deliver EBITDA at or near our original target. To get there, we have continued confidence in the path for Europe and for North America/HME mobility and seating. These planned improvements are unchanged.

In the near term, we have reduced the contributing benefit from additional sales for our post-acute care and respiratory product lines due to the previously mentioned headwind. To offset this, we will accelerate the investments and take actions aimed at driving efficiency and enhancing profitability with significant and incremental cost improvements in supply chain and general and administrative areas. While the adjusted EBITDA measure is comparable to EBITDA, it excludes restructuring charges now expected to continue through 2020 and stock compensation expense, which is a non-cash charge that varies from year-to-year.

In our previous guidance, restructuring was expected to cease in 2019 and therefore was not part of the 2020 metric. The actions of our updated plan will continue through 2020 and therefore we are excluding restructuring charges from our updated goal. Similarly, we are removing stock compensation expense to eliminate year-over-year non-operating variances. We believe these changes provide a more meaningful measure of the company's future performance as it works through the transformation. The comparable adjusted EBITDA performance measure for 2018 was $6.6 million.

I'll now turn the call over to Kathy Leneghan to discuss the performance of the segments and additional financial results for the fourth quarter.

Thanks, Matt. Turning to slide 12, during the fourth quarter, reported net sales in Europe decreased 0.1%. Constant currency net sales increased 3.3% compared to last year, and 1.1% sequentially as a result of increased sales of mobility and seating and lifestyle products despite strategically reducing sales of less profitable products across Europe during the year. Operating income increased by 1.4% due to increased volumes, favorable sales mix and reduced warranty expense, which was partially offset by increased freight costs and SG&A. Operating income declined sequentially consistent with historical seasonality. In addition, operating income was negatively impacted by $0.4 million of increased costs related to product transfers among facilities.

Turning to slide 13, North America/HME constant currency net sales decreased 7.3% driven by reduced sales of respiratory and lifestyle products, which more than offset a 5% increase in mobility and seating. Constant currency sequential net sales decreased 0.5%, primarily due to lower lifestyle sales and sequentially flat respiratory sales due to the reimbursement changes discussed earlier. Operating loss decreased slightly due to the reduced gross profit, partially offset by reduced SG&A. Gross profit was negatively impacted by $0.9 million of costs related to tariffs and other material cost increases. However, sequential operating loss improved $3.4 million due to increased gross profit and reduced SG&A expenses.

Turning to slide 14, constant currency net sales in IPG increased 3.3%, primarily due to increased sales of patient transport, other lifestyle products and interior design projects. Operating income improved significantly by 54% due to increased net sales and reduced warranty and SG&A expenses.

Turning to slide 15, Asia-Pacific constant currency net sales increased 4.3% year-over-year and 15.8% sequentially, driven by increased sales of mobility and seating and lifestyle products. Operating income improved $1.4 million as a result of increased net sales and reduced R&D and SG&A expenses. We have successfully transformed Asia Pacific over the past several years and remain focused on driving sustainable growth in the region.

Moving to slide 16, the company generated free cash flow of $1.1 million. This was unfavorable compared to last year due to increased accounts receivable and a lower benefit from inventory reduction. For the year, free cash flow usage was higher than previously guided due to temporary increases in inventory levels related to the production transfers in Europe and reduced sales of respiratory products in North America/HME.

Comparing the full year free cash flow 2018 to 2017, the significant improvement in operating loss of $21.9 million was more than offset by significant investments in working capital, specifically inventory. The company expects inventory levels to return to normal levels during the first half of 2019 as the company converts this excess inventory. As of December 31, 2018, the company had nearly $117 million of cash on its balance sheet.

The company believes that strong balance sheet along with expected operational improvements will support the company's transformation plans and provide the flexibility needed to address future debt maturities. The reduction in cash conversion days of 3.1 days benefited from reduced days in accounts receivable. As a waypoint to our long-term adjusted EBITDA run rate of $85 million to $105 million, we are providing full year guidance for some key metrics.

Turning to slide 18, we are guiding the full year 2019 adjusted EBITDA of at least $20 million compared to $6.6 million in 2018, a near 200% increase. Improved performance will be driven by net sales in Europe and in North America by sales growth in mobility and seating products, stable sales in lifestyle products, partially offset by declining sales in respiratory products. We expect gross margin expansion and improved operating results from supply chain actions and substantial cost reduction.

For the full year of 2019, which you can see on slide 19, we expect free cash flow usage of $25 million due to a significant improvement in segment operating performance and the benefit of converting our temporary higher inventory levels in 2018 to cash in 2019. These benefits are partially offset by increased working capital requirements to support growth, especially in North America mobility and seating with its extended quote-to-cash cycle; in addition, higher capital expenditures and cash needed to fund restructuring activities.

First quarter 2019 free cash flow usage is expected to be similar to the first quarter of 2018, with expected improvements in subsequent quarters compared to the prior year. The company has historically generated negative free cash flow during the first half of the year and this pattern is expected to continue due to the timing of annual payments such as customer rebates and employee bonuses earned during the prior year and higher working capital usage from seasonal inventory increases. The absence of these payments as well as seasonally stronger second half sales typically result in more favorable free cash flow in the second half of the year. The company expects improvements in adjusted EBITDA and in working capital, specifically inventory reductions that will drive improved free cash flow.

I will now turn the call back over to Matt.

Thanks Kathy. In summary 2018 was a strong year of progress in our transformation. Looking ahead, we have a good plan for improved financial performance, which we expect will accelerate operational improvements, including return to profitability in North America/HME. I'm confident that 2019 will be an exciting period in the company's journey. We appreciate the continued support of our shareholders and our associates through this process. We have a strong long-term strategy to rebuild this business to deliver shareholder value and be a sustainable leader in the markets we serve. Thanks for taking the time this morning. We'll now take questions. Bryce?

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Bob Labick with CJS Securities. Please go ahead.

Good morning. And congratulations on a nice rebound in Q4.

Hello, Bob. Thanks. Lot of hard work.

Yeah. So, I wanted to start with North American seating and mobility, obviously, a big component in terms of getting to the goals in 2020. It seems like you should be regaining share. You had a good year this year, but it sounds like you need to even accelerate that growth. So, I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about have there been any near-term RFPs or where you see the ability and kind of the visibility to regain market share there? And then, just as a kind of second question, to give us context, you say you need $50 million to $80 million in sales gains over the next couple of years, can you give us a sense of where that is? Where revenues would be relative to where – to prior to the consent decree if you get to that $50 million to $80 million gain?

Sure. Thanks for the question. In North America, we continue to be very well aligned with our customers, really no change with regards to the relationships and placement with our customers. We have more time in market to continue selling the product that we've been delivering since 2017 that are new. We have some new line extensions, software features. And I think there's better uptake now in the marketplace with the benefits of remote diagnostics, which substantially reduce the costs of our provider customers as they deliver great service to their clients, so fewer spare parts, fewer and shorter phone calls to resolve issues, elements that allow them to prevent truck rolls that saves substantial cost. And we continue to be a leader in that area. That's good. And then we have a very strong product portfolio that we can see coming out in 2019 and 2020, and I assume beyond that, too. So, we expect the North America market to continue to be strong for us, and a good selling team that's well organized to deliver that.

I think relative to where we were before, in 2012 or 2011, roughly, we would have been $130 million higher in seating and mobility sales in North America before the consent decree. So, getting back $50 million to $80 million more of that is roughly half of that plan in rough terms and we think that's doable. We have good competitors. We have good customers, and in the mix, there's a good competitive landscape where I think we can win.

The guidance that we've given on the growth in mobility and seating is more than just power wheelchairs, such as what we lost during the consent decree, so the population of what we can gain back is even great.

Right. Yeah. Good point.

Yeah.

Okay. Great. And then shifting over to Europe, seating/mobility was very strong there all year and it sounds like a bunch of new products. Maybe you could expand a little bit on the new products coming out to drive the growth there over the next two years.

Yeah. We continue to see greater uptake of products actually developed in North America that we'll be bringing into Europe in greater numbers as we increase the mix of clinically complex power wheelchair products in Europe, clearly an important part of that marketplace. So, that's a great expansion opportunity for us. And then, we have strong product development from our Alber unit in Europe, which has great worldwide views of how to bring powered mobility to manual wheelchair users typically. The E-motion is a product that allows the manual – the electrification essentially of manual wheelchairs. We have the E-pilot, which is a twist grip product that converts manual wheelchair into a powered tricycle, kind of puts a motorcycle-looking frontend on it, really great aesthetics, durability, safety, and ease of getting around for people that want to go long distances and enjoy the outdoors with others.

And then the other products that are coming out that will be really, I think, game changers in that marketplace. The Alber team not only does great aesthetic development and they make great feature full products, but they have a different way of looking at the market and bringing connectivity to those, so they're easy to provide service, they're easy for consumers to use, they're really delightful in lots of ways. So, products from North America going to Europe and products being developed in Europe should increase our share and size there.

Okay. Great. Thanks. And then just last one, I'll get back in queue. In terms of North American cost reductions, I know it's hard to say too much before things happen, but if you can speak generally, you're expecting greater cost reductions than you previously had. What changed or what are you able to do now that you didn't want to do or weren't able to do before that should give investors confidence in achieving the significant cost savings in North America?

Yeah. It's a good question. When tariffs were not affecting us or weren't present, we had a certain water line of profitability that was using our infrastructure in certain ways. And when you have a higher level of cost, you have to fundamentally look at doing things differently. And when we look at our global footprint and the mix of things that we do within four walls, how our factories are organized, what we choose to distribute remotely or produce locally or source from faraway places, those equations change. And when you take a big long-term look, and as we've done, we want a plan that's resilient to reasonably sized potential future changes, that ends up making us have a list of different things that we weren't previously going to do.

And now, facing into that, I think we've got a really exciting plan for 2019, we're aligned to do it, we're going to end up with a great infrastructure that'll deliver regional performance based on those new economics. And then, we look forward to things like changes in the status of Britain with regard to the UK and we're trying to be smart about how we're organized going forward. It's just a different list of things based on those assumptions than we previously had.

Great. Okay. Thank you very much.

Thanks, Bob. [Operator Instructions]

We'll take our next question from Chris Cooley with Stephens. Please go ahead, sir.

Good morning, Matt, Kathy and Lois.

Good morning, Chris.

Thanks for taking the questions for this morning. Just a couple for me, let's maybe do bigger picture first and then just a couple of model questions to kind of dial things in. I just want to make sure I understand what you're communicating when you talk about the enhanced transformation in growth plan and more specifically the ongoing product evaluations here. That's something that you've always viewed fairly critically on an ongoing basis in terms of reviewing the portfolio. Just trying to think about maybe what may or may not be different now, some of the parameters that you'd be using to conduct those types of evaluations and the timing in which we should expect to hear something about this as it moves forward or maybe those decisions have already been made. Just trying to get some granularity around that. And then I have just a couple of quick kind of follow-ups. Thanks so much.

Sure. So if any of the listeners could imagine a plan that's plotted on a timeline, where you'd have a vertical axis that sum representation of profitability and the horizontal axis is time, you'd imagine we previously had a plan that said profitability was going to increase towards our 2020 goal of $100 million of EBITDA. As tariffs and reimbursement changes occurred, there has gotten to be kind of a flat spot that we wouldn't have extrapolated towards that same goal had we not taken any other action. So as we looked at this in the third quarter before the earnings release, frankly, because we have seen some of those trends starting to develop in August or September, and then more urgently we were taking actions in the fourth quarter, we had to offset that kind of trending flat spot in our progress. And by doing that, you say, you know what, we can't afford to do certain things that have been part of that original plan.

We need to do more consolidation in distribution. We need to look at every single product to say can we really afford to continue making it with the mix of imported goods or locally sourced goods, can we consolidate many varieties of products into fewer varieties that still provide those features and benefits but have greater sourcing synergies, are there other things that we've been doing that no longer are paid for, for the variety or levels of customization we have. And we looked at that and we've come up with kind of a whole new set of portfolio constraints and things that we see are going to be delightful to customers. And when we face into doing it, we say, you know what, not only that but let's really accelerate how we're easy to do business with. E-commerce platforms that should make it easier to do order entry, so we can take our highly skilled customer service agents and really get towards the heart of the matter that our customers are trying to solve and be more effective at the things that previously haven't been well integrated among our subsidiaries. That's not too specific an answer for you, Chris, but really we've done that to every single product line around the world, and it's allowed us to accumulate lots and lots of changes that we're going to aggregate into simplifying our overall network, how we take customer service, orders through B2B platforms and in more simplified ways of how we do demand planning and sourcing, how we distribute products and move things around the world. And all that accumulates to a fairly large amount of savings that we wouldn't have looked at if we had had different pressures in the absence of tariffs.

Understood. Appreciate the additional color there. And then just for me, I guess, to wrap up, when we think about the respiratory offering and specifically respiratory in North America, can you speak to some of the steps that you're taking there to right that ship in terms of a restoration of positive sales growth, whether that's portfolio evaluation, is that a function of bundling, just talk to us about how you've seen that market evolve. And if you could also maybe just quickly give us what was the contribution to top line growth in the quarter from price? I remember you put in some step-ups in ASP back in October of last year to reflect a higher cost from tariffs. Just curious if you could break out the contribution from price in the most recent quarterly results. Thanks so much.

So first on respiratory growth, I mean, honestly there are some pretty big external factors in the United States market with this change in how the CMS is opening up these previously exclusively awarded bid areas. And I think that's bigger than something we can affect, our business is really to support our B2B customers, and I think still for a while the dynamics of those marketplaces are going to have a chilled effect on selling. So in the short-term, we're really looking at how do we minimize cost, optimize cash flow and get through this inventory that we had accumulated in the fourth quarter. Although we saw we're forecasted sales declines, we didn't expect it to be quite as quick or as drastic as it turned out to be and we have a fairly long supply chain. So even despite that we still accumulated some inventory during that period. I think it's a healthy market, it's a sizable market, I know there's a fair amount of debate going on right now on how big the market is and how the various customers served. But, regardless, I think we've got a decent cost position. We continue to put innovation into their product portfolio. We're the first ones with remote connectivity smartphone features, great product features and are affordable product specifically. We assume this is a temporary kind of hibernation until the market settles down and then we'll get back out.

On the other part of the question, which is price, we put price into the market. We try to be really careful about it, so that we remained aligned with customers who, obviously, have to deal with that in their businesses. And we were specific in price increases based on specific product cost increases that we were getting either from tariffs directly or from the secondary effects of our suppliers having tariffs. Those rolled into the marketplace through the end of the year, some didn't actually go into effect depending on the product or region until the beginning of this year. And I think it's too early to see what the effective price is and the offsetting potential effect if we become uncompetitive in certain areas. I think there are other competitors of ours, they're putting price increases into the market, so I think that still hasn't washed out and we haven't reported that yet separately.

Yeah. And if you look sequentially at the lifestyle product in the North America/HME segment, they were down roughly about 1% from Q3 to Q4, so probably seeing the leveling out of what the customers are going to do.

It would be hard to say.

Yeah.

Thanks for the questions, Chris.

Thank you.

We'll take our next question from Matthew Mishan with KeyBanc. Please go ahead.

Hey, good morning Matt.

Hey, Matt.

I guess, your previous long-term financial objectives were based on sales of somewhere around like $1.1 billion and also gross margin, I think, greater than 30%. Kind of what is that $85 million to $105 million of EBITDA now based on sales and gross margin?

Yeah, the sales number will probably be a little shy of the $1.1 billion but we would still anticipate margin expansion to be at that 30% level and then the offset would be leveraging the SG&A structure.

All right. Got it. And then North American seating and mobility was up 5% in the quarter. How should we think about the momentum with which you're kind of exiting 2018. I think this is a business we would have been expecting to kind of accelerate actually in 2018. I think you saw a little bit of deceleration on the growth rate.

Yeah, like a lot of things, it's not steady quarter to quarter, we expect the market is continuing to be strong, probably grows at low single digit, grow faster than the market. There are regional differences and I think we probably had a little headwind after the last third quarter earnings release with a lot of cha-cha in the marketplace over our share price change. We emphasize how strong our company is, how much innovation we have, how well-positioned our sales force is and how much we are aligned to help our customers drive their own profitability and growth. And I think we're seeing really good engagement everywhere. So I don't think there is anything too different than what we expect. I think we've long said it's not going to be a straight line to where we want to go and we still are in good position in all the places we want to be.

Okay. And then what changed in Europe this quarter, obviously you kind of returned to growth after six quarters of flat to down, was it a tender or was it the rationalization is starting to wind down?

I think Kathy probably add to this, but third and fourth quarter are typically, seasonally very strong quarters. So strictly out of sequential basis, we expect to see third quarter strong, fourth quarter is generally not quite as strong the third quarter, but in the latter half of the year, we generally see strength in Europe. I think some of the difference in fourth quarter is just a curtailment of the other shrinking things that we were doing earlier in the year in the business in a period that's normally stronger relative to the first two quarters of the year.

And I think it would tie in as well to the conversation earlier about the new products that have been introduced, particularly in the mobility and seating segment and seeing that come through to the market.

And then lastly just on respiratory, I think you've kind of talked about like sort of the apprehension of some of your customers on making purchasing decisions kind of ahead kind of national competitive bidding changes, could you parse out maybe the difference between what they're hesitant on or are they hesitant on replacing equipment or they've – are they hesitant on maybe the POC strategy and is shifting their fleet to – from POCs from the delivery oxygen tanks?

Yeah, it's interesting. I think it's different than the POC strategy. I think if you could imagine there were roughly 100 MSAs around the country, big metropolitan statistical areas that had been awarded to sole providers or solely awarded to providers in each of those areas. And those providers have done a nice job over a period of time serving the clients in those catchment areas. You could imagine if those providers had an installed fleet that they had purchased and were using and on January 1 of this year, it was changed so that other providers could come into those MSAs and get reimbursed for servicing customers, the incumbent isn't likely to go out and just all of a sudden continue buying at the previous rate. They probably have a little wait-and-see attitude. Maybe instead of buying new units, they're going to hang on to existing units a little longer, maybe change the level of economic repair to keep their fleet going a little longer to see.

On the other side, the new entrants to those markets, maybe providers who had long ago been in those markets were going to try to come into those markets, but without knowing exactly how successful they were going to be, probably they weren't making huge investments in a portfolio to come into those markets. So, I think what we're seeing here is that how the dynamics are playing out, and as confidence grows in the incumbent or new entrant providers, I think you'll see purchasing come back to normal levels. And the first thing will probably come back in kind of probably the same mix this has previously been, certainly compared to many years ago, there are more availability of POCs, but I'd probably parse that differently between B2B and the consumer side of that.

All right. Thanks, Matt.

Thank you.

We'll take our next question from Jim Sidoti with Sidoti & Company. Please go ahead.

Good morning. Can you hear me?

Yes, Jim. Good morning.

Great. Great. I just want to clarify or make sure I understand some of the comments you made regarding your adjusted EBITDA guidance. Did you say that going forward that guidance now excludes stock-based expense, but prior to this that stock-based expense was included in that guidance?

Yeah. In the original $100 million target, stock comp would have been included as an expense. In the adjusted EBITDA target of the $85 million to $105 million, we have excluded it. If you look back on history, our stock comp expense averages about $5 million to $6 million on an annual basis. But it can move between years, so as a good example this year in 2018, the expense was about $5.3 million, in 2017 it was over $7 million.

Okay. And what are assuming for – sorry, go ahead.

Well, I was just going to say and then we took restructuring out because we had previously thought we would have everything tidied up by the end of 2019 and we didn't specifically make the calculation to take restructuring out of our [ph] private (00:41:59) guidance, we just had a plan that was based on not having any restructuring after 2019.

So, ultimately, the guidance didn't have it in before. Although we weren't specific about it, but that was the underlying plan. Now to accommodate the headwinds of tariffs and changes in post-acute care and respiratory, we'll be taking actions through 2020 that will include restructuring charges so removing those basically gets us back to an equal comparison to before.

Right. So, you're responding to the external effects of the tariffs and that's why the heavy additional restructuring.

Right.

Okay. What are you assuming for depreciation and amortization for 2019?

If you take a look at 2018, we were roughly $17 million. I would assume might be in a similar range with that. While we will make investments on the CapEx side of the house to drive efficiencies within the operation, there would be other CapEx that would roll off. So I'd say in that $17 million range is probably reasonable.

Yeah, pretty consistent. I don't think we see it going too much differently than we'd ever said and probably not more than 2% of sales in CapEx. So that depreciation rate will stay pretty consistent.

Okay. And then on the balance sheet, there was a pretty material change in other current assets and then a corresponding change in other long-term obligations. What was that about?

It's the fair value of the convertible debt related instruments. So it's a non-cash item, but it does impact both other long-term assets and other long-term liabilities. There was a significant move and you see that on the income statement with the gain or loss on the convertible debt derivatives.

Okay. And is that impacted by the share price?

It is. Yes.

Okay. All right. And then, just going forward, you talked a lot about the respiratory business. How long do you think before that returns to a more normal buying pattern? Is that two quarters or could that be long?

Yeah. Nobody knows, but [ph] I'd just add (44:03) my estimate is at least through the first quarter, maybe in the second quarter, it's unclear, but we've taken actions that should mitigate the worst parts of cost increases for any reasonable amount of time in 2019, and we're putting actions in the hopper of things we're going to do to offset that in other areas. But I don't think it will materially improve in the first quarter probably.

Okay, great. All right. Thank you.

Yeah. Thanks, Jim.

We'll take our next question from Mike Matson with Needham & Co. Please go ahead.

Good morning. Thanks for taking my questions. I guess I just want to...

Hi, Mike.

...go back to the commentary around the reevaluation of the various business segments in this incremental cost optimization. So, what is the timing of this? When do you expect to have answers? And do you plan to make some sort of an announcement when all this is done?

The timing is throughout the year, and I guess honestly I'd say it's already started. We have a continuum of small to bigger changes that we would expect to make. On the smaller end, we've already curtailed production or sales of products that didn't meet minimum thresholds for profitability. But we look not only within the families on certain production lines, we look at full production lines, we can look at bigger units of things that we do, and then we're not going to go out too far in advance and talk about what those things are, but they are absolutely part of the plan that we have to get to our 2019 goals, and those will continue throughout the year.

We want to make sure that our customers are always well served with great products and a variety of products that they expect, but we've got lots of constituents to keep involved in those as we consider those communication efforts, so nothing to disclose today beyond the plan that we have, but those actions are already underway. And as we've done in the past, there are various publications we've put out there with timelines, the things that we've done. You can see there's a relatively consistent frequency of actions that we've been taking and that's the kind of thing that should continue probably for the next 24 months.

Okay. And then, with regard to the respiratory business, I mean would it be feasible to exit the parts of that business that excluding the POCs or do you feel like you need to have the other products in there the tanks and HomeFill type products to kind of – there's some synergies there with the POC business.

Good question. I think consumers like POCs, providers like POCs to the extent that consumers ask for them, but it's a pretty expensive way to provide portable oxygen and certainly much more expensive than allowing consumers to fill that or other small tanks at home. And interestingly as consumers like to have something that's small and lightweight and super quiet, there's really nothing smaller, lighter weight or super quiet than the M tanks that a user can fill at their home that weights as little as 2 pounds, that provides several hours of oxygen and aren't much bigger than a water bottle. And they're delightfully cost effective for our providers and really very easy to use for consumers.

So I think it's a little avant-garde today to have an electronic device, so we have wonderful one. We also think the HomeFill device and the 5 liter and 10 liter units that supply source oxygen to those who continue to be viable and they're good business for us.

Within that though we look at how we improve cost, always looking at reliability and making sure that we're not having too many varieties of products that have more variety than really makes a difference in the marketplace, especially with those varieties cost us incremental effort to bring to market. So I would say simplifying the respiratory product portfolio is the first level of things that we're doing already.

Okay. And then just with regard to your POC business, I know you've talked about doing some DTC marketing, is that still part of the strategy? And do you – what sort of resources or I guess capital do you have to kind of deploy there?

We were pretty excited about being available for consumers to see our products and transact how they were, we think it's preferred that they are around the provider ecosystem of support because people who need oxygen provision probably have lots of other needs in their lives and we have a long legacy of strong relationships with providers, so we like that. But for folks who need to get online, they're somehow inconvenienced and that's better for them. We had developed that capability and I think we ended the year with a recipe that works.

You can put a lot of money into that kind of expansion and with the absorption of working capital and inventory at the end of last year, we curtailed our efforts. It wasn't the best return on cash right then. We had that capability going forward in the very short-term we're hyper-focused on making sure that we're as profitable as we need to be in that working capital as moving through the system. So it's less of an emphasis for us right now. But we continue to do things to make that portable oxygen concentrator still novel in the marketplace with what we're doing with wireless connectivity diagnostics, ease of use things like that. So I think it'll be a little mix with less cash going into that in the short-term.

Okay. And then finally just the cash – the free cash flow guidance for the year, the $25 million, does that – would that include any additional restructuring? So I mean, if you were to hypothetically announce some sort of larger restructuring to occur – start to occur this year with that, would you have to adjust that?

We do have some restructuring built-in, but as we continue to finalize our plans, there could be additional restructuring, but we would anticipate there would be savings from those actions to offset that. So we're not looking at a significant deviation of that $25 million, that's our goal.

Okay. Great. That's all I have. Thank you.

Thanks, Mike. Thanks.

It appears there are no further questions at this time. I'd like to turn the conference back to you for any additional or closing remarks.

Well, thanks for your time and attention to today's call. And as always Kathy, Lois, and I will be available for follow-up questions. Hope you have a good day. You can contact Lois to make any of those arrangements. Bryce, thanks for helping us out today.

This concludes today's call. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.