Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Lois Lee — Director-Treasury & Investor Relations, Invacare Corp.
Matthew E. Monaghan — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Invacare Corp.
Kathleen P. Leneghan — Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, Invacare Corp.
Robert J. Labick — President, CJS Securities, Inc.
Matthew Mishan — Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets, Inc.
Christopher Cooley — Analyst, Stephens Inc.
Mike Matson — Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC
James P. Sidoti — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Invacare First Quarter 2019 Conference Call and Webcast. After the management overview, we will open the call to questions. [Operator Instruction] This conference is being recorded, Tuesday, May 7, 2019.

I will now turn the call over to Lois Lee, Invacare's Director of Treasury and Investor Relations.

Thank you, Leanne. Joining me in today's call from Invacare are Matt Monaghan, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer and Kathy Leneghan, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.

Today, we will be reviewing our first quarter 2019 financial results and providing investors with an update on our transformation. To help investors follow along, we have created slides to accompany this webcast. For those dialing in, you can find a link to our webcast slide presentation that we will refer to during today's call at invacare.com/investorrelations. Further information can be found in our SC filings.

Before Matt begins, I'd like to note that during today's call, we may make forward-looking statements about the company that by their nature address matters that are uncertain. Actual future results may differ materially from those expressed in our statements today due to various uncertainties and I refer you to the cautionary statements included on the second page of our webcast slide and in our first quarter earnings release.

For an explanation of items considered to be non-GAAP financial information that will be discussed on today's call such as constant currency net sales, constant currency SG&A, free cash flow, adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net loss, please see the notes in the Appendix of our webcast slides and in the related reconciliations in the earnings release posted on our website.

I will now turn the call over to Matt Monaghan.

Thank you, Lois. Good morning. We started 2019 with a focus on growing the business and delivering improved financial results. On slide 4, I'm pleased to share with you some key performance metrics that illustrate our first quarter accomplishments.

Excluding respiratory products, where we expected softness as a result of changes to national competitive bidding impacted by the expansion of bid areas to other providers, constant currency net sales grew 3% compared to the same period last year.

At the same time, operating loss improved 13%, primarily attributable to cost reduction effort including a significant reduction in SG&A. Our track record and past success give us confidence we will be able to further optimize and streamline our cost structure as we continue to grow profitable sales and regain market share.

Free cash flow usage, which we previously guided, would be similar to first quarter 2018, was favorable by $2.3 million, or almost 9%, due to reduced operating loss and lower capital expenditures. These actions and others led to an improvement in adjusted EBITDA of $400,000, or 36.5%, in spite of the anticipated decline in sales of respiratory products. Overall, while we recognize we have plenty of work ahead and need to deliver progressively stronger results, we're encouraged by improved performance and believe our plan is progressing towards our 2020 goals.

Turning to slide 5, our enhanced transformation and growth plan, we continue to invest specifically in core areas in each geography that will drive the required financial results, market share gains and optimize the use of capital. This is especially true in North America. In Europe, we achieved constant currency net sales growth consistent with our guidance, driven by strong performance in mobility and seating. We have an extensive pipeline of new products such as the recently launched [ph] stand-to-sit patient lift, soft pod mattress and nord (00:03:48) bed in the lifestyle product category. In addition, over the next few months, we will have significant new product introductions in mobility and seating, which will accelerate profitable sales growth in 2019 and beyond. We also expect gross margin expansion as the European manual wheelchair production transfers become operationalized, as well as realizing the benefits of cost reduction action taken in late 2018.

In North America, our primary focus is to return the segment to profitability through sales growth, gross margin expansion and cost reduction. We're taking deliberate actions to achieve these goals and are well-positioned to accelerate the business moving forward, based on an extensive pipeline of new product introductions, good relationships with key customers and continued investment in sales talent and infrastructure.

Over the past few months, we launched a heavy-duty TDX SP2 Power Wheelchair, as a bariatric wheelchair solution which will expand the range of people we can serve. We expect sales of mobility and seating products to grow at a low-double-digit rate over the remainder of the year, driven by typical seasonality and new product introduction. In addition, near-term investments in systems technology are expected to drive efficiencies, lower costs and improve customer experience.

The business we do in Asia-Pacific region has good potential to expand beyond our core in Australia and New Zealand to Southeast Asia. The near-term focus in the region will be on building infrastructure that results in a more efficient, lower cost distribution network with access to other regional markets. Finally, across all our business, we're taking actions that will reduce working capital and improve free cash flow.

Turning to slide 6, as you'll recall in the third and fourth quarter 2018, we faced two external headwinds that impacted North America, U.S. tariffs and changes in CMS national competitive bidding program. We had previously guided that the full-year unmitigated impact of tariffs would be between $5 million and $7 billion based on then current tariff rates.

During the fourth quarter, we took actions that successfully mitigated approximately $5 million of these costs, with additional supply chain action still in process. In first quarter 2019, the negative impact of tariffs and related material cost increases were approximately $400,000 and we continued to identify opportunities to offset these costs.

Over the weekend, there was discussion about possible increases in tariffs from the current 10% rate to 25% and potentially more tariffs on another $300 billion or more of goods from China. Based on our success in quickly mitigating the previous round of tariffs, we are confident we can take actions to mitigate the impact of a substantial portion of future changes as they occur.

As discussed last quarter, we anticipated the temporary but significant declines in sales of respiratory products, and to a lesser extent, lifestyles product as a result of changes to national competitive bidding that went into effect on January 1. As expected, providers slowed the purchases as they continue to assess the impact of this change on their business. In the interim, we have minimized production as we sell through the inventory on hand until buying patterns normalize. And we are focused on selling the more valuable differentiated products within the portfolio. There have been no further updates on the next round of competitive bidding that goes into effect in 2021, but we do not anticipate any significant changes that would negatively impact our business.

Turning to slide 7, you can see the milestones of what we've accomplished so far and our plans for 2019 and beyond. In 2018, we returned the company the positive adjusted EBITDA by taking actions to optimize sales, mitigate external headwinds and continue cost reduction. While this quarter was in line with expectations, we understand that to achieve our long-term goal, we need to accelerate growth and continue driving enhanced profitability. That said, we're encouraged by our progress today.

Going forward, we anticipate improvement in our key metrics compared to the prior year and progress towards both our short and long-term goals. With this foundation, 2019 will be an inflection point in the company's turnaround. As a result, we remain committed to achieving our near-term adjusted EBITDA target of at least $20 million by the end of 2019, as well as our long-term goal of $85 million to $105 million in adjusted run rate EBITDA by year-end 2020.

I'll now turn the call to Kathleen Leneghan to discuss the performance of the segments and additional financial results for the first quarter.

Thanks, Matt. Before we get into the numbers, I wanted to highlight a few changes in our segment reporting beginning in the first quarter 2019. As a result of the company's continued transformation, we have revised our segment reporting to more accurately reflect how the businesses are managed and how performance is assessed.

As a result, pro forma North America/HME and IPG segments are being unified into a single operating segment called North America. Additionally, the former Asia/Pacific segment is now being reported as part of All Other as the Asia/Pacific businesses individually and collectively do not meet the SEC requirements to be disclosed as a reportable segment. Segment results for 2018 has been revised to be comparable to 2019.

Turning to slide 9. Reported net sales decreased 5.8% and constant-currency net sales decreased 1.4% as growth in mobility and seating and lifestyle products was more than offset by expected declines in respiratory products.

Excluding respiratory products, constant-currency net sales grew 3% on a consolidated basis. Gross margin, as a percentage of net sales, decreased 60 basis points to 27.5%, driven by favorable sales mix in Europe, foreign exchange, primarily offset by increased gross margin in North America.

Constant currency SG&A improved by $3.7 million, or 5.2%, driven by cost reductions implemented in 2018. Operating loss improved by $700,000 to $4.5 million, primarily related to reduced SG&A expense, partially offset by lower gross profit.

Net loss per share was $0.42 as compared to $0.43 last year, and adjusted net loss per share was $0.32 as compared to $0.35. Free cash flow usage improved $2.3 million to a usage of $24.4 million. Adjusted EBITDA improved by $400,000 to $1.5 million. Both free cash flow and adjusted EBITDA reflect the benefit of lower operating loss.

Turning to slide 10, during the first quarter, reported net sales in Europe decreased 4.9% compared to the same period last year. Constant currency net sales increased 1.9%, driven by a 5.6% increase in mobility and seating products and a 2% increase in lifestyle products. Operating income decreased to $800,000, principally due to unfavorable foreign exchange and unfavorable sales mix, partially offset by lower SG&A expenses which reflect the benefit of the reduction and forced actions taken in late 2018. The unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation was $700,000.

Moving to slide 11, as previously discussed, sales in North America reflect a combination of the former North America/HME and IPG segments with IPG sales being reported primarily in lifestyle and a small portion in respiratory. North America constant currency net sales decreased to 8.5% year-over-year, significantly impacted by reduced respiratory sales of $7.7 million, or close to 35%, which we anticipated as a result of CMS changes. Gross margin increased 120 basis points despite the negative impact of tariff and related material cost increases of approximately $400,000. Operating loss improved by $2.1 million, or 33%, due to improve gross margins and reduced SG&A expenses, both the result of cost reduction.

Turning to slide 12, sales on the All Other segment are comprised entirely of the Asia/Pacific region. Constant currency net sales increased 19.9% year-over-year, driven by increased sales in all product categories with particular strength in mobility and seating. Operating loss related to the All Other segment includes Asia/Pacific operating profit, offset by unallocated corporate SG&A and inter-segment elimination. The increase in the operating loss of $400,000 was driven by higher warranty costs in Asia/Pacific.

Moving to slide 13, free cash flow usage improved $2.3 million dollars to $24.4 million and in line with previous guidance, primarily related to reduced operating loss and lower capital expenditures. While inventory purchases were significantly less in the first quarter of 2019 as compared to the first quarter of 2018, this was offset by lower accounts payable. For the full-year 2019, we continue to expect free cash flow usage of less than $25 million.

Total debt of $300 million excludes operating lease obligations of approximately $24 million that were capitalized on the balance sheet as a result of the adoption of the new lease accounting standard effective January 1, 2019. The company continues to have full borrowing capacity available under its credit facility.

The company believes that a return to a positive adjusted EBITDA, driven by operational performance and its balance sheet, will support the company's transformation plan and enable the company to address future debt maturity.

On slide 15, we continue to make progress towards meeting our full-year 2019 goal. We expect adjusted EBITDA to accelerate in the second half of the year due to typical seasonality of sales, the completion of the European production transfers, supply chain initiatives to expand gross margin, and realizing the benefit of cost-reduction actions taken in late 2018. As a result, we continue to expect adjusted EBITDA of at least $20 million in 2019.

First-quarter free cash flow usage was in line with guidance and improved compared to last year. We expect sequential quarterly improvement during 2019 as we reduce operating loss and manage working capital, including significant reductions in inventory levels while following typical seasonality. For the full year, we expect free cash flow usage to be less than $25 million. Based on our line of sight regarding continued improvement and transformation initiative and the trends we are seeing, we are progressing towards our 2019 goal.

I will now turn the call back over to Matt.

Thanks, Kathy. We appreciate the continued support of our shareholders and our associates through this process. We had a solid start to the year. We have a long-term strategy to rebuild this business, deliver shareholder value, and be a sustainable leader in the markets we serve.

Thank you for taking the time on the call this morning. I'll now take any questions. Leanne?

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Bob Labick with CJS Securities.

Good morning and congratulations on a nice start to the year.

Hello, Bob. Good morning. Thank you.

Hi. I wanted to start with the two things you need to do most obvious in your chart to getting to your goals are reducing SG&A, which you've done a great job demonstrating already in Q1 and then growing seating and mobility. And you mentioned, I believe, you expect that to accelerate starting in Q2, maybe the back half of the year. Can you talk a little bit more about the competitive dynamic in mobility and seating, particularly in North America and what you see ahead to give you confidence you can return that area to growth after a generally flat Q1?

Yeah. Thanks for the question. On mobility and seating, I think it's a combination of two or three things. One is, continued time in market with the products we have and good customer relationships, that I think there are some really good processes that our customers are developing to select the products that they choose to take through their offering and that normally gets worked out in the first quarter. And then I think with those products on formulary, the balance of the year continues to grow on that platform. So, we can demonstrate our alignment to those customers who are seeking really great things for their end user customers and we can deliver differentiated solutions through our products. So, that's good for us to be in those good strong relationships and then the time in market to actually go sell into their affiliate offices to make that work. That's a big part of it.

And then the second part is just this product pipeline that we have, which we have been bringing into the global marketplace in mobility and seating starting with the world's first connected chair that helps with remote diagnostics, the line extensions of that, other things in the active manual space that make manual wheelchairs act like powered wheelchairs. And then beyond that whole new line of products that will be coming out over the foreseeable future that will keep that portfolio really vital, interesting for our customers to consider, interesting for their end-user patients to get into using, and a good gross margin for us to grow. So I think, that those are the ingredients in a crescendo that we'll see from now through 2019 and again in 2020.

Okay. Great. Thank you. And then, as it relates to the SG&A, as I mentioned, excellent progress in Q1, can you talk a little bit about what you've been doing internally? Any new hires or things like that? And what behind the scenes you need to do to be able to achieve your goal of, I think, $25 million of savings in North America, where you stand, what kind of roadmap is there?

Yeah. There are sort of the normal sorts of optimizing processes that we expect to continue doing that will result in lower cost. But really importantly, over the next 18 months, will be some infrastructure investments that fit within our normal CapEx and operating expense budget that will allow us to be easier to do business with and more cost effective as an operating business. Things in phone system and IT technology that allow customer self-service, and many of the conveniences that all of us probably enjoy as consumers which we're lagging behind as a medical industrial enterprise. So those will be the big enablers that allow us to bring together the various subsidiaries of our company and be really simple to do business with globally. Lower cost, better customer delight. We expect some share gains as a result of that and the ability to improve SG&A.

And the benefit of that is really going to be late-2019 but really into 2020.

Right.

Okay. Great. And then, lastly, I think you mentioned some new products in Europe as well. Is there any sense of the, I guess, ramp or when those should come on and obviously you have the FX headwinds, but absent that, I think, you've shown some strong growth there. How should we think about that going forward?

Europe has some pretty strong seasonality. Generally, the first quarter is not a strong quarter in terms of growth. Over prior third quarter, it's typically very strong. Fourth quarter is probably our second strongest and then second quarter is maybe ranked third. And those are the combination of government budgets, seasonality with Northern Hemisphere weather and patterns that drive purchases of mobility and seating products, and the purchasing of respiratory products ahead of a winter flu season. Those all stack up to give us that very predictable quarterly season pattern.

We have a really strong portfolio of products that have been coming out in Europe and we'll continue to accelerate. What we haven't talked about on the call before probably is our work over the last three and a half years to concentrate our engineering product development teams into centers of excellence, who by now are doing a great job getting our products on time with the features and benefits that are desired in the marketplace at target cost that drive a financial return that allows reinvestment.

And so from this point forward, we will have a very consistent cadence of product launches in Europe in all segments, product in mobility and seating, powered and manual and in lifestyles especially. So that will help drive growth in Europe. I think a lot of those products then will flow from Europe elsewhere in the world

Okay. Super. Thank you very much.

Thanks, Bob.

And we'll take our next question from Matthew Mishan with KeyBanc.

Great. Hi, Matt. Hi, Kathy, Lois.

Good morning, Matt.

Hey. Good morning. Last quarter, you discussed taking a look at your business segments and pretty much all your products across the board on a go forward basis. Now, where are you at with the process? What kind of decisions have you started to make?

Yeah. A good question and a good recollection. So, we wanted to make sure that we had a long-term robust plan after the third quarter tariff impact, to make sure that we could still deliver the best outcome we could in the timeframe of 2020. And that caused us to look very critically at the portfolio of products and businesses that we had. And we undertook a lot of effort in fourth quarter and in first quarter internally and with the help of some consultants to make sure that we're looking at everything in the right way, not blind to anything that we hadn't evaluated before for improvement.

Our objective is to make sure that anything we go forward with can be market leading, market share gaining and acceptable profit level. Our general math, which we've been discussing for a long time is, on average, if we get a 35% contribution margin and a 25% SG&A margin that leaves us a 10% EBIT spread which would work for us. Some products were higher, some products were lower, but that's sort of the rough math.

What we did beginning in fourth quarter and even more actions in first quarter, were to focus more on the products that drive that kind of margin, to simplify how we're selling, so that our selling costs are in line with that math. And we will continue to work this year, especially on the G&A part of that, again with the infrastructure investments that I mentioned to the last question which will allow us to get the 35%, 25%, 10% math to work out.

We like the segments that we have with the portfolio narrowing that we've done and we will always continue to look at the right investments that make that equation work. They have to have the ability to lead and share. They have to have an ability to get the right contribution margin and the cost of bringing those to market between selling and G&A, can't get in the way of that 10% EBITDA spread. So, I think, we feel pretty confident about what we've done to make that happen and you'll start seeing that materialize even more through 2019, maybe to the first quarter of 2020, by the time we get all the infrastructure things done so that [indiscernible] (00:23:56) it is easy to do business where they're very cost-effective as we like.

Okay. That's great. And then, just a follow-up on the question around the acceleration in mobility and seating through the course of the year. My sense is that you guys annualized a contract win this past quarter and you've kind of seen as that contract progress, you saw some good growth and then you saw a little bit of deceleration especially going into this quarter. But you do have a backlog and there is 90 to 120 days lead time with this business. What is the backlog saying right now that would give us confidence that you can accelerate this business to low-double digits in – or through the course of the year? And have you been awarded any new contracts from one of your big three customers or been added to a formulary?

Yeah. Good question. You've been long doing your homework to understand the market very well. So, I guess, to agree on kind of the view of 2018, second quarter 2018 was really our big growth quarter which was really the first quarter we were able to do open business post-consent decree. Consent decree got resolved in July of 2017. We had new product in August 2017 that got CMS approval in October 2017, which was evaluated for adoption by customers, November to January and into the beginning of 2018. By the time those decisions were made and our customer and sales teams were notified, the real effect came into the second quarter of 2018. So, we're heading into a quarter now, which we obviously haven't reported yet, that looks back on a big growth year in the prior year. And I think that pattern of first quarter selections, second, third fourth quarter sell-through is probably going to persist as customers look at their annual purchasing volumes, rebates that they get with their various suppliers, and then they look to make changes in their formulary at the beginning of the year. So, I think, we're going to come out of the suppressed consent decree kind of selling and we're going to be more exposed now to something that's like an emerging form of seasonality in North America seating and mobility market.

I feel really good about our relationships with all our key customers. We are absolutely focused on making them successful by giving them differentiated values in respect to their customers and what they need to do to win and grow their businesses because of the portfolio of the technology we have and put in our products. We can do some unique things that our competitors can't do. We have very good competitors, some stiff competition, but I feel good about that. And I think, as we look into the quote bank and the order bank going forward, we do see the seasonality emerging that leads us to believe we're on the right path for the growth and objectives we have.

Okay. And then last question and then I'll jump out. You had previously given a run rate at Taylor Street. I think it bottomed out somewhere around, like $10 million a quarter. Could you just give us a sense of kind of where you're at now on Taylor Street over like or maybe on an average last trailing four quarters and if there's still that fixed overhead absorption that you have to get past as you kind of increase sales there?

Yeah. Good question. So for a long time during the consent decree we recorded an annual sales output of Taylor Street which was the consent decree facility into the U.S. market, not including what Taylor Street sent abroad.

Folks may remember, in June of 2015, we launched a really great power wheelchair platform called, ROVI, R-O-V-I, which came to our markets from our motion concepts branch in Canada and in New York, and that went into the North American market serving some of the same needs that Taylor Street had previously met.

We don't report the Taylor Street [indiscernible] (00:28:05) anymore and it's kind of muddled, because we would have to add the Taylor Street component and some other business units. So, I can only just roughly say that sales is greater than it was when it was just Taylor Street, and the overhead burden that that we have, we continue to optimize. There's a huge physical footprint here in Elyria with the Taylor Street facility, but I think by now, there's very little of it that's fixed and encumbers or overly burdened current output. Things are either well depreciated or scaled down to the size that we need for our current output. And now really, all we do is change material and direct labor as we ramp-up capacity. I don't know, Kathy, if there's a different way to [ph] augment (00:28:50) with that answer.

No, I think that that's true. The mobility and seating sales that we report in North America are more than just Taylor Street. And so, Taylor Street is a component of it, but to your point, there is growth on the ROVI side of the house. There is growth in the custom manual side of the house that you'd see in mobility and seating much more than Taylor Street. And I would say, we have capacity in Taylor Street, so there's no additional investors that we would have to make once that volume comes along but just managing that overhead structure.

Okay. Thanks, Matt, Kathy. And also I appreciate you getting me on early in the call.

Okay. Thanks, Matt.

Thanks, Matt.

And we'll take our next question from Chris Cooley with Stephens.

Good morning. Thanks for taking the questions. And congratulations...

Good morning.

...on a nice first quarter, quite a way to start the year. I guess, first from me, if we could centering a little bit on North America, I was very pleased to see the 120-basis point step-up in gross margin. I was hoping you could maybe help us parse that a little bit from change in the product mix and also help us think about cost reduction initiatives in terms of what were the primary contributing factors there to helping you get that step-up in gross, despite the decline in respiratory which I realize is a lower margin?

And maybe within that same context, could you maybe help us quantify the dollar impact of the rationalization that you undertook during the quarter on the respiratory side when we think about the canister business. Just trying to look at both the top line and also obviously the margin contribution there at the business and then how that transitions forward? Thanks. And I've got that follow-up afterwards. Thanks. [indiscernible]

(00:30:34) there. I have to give a shot [indiscernible] (00:30:36).

It was one five-part question, right?

I think, I have to give a shout out for [indiscernible] (00:30:42) for doing such a great job to overcome this tariff which everybody knows came out of the blue after third quarter. It was great to see gross margin improve so soon after that happened.

Kathy, why don't you take the first part of that, I can comment on the respiratory.

Yeah. So, the 120 basis points improvement that you see in margin in North America, much of it is cost reduction initiatives that were implemented in the fourth quarter last year, even into the first quarter of this year. A good example of that would be on the respiratory side of the house. We had a line of sight that we thought the respiratory business would be down year-over-year and we guided to that. And so, as a result of that we shrunk our infrastructure that we had supporting that business and that enabled us, even though respiratory is a lower margin product that did give us some upside on the margin of the house, because we were able to shrink that infrastructure to be a minimal in infrastructure to support the business that we have on a go-forward basis. With that on the respiratory side of the house as well, our respiratory is a lower margin product.

We focused more of the higher profitability products within that product category. So, we focused more on 10-liter concentrators, the HomeFill product versus the highly commoditize side 5-liter concentrators. So, as well, there would be some product mix in there as well. But it really is more from the cost reduction side of the house and looking at the infrastructure to support the business that we have and the view going forward.

Yeah. And I think, maybe building on that, the sentiment that we took coming out of the third quarter tariffs was really we had to shed any optimism in the plan and really eliminate any cost that would prevent us from getting to the same or similar result despite tariffs potentially going up. You remember they were talking at the time as they were talking this last weekend about tariffs went up 2.5%. We said, we just we have to be robust against them. I think it caused us to focus a little harder on getting cost out which we did pretty swiftly and that's benefiting us now.

We also exercised some muscle to demonstrate how we can operate in that kind of regime, which I think will persist for another couple of years and to go forward with the same target.

Super. It was a great effort, just duly noted. I guess, just quickly then from me, at this point, you touched on this earlier but the efforts to enhance the cadence of new products across the portfolio not only in Europe but also here in the States. Just kind of curious as you think about going forward, what type of contribution both from the top line but also from a margin perspective, do you think we should start to assume once we get to more of a normalized rate?

I'm assuming more in the second half of 2020 and into 2021. And please feel free to correct me if I'm wrong there on the timing. But from that new product, is that something that we should think about as just helping you maintain or does that help drive incremental, not only absolute growth but also margin?

I guess, I'd say those go into the overall support of the $12.5 million of incremental contribution in Europe from profitable sales growth and the $25 million of incremental contribution we expect in North America from profitable sales growth. And as we come out with these new products, we're ever more integrated in how we create them internally and how we deploy them through a supply chain that's incredibly more efficient than we've done in the past, which will also increase gross margin per sale. So, we should have more sales because we have new and very interesting products to garner customer interest. And as we sell them, they will be more efficient in design for and a cost-effective deployment around the world.

So, I would say those underpin why we think we'll get $37.5 million worth of incremental contribution for mobility and seating over the next couple of years. And I think that the remarkable thing for me is we are still able to do it for nothing less than 1.8% of sales in R&D, which for a medical device or industrial medical device company is remarkably productive. And that goes to, I think, how good our team is at the core competencies in developing really interesting products. That's good.

And when I look at the portfolio now, we will have interesting products coming out every quarter, kind of perpetually. We have gotten through the bow wave of – where we were doing some mobility and seating products. Now, we're doing mobility and seating and respiratory and lifestyles products globally all the time. And I think, it's one of our strongest point.

We have good competitors in each category and I think, we have good new products and future products that will help us remain competitive. But then when you put them all together as a composite business, it's really remarkable.

And if I could squeeze one last one in as well. Just when you look at the capital structure, thoughts obviously on I guess the first tranche of the two converts. Is that something that you feel like you'll be in a position to more thoroughly evaluate as you're in the second half of the year or is that something that as you enter 2020, you think you'll have the sufficient run rate both from a cash flow and from margin to make a better evaluation thereafter, and in this most recent proxy you asked to also potentially settle in equity or partially in equity?

Good question, Chris. We always think about our balance sheet to make sure we're using capital appropriately, on a transactional basis for working capital and then our cash on hand or cash balance for that eventuality or for paying these two tranches of debt. Our best tool to facilitate good refinancing is having solid EBITDA, which is the basis of commercial normally, commercial lending facilities, and that's why it's so important for us not only to make our commitment to the company's owners, its shareholders, in delivering EBITDA, but so that we have this commercially reasonable refinancing terms that we expect.

So, the $20 million EBITDA target which we are very committed to hitting this year is an important weight point for that, which then leads us to that other target, the $85 million to $105 million for next year adjusted EBITDA that should put us in the zone of relatively normal discussions with lenders to refinance that.

And the proxy and thanks for bringing that up, when we took out the convertible debt instruments because of our market cap and share price at the time we were constrained to only be able to take that issuances being able to settle in cash. And we think it's important for shareholders to allow management to have the flexibility to settle in some combination of shares and cash, should those converts be exercisable in the $15-plus range.

Understood. Thanks. Appreciate the time.

Okay. Thanks, Chris.

And we'll take our next question from Mike Matson with Needham & Company.

Hi. Thanks for taking my questions.

Hey, Mike.

Guess, I just wanted to start with the respiratory business. So, the slide said that you're going to reevaluate all businesses for market leadership and profitability, it doesn't seem like you're going to get to either of those in the respiratory business. So why wouldn't you just exit that business completely?

That's a good question. Yeah, we want to make sure that our business leaders internally that oversee these various segments and product portfolios are asking that. So, I think it can't be mentioned as an answer to a previous question. We are definitely shifting our focus in our internal portfolio to make sure we continue to have a solid offering in the 5-liter category which is the mainstay of our customers.

I think, there are a lot of dynamic things going on with the battery-powered portable segment and we continue to have leading features and functionality on our product. And then in the middle is 10-liter in the HomeFill which continue to have enhancement opportunities. So, I think, if our shareholders can see the results of a 35% nominal contribution margin and not blowing up SG&A to get this 10% spread, that's a pretty good use of capital now.

We always look at how to optimize our use of capital. I think, right now that is our best plan going forward. We have taken a really critical look at that business during the reimbursement dynamics that have caused for us a sales downturn and it's enabled us to look at it differently in ways that will drive a longer term profit out of those products. We continue to submit 510(k)s for enhancements to those products and we think we have good alignment with customers on what they want in a product that serves their customers well. So, we should still be able to grow those.

It is a challenging market in total, but there are some real product categories in there that we know uniquely well, where I think we can still be a leader. And if we can generate that kind of EBITDA, then that's good return for shareholders as we make our targets for this year and next year and [indiscernible] (00:39:59). But we'll keep looking at it. You should hold us accountable to demonstrating that we are leading in share and delivering that kind of contribution.

Okay. Thanks. And then, the respiratory business, I mean, it wasn't just down significantly in North America, it was down a lot in Europe as well, though was up in Asia. But, I mean, how much of this is really because of this reimbursement change where they bended the contracts and opened it up to all commerce versus the move to POCs in this market, because it seems like there's more going on than just the reimbursement changes, I guess?

I think different companies that we compete with are treating the change in the marketplace differently. We've taken the outlook to maintain good customer relationships as they go through this transformation and we've found ways to not keep our facilities full and still increase profit. And you would see that in the results we've turned. And it's really remarkable to do as well as we've been doing, despite the really significant downturn in sales. So that's caused us to take a lot of smart actions that will benefit as well currently and in the long term.

I think what customers are experiencing now in the marketplace is the need for a better balance in the portfolio. There's been a tremendous amount of, I'd say, a feeding frenzy around battery powered portable oxygen concentrators, which are a great modality, but I think as we get into the – I don't know if it's exactly the third or fourth year of this [indiscernible] (00:41:37) of deployments, I think providers are realizing that once the warranty and these things are pretty expensive ways to deploy ambulatory oxygen for a very fixed reimbursement when it's under a reimbursed consumer compared to other modalities like our HomeFill portable oxygen concentrator system which is roughly the same cost to purchase, but will last three or four times as long with very little service cost along the way.

So, I think, what we're going to see is the settling out in the marketplace, there will be more reasonable balance of the modalities that DME providers are using to get reimbursement and serve their clients well, and we're really well-positioned to have that balance. We have a great 5-liter, great 10-liter, we have this unique HomeFill that still has patented technology that makes it different, and we have a really great portable oxygen concentrator that still is leading in terms of connectivity and features, weight and everything. So, when we look at the marketplace, I think, we see a reason to hang with our customers and continue to provide this full portfolio and then internally optimize our cost and still deliver improved results to shareholders despite lots of swirl in the economy.

Okay. And then just one on the tariffs. So, let's assume that the tariffs increased to 25% Friday night. You know that – where would you stand with being able to mitigate that from a timing standpoint? I mean, I guess, you've already mitigated the existing tariffs. So, if they're upon the same items, a lot of that would already be mitigated or would you have to take additional steps, and is there a risk that there's something of a timing issue that it still hits your second quarter results as you take steps to offset it?

Yeah, I think, if that happens Friday night, maybe by Sunday we'll get past the frustration of such an asymmetric for foreign economic policy. The actions that we have taken to mitigate the previous tariffs should be in effect as you've said, as the gap in what we haven't mitigated, which was $400,000 in the quarter, could then go up by something like 2.5 times reflecting 10% to 25% tariff increase. However, that gap already includes some products like in the steel and aluminum categories that are already at 25%. So that gap isn't entirely going to be escalated.

So, I think, if you said $400,000 is $1.6 million in the year, and then you multiply that by 2.5 times, that sort of the maximum it could be. But we clearly would take actions to reduce that even further.

Yeah. And while that would be the maximum to your point, the unmitigated portion primarily relates to many of the product that's already at a 25% rate.

Right.

Okay. Thanks. And then, just on the All Other, Asia/Pacific category, you saw really strong growth there. So, I guess first, were there any kind of like one-offs, stocking orders in the quarter and then I guess I'm a little surprised, you said, strong growth, but then see the operating income still down year-over-year?

Yeah, the growth and the sales side of the house is really an all product category. So, nothing unusual going through there. On the operating loss side of the house, there was a discrete charge related to warranty that impacted the results. So, a one-time charge related to warranty, not related to the sales growth that we found in Asia/Pac distribution businesses.

Okay. Great. Thanks a lot.

Okay. Thanks, Mike.

And we'll take our next question from Jim Sidoti with Sidoti & Co.

Good morning. Can you hear me?

I can, Jim. Good morning. Thanks for calling.

Okay. So, based on the cash flow usage in the quarter and the guidance for the year, it seems like you're expecting to be pretty much cash flow neutral for the remainder of the year. Is that accurate?

The sum of quarters two, three and four will be zero from here for our guidance. That doesn't mean that every quarter will be zero, but the sum of the remainder of the year will be.

Yeah. Historically Q2 is a usage quarter, and then we get better in Q3 and Q4, so we would assume that same seasonality that you would have seen last year as well, but each quarter should be better than the previous quarter.

Okay. All right. And I think on the last call, you hoped or indicated that you might see a pick-up in respiratory sales in the back half of this year, is that still the case, or do you no longer think that will happen?

It's an estimate at this point. We've certainly put a robust plan together that assumes that it does not grow externally, so that's good. We wanted to underpin our story without a lot of optimism, but it's typical for the market to begin incremental purchases late in August or around Labor Day in the U.S., getting really ready for the winter flu season. So, we assume there's some chance of acceleration at that point, but we don't need it to get to our plan.

All right. And last one for me, if you look at the outlook section of the 10-Q you filed last night, you said in order to achieve the earnings and free cash flow targets, you expect low to single-digit sales growth – low-single-digit sales growth in 2019 and 2020. Does that mean you expect growth both years or just a combined years?

Both years. We expect sales growth that might not be exactly the same every season or every quarter, because we do have seasonality in Europe for sure. They're a little different in North America and then overall for the company. But we expect growth overall, both years.

So, despite the fact sales declined in... [indiscernible]

(00:47:33)

...European side of the house. So, we're anticipating sales growth on the European side of the house. We're anticipating sales growth on the mobility and seating side of house from North America perspective. But in 2019, that will be offset by respiratory decline.

Right. Right. So, respiratory, I mean, it looks like it was about $19 million this quarter. You think that's the bottom or do you think that continues to decline?

We attribute this to this external shift to national competitive bidding in the metropolitan areas. And if that's the external impact and there are no other external impacts, we should be at the bottom of that, looking forward to stabilize and grow as those markets settle out and fleets get older and need to be replenished again, especially heading into the winter flu season. So, I don't think it goes down from here. I think it's just – if you assume the assets were in place to service customers nationally in the winter and if the winter is the peak use of those kind of things, then our customers collectively, all of our customers and our competitors customers, will have that fleet that can get in through Labor Day, let's say at least. And then when more people come new into the market and the fleet of products are then more aged, there will need to be more replenishment. So, I think, if you look at the macros like that, I would say it's probably at the bottom in terms of demand.

Okay. So, I guess...

The decline we saw in the first quarter is consistent with the declines as a percentage that we saw in Q3 as well as Q4. And so, our plan assumes that that same decline continues for the remainder of 2019.

Yeah. We kind of look at it sequentially on a rate basis.

Yeah, we sure do that.

Okay. But the message, I think, you're trying to give is that either with the weak sales in respiratory because of the strength in Europe and a pick-up in mobility, do you think overall sales would be up in the low-single digits by the end of the year?

Should be. Yeah, everything else grows, I think, with Asia/Pac, Europe, everything in North America, except respiratory. Respiratory is sort of the TBD until the market comes back and then all the pieces should be working together.

And in the meantime, we're not...

Great.

...I think that be an excuse for profitability. As you can see what we've done to drive gross margin up despite that sales decline.

Great. All right. Thank you.

Yeah. Thanks, Jim.

And there are no further questions at this time. I would like to turn the conference back over to Matt Monaghan for any additional or closing remarks.

Okay. Thank you, Leanne, and thanks, everybody, for the time and attention at today's call. Kathy, Lois and I are available for any follow-up questions. And hope you have a good day. Thank you.

And that does conclude today's conference. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.