Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Karen Abercrombie — Vice President, Marketing & Communications, ION Geophysical Corp.
R. Brian Hanson — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ION Geophysical Corp.
Steven Bate — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, ION Geophysical Corp.
Rudolph A. Hokanson — Analyst, Barrington Research Associates, Inc.
Phyllis Camara — Analyst, Pax World Funds
Kenneth B. Funsten — Analyst, Funsten Asset Management Co.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Greetings and welcome to the ION Geophysical Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

I'd now like to turn the conference over to your host, Ms. Karen Abercrombie, Vice President of ION Communications. Please go ahead, ma'am.

Thank you, Jerry. Good morning and welcome to ION Geophysical Corporation's second quarter 2015 earnings conference call. We appreciate you joining us today. As indicated on slide two, our hosts today are Brian Hanson, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Steve Bate, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Before I turn the call over to them, I have a few items to cover. We'll be using slides to accompany today's call. They're accessible via a link on the Investor Relations page of our website, iongeo.com. There you'll find a replay of today's call.

Moving on to slide three. Information reported on this call speaks only as of today, August 6, 2015, and therefore, you're advised that time-sensitive information may no longer be accurate at the time of any replay.

Before we begin, let me remind you that certain statements made during this call may constitute forward-looking statements, which are based on our current expectations and include known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which we're unable to predict or control, that may cause our actual results or performance to differ materially from any future results or performance expressed or implied by those statements. These risks and uncertainties include the risk factors disclosed by ION from time to time in our filings with the SEC, including in our annual report on Form 10-K and in our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.

Furthermore, as we start this call, please refer to the disclosure regarding forward-looking statements incorporated into our press release issued yesterday, and please note that the contents of our conference call this morning are covered by these statements.

I'll now turn the call over to Brian, who will begin on slide four.

Thanks, Karen, and good morning, everyone. On our last call, we observed that our first quarter was soft due to a delay in customers setting their budgets. We said we anticipated our second quarter to be soft as well with customers taking a wait-and-see attitude towards allocating their delayed budgets. However, we anticipated the second half to pick up.

Our second quarter looked a lot like our first quarter, with customers slow to initiate work, but our second half looks somewhat stronger, primarily as a result of our BasinSPAN program in Mexico.

Yesterday, we reported a second quarter net income of $56 million, or $0.34 per diluted share. Our second quarter results were positively impacted by special items totaling $101 million, or $0.61 per diluted share, primarily related to a further partial reversal of our reserve associated with our lawsuit with WesternGeco, which I will speak about later.

Excluding special items, our second quarter adjusted net income was a loss of $45 million, or $0.27 per share, on revenues of $37 million. We expected going into 2015, we would be a net consumer of cash and we ended the second quarter with cash and cash equivalents of $117 million, consuming about $53 million in cash before financing activities, about half of that in Q2.

As mentioned on the last call, we expected the second quarter cash flow to be fairly consistent with the first quarter, as our customers figured out how to prioritize the allocation of their budgets, with activity expected to pick up in the third quarter. With a focus on cash preservation, we continued to strategically reduce costs, while maintaining our core competencies.

During the quarter, we took action to further reduce our employee head count. Since December, we have reduced our fulltime head count by about 25%, which coupled with the 10% salary reduction we implemented in Q1, will yield an annualized savings of about $40 million.

In addition in Q2, we initiated actions within our OBS services business to minimize our costs, while at the same time maintaining our full ocean bottom capabilities. A lot of our cost in Q2 was associated with keeping our OceanGeo crew in a fully active state, while we waited the start of our next project. We are actively in negotiations on three projects, and anticipate the crew going back to work in the fourth quarter or the first quarter next year.

In the meantime, we have cold-stacked the vessels and our crew, and have taken other actions which collectively will dramatically reduce our quarterly OceanGeo cash burn rate to as low as $3 million by the fourth quarter. Despite the extended market downturn and uncertainty, we see significant long-term potential for OceanGeo and technologies to improve ocean bottom survey productivity, and we expect demand for ocean bottom production surveys to continue even through what we believe will be an extended period of contraction in exploration and production budgets.

Our $53 million cash burn in the first half of the year was prior to our realizing the full savings associated with our expense reduction programs, including salary and head count reductions, and our OBS cost reductions. While there still remains some uncertainty in the multi-client side of our Solutions segment, we are starting to see an increase in customer activity.

In early July, we began acquisition of the first phase of MexicoSPAN, an industry-funded program encompassing more than 22,000 kilometers of deep image 2D data. Combined with our existing programs, MexicoSPAN will deliver the industry's only complete basin-wide regional view of the Gulf of Mexico. While this program will positively impact our second half results, we still expect the exploration spending in the second half of 2015 and 2016 to be far below 2013 and 2014 levels.

We are maintaining our spending discipline, sanctioning programs only with sufficient client underwriting. Our data processing business seems to have plateaued over the past two quarters and the current sales pipeline signals that it will probably run at these levels for a while. We are not seeing the normal down-cycle behavior of customers reprocessing existing data sets.

In addition, our systems and software businesses have also plateaued in the past quarter, as seismic contractors have dialed back their spending to minimum levels. We do not expect further deterioration in these lines from Q2 levels nor do we expect them to rebound in the near future.

As I mentioned earlier, we have reduced our reserve associated with the WesternGeco lawsuit. While the process is not yet complete, we are pleased with the decisions by the U.S. Court of Appeals, who in early July reversed in part the original judgment holding that to District Court erred by including lost profits in their judgment. As a result of this decision, we've reduced our legal contingency by a $102 million from $124 million to $22 million.

As expected, WesternGeco has requested a rehearing with the U.S. Court of Appeals, but the reduced judgment is a big win for us and a lift to our liquidity going forward.

Steve is going to walk you through the financials, and then I'll wrap up before taking questions.

Thanks, Brian. Good morning, everyone. As anticipated, our second quarter results were fairly consistent with our first quarter with revenues declining by over 70% year-over-year. Our second quarter Solutions segment revenues were down year-over-year by over 60%, which was not a surprise as many of our E&P customers only finalized their 2015 budgets during the second quarter. As Brian mentioned, we expect an increase in our Solutions segment revenues in the back half of the year compared to the first half. Our systems and software segments experienced decreases in revenues of 66% and 36% respectively, attributable to a continued decrease in vessel capacity from 2014 to 2015.

Our Ocean Bottom Services segment contributed no revenues this quarter as the crew has been idle since completing a survey in the fourth quarter of 2014. We've cold-stacked the vessels and our crew, reducing our cash burn rate, but continue to maintain our ability to quickly mobilize the crew. As a result of the decline in revenues, our overall gross and operating margins for the quarter were negative at 28% and 111% respectively.

Our adjusted EBITDA was a negative $29 million and our adjusted earnings per share were a loss of $0.27. Our cash balances stood at $117 million at June 30, and we continue to have no outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility.

Our net debt, defined as total debt less our cash balances, was $71 million at June 30. Earlier this month, we amended our credit facility with PNC Bank who is now the sole lender. The amended credit facility has improved financial covenants and borrowing capacity of $40 million.

As Brian mentioned, the appeals court significantly reduced our damages to an estimated $22 million, down from $124 million, and accordingly our litigation reserve was reduced by $102 million in the second quarter. The surety bond related to the litigation that we have in place is unsecured and will remain outstanding until the case is completely resolved. The significantly reduced judgment, coupled with our amended credit facility, improves our liquidity position and gives us more flexibility in how we invest cash into our businesses.

With that, I'll turn it back to Brian.

Thanks. Steve. We have patiently endured the first half of the year as we watched our customers' behaviors and firmed up our opinions on how this cycle was going to unfold. We are now operating under the thesis that we are in a cycle that resembles behaviors of the down-cycle of 1999 to 2004. During that period, budgets were significantly reduced, reserve replenishment was not the theme, but harvesting production and conversion of reserves to cash was the focus. Exploration as a percentage of E&P CapEx budgets declined from a high of 26% in 1998 to a low of 16% in 2004 and did not increase until the need to replenish reserves came back into focus.

That cycle was a protracted five-year run until it turned around. We believe this cycle began in 2013. Accordingly, the production side of the E&P business is where one needs to position for the next few years. As such, this year, we are focused on ensuring the exploration side of our business is properly scaled and has appropriate cost controls to free cash flow for 2016 and beyond. Our plan is to grow the production side of our offerings including a focus on ocean-bottom work, which is primarily 4D production type surveys, and our software and services offering around simultaneous operations.

Although in the first half of 2015 we have seen a significant use of cash as we have carried the Ocean Bottom crew and figured out the levels at which the rest of the core business stabilized, we have now cold-stacked the crew and continue to have a strong focus on cost controls that should enable us to return to positive free cash flow territory for 2016.

With that, I'll turn it back to the operator for Q&A.

Thank you. We'll now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] We have a question from Rudy Hokanson, Barrington Research. Please go ahead.

Good morning. I was wondering, could you talk a little bit about the outlook on various geographies aside from the Gulf of Mexico, where you think that there might be activity picking up, maybe out into 2016, or areas that you're bidding on right now?

Rudy, I would say, the decline in activity is pretty evenly spread globally. There's not one sort of glimmer of light out there, with the exception of what's going on in the Gulf of Mexico for Mexico.

Okay. And as you've been cutting back on the ocean bottom right now in terms of what the carrying cost is going to be, can you give us an idea, was that running at about a $10 million a quarter rate when you had first ramped up, or what's the $3 million relative to?

Yeah. It was running north of $10 million.

Okay. Thank you. Those are my primary questions right now.

We have a question from [ph] Ariel Rothman, Tegean Capital (13:45). Please go ahead.

Hi guys. Thanks. Thanks for taking the question. So I take it from your remarks, you're talking about focusing on returning to positive free cash flow in 2016. And I take that to mean you expect I guess continued cash burn in the second half of this year. Do you have any kind of estimate for the magnitude of the cash burn in the second half of the year or is that – or will we not be burning cash in the second half of 2015?

No, we'll definitely burn some cash in the second half of the year. The hard thing to predict is how the fourth quarter is going to unfold in our business. Traditionally, the fourth quarter has been fairly strong because of any excess budgets the oil companies have they tend to allocate them to the purchase of data. So the fourth quarter could be anything from a use of cash to a positive contributor of cash. Given that I'd say the third quarter is probably going to be comparable to the first two quarters or maybe just a little bit less.

Okay. Thank you very much. That was helpful.

We have – next question is from Phyllis Camara, Pax World Funds. Please go ahead, ma'am.

Hi. Thanks for having the call. I was reading, you guys put out an 8-K today about the new bank facility and it seems like they were talking about they wanted an appraisal of the multi-client data library, did I read that correctly? And can you talk about what you're expecting from that?

Sure. Phyllis, this is Steve. They are – as part of the borrowing-based calculation there's appraisal of some of the assets that are in the borrowing base. The data library appraisal is ongoing, it should be completed shortly. And the borrowing base should get finalized by the end of the month. The borrowing base moves around a little bit month to month based on how the assets in the borrowing base move around. But we would expect the data library to make a full contribution as stated in the 8-K.

Okay. Then do you expect the $40 million, is that already lower than your borrowing base right now, do you expect the $40 million to change, that you've got available?

The $40 million is the total availability under the facility. I would expect our borrowing base to run in that $30 million, $40 million range as we get the appraisals in by the end of the month.

Okay. So then the availability could possibly decline a little bit?

I think the borrowing base can grow; the $40 million is the total capacity of the revolver.

Okay.

Right. And the borrowing base, our current estimate is that we'll be in the upper end of our capacity in the borrowing base calculation when we finish it.

Okay, okay. Thanks. And then – and I think you may have answered part of the question, on the $40 million that you're taking out of costs, so can you define kind of what that's coming from? Is that – like for the second quarter we may see a cash burn, but – or the third quarter, we may see the cash burn similar to first and second but then we'll see like an additional potentially one quarter of $40 million out in the fourth quarter and then that will carry through into 2016, where costs will be lower from 2015 to 2016, is that what we're expecting?

Phyllis, I think maybe the best thing for us to do is to give me a call after this and we can walk through some of those numbers. I think Q4, as Brian said, is really dependent on what the revenue levels come in at. But I can help you walk through what our expectations are for the back half.

Okay. Okay. That's it from me then. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

We now have a question from Mr. Ken Funsten of Funsten Asset Management Company. Please go ahead, sir.

Hi. Thanks for having the questions. By the way, I've called the company a few times and never received a return call. Are you going to begin returning calls when investors call?

Sure. I'll tell you what, give me a call right after this and we'll connect and I'll try to figure out what happened there but certainly, we'll return your call.

Okay. Thanks a lot. My question's partly – a little bit, anyway, let me see, on the $40 million, so that's a max. That's the maximum. What you're saying is, the availability of your drawing power is going to be determined by the asset appraisals?

Absolutely. That's correct.

Okay. So, I'm sure you realize that on the message boards and other places, there is predictions of the bankruptcy of ION, and some people point to the fact you're going to need asset sales and your bond maturity, which I believe is in 2018, that you don't have anything worth selling anymore. How do you respond to the idea that bankruptcy is in the future for you and this bond maturity that's still three years out?

You know, I think first of all, I don't spend any time on message boards. The credibility of that content is a subject. So anyway, step back and think about what ION is. ION is a highly scalable company; it primarily is a business of people and intellectual property. And what we are not – similar to the peer group that we run in, we're not a company that has a lot of steel and assets that are very hard to scale. And so if you just step back and think about that, once you figure out what level of activity of the business is going to run at, we can very easily scale to that level of activity.

And that's what we've done this year, right, the first half of the year was really a period of decline, where we tried to figure out just how much the business was going to decline, and that sets us up for our thesis on how we think this is going to continue up for the next few years.

And so we have embarked upon a path continually scaling our business to where we think it's stabilized. Our opinion today is our business has stabilized and actually has upside growth potential once our crew goes back to work. So easy for us to turn the corner, and by 2016, have this scaled to a free cash flow generating business.

All that being said, if you also step back and look at how much cash we have, add this additional loan capacity, we have a lot of liquidity, we're sitting here with $150 million, $160 million of liquidity and the two worst quarters we had in the history of our business were Q1 and Q2, and we only burned $50 million.

So if you just operate then to the thesis that the $50 million declines and goes to zero, and we move into cash-flow-generating territory, we're still going to have a lots of liquidity when we move into 2016 and beyond. So we are not in bankruptcy in any form or fashion.

And the maturity in 2018?

Years out there.

Okay. Thank you, gentlemen.

In the middle of 2015, I wouldn't comment on anything three years away from now.

Ladies and gentlemen, there are no further questions. I'd like to turn the conference over to Mr. Brian Hanson, CEO of ION, for closing remarks. Please go ahead, sir.

Well, thank you for taking the time to attend the conference call and we'll look forward to talking to you on our Q3 call.

This concludes today's conference. Thank you for your participation. You may disconnect your phones at this time.