Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Karen Abercrombie — Vice President, Corporate Marketing and Communications, ION Geophysical Corp.
R. Brian Hanson — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ION Geophysical Corp.
Gregory J. Heinlein — Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, ION Geophysical Corp.
Joe Maxa — Analyst, Dougherty & Co. LLC
Phyllis Camara — Analyst, Pax World Funds

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for standing by. Welcome to the ION Geophysical First Quarter Earnings Call. During today's presentation, all parties will be in a listen-only mode. Following the presentation, the conference will be opened for questions. [Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded today, Thursday, May 1, 2014.

And I would like to turn the conference over to Karen Abercrombie, Vice President, Corporate Communications. Please go ahead, ma'am.

Thank you, Katia. Good morning, and welcome to ION Geophysical Corporation's first quarter 2014 earnings conference call. We appreciate you joining us today. As indicated on slide 2, our hosts today are Brian Hansen, President and Chief Executive Officer and Greg Heinlein, Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer.

Before I turn the call over to them, I have a few items to cover. We'll be using slides to accompany today's call. They're accessible via a link on the Investor Relations page of our website, iongeo.com. There you'll also find a replay of today's call following the call.

Moving on to slide 3, information reported on this call today speaks only as of today, Monday (sic) [Thursday] May 1, 2014 and therefore you're advised the time-sensitive information may no longer be accurate at the time of any replay.

Before we begin, let me remind you that certain statements made during this call may constitute forward-looking statements, which are based on our current expectations and include known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which we're unable to predict or control that may cause our actual results or performance to differ materially from any future results or performance expressed or implied by those statements.

These risks and uncertainties include the risk factors disclosed by ION from time to time in our filings within the SEC, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.

Furthermore, as we start this call, please refer to the disclosure regarding forward-looking statements incorporated into our press release issued yesterday. And please note that the contents of our conference call this morning are covered by these statements.

I'll now turn the call over to Brian Hanson who will begin on slide 4.

Thanks, Karen, and good morning, everyone. I'm pleased to report a respectable start to the year. Yesterday, we reported first quarter 2014 adjusted net income of $6.4 million or $0.04 per diluted share on revenues of $145 million, up 12% from first quarter 2013. This increase in revenues is attributable in large part to a record first quarter in software segment revenues, the first time consolidation of OceanGeo, the results of which we include in our Ocean Bottom Services segment and the signing of the single largest data processing contract in our history adding $15 million of revenue to the quarter.

Greg will provide further details in a moment, but we are very pleased to report our consolidated gross margins increase to 39% from 27% in first quarter 2013 and our operating margins increased to 14%, up from 1% a year ago.

One of our primary focuses this year is on cash generation. In the first quarter, we generated $38 million of free cash flow, more than double the amount we generated in the first quarter of 2013. We're also pleased with the recent court development in our ongoing lawsuit with WesternGeco. You may have read in our 8-K filing last night that the court has issued an order reducing the total damages to $123.8 million, effectively acknowledging an error that was made in the initial calculation of supplemental damages.

This order results in a partial reversal by $70 million of our prior reserve taken. We firmly believe this development contains our potential liability to a more reasonable amount and allows us to put this matter behind us for the time being, as we await the next steps through the appeal process.

As Greg will point out in covering our liquidity, the new final damages amount is well under our available cash balances of $197 million. From this development, we've also been assured that our bonding requirements will be adequately met with no cash collateral required. This is very good news for ION and all of our employees.

Now, I'd like to share some of our first quarter operational highlights. After that, Greg will walk us through our financials in more detail and I'll wrap up.

I'll start with our Solutions segment, which includes our GeoVentures business and our GXT data processing business. In the GeoVentures business, data library revenues were up 40% from first quarter 2013, while new venture revenues were down 32%, as the first quarter of last year included revenues from a large proprietary 3D Marine program, offshore Morocco.

We continue to pursue investments in our 2D BasinSPAN multi-client data library. During the first quarter, we were awarded permits to acquire 12,600 kilometers of seismic data offshore Peru, quite an accomplishment given we underwent a multi-year process to secure the permits. PeruSPAN is the first regional deep-focused integrated geological and geophysical interpretation of the area. We're designing the program in close cooperation with PeruPetro, to provide oil and gas companies with a strategic view of the basin and enhance reservoir characterization of this promising area.

While this program is in the early stages, it's another example of our ever expanding global footprint. And more important, it's another example of a national oil company choosing to work with us to optimize the hydrocarbon assets.

We recently completed the first phase of our West Australia SPAN program, which consists of about 12,000 kilometers on Australia's northwest shelf. While there is a lot of interest among oil and gas companies in the area, the regional geology is complex and historically achieving a holistic understanding of the reasons basinal architecture has been challenging. We attribute our ability to plan and execute the program to our track record of successfully acquiring deep tow data in other parts of the world including offshore Brazil, West India, and Florida, and also to our proven ability to image complex geologies. We recently completed processing Phase 1. The data looks very good and what we've seen could potentially change the understanding of depositional systems, structural evolution, and geological development of the underexplored deeper potential in this highly productive region.

We are currently planning Phase 2. As we mentioned on our fourth quarter call, we continue to see an expansion of our 2D multi-client customer base from our traditional customers, predominantly IOC and majors to NOC and independents. The shift in focus among the larger oil companies to generating cash and shareholder return is opening up opportunities for the other players to expand their geographies. The good news for us is they are finding value in our BasinSPAN data, allowing us to broaden our customer base.

Another major milestone was our announcement in early April of a new 4,000 square kilometer 3D multi-client survey offshore Ireland, the first major survey of the significantly underexplored deep water southern porcupine basin. Of note, this is the first survey to arise from our alliance with Polarcus, which we announced last year to jointly develop and market multi-client regionally calibrated 3D surveys. By regionally calibrated, we mean that we are finding geologic insights gleaned from our 2D BasinSPAN programs and the design of these 3D surveys.

In the case of this porcupine survey, we are leveraging the geological knowledge we've gained from our Northeast AtlanticSPAN 2D survey to deliver the high quality 3D data required by oil and gas companies to further develop the area. The acquisition is scheduled to commence in late June and our plan is to deliver data in early 2015.

In addition to our E&P focused activity based on our Arctic leadership and expertise, our GeoVentures group was engaged in the first quarter to acquire a proprietary project off the coast of Antarctica as part of the government research study.

Our first quarter data processing revenues were up 38% over first quarter 2013, attributable in large part to the $15 million in revenues we recognized in the first quarter for work performed in 2013, while we awaited signatures on a customer contract. I'm pleased to report that the customer signed the contract in the first quarter, which is the largest data processing contract in our company's history.

Our software business had a nice quarter, generating record first quarter revenues, a result of strong Orca and Gator licensing. This record starts at 2014 on the heels of the record fourth quarter finish is a solid improvement from the start of last year, when we saw declining software revenues, primarily as a result of customer consolidations.

Our first quarter Systems segment sales were $25 million, down 22% from the first quarter of last year, primarily due to the absence of ocean bottom cable system sales in 2014. The revenue decline was partially offset by an increase in repair and replacement positioning equipment revenues largely a result of the new repair and replacement program we introduced late last year.

As you know, we are focusing a majority of our system's R&D on supporting OceanGeo and on introducing new ocean bottom acquisition technologies including our Calypso System. In the first quarter, we deployed and tested Calypso alongside our VSO system and OceanGeo survey offshore Trinidad for Petrotrin. And we're pleased with Calypso's geophysical performance and the data acquired using the system.

Shifting to OceanGeo, I'm pleased to report the survey for Petrotrin is going to quite well. Our OceanGeo and ION teams work hand-in-hand to get the survey up and running and they continue to work closely to ensure optimum performance and productivity. We expect to complete the Petrotrin survey in late May or early June and OceanGeo is working tirelessly to fill our pipeline and secure the next project award. We expect to be able to announce the next award in the very near future.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Greg.

Thanks, Brian. Good morning, everyone. I will present our financial results as adjusted to exclude the one-time gain of the partial litigation reserve reversal. However, we're happy to address any questions you have regarding this in the Q&A session.

Overall, our first quarter revenues were $145 million, up 12% year-over-year. Our Solutions segment revenues were up slightly at $89 million, Software segment revenues were $10 million, up 15% from the first quarter 2013 and Systems segment revenues were $25 million, down 22%. Also starting in late January, we began consolidating the results of OceanGeo, which contributed $21 million in revenues to our first quarter results.

As Brian mentioned, consolidated gross margins increased to 39% compared to 27% in the first quarter of 2013. And operating margins were 14% compared to 1% in the first quarter of 2013. The increase in gross margins and operating margins was driven in part by the restructuring of our Systems segment in 2013. The recognition of data processing revenues related to the signing of the significant customer contract, higher margins on the mix of new venture programs in our Solutions segment and from the consolidation of OceanGeo during the first quarter of 2014.

Our operating margins in the first quarters of both 2014 and 2013 were negatively impacted by approximately $3 million of bad debt expense, associated with customer bankruptcies in each of those respected quarters. Overall, we reported adjusted net income of $6.4 million or $0.04 per diluted share compared to $1.5 million or $0.01 per diluted share during the first quarter of 2013.

Turning to the next slide, our first quarter Solutions segment revenues were $89 million, up slightly from the first quarter of 2013. Our data processing revenues were $43 million, increase of 38% over first quarter of 2013. As Brian mentioned in the first quarter, we closed the single largest data processing contract in our history.

Our data library revenues were $13 million, an increase of 40% over the first quarter of 2013. We're pleased with our first quarter data library sales, especially considering our strong library sales in the fourth quarter of last year. Historically, our first quarter library revenues are the lowest of any given year as most E&P budgets are spent in the back half of the year. Our first quarter library sales were led by East Africa programs.

Our new venture revenues were $33 million, a decrease of 32%. This year-over-year decline reflects a large Morocco proprietary program performed in the first and second quarters of last year. A majority of our first quarter 2014 new venture revenues was the result of a proprietary project off the coast of Antarctica and from the acquisition of our highly underwritten 3D land programs in North America.

Our Solutions operating profit increased to $19 million or 21% operating margin, up from $7 million or 8% operating margin in the first quarter of last year. This increase in operating profit and margins was driven by our large data processing revenues in the first quarter and from higher margins on the mix of our new venture programs.

Turning to slide 12, our software segment achieved its best first quarter sales as revenues increased 15% compared to first quarter of last year. This increase in revenues was led by increases in Orca and Gator software and hardware sales particularly in the seabed seismic contractor space.

Our Software segment operating profit was $5 million or 51% operating margin for the first quarter. This operating profit was equal to that of the first quarter of last year. In the first quarter of last year, we began our increase in research and development expenditures as we continue to develop new oil company software solutions such as Narwhal.

Moving on to the next slide, Systems segment revenues were $25 million, a decline of 22%. This year-over-year decrease is primarily attributable to a lack of revenues from ocean bottom cable systems, partially offset by nearly $5 million increase in repair and replacement of marine positioning equipment revenues.

Systems operating profit increased to $3 million or 14% operating margins compared to $1 million or 3% operating margins in first quarter 2013. This increase in our Systems operating margins was primarily due to cost reductions taken late in 2013, partially offset by approximately $3 million of bad debt expense from a customer bankruptcy in the first quarter.

Turning to slide 14, in late January, we increased our ownership in OceanGeo from 30% to 70%. Our first quarter consolidated results include the revenues of OceanGeo for February and March. During those two months, OceanGeo recognized nearly $21 million of revenues for the work performed on its five-month project in Trinidad. Prior to February, we reflected our share of OceanGeo results as equity earnings.

Turning to the next slide, INOVA's revenue in their fourth quarter was $40 million, down 33% from their fourth quarter 2013. This decline in revenues resulted in a over-reporting a loss in their fourth quarter of approximately $5 million, of which our 49% share was approximately $2.4 million. This reduction in sales is attributable to lower vibrator sales compared to the same quarter of last year.

For INOVA's first quarter, we estimate revenues to be in the range of approximately $25 million to $27 million, which would be an approximate 18% increase from the first quarter of 2013. We expect INOVA to report a first quarter operating loss in the range of $3 million to $4 million.

Turning to slide 16, as of March 31, our cash balance stood at $197.3 million. During the first quarter, we generated $38 million of free cash flow due to the significant receivable collections in the quarter, resulting from our record fourth quarter sales. We also drew an additional $15 million on our revolving line of credit for general corporate purposes. Overall, we generated $34 million of cash flow, excluding draws on our revolver.

Turning to the next slide. At March 31, we had $125 million available under our $175 million credit facility, which when combined with our cash on hand, brought our available liquidity at March 31 to $322.3 million.

Our net debt decreased $28 million to $44 million during the quarter, down from $72 million at December 31. This decline in our net debt was due to the significant collections during the quarter along with spending discipline on new venture programs that were not adequately funded by customers.

Finally, the recent development regarding the litigation with WesternGeco is good news for ION. The $70 million partial reverse of our reserve allows us to contain the liability to a more reasonable number, keeping loss profits out of the supplemental damages calculation. We will finalize bonding requirements in the next couple of weeks and our team continues to work toward having the new credit facility in place this year to replace our existing revolver, set to mature in March 2015. In the meantime, we continue to build cash liquidity by focusing on improving every aspect of our business.

With that, I'll turn it back to Brian.

Thanks, Greg. From an operational standpoint, we are well positioned for the balance of the year and beyond. We continue to strengthen our global 2D data library with programs and global hotspots. We are executing in the vast 3D multi-client market through our alliance with Polarcus, and we are now actively participating in the fast-growing ocean bottom seismic market through our OceanGeo joint venture and we look forward to announcing the next survey which we'll move to once we complete current contract negotiations.

But there remain headwinds. Major oil and gas companies, our traditional core customers remain cautious in their exploration spending as a focus on generating cash and returns to the shareholders. That coupled with increasing political uncertainty and energy strongholds makes it difficult to predict E&P spending. We believe E&P spend will continue to grow, but anticipate it will be concentrated more on the production side. As for exploration spending, it appears to have stabilized in the contractor community, which should support our multi-client activities in the second half of the year.

We are seeing continued softness in data processing due to a shipment of activity in the Gulf of Mexico along with the shift in proprietary activity to spec surveys. Despite our strong first quarter data processing revenues, which included the $15 million in revenues from 2013 work, all indications suggest that our data processing business will be relatively flat for the balance of the year adjusted down for the previously mentioned $15 million in the first quarter revenue.

For all of these reasons, we remain cautious in our outlook for 2014, and are staying focused on managing our business with an eye to driving shareholder value and increase cash generation.

With that, we'll turn it back over to the operator for Q&A.

Thank you, sir. We will now begin the question and answer session. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Joe Maxa with Dougherty & Company. Please go ahead.

Thank you. Good morning.

Good morning, Joe.

Morning, Joe.

Question on the new venture program. It sounds like you're expecting some – maybe I guess I won't call it flatness, but stabilization in the second half of the year. When we look at 2Q, are you still seeing some strong activities in North America land program? And if the multi-client businesses is weak, do you have additional – are you going after more of the proprietary projects?

Yeah, Joe. It's not as – we don't do a lot of proprietary work. And so, when we do proprietary work it's because there's something that we have in our toolkit that's unique and differentiated. So, really, when you look at the proprietary stuff, we've been really focused on our arctic technologies and that develop some unique opportunities for us over time, including the one that we just did in Antarctica in the first quarter.

As far as just generally the multi-client business, the land side of that business, we would expect that we continue to have good strong activity on land through the second quarter. I would think that that'll probably soften up for the back half of the year. And then, we have a number of projects that although they're more difficult to put together this year than they were prior year, we still have a number of them that are slated and we'd expect that will ship more to marine activity, marine 2D BasinSPAN projects and that one 3D one in the back half of the year.

I see. And then I also wanted to ask a question regarding the OceanGeo business. It sounds like you're close to signing the contract. Do you anticipate that being the similar size the ones you're currently working on? And then what the opportunity for signing additional contracts and perhaps utilizing Calypso maybe later this year or next year?

Yeah. That's a very good question. The size of that contract is, I would say, it's comparable. It's very comparable to the Petrotrin survey and we would expect it, we'll complete that Petrotrin survey late May, early June and then we'll mobilize for this next survey and that will probably carry us into, probably into the fourth quarter, but the pipeline of activity is very robust. In fact, it's increased every quarter for the last four quarters, both the amount of unawarded projects, and so we see quite a pipeline of potential activity ahead of us. So we're pretty optimistic. We'll be building our backlog – hopefully building that backlog to the end of the year that will carry us into 2016.

Great. Thanks a lot. [Operator Instructions]

One moment, please. And our next question comes from the line of Phyllis Camara with Pax World Funds. Please go ahead.

Hi. Thank you. Thanks for having the call. Quick question on the data processing. Was it $6 million or $13 million in revenues that were added for Q1 that were actually completed in the fourth quarter of last year?

Hi, Phyllis. This is Greg. It was $15 million of revenues recognized in our first quarter from [indiscernible] (23:23)

Okay. Okay. So if was the case then basically other data processing was down a little bit from the previous year?

Yeah. That's generally right.

Okay. Okay. What is going on with the ocean bottom equipment, do you see any potential for sales coming up for the rest of the year for the equipment or is that not going to happen this year?

Now, Phyllis, this is Brian. Our model has changed and over the last half dozen years, we've been shifting from an arms dealer, supplying contractors to a services provider for AMP clientele. And as part of that, we have deliberately pulled out of the ocean bottom equipment selling business and we are exclusively putting our technology to work in our OceanGeo joint venture.

Okay.

So, we won't be selling in anymore Calypso. We did test Calypso and we're going to be putting Calypso to work in a commercial fashion on the next survey with OceanGeo.

Okay. Thank you. And then, what type of customers do you have that seem to be going bankrupt that you got $3 million in bad debt in both quarters? I would assume these are not natural oil companies or IOCs. Are they just smaller companies in general?

We've got actually quite a stellar track record when it comes to our bad debt exposure. We've only had two real situations over the last few years. One was the first quarter 2013 that was a just small land-based oil company in North America that that was playing the unconventionals in shale and they went bankrupt. And subsequent to that, we actually on the heels of that structured a deal with the incoming party and so that will be – will be made whole on all that.

Okay.

This last one was the first quarter of this year and that was Global Geophysical who is a customer of ours and buys equipment of product from us and they went bankrupt.

Right. Okay. Thank you so much.

You're welcome.

Thank you. The next question comes from the line of [indiscernible] (26:05) with Investec. Please go ahead.

Good morning. Would you elaborate on the litigation status? Is the case now closed? And could you give a breakdown of how much you obtained and whether this is the total reserve that you have taken?

Yeah. Hi. This is Greg Heinlein. Thanks for the question. I guess the – probably for the benefit of all the callers, this will be well detailed as we've been doing in each of our quarterly filings and our 10-Qs set to be released later today. So I would encourage you to read that. And then, if you have further questions come back to me. In essence from day one of the trial, we provided pretty good updates on the history, how it all evolved and where we are at today, and certainly this quarter's filing will include an update of this recent order from court.

Would you tell us whether the case is closed or not, yes or no?

Yes. So the judge has issued this as an order, this recent development as an order, but has not ruled on the final case within the federal district court here in Houston. And once he issues that final judgment, then we will begin the appeal process up to the appellate courts in Washington.

So you're going to appeal the case?

Yes.

And how much is the total judgment so far?

So this recent order reduces it to $123.8 million.

$123.8 million. Okay. Thank you.

Thanks.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our next question is a follow-up question from the line of Joe Maxa with Dougherty & Company. Please go ahead.

Yeah. Hi, guys. I know the data library market's always tough to predict, but do you have any sense on how this year may shape up?

Honestly, Joe, I get asked that question probably every quarter and a half for the last eight or nine years and I'd be wrong if I had told you what I thought, wrong every time.

And helping on the software side, I mean, nice first quarter, I mean, is this is, I mean, do you think this is a nice base level you can maintain going forward? And then maybe just expand a little bit on Narwhal and when that may see some more meaningful revenue?

Yeah. The software business is actually quite solid and we're actually, we're looking at a pipeline that's – that we haven't seen as a robust pipeline since probably 2012. So we're feeling pretty good about software business for this year. As far as, Narwhal, there are two things that we're working on. There is something called, in Narwhal, which is focused on activities in ice encumbered environments, and there is something called simultaneous operations, which is similar, but it's trying to manage the complexities of a particular geography we have drilling platforms and supply vessels and short seismic vessels, et cetera.

We would expect that of those tool kits, we'll see more commercial activity as simultaneous operations in 2014 than we will out of Narwhal. The arctic activity has actually slowed down as a number of E&P operators have pulled out of the arctic and are revisiting their near-term plans there. So I'd stay Narwhal's probably going to be stopped this year, but simultaneous operations part of it will be strong that I anticipate it.

I see. Greg, a quick question for you on the effective tax rate. When you said you think it will normalize to 22%, 25%, were you talking on a quarterly basis or for the overall year?

Probably as we get further through the year, Joe, I mean, this quarter was unusually high for us due to some OceanGeo one-offs, and as the year progresses, I would expect it to elevate or for migrate more towards that 22% to 25%.

Yeah. Okay. Thank you.

Thanks.

Thank you. And I'm showing no further questions in the queue at this time. I would like to turn it over to management for closing remark. Please go ahead.

Well, thanks for taking the time to attend the conference call. And we look forward to talking to you during our second quarter call.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude our conference for today. If you'd like to listen to our replay of today's call, please dial 303-590-3030 or 1-800-406-7325 with access code of 4678925. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.