Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Karen Abercrombie — Vice President, Marketing & Communications, ION Geophysical Corp.
R. Brian Hanson — President and Chief Executive Officer, ION Geophysical Corp.
Steven Bate — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, ION Geophysical Corp.
Phyllis Chambers Camara — Analyst, Pax World Investments
Kenneth Funsten — Analyst, FamCo

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Greetings, and welcome to the ION First Quarter Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Karen Abercrombie, ION Vice President of Communications. Please go ahead.

Thank you, Shea. Good morning and welcome ION's first quarter 2016 earnings conference call. We appreciate you joining us today.

As indicated on slide two, our hosts today are Brian Hanson, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Steve Bate, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.

Before I turn the call over to them, I have a few items to cover. We'll be using slides to accompany today's call. They're accessible by a link on the Investor Relations page of our website, iongeo.com. There, you'll also find a replay of today's call.

Information reported on this call speaks only as of today, May 5, 2016, and therefore, you're advised that time-sensitive information may no longer be accurate at the time of any replay. Before we begin, let me remind you that certain statements made during this call may constitute forward-looking statements, which are based on our current expectations and include known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which we are unable to predict or control that may cause our actual results or performance to differ materially from any future results or performance expressed or implied by those statements.

These risks and uncertainties include the risk factors disclosed by ION from time to time in our filings with the SEC, including in our Annual Report on Form 10-K and our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Furthermore, as we start this call, please refer to the disclosure regarding forward-looking statements incorporated in our press release issued yesterday, and please note that the contents of our conference call this morning are covered by these statements.

I'll now turn the call over to Brian Hanson, who will begin on slide four.

Thanks, Karen, and good morning, everyone.

As we expected our first quarter was another challenging one. Yesterday, we reported a net loss of $35 million or $3.30 per share on revenues of $23 million. That compares to an adjusted net loss of $52 million or $4.70 per share on revenues of $41 million in the first quarter of 2015. While disappointing, our results were not surprising.

We expected our first quarter to be our weakest. We've all weathered a tough revenue quarter, the significant shifts in commodity pricing toward the end of last year, many oil and gas companies are only now finalizing their budgets for the year and are assessing the impact of the recent increase in oil prices.

Despite the lower revenues, our 2015 cost reduction initiatives allowed us to consume only $8 million in cash during the quarter compared to $29 million in the first quarter of last year. This quarter, we generated $2.5 million in cash from operations versus using $6.7 million from operations in the first quarter of 2015.

In April, we implemented additional cost reduction initiatives further reducing our workforce by over 12%. While decisions like this are extremely difficult, we believe these steps were needed to streamline our organization and to right size our company while at the same time maintaining our core capabilities and progressing our strategic initiatives. These reductions will produce approximately $15 million in annualized savings, an estimated $9 million in 2016 on top of the $80 million in savings from our initiatives last year.

On a positive note, as we announced Tuesday, we are about to begin mobilizing our ocean bottom vessels and crew to conduct an OBS survey offshore Nigeria. A binding letter of commitment for the project has been issued by an international oil company and we expect the contract to be finalized within the next few weeks.

We expect to begin acquiring data in late June or early July and to complete full demobilization by late in the third quarter. Our technology is well suited for additional opportunities in Nigeria and West Africa, and we continue to pursue active tenders and leaves for projects in the area. We remain optimistic about our ability to keep the crew deployed upon completion of this project.

All parts of our business continue to be hampered by the industry downturn. Our data processing revenues were light in the quarter, but we have closed a significant data processing master contract for the large national oil company and expect our data processing revenues to increase through the remainder of the year as we receive sales orders under it.

Also, similar to last year, we expect our new venture and data library revenues to be stronger in the second half of the year. Our first quarter Systems and Software segment revenues were indicative of the low capacity utilization among our installed base of equipment and the vessels utilizing our command and control software.

As we announced on March 10, we acquired Global Dynamics Incorporated, an Ontario-based company that designs and develops marine towing systems and equipment, including their proprietary SailWing technology. SailWing configurations can be employed to optimize towed source arrays and augment towed streamer deployment systems, yielding significantly less drag, faster towing, improved fuel efficiency, and safer operations through their flexible and smaller footprint.

As a result, seismic contractors using our SailWing technology should be able to acquire surveys faster and at lower costs. We will leverage SailWing technology to develop and sell commercial products for both source control and streamer deployment optimization to contractors in the Towed Streamer segment, and we will commercialize SailWings for our own exclusive use in the OBS space.

And finally, in late April, we completed our bond exchange offer, retiring $26 million in principal value of our $175 million high-yield bonds, using $15 million of our cash. We issued $121 million of new notes, extending the maturity date to Decrease 15, 2021, with the interest rate increasing by 1% to 9.125%. We are very pleased with the success of the exchange offer and the support we received from our bond holders.

Almost 84% of our bond holders participated in the exchange. The exchange provides us with flexibility and additional liquidity to execute our strategic and operating plans in 2016 and in the years to come. This is a positive step toward aligning the business to the current market environment and positioning the business for the future.

As part of the exchange offer, we issued just over 1.2 million shares of common stock to exchanging bond holders. We utilized about 500,000 treasury shares toward the total shares issued. These treasury shares included the 450,00 shares we recently repurchased that, when netted against the 1.2 million shares issued, results in a net effective dilution of only 6.8% of our currently outstanding shares.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Steve to walk us through the financials, then I'll come back to wrap this up.

Thanks, Brian. Good morning, everyone.

Our first and second quarter revenues are typically our lowest as customers are generally slow to set and approve their annual budgets. This was especially true in Q1 as our customers continued to be impacted by the volatility in commodity prices. Our first quarter revenues were down 44% year-over-year. All of our segments experienced a significant decline in revenues with Solutions down 31%, Software down 51% and Systems down to 58%.

We did not report any revenues in our Ocean Bottom Services segment as our vessels remained idle during the quarter. Regarding our Ocean Bottom Services segment under our new project award in Nigeria, we will be mobilizing our vessels to the survey site during the second quarter.

Acquisition is scheduled to begin late June or early July, and we expect the bulk of the project revenues to be recognized in the third quarter. Despite the significant drop in our revenues, our 2015 cost reduction initiatives enabled us to reduce our operating loss for the first quarter to $30 million compared to an adjusted operating loss of $45 million a year ago. We were able to reduce our net loss to $35 million compared to an adjusted net loss of $52 million one year ago.

Our EBITDA in the first quarter of 2016 was a negative $17 million compared to a negative $38 million in the first quarter of 2015. Despite extremely low revenues, we used only $8 million of cash in the first quarter of 2016 compared to $29 million in first quarter of 2015 and had positive cash flow from operations for the second consecutive quarter. A little over half of the cash used in Q1 was associated with financing activities.

On March 31, our total liquidity was $103 million, consisting of $77 million in cash and $26 million available on our revolving credit facility. We had no borrowings under our $40 million credit facility, but experienced a decrease in the amount available under the facility due to the decline in eligible receivables included in the borrowing base calculation. We would expect that as our revenues increase in the back half of the year, we would see an increase in availability to the facility's maximum capacity.

As part of the debt exchange, we used $15 million of cash to retire approximately $26 million of high-yield bonds in the second quarter plus the exchange approximately $149 million of high-yield bonds remain outstanding with $121 million maturing in December 2021 and $28 million maturing under the original terms in May 2018. We expect our interest expense on our bonds to decrease by almost $1 million annually as a 1% increase in the industry rate on the new bonds is more than offset by the bonds retired.

With that, I'll turn it back to Brian.

Thanks, Steve.

This continues to be a tough operating environment, but unlike the first quarter of 2015, when we are navigating through a great deal of uncertainty, the picture has become clearer. We are managing cash and our first quarter results were in line with our expectations. Although we've had a slow start to the year, we are pleased to be putting our OBS crew back to work and [indiscernible] (10:40) completed our financial restructurings.

We managed to bring our costs down to be in line with our lower revenue streams. We expect our second half to be stronger than the first with the addition of Ocean Bottom revenues, improved data processing revenues and the typical effect of year-end driving data library sales. As is typical, our first quarter is among our weakest and we're already seeing significant improvement in the second quarter as budgets are being set.

With the quarter behind us, we believe that we have bottomed and expect our business to significantly improve sequentially for the rest of the year. We also believe our current liquidity coupled with our operational and financial restructurings will enable us to continue to weather this deep economic storm.

With that, we'll turn it back to the operator for Q&A.

Thank you. We'll now be conducting a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from [indiscernible] (12:12) from Evercore ISI.

Hey, Brian and Steve. How are you guys doing?

Hey, good morning, [ph] Blake (12:20).

Hey, I'm stepping in for James West. He's in Houston doing OTC, but I just have a few questions for you guys. First of all, I wanted to congratulate you guys on the exchange offer and also just highlight the SailWing technology that you guys have acquired as a result of Global, I mean tangentially just coming from the oilfield myself, I can definitely appreciate the acquisition, the synergies that you guys are going to grab there.

But my question relates to OBS revenue and if you can just offer a little more color on to the extent of the revenue bump that you're going get from OBS here in the second half.

Yes, I think the – it's a little difficult to answer the question, [ph] Blake (13:04) just because it's one customer, one job and everybody else that competes with us is listening to this call. But I would directionally say to you that if you looked at when our OBS crew was working in 2014, approximately nine months of that year and backed into say this is probably about four months with the work you can directionally get an appreciation for the amount of revenue that it represents.

Got it. Okay. So, basically just taking the – I guess the proportion of revenue from OBS in that quarter is a pretty good guesstimate at this point.

It's a pretty good estimate.

Okay. Good deal. That's all I have; appreciate the time.

Thanks, [ph] Blake (13:55). [Operator Instructions]

Our next question comes from Phyllis Camara from Pax World Funds.

Hi. How are you? And congratulations also on getting the exchange done. Quick question on the master contract that you said you closed. I'm assuming this is the same contract that you have talked about [ph] that you're doing (14:34) extending last quarter. Was there any amount of work done under that contractor in the first quarter?

Hi, Phyllis. This is Steve. Yes. It is the same contractor, and we did have a little bit of work in the first quarter and are still waiting on some additional orders under that contract, some [indiscernible] (14:56)

Okay. So, you expect second quarter to actually ramp up more than the first quarter was?

Yes. I would expect that.

Okay, okay. Good. As far as the acquisition on the Global – what was it – Global Dynamics, will that technology be included in the Nigeria contract at all?

Hi, Phyllis. Brian here.

No, the basis for that technology is we need to do some further development on it. We're very close on certain applications on the Ocean Bottom side, and we need to do a little bit more development on the source side, and then the next project after that will be on the streamer side. But it won't be on this particular job in Nigeria.

Okay. Will you have to spend, I assume, some amount of capital to complete that?

Very minimal. Very minimal.

Okay. Okay. And then have you started talking to customers about having or what you hope that the – that this new technology can provide for you? Are you starting to see some interest in that from customers or are they just saying, we don't even really want to talk to you about it until we decide to [indiscernible] (16:26)

No, actually, we have – we typically preview our R&D road map with our customers and solicit their feedback into all of our programs to make sure we're developing what they want. We have previewed this with a number of customers, and the feedback is very positive.

Okay. Okay. Are you starting to see – I mean, everybody is breathing somewhat of a sigh of relief with oil prices and, I guess, [indiscernible] (16:52) made everybody feel a little bit better as well. Are people starting to talk about loosening up CapEx a little bit more than what they were at the beginning of the year? Are they still saying, we're going to wait to see how things go throughout the rest of the year?

Yes. I don't think we see any indications of loosening up CapEx. I think what we're seeing is – what you can expect to see in 2016 is that there'll be probably a greater degree of comfort to end the budgets that they've committed. The budgets will be significantly reduced off 2015. We're looking at 25% or greater. But I think what you'll see is there'll be a certain amount of comfort level to spend those budgets versus if the commodity price dropped again, they may be reticent to actually spend against the budgets.

But I don't think you'll see an expansion of spend beyond those budgets in 2016. I think we need to get through the natural – sort of the natural budgeting cycle late 2016 to see if it drives improvement in spending in 2017. And early indications are that spending should improve in 2017, just the question is how much.

Okay. Okay. And then the last question for me, and I'll let somebody else ask if they want to, on your cost savings, what are we expecting to see – I guess what's kind of the run rate that we could expect to see in either – or is there one – especially in SG&A? I mean, and then also what about R&D and marketing sales are you going to be able to cost cut any more from those two areas or at the limit? Thanks.

Phyllis, I'll answer that a couple of ways. I think we always will evaluate our business and figure out how to scale up and down and manage our cost structure based on the revenue stream. I think the way I'll answer your question is that the cuts that we took in 2015 are pretty much fully in effect right now and were in effect in Q1.

And the $9 million, as Brian mentioned in his remarks, will come on line over the next three quarters. And by the end of Q4, we will be kind of at that $15 million run rate of savings on our cost structure, and those cuts were pretty much throughout the P&L structure.

Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks, Steve.

Thanks, Phyllis.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Ken Funsten from FamCo.

Hi, guys. Just a couple of quick questions following up on the last one; what was the – those 12% of workforce, what was the number of workers there?

Ken, it's Brian. The number was approximately 80 people.

Okay. Can you give an average salary, average-?

No, I can't. The most for – I think the most relevant number to give you is the $15 million annualized expense.

Okay. And that was the day after the Doha conference broke up. Was there any relationship there in your thinking?

No.

Okay. That's it for me for the moment.

You didn't really have any optimism that conference would deliver results; did you?

No, but I wondered about the – your thinking, the day after, if you had the employees all watching it. But I was hard-pressed to think of you giving any other answer than you just gave.

Thanks.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from [ph] Joe Phillips from Clearview Trading (20:57).

Good morning. I wonder if you'd please repeat the comparable period for Ocean Bottom revenues that would correspond to what you expect in Nigeria. I believe you gave a time period to look at, and I didn't catch it.

Yeah, 2014.

Very good. Thank you very much. That's what I needed.

You're welcome.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We appear to have no further questions. I will turn the call back over to Mr. Hanson for closing comments.

Well, thank you for taking the time to attend the conference call, and we look forward to talking to you on our second quarter call.

Thank you. This does conclude today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at this time. Thank you for your participation.