Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Karen Abercrombie — VP-Marketing & Head-Media Relations, ION Geophysical Corp.
R. Brian Hanson — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ION Geophysical Corp.
Michael L. Morrison — VP-Corporate Finance & Financial Systems, ION Geophysical Corp.
Joe Maxa — Analyst, Dougherty & Co. LLC
Christopher A. Bamman — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for standing by. Welcome to the ION Geophysical's Second Quarter Earnings Call. [Operator Instructions] This conference is being recorded, Thursday, August 7, 2014. I would now like to turn the conference over to Karen Abercrombie, Vice President, Corporate Communications. Please, go ahead ma'am.

Thank you, Casey. Good morning, and welcome to ION Geophysical Corporation's second quarter 2014 earnings conference call. We appreciate you joining us today. As indicated on slide two, our hosts today are Brian Hanson, President and Chief Executive Officer and Mike Morrison, Vice President Corporate Finance, who's standing in for our Chief Financial Officer, Greg Heinlein.

Before I turn the call over to them, I've a few items to cover. We'll be using slides to accompany today's call. They're accessible via a link on the Investor Relations page of our website, iongeo.com. There you'll also find a replay of today's call.

Moving on to slide three, information reported on this call speaks only as of today, August 7, 2014, and therefore you're advised that time-sensitive information may no longer be accurate at the time of any replay.

Before we begin, let me remind you that certain statements made during this call may constitute forward-looking statements which are based on our current expectations and include known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which we're unable to predict or control that may cause our actual results or performance to differ materially from any future results or performance expressed or implied by those statements. These risks and uncertainties include the risk factors disclosed by ION from time to time in our filings with the SEC, including in our Annual Report on Form 10-K and on our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.

Furthermore as we start this call, please refer to the disclosure regarding forward-looking statements incorporated in our press release issued yesterday. And please note that the contents of our conference call this morning are covered by those statements.

I'll now turn the call over to Brian who will begin on slide four.

Thanks, Karen. Good morning, everyone. Yesterday, we reported second quarter net income of $1.2 million for diluted earnings per share of about $0.01 on revenues of $121 million. These results include a gain from the sale of our marine source product line, which I'll discuss later in the call.

Our revenues for the second quarter and first half of the year were slightly above our 2013 revenues. In the second quarter, we benefited from revenues contributed by OceanGeo, our ocean bottom seismic acquisition services company on their project in Trinidad and also from record second quarter revenues in our Software segment. Excluding OceanGeo, our second quarter revenues were down year-over-year driven by a significant decline in revenues within our Solutions segment.

Consistent with several of our industry peers, our second quarter results reflect a slowdown in oil and gas company spending on exploration and seismic acquisition. I'll share second quarter operational highlights starting with our Ocean Bottom Services segment, then Mike will cover the financials and I'll wrap up with a look ahead.

I mentioned in previous calls that we are executing our strategy of leveraging our key technologies to provide E&P companies with integrated solutions. Our ocean bottom seismic business is a prime example of that.

In July, we increased our ownership in OceanGeo to 100%. Later in the call, Mike will review the economics of this transaction. OceanGeo contributed $26 million in revenues in the second quarter, but perhaps as important, they are a key component in our vertically integrated holistic OBS offering. Through OceanGeo, we are putting our Calypso technology to work and we're seeing significant pull through opportunities for data processing work as well.

In the second quarter, OceanGeo completed a five-month survey offshore Trinidad for Petrotrin on time, on budget and with no QHSE incidents. In May, OceanGeo was awarded a contract by a major European oil and gas company to acquire a 3D ocean bottom seismic survey offshore West Africa. This award is in keeping with our strategy of deploying OceanGeo's crew into the West African region where they are engaged in the sizeable tender activity.

Unlike what we're seeing in the towed streamer side of the business, the ocean bottom seismic market is strong. OBS acquisition services' expenditures have grown by over 400% since 2006 and we anticipate continued growth driven by several factors including the need for superior data for production seismic and licensed field management, improving economics for OBS techniques and the need to acquire high quality seismic in heavily congested production fields where OBS is often the only choice.

There are currently an estimated $2.3 billion in unawarded OBS projects around the world, with high concentrations of activity in West Africa, Brazil and the Far East. Since April 1, $137 million in new OBS projects were identified, $481 million of new contracts were awarded and $273 million in identified projects moved into the tender process. OceanGeo is actively pursuing tenders for work that would occur through 2015 and into 2016.

Our second quarter Solutions side net revenues were $63 million, down 29% year-over-year. We gained traction on a number of programs in the second quarter. In early May, we mentioned we had completed the first phase of our WestraliaSPAN program off Australia's Northwest shelf and we're planning Phase 2. In the second quarter, we completed Phase 2, providing ultra-deep imaging in the varied geologies within this highly perspective region.

During the second quarter, we also kicked off two new programs, a 7,000 kilometer survey of the Comoros Islands, adding to our extensive East Africa portfolio and we commenced acquisition of a new 4,000 square kilometers 3D multi-client survey offshore Ireland. We continue to take advantage of a soft contractor market to utilize available vessels to meet client needs, when underwriting is adequate.

We continue to maintain our high standards for underwriting new projects. Whereas some of our peers have reduced the requirements for underwriting, some to as low as 50% or less, we are limiting our exposure to 30%, holding off on moving forward with programs that are less than 70% underwritten either by oil company clients or through partnerships with contractors such as Polarcus or both.

Despite the reduced level of new venture activity in the first half, we sanctioned a number of programs that will be executed in the second half of the year, and are starting to see improvements in our new ventures program pipeline.

Based on our level of activity in the first half, we are revising our guidance on our full year new ventures investments to spend $70 million to $90 million, down approximately $20 million from our earlier guidance. Our data processing revenues for the first half of the year were up 3% over the first half of last year. However, we have seen a slowdown in the second quarter in our data processing business, consistent with the decline in exploration spending, and therefore, the need for processing.

Based on our current backlog, we expect our data processing business to remain soft for the remainder of 2014 with our data processing revenues in the second half of the year predicted to be flat compared to second half 2013. We've already taken early action to reduce our data processing cost structure during this period.

Despite the softening in the processing market, we are seeing some uptake of our new Full Waveform Inversion technology on a worldwide basis including large projects for several major oil companies. We are using this technology to derive high fidelity earth models to deliver better images and help our clients reduced subsurface risks.

Our Software business had another nice quarter, up 25% from the second quarter of last year, a result of strong Orca and Gator licensing. In addition to maintaining solid penetration of our traditional Tier 1 contractor customer base, we are penetrating the second tier contractor base as well.

Our second quarter Systems segment sales were $22 million, down slightly from the second quarter of last year. Our spares and replacement business for our positioning line remain solid. Our new positioning product sales are soft given the weakness and excess capacity in the contractor market.

Consistent with our strategy of focusing our Systems' R&D efforts on ocean bottom seismic acquisition technologies which we are putting to work in a service model through OceanGeo, in May we sold our marine source product line to Mitcham. Through this transaction, we were able to monetize these non-strategic assets over their book value. Our Systems division personnel are focused on ensuring Calypso is optimally performing on OceanGeo surveys. Amidst the slowdown, we are managing the business conservatively focusing on cash flow generation, while steadfastly executing our strategy.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Mike.

Thanks, Brian. Good morning, everyone. Overall, our second quarter revenues were $121 million, a slight increase over second quarter 2013. This increase was due to revenues contributed by OceanGeo, along with the second quarter record revenue by our Software segment. However, these increases were primarily offset by the reduction in revenues within our Solutions segment.

Our consolidated gross margins increased to 31% compared to 30% in second quarter 2013, but our operating margins were down to 3% compared to 6% last year. This decrease in operating margins was driven primarily by the decline in data processing revenues within our Solutions business.

Our adjusted EBITDA for the second quarter was up 6%, primarily due to the gain from the source product line sale. Overall, we reported net income of $1 million, or $0.01 earnings per share, compared to a net loss of $71 million, or $0.45 per share during the second quarter 2013.

As Brian mentioned, our second quarter results include a non-reocurring gain on the sale of our source product line. Also, our second quarter results last year included a charge related to the WesternGeco legal matter. Excluding these special items, our second quarter 2014 adjusted net income was a loss of $5 million or $0.03 per share compared to adjusted net income of $400,000 or breakeven to earnings per share in second quarter 2013.

Turning to slide 11. Our second quarter Solutions segment revenues were $63 million, down significantly from second quarter 2013, a result of the continued softness in exploration spending by E&P customers. Within the Solutions segment, new venture revenues were $25 million, down 24% from second quarter 2013; data library revenues were $14 million, down 37%; and data processing revenues were $24 million, down 30%.

Due to these revenue declines, Solutions had an operating loss of $1 million or negative 2% operating margin, down from $11 million or 12% operating margin in second quarter 2013. This decrease in operating profit and margins was primarily driven by a decline in our multi-client business and Western Hemisphere data processing revenues.

As Brian mentioned, we have focused a great deal on our processing cost structure and have reduced our annualized data processing costs by $5 million to $8 million, which should begin to realize starting in the third quarter of this year.

Turning to slide 12. Our Software segment achieved its best second quarter sales, as revenues increased 25% compared to the second quarter of 2013. This record was primarily led by increases in Orca and Gator licensing revenues.

While we have not closed any next generation software deals with customers, we continue to have good interactions as we build out our E&P software product line. Our Software segment operating profit was $6 million or 53% operating margin, compared to $5 million or a 59% operating margin in second quarter 2013. This decrease in operating margin was due to an increase in research and development for our next generation software products.

Moving to slide 13, Systems segment revenues were $22 million, a decline of 6%. This year-over-year decrease was due to reduced new marine positioning system sales that were partially offset by an increase in repair and replacement revenues. The weakness in our new positioning product sales is consistent with other areas of our business reflecting the overcapacity in the marine contractor market.

Systems operating profit increased to $4 million or 16% operating margin, compared to $2 million or 6% operating margin for second quarter 2013. This increase in our Systems operating margin was primarily due to our cost reductions we took last year.

Turning to slide 14. Ocean Bottom Services segment revenues were $26 million, related to work performed on OceanGeo's five month project in Trinidad completed at the end of May. In June, OceanGeo began mobilizing for its next project offshore West Africa, and began acquiring that in July.

Ocean Bottom Services' operating profit was $6 million or 25% operating margin. Looking ahead into the third quarter, OBS should generate positive operating results with this awarded project taking us into the fourth quarter. We are actively engaged in the discussions for additional contracts to complete fourth quarter's utilization.

As Brian mentioned, we increased our ownership in OceanGeo to 100% acquiring the remaining 30% from Georadar. As part of this purchase, we paid Georadar $6 million of cash and agreed to pay an additional $5 million, contingent in part upon OceanGeo being awarded a future significant project in 2014.

Since early 2013, we've invested a total of $41 million in OceanGeo through a combination of cash purchases, working capital loans and debt forgiveness. As of the closing date of acquiring the final 30% interest, OceanGeo's cash balance totaled approximately $24 million for a net ION investment of $17 million.

Turning to slide 15. INOVA's revenue in their first quarter was $27 million, up 20% from the first quarter 2013. INOVA recorded a net loss of approximately $4 million, of which our 49% share was approximately $1.8 million impacting our second quarter results. Even though revenues increased year-over-year, overall the land equipment business is also experiencing soft spending and pricing with contractors including reduced purchases by BGP INOVA's majority owner.

For INOVA's second quarter, we estimate revenues to be in the range of approximately $9 million to $11 million, a $50 million decrease from their second quarter 2013. We expect INOVA to report a second quarter operating loss in the range of $11 million to $12 million, which will impact our third quarter results.

Turning to slide 16. As of June 30, our cash balance stood at $158 million. During the quarter, we paid down the full outstanding balance of $50 million on our revolving line. We generated $14 million of free cash flow attributable to the source product line sale and excluding the repayment on our revolver, we generated $10 million of net cash flow during the quarter.

Turning to slide 17. At June 30, we have full availability under our $175 million credit facility. Our net debt decreased $11 million to $33 million, down from $44 million at March 31. This decline in our net debt was due to continued collections during the quarter, along with proceeds from the source product line sale. We continue to scrutinize every decision in this soft environment with a focus to building cash liquidity.

With that, I'll turn it back to Brian.

Thanks, Mike. To reiterate what we said in the first quarter, this industry wide slowdown in exploration spending, especially among the larger E&P companies we have traditionally comprised our core customer base, continues to impact our business, most likely throughout the remainder of this year and into 2015.

Historically, if E&P companies have had discretionary funds, they would allocate them to acquiring data sets in the fourth quarter, but we are less optimistic that this will occur again this year. As we've mentioned over the last two quarters, we have seen a broadening in our customer base for our multi-client programs. We're cautiously hopeful that the pause in spending by the large oil companies will be mitigated to some effect by an increase in spending by NOCs and independents like we saw at the end of 2013.

Having said that, we are managing the business for an extended slowdown lasting through 2015. Despite another slow start to the year similar to 2013, we've gotten good traction on some key 2D programs in E&P hotspots around the world, including in Australia's Northwest Shelf, Offshore East Africa and in Latin America.

We are now actively participating in the 3D multi-client space with our program in the Porcupine Basin in Ireland. Our new Full Waveform Inversion techniques are garnering significant interest among major oil and gas companies, despite the softness in the data processing market.

And we are fully committed to the growing OBS market through OceanGeo, the acquisition services component of our holistic OBS offering. While our multi-client offering such as our BasinSPAN library have traditionally been skewed to the earlier exploration phase of E&P lifecycle, OBS is typically used later in the development and production phases. We are excited that through our OBS solution, we are diversifying our portfolio to have more balance throughout the E&P lifecycle.

With that, I'll turn the call back over to the operator for Q&A.

Thank you. We will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Joe Maxa with Dougherty & Company.

Good morning.

Good morning, Joe.

Hi. You talk about managing the business for an extended slowdown which obviously makes sense. Can you give us a little more color on potential additional cost cuttings? And I'm also curious if you have or are thinking about divesting INOVA. That seems to be a drag as well.

No Joe, as far as additional cost cuttings, I can tell you that we, as you followed it through 2013 and earlier of 2014 on the processing side, we pretty much have already restructured our business units. So no, I see no need for additional restructurings or cost cuttings. I think we tightened the belt. We hunkered down very early on. We saw the storm brewing somewhere in the late second quarter, early third quarter of 2013.

So we've already prepared ourselves to weather it out. So I see it less as a cost cutting and more just very conservative business decision making. So we're not going to take unnecessary risk. We would, in normal high growth times, we'd take a little more risk in our business, but we're not going to do that through the slowdown. So our heads are down and we're very conservatively reviewing our decision making and we're not taking risk and we're managing the business for cash.

Right. And on OceanGeo, I know you talked about a lot of opportunities out there. How is it looking for the fourth quarter? Do you think you'll be able to land a project to keep that crew active, and if not, what should we be thinking about as far as idling costs related to the crew?

Yes, actually business development activity is going very well, Joe, and I'm optimistic that not only will we secure work in the fourth quarter for the fourth quarter, but that with there's a high probability we'll secure work in the fourth quarter that will take us well into 2015. So I'm not as concerned on the ocean bottom side with business development activities right now, as I am around execution and we are in the stage where we're at the commercialization stage of Calypso. And as you cut your teeth on all new products, there's always problems and always challenges. So I think there's risk in the fourth quarter with OceanGeo and in the financial performance of it, I think it's more around effectively executing around our technology than it is around business development.

So lastly around Calypso, should we anticipate you replacing the older system or is this again still just kind of a partial perhaps or, and then Calypso on perhaps a second crew as you gain, if it goes that direction?

Yes, our plans right now are to augment the equipment that's on the crew right now with Calypso. So today, what we're going to do is increase the capacity of equipment by adding additional Calypso arrays. And then over time what we're going to do is we're going to, in a methodical way, we're going to manufacture Calypso arrays and replace the DSO arrays on that crew, and then ultimately we'll focus on production for crew two.

Got it. Thanks a lot. [Operator Instructions]

We'll take our next question from Chris Bamman with Sidoti & Company.

Good morning, gentlemen.

Good morning.

It's been no secret that exploration spending has been soft. You guys have talked about it in the past. However, has it become worse or slower than perhaps you expected? Are you perhaps and maybe losing market share? Can you maybe talk a little bit about that dynamic?

Yes sure. Well, I would say that it's probably slowed down faster on the exploration side than anybody in the industry would expected it was going to. So all of our peer groups, if you're watching our peers' results too, they're experiencing the exact same slowdown. It happened fairly quickly.

So a couple of observations. One is on our processing side, we saw the slowdown hit in Q2 at a rate faster than we've never seen it hit before, although it feels pretty much like we bottomed out on that. The other thing I can tell you is if you took the results of our processing business or a third-party processing business and you line it up over top of PGS' we have the exact same performance, so meaning that, we're not seeing a shift in market share at all. It's just that E&P spending is down and estimated 17% over prior year.

I should say exploration spending is down 17% over prior year. So those areas of our business that are highly exposed to the exploration side of the equation have seen that softness. And as such, that's why we said we think the back half of the year of data processing business will be flat in 2013. Now equal and opposite to that, the production side is not necessarily experiencing that same slowdown and so that's why we're seeing so much activity on the ocean bottom side of our business.

Okay, that's helpful. Thank you. And just a one more thing. I believe you said you're limiting your exposure to 30%. Does that imply that the most you would underwrite in a project is 30%?

Yes, precisely.

Has that – I think when I last spoke to Greg, I thought it was like around 25%. Is it just really – I mean have you lowered the bar a little bit just to try and capture business?

No, I think the way that – we have changed our approach a little bit. So the way we would have historically done it is we'd look at the exposure on a portfolio basis, Chris. So if we had a couple of projects in the portfolio that were over-performing, then we would take more risk on a couple in the portfolio that were underperforming. And in general, that portfolio we ran at a 25% underwriting level.

What we're doing this year, which I think is much more conservative is we're looking at each individual project and each project has to – cannot have any more exposure than 30%. So as that project goes into the portfolio and if it over-performs, then that blended exposure reduces, does that make sense?

Yes, it does. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

And there are no further questions at this time. Please go ahead.

All right. Well, thank you for taking the time to attend our conference call. And we look forward to talking to you during our third quarter call.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the ION Geophysical's second quarter earnings conference call. If you'd like to listen to a replay of today's conference, please dial toll free 1-888-203-1112 or toll 719-457-0820. The conference center would like to thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.