corrected transcript


ION Geophysical Corp.
 
IO
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
May 5, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the


ION Geophysical First Quarter Earnings Conference Call. During today’s presentation all parties


will be in a listen-only mode. This conference is being recorded today Thursday, May 5th, 2011.


I would now like to turn the conference over to Jack Lascar. Please go ahead, sir.


Jack Lascar, Partner, IR Counsel, DRG&L


Thank you, Tadeo. Good morning and welcome to ION Geophysical Corporation’s first quarter


earnings conference call. We appreciate you joining us today. Your hosts today are Bob Peebler,


Chief Executive Officer and Brian Hanson, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.


Before I turn the call over to management, I have a few items to cover.


If you would like to be on our e-mail distribution list to receive future news releases or experience a


technical problem and didn’t receive your news release yesterday, please call DRG&L at 713-529-


6600 and let us know. If you would like to listen to a replay of today’s call, it is available via webcast


by going to the Investor Relations section of the Company’s website at www.iongeo.com, or via a


recorded instant replay until May the 19th. The information was provided in yesterday’s earnings


release.


I should also point out that we will be using some PowerPoint slides to accompany today’s call.


They’re accessible via a link on the homepage of ION’s website at www.iongeo.com. Information


reported on this call speaks only as of today, May 5th, 2011, and therefore, you’re advised that time


sensitive information may no longer be accurate as of the time of any replay.


Before we begin, let me remind you that certain statements made by management during this call


may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation


Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on management’s current


expectations and include known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which


the company is unable to predict or control, but may cause the company’s actual results or


performance, to differ materially from any future results or performance expressed or implied by


those statements.


These risks and uncertainties include the risk factors, disclosed by the Company from time to time


in its filings with the SEC including in its Annual Report on Form 10-K and its quarterly report on 10-


Q. Furthermore, as we start this call please refer to the statement regarding forward-looking


statements incorporated in our press release issued yesterday and please note that the contents of


our conference call this morning are covered by these statements. I will now turn the call over to


Bob Peebler.


Robert P. Peebler, Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Jack, and good morning. We’re pleased with our first quarter results which usually are


seasonally the weakest of each year. As we always remind people, our business is normally


skewed to the back half of the year and 2011 will likely be a very similar pattern as 2010. The


reasons for this are the shape of oil company exploration spending, which almost always


accelerates as the year progresses, the timing of known large scale system sales and the shape of


the new venture program activity this year.


That being said, we did get to off to a strong start for 2011 in both our marine and multi-client


businesses, which more than offset the slower than usual start for data processing business and


the impact of the turmoil in the Middle East on a geophone sales activity. What was most


impressive was the strength of our multi-client business, especially considering that we had little
corrected transcript


ION Geophysical Corp.
 
IO
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
May 5, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


new venture activity in the first quarter compared to our full year 2011 capital program of over $120


million.


I think this is a good indicator of the wind at our back that I spoke to at our last earnings call as we


are seeing exploration budgets increasing as oil prices are hovering well above what is in the most


company oil company price decks.


We have a significant number of multi-client new venture projects that are under development with


many of these projects scheduled to the second half of the year. We did have one project to Libya


that was scheduled for the second quarter, which was canceled, where we have significant


opportunities to replace it later in the year. Our Marcellus shale land multi-client project has been


delayed due to weather with permitting and shot-hole drilling is still in progress, and with shooting


now expected to begin by the end of this month. We’re also expecting other shale projects that we


have commissioned to start later this year.


We anticipated a slow start in 2011 in our data processing business due to the Macondo blowout


and resulting impact on our pipeline of business for Houston center. As a reminder, we saw a 20%


reduction in our backlog specific to the Gulf of Mexico in the third quarter of last year compared to


year end 2009, and it was late 2010 before we started seeing the recovery. The good news is we


are now seeing our sales pipeline accelerating, so we expect a good year for data processing with


pre-Macondo momentum being restored in the back half of the year.


One very bright spot for ION’s data processing business during the first quarter was a recent


opening of a joint venture processing center in Rio de Janeiro. The center will be equipped with


state of art GXT processing technology and is ideally suited to meet the needs of the rapidly


growing Brazilian energy industry as it delivers a broad range of advanced seismic processing


services for land, marine, ocean bottom cable and transition zone data with initial emphasis on 3D


marine.


The first marketing target will be complex pre-salt in the offshore. This business with local content


including Brazilian Geoscientist is well positioned for rapid growth in its exciting exploration frontier.


The only true disappointment in the first quarter was our sensor geophone business where we had


two multi-million dollar orders put on an indefinite hold due to the turmoil in Libya. We also had


another large Iraq field that closed but the actual shipping was delayed due to some timing issues


with the contracted customer.


Our [ph] center (6:06) group is also in the middle of the manufacturing transition into China, where


we expect to benefit from significantly reduced costs putting us in a more competitive position with


a strong brand and improved future pricing. Our marine group continues to grow and penetrate new


markets, thanks to our positioning technology including DigiBIRD, DigiSTREAMER and Orca,


increasing activity from our marine contracted customers.


We’re still expecting to book the revenue for the 12-streamer sale to BGP in the second half of the


year, likely in the fourth quarter which further contributes to our back-end loaded view of our


business this year. Most of our contracted customers are reporting increase in bid activity, although


they still are not seeing price returning to the pre-crash days. This is likely the outcome of new


capacity that is coming into the market with expectations in the market will improve as exploration


spending increases and activity in the Gulf of Mexico picks back up.


INOVA’s business continues to slowly improve year-over-year, but the rate of improvement has


likely been impacted by the Libyan issues and a negative impact on BGP, which had several crews


operating in Libya that are now shut down. We don’t yet know the extent of the impact on the


INOVA business if any, but it’s a variable that was not anticipated. INOVA is on schedule with the


BGP directed R&D programs and we’ll be making some interesting technology announcements at


the European Trade Show this spring that will be field tested with BGP later in the year.