Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Rachel White — Vice President, Marketing & Communications, ION Geophysical Corp.
R. Brian Hanson — President and Chief Executive Officer, ION Geophysical Corp.
Steven Bate — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, ION Geophysical Corp.
Bradley M. Kane — Vice President & Assistant Portfolio Manager, Osterweis Capital Management, Inc.
Scott Smallman — Senior Vice President, Wedbush Morgan Securities
David Lee Steinberg — Managing Partner, DLS Capital Management LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Greetings, and welcome to the ION Geophysical Fourth Quarter 2016 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Ms. Rachel White, Vice President, Corporate Communications for ION Geophysical. Thank you. Ms. White, you may now begin.

Thank you, Manny. Good morning, and welcome to ION's fourth quarter 2016 earnings conference call. We appreciate your joining us today.

As indicated on slide 2, our hosts today are Brian Hanson, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Steve Bate, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.

Before I turn the call over to them, I have a few items to cover. We'll be using slides to accompany today's call. They are accessible via a link on the Investor Relations page of our Website, iongeo.com. There you will also find a replay of today's call.

Moving on to slide 3, information reported on this call speaks only as of today, February 9, 2017 and therefore you are advised that time-sensitive information may no longer be accurate at the time of any replay. Before we begin, let me remind you that certain statements made during this call may constitute forward-looking statements which are based on our current expectations and include known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which we are unable to predict or control that may cause our actual results or performance to differ materially from any future results or performance expressed or implied by those statements.

These risks and uncertainties include the risk factors disclosed by ION from time to time in our filings with the SEC including in our Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.

Furthermore, as we start this call, please refer to the disclosure regarding forward-looking statements incorporated in our press release issued yesterday. And please note that the contents of our conference call this morning are covered by these statements.

I'll now turn the call over to Brian who will begin on slide four.

Thanks, Rachel. Good morning, everyone. Yesterday, we reported fourth quarter net loss of $6 million or $0.55 per share on revenues of $35 million. Our revenues were down 54% from the fourth quarter of 2015. Excluding special items, we reported an adjusted net loss of $12 million or $0.99 per share compared to a net loss of $6 million or $0.51 per share in fourth quarter 2015.

One important point I'd like to make is that we have strong sales of our 3D multi-client Campeche reimaging program during the quarter. However, since our program is still in progress with final date of delivery scheduled for 2017, we increased our backlog instead of recognizing revenue during the quarter. If we had been able to recognize those sales, we would have had positive earnings for the quarter.

For the full year 2016, we reported revenues of $173 million, down 22% from 2015. Our net loss was $65 million or $5.71 per share compared to an adjusted net loss of $119 million or $10.83 per share in 2015.

Another positive point that Steve will provide more details on in a moment, is that during the quarter, we generated $16 million in cash flows, excluding the patent litigation payment we made to WesternGeco and repayments we made under our revolving credit facility.

For the full year of 2016, the business generated breakeven cash flows after excluding the patent litigation payment and the cash we used on our second quarter bond exchange. The fact that we were able to cash flow breakeven for the year demonstrates that we have right-sized our business to reflect 2016 market conditions and indicates that we would expect to be cash flow breakeven at revenues of approximately $175 million.

As anticipated, 2016 was another challenging year for us and our industry. Oil prices remained low and E&P spending declined approximately 22% from 2015 levels. While the revenue we recognized during the fourth quarter was below our expectations, we closed a significant amount of new deals related to our 3D multi-client Campeche reimaging program in partnership with Schlumberger.

Because the program is still in progress with final date of delivery scheduled for 2017, we were unable to recognize all the revenue in the fourth quarter, so we ended up increasing our backlog for 2017 revenue recognition. Our multi-client new venture programs and data processing backlog increased $15 million to $34 million at year-end, up from $19 million at year-end 2015. This increase in backlog should translate to higher new venture revenues in the first quarter 2017 compared to the first quarter 2016.

In our E&P Technology & Services segment, all businesses continued to be impacted by the slowdown in exploration spending. However, a bright spot has been our 3D multi-client Campeche reimaging program. We continued to receive very positive customer feedback on the unprecedented turnaround time and significant imaging improvement we made in both subsalt and above-salt imaging. Our Imaging Services group remains close to being fully utilized with a large portion of our capacity dedicated to these higher potential projects.

Our E&P Operations Optimization segment continues to be hampered by extremely low utilization levels and day rates among our contractor customers. However, during this period of reduced activity, we have now successfully completed 22 deployments of our simultaneous offshore operations management software, Marlin, and we continued to receive great client feedback about it.

In our Ocean Bottom Services segment, we continue to actively pursue multiple tenders for long-term work, while our crew and vessels remained cold-stacked to minimize costs. We anticipate significant improvement in the OBS market for 2017, and believe, we are well-positioned for our crew to go back to work this year.

The Nigerian OBS project last year demonstrated our ability to quickly ramp up the crew, flawlessly execute the program and generate significant amounts of cash.

With that, I'll turn it over to Steve to walk us through the financials then I'll wrap up before taking questions.

Thanks, Brian. Good morning, everyone. Our total fourth quarter revenues were down 54% from the fourth quarter of 2015. Revenue in our E&P Technology & Services segment decreased 60%, and revenue in our E&P Operations Optimization segment decreased 29%.

Similar to the fourth of 2015, our Ocean Bottom Services segment had no revenues as we completed our Nigerian survey in the third quarter of 2016. The decrease in our E&P Technology & Services segment was the result of the slowdown in exploration spending and revenue recognition deferral associated with the majority of our multi-client sales in the fourth quarter.

As Brian mentioned, we closed a significant amount of transactions related to our Campeche reimaging program, substantially increasing our backlog at the end of the year. The decrease in our E&P Operations Optimization segment was the result of reduced seismic contractor activity.

Our loss from operations was $8 million during the fourth quarter of 2016, compared to an operating loss of $400,000 in the fourth quarter of 2015. This operating loss in the fourth quarter of 2016 was driven by the significant decline in revenues, but was partially offset by the $95 million in annualized cost reductions we implemented over the last two years.

Our adjusted EBITDA for the fourth quarter was $7 million, compared to $18 million last year. Even though our adjusted EBITDA was down from one year ago, considering our low level of revenues during the quarter, we are pleased that our adjusted EBITDA remained positive, which once again reflects that we are now fully benefiting from our prior cost cutting initiatives.

We consumed $10 million of cash during the quarter, which was in large part driven by a $21 million payment to WesternGeco regarding our patent litigation and $5 million of repayments under our revolving credit facility. After excluding these two items, we generated positive cash flows of $16 million during the quarter, compared to a consumption of cash of $3 million in the fourth quarter of 2015.

For the full year, we consumed $32 million of cash, which included the $21 million litigation payment, a $22 million payment we made during the second quarter related to our bond exchange and $10 million of net borrowings under our revolving credit facility. Excluding these items, we were cash flow breakeven for the full year, compared to a consumption of cash of $89 million for the full year of 2015. Our cash balance, excluding borrowings under our credit facility at December 31, [ph] was (09:09) $43 million.

As a result of our bond exchange during the year, we reduced our debt by approximately 20%, down from $183 million to $149 million at the end of the year, excluding our revolver. We were also able to extend the maturity on $121 million of our bonds by three-and-a-half years to the end of 2021.

As announced in December, we initiated an at-the-market equity program under which we may issue on sale from time-to-time, shares of our common stock, based on certain conservative criteria established by the company. The ATM Program [ph] to gross (09:48) up to $20 million over time and was initiated to allow us to be better positioned to capitalize on opportunities such as acquiring complimentary distressed assets, further deleveraging to buying back bonds at discounted rates or other value-added transactions. The program has been in place for over a month. And as of today, we have not sold any of our common stock under the program. If we do sell stock under the program, it will be done in a manner designed to minimize significant dilution or downward pricing pressure.

The program is in place to give us the ability to be opportunistic if opportunities that require additional capital present themselves and we expect the program to be active for multiple quarters before reaching the $20 million program cap. This program was not put in place to issue a large volume of equity quickly pressuring our stock price and we may ultimately not raise any capital under this program.

With that, I'll turn it back to Brian.

Thanks, Steve. 2016 was a tough year, but we've navigated it successfully. We've been proactive, disciplined and creative regarding our balance sheet management. We believe we have right-sized our business and that our current liquidity, coupled with our operational and financial restructurings, will enable us to weather the severe industry downturn.

We believe that E&P industry reached the bottom of the cycle during 2016, as we are starting to see leading indicators of recovery, supply and demand are coming into balance, stabilizing oil prices [ph] in (11:17) E&P company balance sheets.

Most analysts are suggesting a modest increase in E&P spending this year. However, we expect growth in seismic expanding, the lag behind some segments of the oil and gas sector, especially offshore marine activity, which remains our primary focus.

That said, tenders have already started picking up in the OBS market and we are seeing renewed interest in underwriting, new venture programs, for the first time in two years. We believe 2017 will be a transition year for ION as the market starts to recover later in the year. And as usual, believe the first half, will be softer than the back half.

Due to our past right-sizing initiatives, we should be able to run our business through 2017 and position ourselves for recovering our area of the industry in 2018. We've been able to maintain our capabilities, our workforce and our R&D programs and we are actively positioning ourselves to take full advantage of a more normal 2018.

With that, I'll turn it back to the operator for Q&A.

Thank you. We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from [ph] Robert Jones of Simple & Partners (12:52). Please go ahead.

Good morning, Brian and Steve.

Good morning.

Good morning.

Could you guys broadly talk about the current OBS environment? And what I'm trying to get at is, how competitive are the tenders, just a sense of generating cash flow for the company should you win one of those tenders?

Yeah. I can say that, first, overall – overreaching comment I would make is that, a number of the projects that had already gone to tender or were to go to tender for execution in 2015 and 2016, were pushed out. And what we're seeing is, a number of those being awarded or being retendered, most projects will be executed in 2017 and 2018. So, we're actually seeing quite a robust OBS marketplace at this particular point in time.

The second comment I'd make is, not all OBS projects are created equal. They're not all the same. So, depending on the operating conditions you're working in, you know, one competitor's equipment may be particularly suited for – versus another. So, there are particular areas in the world that we're extremely competitive because of the way we shoot OBS with our particular technology. And so, those projects – we're pretty disciplined about the ones we bid on. We don't bid on all tenders. And, the ones that we do bid on, we feel that we're very competitive and there're actually very good jobs when it comes to cash generation.

Okay. That's helpful. Thanks, guys.

Thank you. Our next question is from Bradley Kane of Osterweis Capital Management. Please go ahead.

Thank you. With the $21 million payment now in WesternGeco, where does that leave you guys with the lawsuit?

A little bit of an unusual order by the judge. He really didn't enter a judgment in. And so, the case is still at the trial court level. We're waiting for hearings to proceed. So, it's still active. So, that wasn't a final judgment. It was just a very strange order from the judge for us to pay $21 million of royalties to WesternGeco. So, we're still engaged with it.

Okay. So, you still have potential liability, or is it.

I mean the case is certainly not over.

What do you think next steps are – timing?

Probably, the next step is for the judge is to hold another hearing. And then he'll ultimately decide on the issue that was [ph] remain aback – (15:44) from the Supreme Court to the appellate court, which was to evaluate whether under our new standard [ph] we were willful (15:52) in the case. And if that's the case, he could apply further damages. If he applies further damages, I would expect then that it would appeal and we'll go back to the federal appellate court and then depending on the outcome of that, it would probably be appealed to the Supreme Court and then it would – you know, so, the long – sort of the long answer or the short answer is, this thing could be wrapped up in litigation for quite a while.

I think the only course of action that would draw conclusion to this case in the short term would be for the parties to come to some kind of a settlement agreement.

And was – if I remember correctly, the – when you've got the original or when WesternGeco got the original word, how that reduced – it was reduced down to around $21 million, wasn't it?

Correct.

Okay. All right. Thanks.

You're welcome.

Thank you. The next question is from Scott Smallman of Wedbush. Please go ahead.

Good morning, guys. Couple of questions. First of all, in terms of the joint venture that you're doing with Schlumberger, what do you guys bring that Schlumberger couldn't do themselves?

I think the first thing to recognize that when you're working at a limited marketplace, there's a lot more collaboration that goes on between companies. And so, you're not just seeing ION working with Schlumberger. You're seeing all sorts of collaboration with the competitors that typically go head to head. And in this particular case, what we're bringing to the party is, we're bringing our reimaging expertise. So, we're actually doing the processing on the data and Schlumberger is bringing their business development skill-set. So, they're on the frontlines marketing the data.

Second question is, you recorded a cash figure for the end of the year and the end of the quarter. What do you have to have in cash just to run the business day-to-day?

That's a good question and I'm not sure that I can give you an exact answer. I can tell you that during the financial crisis of 2009, we were running the business on less than $10 million.

So that might be a minimum level?

Yeah.

And then, I guess, the related question is, you still have debt outstanding that's due in just over a year. Is there a definite plan in place yet for dealing with that shorter-term portion of the remaining debt?

Yeah. That debt matures in about 17 months, I believe, and we have several options we're considering for it.

Would that include issuing new debt of some kind?

Possibly.

Okay. Those are my questions. Thank you.

Thanks.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] The next question is from David Steinberg of DLS Capital. Please go ahead.

Hey, guys. Good job managing through difficult period. The other questions were answered to through – from the other analysts that had asked questions. So, thank you very much.

Appreciated it, David.

Thanks, David.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We have no further questions at this time. I'd like to turn the conference back over to management for closing remarks.

Well, thank you for taking the time to attend our call. And we look forward to talking to you on our next call.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at this time. And thank you for your participation.