raw transcript


Input/Output, Inc.
 
IO
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 10, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Input/Output Third Quarter


Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Following today's


presentation, instructions will be given for the question-and-answer session. If anyone needs


assistance at any time during the conference, please press the star followed by the zero. As a


reminder, this conference is being recorded today, Thursday, November 10, 2005. I would now like


to turn the conference over to Mr. Jack Lascar, please go ahead sir.


Jack Lascar, IR


Thank you, Jamie. And good morning everyone, and welcome to the Input/Output conference call.


We appreciate your joining us today. Your hosts today are Bob Peebler, President and Chief


Executive Officer; and Mike Kirsey, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.


Before I turn the call over to management, I have a few items to go over. If you would like to be on


an e-mail distribution, or fax list to receive future news releases, or experience a technical problem


and did not receive yours yesterday, please call DRG&E, and provide us with that information. That


number is 713-529-6600. If you would like to listen to a replay of today's call, it is available via


webcast by going to the Investor Relations section of the company's website, at www.i-o.com, or


via recorded instant replay until November 17. The information was provided in yesterday's


earnings release.


Information reported on this call speaks only as of today, November 10, 2005, and therefore, you're


advised that time sensitive information may no longer be accurate as of the time of any replay.


Before we begin, let me remind you that certain statements made by management during this call


may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation


Reform Act of 1995. All statements regarding the company's expected future financial position,


segment sales, results of operation, cash flow, funds from operations, financing plans, gross


margin, business strategies, budgets, projected costs and expenses, capital expenditures,


competitive position, product offerings, technology development, access to capital, and growth


opportunities are forward-looking statements.


These forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations, and includes


known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which the company is unable to


predict or control that may cause the company's actual results or performance to materially differ


from any future results or performance expressed or implied by those statements. This risk and


uncertainties include the risk factors disclosed by the company from time to time in its filings with


the SEC, including its annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended 2004, and on Form 10-Q for


the third quarter of 2005. Furthermore, as we start this call, please also refer to the statement


regarding forward-looking statements incorporated in our press release issued yesterday, and


please note that the contents of our conference call this morning are covered by those statements.


As this is the week of NPG Shows here in Houston, and there are so many new things going on


within the industry regarding product in the market. Mike will cover the financial first, and then Bob


will cover all the market and product detail. I am sorry, Mike.
raw transcript


Input/Output, Inc.
 
IO
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 10, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Michael Kirsey, EVP & CFO


Thanks Jack and thanks everyone for joining us. Looking at the third quarter results in our press


release we've generated 82.7 million in revenues compared to 80.9 million in the third quarter last


year and 84 million in the second quarter of this year. When you realize that the third quarter of


2004 includes $11 million of VectorSeis Ocean sales and this year none, you can see the improving


conditions. Considering the third quarter as usually the weakest of most of our business this level of


revenues further strengthens our view of our improving markets. It was especially frustrating to


decide the deferred 7.3 million of revenue or $0.05 per share to comply with what we believe the


SEC position is regarding the revenue recognition rules. I like to give you some details.


One of two contracting question representing 80% of the total is with the customer who had our


proposal and contract for a data library sale and communicated their acceptance of our offer, in the


last week of September via e-mail. We shipped the data and invoice. When the completed paper


work arrived in our office, the contract was dated Monday October 3, and the customer signature


dated October 5. Our lawyer concluded we had a binding agreement in September and just to a


follow up with the customer they verified, it was their understanding to be a September transaction,


but administrative absences delayed the paperwork. In fact, we have already been paid the majority


of the invoice. In compensation with our auditor they advised that it was their experience in today's


environment, the SEC would not approve of revenue recognition in the third quarter with these


facts. The deferred revenue is reflected on our September 30 balance sheet and will be included in


our operating results in Q4, quite disappointing but only temporary. So, enough of that story.


Turning to our operations, our entire land group both Sensor and the land systems unit have


revenues of 38.8 million compared to 38.4 million a year ago. The Sensor Geophone business was


down 1.9 million year-over-year because of a single large lower margin order last year. However


the profitability of the Sensor Geophone group in the third quarter this year reached new heights.


We now have VectorSeis full wave – System Four systems in the hands of 25 tractor worldwide


including the shipments scheduled for Q4. The growth margins in our Land group were 20%


compared to 22% last year reflecting the continued cost reduction challenges and the price


competitions, while introducing new technology and penetrating new markets. There was also


some effects of a lower margin sales mix. Cost and growth margins are our prime areas of focus,


as a ceding 30% growth profit in our land systems unit, we have added $0.05 per share.


In the Marine business, sales were 16.3 million compared to 19.1 million a year ago. Last year's Q3


results included 11 million of the first VectorSeis Ocean sales. This quarter does not include any


VectorSeis Ocean sales as our forecast plan calls for BSO revenues in the last quarter of this year.


This is continued evidence of an improving towed streamer marine market. As the marine fleets


worldwide increases in size and in utilization, we are starting to see more opportunities for revenue


growth throughout this year and next. Gross margins in the Marine group were 42% compared to


29% last year, a material improvement and another example of the strong Marine markets including


a positive mix of our Digi product lines.


Our Concept Systems data management software business had revenues of 4.7 million. They


continue to be highly respected in the field of navigation, positioning and 4-D. They performed


above plan for the quarter. Our Seismic Imaging Solutions group, which includes GXC, had a good


quarter with revenues of 22.8 million compared to 18.6 million last year. GXC performance showed


steady progress. As I noted earlier, we deferred recognizing revenue of 7.3 million of $0.05 per


share. The impact of the deferral decision on overall gross margins of the company was three


points. The impact on operating income was 4.3 million and the impact on EBITDA was 4.7 million.


The group reported gross margins of 26% in the third quarter, which is a major improvement from


the 23% we reported in the second quarter or the 12% we reported in last year's third quarter. As


we mentioned previously, a higher level of processing business improves the margins nicely. The


backlog of processing project continued to grow during the third quarter. The processing back


levels that should sustain attractive operating results in this portion of GXT. Today the processing