Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Rachel White — Vice President-Investor Relations & Strategy Execution, ION Geophysical Corp.
Christopher Theron Usher — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ION Geophysical Corp.
Michael L. Morrison — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, ION Geophysical Corp.
Jeffrey Campbell — Analyst, Alliance Global Partners
Joe Beninati — Analyst, Oppenheimer & Co., Inc.
Sameer Joshi — Analyst, H. C. Wainwright & Co. LLC
Amit Dayal — Analyst, H.C. Wainwright & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Greetings and welcome to the ION Geophysical First Quarter Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded.

It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Rachel White, Vice President, Investor Relations. Thank you. You may begin.

Good morning and welcome to ION's first quarter 2021 earnings conference call. We appreciate you joining us today. As indicated on slide 2, our host today are Chris Usher, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Mike Morrison, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. We'll be using slides to accompany today's call which are accessible via link on our website, iongeo.com. There, you will also find a replay of today's call.

Before we begin, let me remind you that certain statements made during this call may constitute forward-looking statements. These statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those detailed in our latest 10-K and other SEC filings which may cause our results or performance to differ materially from those projected in these statements.

Our remarks today may also include non-GAAP financial measures. Additional details regarding these non-GAAP financial measures, including reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, can be found in our earnings release issued yesterday.

I'll now turn the call over to Chris who will begin on slide 4.

Thank you, Rachel. Good morning, everyone, and thanks again for joining us today. During today's call, I'll discuss our first quarter performance, market outlook and strategy execution progress. Mike will then review our financial results and successful bond restructuring, after which I will close with our roadmap for long-term profitable growth, including promising new energy transition, sustainability and digitalization strategies for today's rapidly changing market.

While we expect that the E&P market would remain challenging in the near term, our first quarter results were weaker than expected due to lower multi-client data sales. Many of our clients were restructuring their organizations and finalizing their budgets late into the quarter which delayed commercial discussions and negatively impacted data sales. This hiatus exacerbated the typical low sales and EBITDA seasonality associated with our first quarter and increased the gap from last year's unusually strong first quarter results where we booked a large 2019 year-end carryover deal.

Looking forward, we are encouraged that backlog grew for the third consecutive quarter to levels nearly 50% higher than a year ago, benefiting from our strategic decision to participate in the new 3D acquisition multi-client market. I am extremely pleased with the successful transformation of our capital structure, the result of creativity alignment and support across our stakeholder groups. Our restructured balance sheet strengthens our platform for strategy execution to reshape our core data business, accelerate our software growth and diversify our offerings. Mike will elaborate on these transactions shortly.

Shifting to the market outlook, analyst projections and client activity continue to suggest increasing E&P spend in demand for seismic data in the second half of the year. Spurred by increasing global demand and ongoing crude oil production limits Brent pricing, which is most relevant to ION's internationally focused business, has rebounded to pre-pandemic levels.

E&P spending is now expected to recover some stability over the next couple of years linked to higher sustained oil prices in the range of $55 to $65 a barrel. In addition, we have seen positive momentum across a number of leading indicators for our business such as license rounds, tender activity, services and engagements and backlog. We remain cautiously optimistic that market conditions will improve through the back half of 2021.

In our E&P Technology & Services business, our multi-client revenues were significantly lower sequentially primarily due to reduced volume of data library sales. Its silver lining is that the majority of deals in our pipeline remain active following an increasing pace of customer data reviews of available products and work in progress through the quarter. Disappointingly, the pace of the procurement process did not catch up with the end-user interest by quarter-end.

Backlog, a leading indicator of the trajectory of our business, continued to grow with our entry into the 3D new acquisition multi-client market. We are looking forward to starting the second major phase of our Mid North Sea High 3D survey later this month. At six times the size of 2020's first phase, this season's second phase will be significantly more accretive to earnings.

During the last quarter, we garnered additional industry support for the program and signed a contract with Shearwater for the data acquisition. A field campaign is expected to occur from late May to October with final product scheduled for mid-2022. Based on our Phase 1 fast-track results, we expect to provide around 11,000 square kilometers of unprecedented subsurface image quality that provides new insights over a promising underexplored section of the UK Continental Shelf. Infrastructure-led exploration can deliver faster time to first oil and higher returns in our Mid North Sea High program as close to shore-based infrastructure where the relatively low cost of development makes it attractive for existing players and new entrants.

During a challenging period of uncertainty, our team has remained focused on our change in product mix, earned industry credibility and cultivated a robust pipeline of new 3D program opportunities. This quarter's exclusive agreement we announced for 3D development rights offshore Kenya is just one example. Importantly, this portfolio pivot towards 3D, which initially commenced through 3D reimaging, will shift our new product investment closer to the reservoir where customers spend tends to be more consistent and programs have larger scale revenue and earnings potential.

Since commercializing Gemini in September, E&P companies have specified our innovative extended frequency source in a number of tenders. During the first quarter, Gemini was deployed on its first proprietary survey, a 90-day project for a Super Major operating in the Middle East. Gemini performed extraordinarily well as exhibited by the extension we received that nearly doubled the duration and area of the survey. The survey extension is a significant vote of confidence by the Super Major, validating the technology's commercial readiness, data quality and operational and environmental benefits.

In response to the industry demand, we are quadrupling Gemini's current capacity for programs we're targeting this summer and seeking regulatory approval in additional jurisdictions. This cost effective yet important ingredient for improving subsurface characterization differentiates ION as we expand into the 3D multi-client market, while maintaining our asset-light approach. We continue to commit the majority of ION's imaging capacity to distinguish our multi-client offerings, such as the eight library programs underway during the quarter.

And while deploying the balance of resources on challenging propriety projects that help maintain our top tier capabilities, last quarter I described how algorithmic advances and artificial intelligence enhanced client decision making and led to several umbrella contracts that helped to de-risk our 2021 revenue plan. With an eye to increasing backlog, we are pleased to have landed another multiyear umbrella contract with an E&P major. We are now in discussions on specific project commitments under this umbrella, which is another leading indicator of improving market conditions.

Our Operations Optimization group, which primarily caters to acquisition contractors, had relatively consistent revenue sequentially. The multiyear command and control subscriptions and routine equipment spares and repairs business provides a level of stability for this business segment. Encouragingly, seismic tender activity is increasing and postponed 2020 projects are resuming. During the quarter, we had three remote services engagements of ION Anywhere, a sign of increasing client endorsement of this new business model.

Our market diversification strategy to optimize decision making in new maritime markets across software and devices is progressing well. In our software group, we continue to gain traction around our Marlin platform through trials and tenders. Marlin links vessel plans and schedules to live offshore activities providing greater control and transparency in the management of offshore operations.

Following on from the tender award we announced last earnings call, we collaborated with CalMac to successfully deploy Marlin SmartPort across their port and ferry terminals in Q1. CalMac Ferries is the UK's largest ferry operator, managing 29 routes over 50 destinations across 200 miles of Scotland's west coast. We now add their very positive feedback to the growing client consensus around our port digitalization value proposition.

During the second half of 2020, we gained significant insights from the proof of concept trials across both ports and port-to-platform logistics segments. Our team is focused on identifying and optimizing the most costly aspects of our clients' offshore operations and have added these valuable new requirements common across a number of Marlin opportunities to our product roadmap. For example, this quarter, we deployed advanced dashboard analytics that enhance decision-making processes.

Our largest development effort is to analyze planned versus actual vessel schedules, identifying opportunities for clients to minimize fuel consumption, decrease emissions and operate with just-in-time efficiency. We are optimistic about accelerating adoption given the range of valuable use cases uncovered through these deployments.

Between trials and tenders, we are building a robust pipeline of prospects across maritime energy logistics and port operations and believe we can convert a healthy portion of these opportunities to revenue in 2021. As part of our crossing the chasm efforts, we added regional business development coverage in North America with the addition of a seasoned port logistics resource and have leveraged US Department of Commerce support for Marlin in emerging markets. This being touted as climate smart digital infrastructure for the recently announced U.S. Trade and Development Agency efforts around the world.

Over the years, the geophysical industry has made numerous advances in sensing technologies and field deployment methods that have significantly improved data acquisition. However, until recently seismic force technologies evolved more slowly, ION's industry-leading source capabilities now address increasingly important industry requirements, such as environmental considerations, enhanced low frequency content, flexible tow configurations and improved positioning accuracy.

In addition to the Gemini source extension I mentioned earlier, our Devices group received a SailWing lease extension for smart and efficient source towing. Recent automated source and vessel steering enhancements using artificial intelligence further increased 4D repeatability. Due to strong in-field performance and oil company interest, the system will be in use throughout the summer. We are in discussions for continued engagement with the aforementioned SailWing client for deployment through 2022.

The current wave of our Devices diversification strategy is to develop real-time monitoring solutions that improve the safety and environmental compliance of offshore oil and gas operations. WellAlert leverages our core competencies, targets a growing market associated with sustainability and aligns with our strategy to provide decision support, data and analytics. Subsea infrastructure is typically inspected only periodically via costly ROV operations. Clients are seeking advancements in technology to cost effectively shift from reactive to proactive systems that provide more frequent accurate measurements to assure safe operating environments.

Our solution integrates sensing and communications technologies to monitor temporarily plugged and abandoned wells through our energy company commercial outreach seeking funding for sea trials, we captured a range of further use cases for WellAlert, including carbon capture and monitoring. During the quarter, we also continued to make advancements in both the hardware and software of our prototype.

With that, I'll turn it over to Mike to walk us through the financials and then I will wrap up before taking questions.

Thanks, Chris. Good morning, everyone. Our first quarter revenues of $14 million, declined 49% sequentially and 75% year-on-year. As Chris mentioned, the prior-period comparison is compounded by a large data library deal we closed a year ago. Adjusted EBITDA was a negative $7 million compared to a positive $1 million sequentially. The over $40 million of cost savings achieved in 2020 remain intact.

E&P Technology & Services segment revenues of $7 million decreased by 64% sequentially primarily due to lower multi-client data sales from a lengthy E&P budgeting process this year and subdued spending levels. Operations Optimization segment revenues of $7 million, declined 8% sequentially due to the COVID-19-related slowdown in offshore seismic activity and associated demand for services and equipment.

Importantly, backlog increased for the third consecutive quarter, driven by continued client investment in our Mid North Sea High program. Backlog which consist of commitments for multi-client programs and proprietary imaging and reservoir services work was $21 million at quarter-end and 9% higher sequentially and 47% higher versus last year. We expect to recognize the majority of backlog as revenues during the second and third quarters as our Mid North Sea High program progresses [ph] this summer (12:45).

As a result of our low revenues, we expected to consume cash during the quarter. Our cash balance was $34 million at quarter-end, including $21 million we drew on our revolver last March. Our total liquidity defined as a combination of our cash balance in the available borrowing capacity under revolving credit facility was $40 million.

We're very pleased with the positive outcome of three important capital market transactions this year. In February, we raised $10 million in net proceeds from a registered direct offering where we issued nearly 3 million shares at $3.50 per share. In April, we successfully completed our bond restructuring and concurrent Rights Offering. Approximately 94% of the existing notes due in December 2021 were exchanged for new notes due in December 2025 and other consideration in form of cash and stock.

The deal extended our bond maturity four years with a lower 8% interest rate and has the convertible feature that provides a path to convert nearly all the debt to equity as we execute our strategy over the coming years. The holders of the new notes may convert any portion of their notes at any time prior to the maturity date at a conversion price of $3 per share.

ION has a right 18 months post issuance to convert all or part of the outstanding new notes if the stock has a 20-day trading average of $5.25 per share. In the concurrent Rights Offering, shareholders exercised subscription rights totaling $42 million out of a maximum $50 million to purchase either new notes or common stock.

In total, approximately $116 million of new notes and 11 million shares of common stock were issued through the Exchange Offer and Rights Offering. In April, we received approximately $14 million in net proceeds from the transactions after deducting noteholder obligation, transaction fees and interest paid on the old notes.

After these restructuring transactions, only $7 million of old notes remain outstanding and due in December 2021. While we may explore additional funding options in the future to meet ongoing cash needs, we believe the completion of the restructuring transactions removes a substantial doubt about the company's ability to continue as a going concern raised last quarter.

With that, I'll turn it back to Chris.

Thanks, Mike. While we expect the market will remain challenging in the near term, there have been a number of positive developments which we highlighted throughout the call that point to improving market conditions in the back half of the year. In addition, offshore E&P and seismic market projections were revised upwards by industry analysts in the last quarter. These macro indicators and our increased backlog combine to support a cautiously optimistic view of an improving market landscape in the second half of the year.

Throughout 2020, we re-crafted ION's platform for growth. We now plan to capitalize on the modest market tailwind with a refocused strategy, reduced cost structure, realigned executive team and most recently transformed capital structure. With the latter, we can focus exclusively on executing our refined asset-light strategy to drive long-term profitable growth. We are concentrating on building backlog from existing offerings while accelerating technology adoption in promising new markets.

Both business segments are making progress with clear strategies to penetrate much larger addressable markets. This summer second phase of our Mid North Sea High program is a hallmark of our 3D new acquisition multi-client market entry strategy and we look forward to launching further related programs as funding coalesces.

We described increasing traction on a global basis around our maturing Marlin platform through trials, tenders and broader government initiatives. The smooth rollout of our newest Marlin SmartPort offerings to most of CalMac's ports in the first quarter further highlights the ease of use and scalability of the solution. We embarked on a diversification strategy several years ago to develop new offerings that capitalize on ION's proven competencies and leadership in our core markets, while selectively addressing new markets in energy and beyond that address maritime needs associated with the energy transition, sustainability and digitalization.

Maturing new businesses takes time. And although many of these themes have been amplified and accelerated during the pandemic, ION has been walking this road for some time and beginning to see the fruits of our labor. This quarter, we stepped up our research at the intersection of ION's geoscience capacity and the emerging needs of the energy transition such as CO2 storage and monitoring to explore and incubate the most promising opportunities. Overall, we expect that our provision of well-designed, high-quality seismic data will be sought out by energy clients throughout the energy transition as existing customers rebalance their portfolios and new E&P companies fill gaps created by this process.

E&P companies are seeking better investment opportunities, including geographies with lower cost barrels, better fiscal regimes and lower carbon footprint. The offshore energy industry will remain an important market pillar for ION, but we will strengthen the franchise through a concerted participation in other maritime sectors where our technology and competencies unlock new value.

With that, we'll turn it back to the operator for Q&A.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, at this time, we will be conducting a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Jeffrey Campbell with Alliance Global Partners.

Good morning.

Good morning.

I wondered if we could get a little bit more color on the recent Kenya announcement. Since the press release references both new 3D and reimaging, it'd be interesting to know if this is happening concurrently or if it's going to develop in some sort of sequence.

Yeah. Jeff, this is Chris. Thanks for that question. Yeah. We've been working on that deal for some time. It's really good connections in that part of the world. And COVID slowed it down probably about a year. But the idea is – has been and still continues to be to access the public data there, get access to the tapes, which in Africa has been hard during COVID to get the tapes delivered back to our data private cloud in Houston. But, yeah, the plan is to look at the 3D first to really assess where to go next and look at some of the other existing 2D data in [ph] the area (19:09) before we jump in and do a new 3D acquisition there. And that would also depend on customer interest generated from the 3D program and legacy 2D to put a 3D in place there.

So, we have the right. We'd love to do it, but it's not going to happen this year. That's going to be 2022 or beyond before we put a boat in the water there with sufficient client underwriting. And we have plenty of other 3Ds in the pipe that would come online before that.

Okay. Now, that's very good color. Thank you. And you mentioned that it got stalled by the pandemic. My memory is that in the late 2019, [indiscernible] (19:52) was planning to invest in Kenya and I assume I know we're not going to talk about specific names. So, just wondering if we could get a sense of the size and makeup of the producers that might be supporting this effort. I'm thinking NOCs and maybe some EU IOCs, I was wondering if there might be any other so you're aware.

No, exactly. That's the thin complexion. And I think we need to reassess with a whole energy transition. And, however, it's reshaping their portfolios post 2020. It'll be interesting to see who those players tend to be. And that's a great way to test this with a 3D reprocessing, because it's low cost, we take a little bit of risk there. There's a few hundred thousand dollars to kick off a reprocessing job. And see who comes in through that initial phase and that will shape up the interest for the new acquisition. The nice thing with these kind of announcements though is in a very competitive data library landscape, getting some geographic exclusivity to buy time to do it properly and not rush in is really, really helpful.

I'll close with one last question if I may. You mentioned the evolving Marlin port logistics effort and the increased data that you're getting from CalMac. I thought I'd ask if you're seeing any progress with regard to both your and CalMac's desire to expand within the UK.

Yes. And I may have touched on that in a prior meeting in call. Yes. So, basically we just won that tender end of last year. It's turned out to be really easy to drop the software in from the cloud, do remote training with those folks. The port software is really working great. And there is an interest for them. They're very interested in expanding into other parts of the UK, into the Southern UK and to England. And they want to leverage our technology to carry that forward.

So, that's intent, we haven't had a lot of activity on that yet, we just went through the deployment in Q1. And we've only got – I think, we're deployed in 14 of the 17 port and ferry terminals. We still got to get the rest deployed, get those people up to speed and then we're on. But the – and [ph] CalMac is just one, that's nice, just to (22:01) the ferry network as well. And you look around the Baltic, there's lots of similar kind of targets where we're looking at. So – and that's just one use case.

Right. Thank you for the color.

Yeah.

Our next question comes from Colin Rusch with Oppenheimer.

Hey, guys. It's Joe on for Colin this morning. Thanks for taking the questions.

Yeah. [indiscernible] (22:25).

How are you doing? As you look at emerging geographies, what are you most excited about?

Well, good, yeah. It depends on which side of the business. But I'd say, on the data library business, if I picked on, we have a lot of investment in Brazil with all the reprocessing that's going on in a large number of – eight concurrent reimaging programs that we've had in the quarter are in Brazil, different phases of expanding our – the [ph] Kenya (22:55) data product there. But the most exciting one for the ventures side is actually the UK. We've had a lot of processing experience with our London data processing team and the proprietary market for years, but really didn't have a huge focus on multi-client data there and certainly not 3Ds.

So, the Mid North Sea High that we kicked off last year, a small Phase 1 just to garner interest and cover some areas that are actually getting covered by wind farms right now, that initial product is not done. Fast-track was out early, looked great. We've completed the products pretty quickly. And that is phenomenal data in that area.

No one has actually seen quality for that particular geological play. They haven't seen data quality like that from any of the few other surveys around there. Actually, when I was a data processing guy back in the 1990s, I lived in London and worked on data from there and it was just – it was night and day when we saw the products. So, that is creating a lot of interest around the Phase 2 that were launching in a few weeks.

And actually, quite a lot of interest for other 3Ds in our pipeline in the vicinity in that same geological play with different underwriters. So, we may get something else going in that part of the world even this year, extremely exciting. And it's near infrastructure, which is the theme, people can develop that acreage if it's successful pretty economically compared to other areas. So, it ticks all the right boxes and there may even be used for – and as we go to Phase 3 down the road next year, there could be multiuse for the data. There's one customer talking about using the data for CCUS, basically carbon sequestration. So, it's a very interesting area.

On the other side of the house with Marlin penetration, we've been going port-by-port piecemeal kind of targeting, leading off of trials and then converting the trials to do revenue. We do have a bigger one going in East Africa, could be the same country that we talked about with 3D exclusivity. So, that's exciting, but that's actually led to a broader geographical strategy with much more ambitious and scale, which is to really go country by country in Africa, using US Trade Department support and our embassies to get initial discussions going with the countrywide port infrastructure and offshore digital surveillance infrastructure which those countries [ph] solely (25:18) need in Coastal Africa both West and East. And that is a pretty orchestrated program we have underway, which will lead to trials and then port installations and then broader offshore surveillance with Marlin over the years.

So, those could be more on the scale of kind of our ventures programs as they have been in the past. So it could be an exciting time for our whole Marlin portfolio.

That's great color. And then, switching gears a little bit, how are you guys thinking about incremental technology additions to the platform?

We are. What we're trying – what we have been trying to do on the all sides of the house are really leverage our existing competencies to penetrate new markets whether it's going from 2D to 3D in the seismic side or whether that's moving our software into specific markets like ports and offshore logistics and such like.

And on the Devices' side, the WellAlert, I just touched on is actually leveraging a lot of our underwater competencies, but also some third-party stuff that we can integrate quite easily.

And that's an exciting new area for us. And that is starting to leverage other technologies that are out there that we don't develop in-house, but we can integrate with our specific things and build something brand new. And that's a big shift for us to go into ESG focus, sea bottom, oil and gas monitoring, could also be with changing the sniffer out, we could be doing CO2 monitoring very quickly and effectively with that same kind of hardware platform.

So, we're looking at those things, but they're kind of building out sequentially. We haven't looked too hard at things. They're just completely different that would shift our portfolio in other directions. But we do have a technology incubation group that is starting to look at some of those things.

Thanks very much.

Yeah. And I will say just one more thing. I mean Gemini is radically a new technology that ties into our seismic strategy. That has proven to be extremely robust. As I mentioned, it's got really what we have like 400,000 [ph] air gun pop (27:27) from that already in Egypt. Thus, a great track record. Very little downtime, actually lower downtime than some of the traditional air gun arrays, and it's a much more simple device. So, that's something we developed as brand new for the industry. Obviously, seismic source has been out there forever, but this is a new twist on it and it's been very successful out of the gate. [Operator Instructions]

Our next question comes from Sameer Joshi with H. C. Wainwright.

Thanks for taking my questions. Just digging a little bit deeper, I think, on the E&P clients not finalizing their budgets late in the quarter, have you since gotten any visibility or any better, yeah, visibility on your multi-client data sales going forward?

Yeah. I would characterize January as being very quiet. We had a lot of discussions in Q4 which is not unusual. The first month of Q1 was very quiet. So, it was a bit disconcerting. And we always know that happens every year as people finalize their budgets, they push – sometimes push the head well out into the quarter and we don't finalize our budget until kind of the [ph] first third (28:45) of the quarter.

So, that part wasn't as surprising, but then, by February, we started having a lot of discussions with the technical teams and doing a lot of virtual data rooms where we would take people on a tour of our Picanha data or the Mid North Sea High data whatever, which was very – we had a lot of excitement around the quality of our data and the coverage of our data relative to upcoming license rounds.

So, I'd say we had technical buyers that were geared up. And actually things were shifting from, hey, we just need something in this potential acreage here. And then, they would say, but what if we could get all of your data? Once they saw that we had contiguous data for example over most of offshore Brazil, they're like, wow, we didn't realize that.

So, we had these guys saying, well, give us quotes for something of massive scale. So, we got pretty excited around that, but then, it gets bumped to procurement. It's like, well, we're not sure where the budget's coming for that. Is it exploration, is it production, because you're now covering a large part of the country or the geography. So, those things – that's what slowed us. And so, those are still in play and we do still have active discussions around those things.

The bigger thing has been also some of the majors who principally have been traditionally the buyers of our data. I've been going through a lot of restructuring and downsizing up their geoscience groups since the end of last year which are the technical buyers. And some of them have just started the reapplication for reapplying for your job thing that happens every few years. So, there's still some disarray there, but it's really down to company-by-company.

And the NOCs have been more steady. They're not reducing their teams. They're trying to expand into new areas and kind of the vacuum created by some of the IOCs. And some of these new, like in the UK, we have a lot of private equity backed pure exploration companies that are coming in as well along with the majors. So, there's kind of a new class of customers coming up as well.

But they're slower, because they need to make sure they have the private equity funding for the next stage of their growth and all that. So, it's a very complicated landscape, but there's a lot of – certainly, we're now in a part of the year where we're having a lot more active discussions. And the other thing I mentioned in the main script was that since Q4 into Q1, the industry analysts have basically kind of increased their positivity modestly around exploration budgets and spending for the full year.

So – but I do think a lot of that is going to be second half loaded which is – there is always a ramp-up every year from first quarter to final quarter, but this one was just particularly low unfortunately.

Understood. Thanks for that color. Switching gears and maybe how we have discussed this in the past on Marline, but what is the scope of every potential transaction or agreement that you have with these boards? How does it look? Like, are there long-term contracts? If so, what are the size of those contracts? Just a little bit more clarity on that front.

Yeah. They're actually similar to our seismic contracts for software which are multiyear typically and they're paid monthly through a lease payment, so essentially software-as-a-service in that regard. But they're not month to month. They are typically – they're paid month to month. So, it's essentially a long-term lease. They could be anywhere from – from a seismic site anywhere from two to five years.

And we talked a bit about it on the last earnings call. But the Marlin port ones are interesting that so far they've all been like four years. The ports want to kind of contract four, five years with a technology suite that they're – as they go digital, they want to kind of get in, get their technology in place and then define their objectives for advancing it for their particular needs and getting that in our roadmap. So, that has to happen over a year or so as we drop in new features or expand the scope of the offering.

So, yeah, they want to line up as partners in that regard. And I don't think they want to – the ones that have been tendered, they're not going to go out to tender again obviously for a period of time. It's disruptive. But even the ones we've come off of pilots with, they're just like, yeah, we want four years. So, that seems to be the nature of it in the port side.

Got it.

Yeah.

And one last one, on the operating expenses front, I guess is this lower of OpEx tied to lower revenues, because as the year progresses, we are expecting higher traction than OpEx to increase? But even in the first quarter, we're slightly overshooting, we were at that [ph] 12.4%, you came in at 11.1% (33:26). How do you look – how do you see this going forward, these levels of OpEx?

Yeah. No. Good question. This is Mike. So, I'd say, a little bit of it is obviously tied to – [ph] M&S (33:38) is tied to revenues some part. I'd say that is a smaller portion. We, obviously, I would say [indiscernible] (33:47) our lowest level of operating expenses. So, as the year unfolds, as revenues improve, I would think there would be some increase to the sales expenses, but it's not a significant portion of that total OpEx line.

Understood. Thanks for that. I will take other questions offline. Thanks.

Yeah. Thanks, Sameer.

Our next question comes from Amit Dayal with H. C. Wainwright.

Thank you. Hey. Good morning, guys. With respect to... [ph]

Amit, we can't hear you (34:19).

Yeah. Hi, guys. The Devices opportunity that you're pursuing, are these efforts targeted at customers you already have or are these different set of customers? I'm just trying to see if there is some basis for a relationship with some of these potential customers in this effort or is this completely sort of new set of customers you're going after.

Yeah. Amit, that's a good question. So, on the Devices side, in this particular case, yeah, it's a news – it's kind of you're chasing something beyond exploration. This is not even production. This is kind of how are you going to monitor wells that are already done. So, it's more in the regulatory regime and how do you work towards fully decommissioning things and getting rid of their footprint.

So, it's essentially environmental monitoring. But interestingly enough, this opportunity arose out of our normal channels of discussion with a major oil company in South America, where there is a strong regulatory regime already in place and there's existing ROV monitoring required by the operators there both the National Oil Company and all the IOCs that have come in over the years. So, they were seeking a solution and we got involved in that and said, hey, we've got the tools, we've had a crack at it and we've ended up getting into their kind of new technology review for this area and make the shortlist and are working towards sea trials with them. But when we bend on just trying to work out what else do we get going in parallel there so that we can have multiple opportunities to get new trials and to get to revenue on that product and not drag it out with just one customer.

So, we've actually then started targeting, [ph] we have a BD effort (35:57) targeting other E&P companies and working in again through the name – the people we know in the geophysical operations side to get to their – get to the other side of the house with those folks. And we're also talking to regulators as well or industry organizations, for example, in the UK where regulations are coming and with talking to oil and gas association there as well as some of the majors there around what they believe they're going to have to do for compliance in this area or just to do the right thing as part of the business and getting interest there too.

So, we're continuing that outreach. Also, now we just started to outreach leveraging our industry trade association has good connections into Washington. And we've got some direction on where we should go in terms of US regulation for the US Continental Shelf and maybe we can get some government support there as well.

Understood. And in the past, we've sort of highlighted potentially maybe considering M&A opportunity, et cetera, once the debt restructuring was accomplished. Is that still sort of in play for you or is that something you are not really going to focus on right now?

Yeah. So, we keep an eye on that and actually the kind of restructure we did with a focus on innovation and technical incubation also includes looking at partners where there's touch points across both business segments or particularly strategic. So, we're keeping an eye on that. We have a strong focus on partnership that we review the long list of partners and all business lines every quarter with a view that at some point in time, some of those can be flipped over as M&A targets. I think if they proved to be quite complementary to what we're doing, certainly on the software side, we have ideas what we'd like to do to get accretive scale pretty quick.

But I think looking at the numbers you can see with a weak Q1, that's going to mean there's not as much cash flowing into – although we've done, raised the money obviously in Q1 as Mike highlighted through different means, we need to keep an eye on keeping the liquidity right and generating cash flow from operations before we actually would start doing something like that.

But it's something we'd like to do if our quarters improve and cash flow lifts up, we've obviously got a lot more shares outstanding now that we could through the bond restructure and the shareholder vote. We do have more currency there should we want to leverage shares for that purpose as well. So, we'll see how that goes. If something – it's not going to happen this quarter or next quarter just given the shape of things, but we would really like to be doing something like that modestly down the line. Does it make sense?

Yeah. Understood.

Yeah.

And just one last one, I've asked this previously as well. With INOVA, is there any new update in terms of potentially getting this done this year or will this potentially just keep dragging on for you given the bureaucracy?

Yeah. That one is painfully slow. You probably noted, we didn't mention it in the script this time just because there is no movement of note this quarter. Well, actually that's not true. There has been some realignment within our partner's organization there, BGP. There is a new Chairman higher level person involved as the Chair. So we're having good engagement with them so far.

So, I think we're going to be able to have an attempt to get that going faster. Our expectation though still is, by the end of this year. But looking at – we're looking at how do we re-fire that up, there's also a new President of BGP who's also on our board. So, we'll try to have those dialogues more focused so that we can unlock the bureaucratic pieces and get that moving again if the buyer is still interested.

So, yeah, that's pretty much where we are. And suddenly not a, a big amount of movement to report this quarter.

Okay. That's all I have, Chris. Thanks.

Yeah. Thanks, Amit.

There are no further questions in the queue. I'd like to turn the call back over to Chris for any closing remarks.

Yeah. I really appreciate everyone coming on, and the wide range of focus questions we had from the group. So, yeah, thanks for taking your time today. Actually, we'll have a busy, busy earnings call scheduled this week. So, I won't take any more your time. And we look forward to catching up with you next time. All the best.

Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's teleconference. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect at this time and have a wonderful day.