Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Rachel White — Vice President-Investor Relations & Communications, ION Geophysical Corp.
Christopher Theron Usher — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ION Geophysical Corp.
Steven A. Bate — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, ION Geophysical Corp.
Colin W. Rusch — Analyst, Oppenheimer & Co. Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Greetings and welcome to the ION Geophysical's Third Quarter 2019 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions]

As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Rachel White, Vice President of Corporate Communications. Thank you. You may begin.

Thank you, operator. Good morning and welcome to ION's third quarter 2019 earnings conference call. We appreciate your joining us today. As indicated on slide 2, our hosts today are Chris Usher, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Steve Bate, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.

Before I turn the call over to them, I have a few items to cover. We'll be using slides to accompany today's call, which are accessible via link on our website, iongeo.com, where you will also find a replay of today's call.

Before we begin, let me remind you that certain statements made during this call may constitute forward-looking statements. These statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those detailed in our latest 10-K and other SEC filings which may cause our results or performance to differ materially from those projected in these statements. Our remarks today may also include non-GAAP financial measures. Additional details regarding these non-GAAP financial measures, including reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures can be found in our earnings release issued yesterday.

I'll now turn the call over to Chris who will begin on slide 4.

Thank you, Rachel. Good morning, everyone, and thanks again for joining us today. Our third quarter financial performance was an improvement year-on-year; however, we haven't launched the scale of new multi-client programs we had originally anticipated. Against the backdrop of continued fiscal discipline in the E&P sector and limited geographies where serious investment is flowing, our revenues were up 13% year-on-year and 27% sequentially. In fact, all aspects of our business improved. Our adjusted EBITDA of $16 million this quarter was up from $13 million in the prior year. Year-to-date, our revenues were up 25% and our adjusted EBITDA is up over 300% from 2018.

Gross margin is also up from 35% in the prior year to 47% this quarter. Steve will elaborate on our financial results in a few minutes. As I mentioned last quarter and my first earnings call as CEO, my near-term focus for ION is improved execution. We're making tangible progress on a portfolio of growth initiatives and in healthy expanding market segments, while delivering near-term results. We are increasingly focused on where we're investing.

I'll call out a couple of examples we can speak to in each segment. There are exciting opportunities to not only build on ION's traditional data library and imaging strengths, but also to commercialize new technology we've been developing over the last few years and to adapt our cutting-edge capabilities to new markets.

I spoke at length about market dynamics last time. So, I will just quickly reiterate that our E&P outlook is unchanged. We expect continued portfolio rationalization and high grading, as company seek to find the best return on investment opportunities to meet oil and gas demand in the next decade. Near-term, we are seeing positive market signals but anticipate exploration will remain lumpy. Due to more competitive return on investment and payback periods, we're seeing investment flow offshore again which is favorable for our business.

Our third-party Imaging Services business is a decent barometer on the sector and both the number of bids and project duration is growing. Imaging Services revenues are up 70% from last year and backlog remains near its highest levels since 2015. As investment returns offshore, our customers are focusing on higher faster return infrastructure-led exploration that is often in complex geological environments. As a result, we believe these trends support the increased use of seabed seismic as a tool of choice and in a multi-client business model. ION's offerings are now well aligned across our segments to capitalize on this developing industry theme.

In our E&P Technology & Services segment, revenues increased 11% this quarter compared to the third quarter 2018, primarily due to an increase in our Imaging Services revenues. Our multi-client revenues were modestly up year-over-year with a significant portion of third quarter revenues from our Picanha 3D reimaging program offshore Brazil and to a lesser extent from revenues from our North American programs.

Year-to-date, our multi-client revenues are up 29% in North and South American data sales. Brazil has continued to garner considerable attention in investment due to its attractive proven acreage and investor-friendly business environment. Brazil held six license rounds during 2017 and 2018 with their petroleum agency, [ph] the A&P estimates generated $112 million (00:04:44) in new investment.

Oil and gas production in Brazil is up nearly 20% this year, as some of these new projects started coming online. Additional upcoming license rounds later this year, including the highly anticipated Transfer of Rights Surplus Bidding Round, are expected to attract a number of large international E&P companies, a significant investment in data before the end of the year.

Our Picanha 3D multi-client program offshore Brazil is a huge 100,000 square kilometers seamlessly reimaged multi-vintage dataset that many explorers have found valuable and calibrating their exploration and bidding strategies. For the first time since the downturn, we are starting to see more material cover for consolidation in our E&P customer base which not only helps the market dynamics but also creates for us data library transfer fee opportunities, one of which occurred in the quarter. Since our data library is still primarily 2D and globally distributed, we didn't see quite as much of a windfall as our competitors, like concentrated 3D libraries in the Gulf of Mexico.

We were pleased to modestly benefit from this event nonetheless. As expected, we had very focused engagement from E&P clients on targeted exploration programs within specific geographic areas. We believe the new venture program activity will continue to improve, and as we stated in February, we plan to increase the number of new sanctioned programs this year. We have sanctioned eight new multi-client programs so far this year compared to seven for all of 2018. While the quantity improved, the scale and timing of new multi-client programs didn't materialize as we had envisioned at the beginning of the year.

During the quarter, we sanctioned two new 3D multi-client programs. The first is offshore Denmark that we described in detail on the last call. The second is a 3D multi-client program in Argentina's Neuquén Basin. ION is nearly tripling the size of its Vaca Muerta program to 25,000 square kilometers over one of the most prospective unconventional plays in the world, which is estimated to hold 16 billion barrels of recoverable hydrocarbons. The first phase of the program is complete with 25 seamlessly merged 3D datasets comprising a single 9,000 square kilometer depth volume.

The second phase of the program was sanctioned this week and will increase the project size to 25,000 square kilometers by merging an additional 60 surveys and incorporating 150 wells. We also announced and began acquisition on our previously sanctioned program offshore Africa, bringing our data library there to over a 150,000 kilometers. This new industry-supported 2D multi-client program covers the underexplored Namibe Basin offshore Southern Angola. Angola passed several petroleum laws in 2018 to make the legislative and fiscal terms more favorable for investment and to prevent an anticipated decline in oil production. As a result, this basin is garnering significant interest from E&P companies seeking attractive frontier investment opportunities.

The other new program that we're acquiring offshore, the Canada GrandSPAN II, has wrapped up nicely on time and on budget. The data quality is as outstanding as our initial program was.

Moving to Imaging Services, revenues increased 70% compared to the prior quarter. As we mentioned last quarter, Imaging Services backlog at June 30 was at its highest level since 2015 which resulted in the significant increase in revenues during the quarter.

We continue to strategically reserve the majority of our imaging capacity to distinguish our multi-client offerings and to deploy the remaining resources on challenging proprietary projects that keep ION's brand front and center with our customer base.

Highlighting our successful execution of this approach, I am happy to say Imaging Services backlog remains robust, which should lead to a year-over-year increase in Imaging Services revenues during the fourth quarter of 2019.

Our E&P Advisors team has now met with the new Panamanian government multiple times regarding their future energy plans. We presented the policy and economic case for development of Panama's offshore hydrocarbon resources and how such development supports Panama's long-term energy plan, economic goals, and other national interests. A license round is required to attract foreign investment needed to properly develop Panama's oil and gas resources.

To ensure license round success, the government is taking a cautious approach ensuring that they are adequately prepared to host a successful license round, carrying out required due diligence and securing alignment among Ministries. As this process will require additional time, we now anticipate that the earliest the license round will be announced will be late 2020. We are well positioned with our Panama's spend data as and when they move ahead.

I'm excited to share some additional advances we made in the seabed market. One of the few strong growth segments in our space with record level of spend in crews and equipment this year, we are dedicated to advancing Ocean Bottom acquisition to significantly expand the use of superior seabed data to enhance client's reservoir decision-making.

You've heard us talking protocols about a number of asset-light offerings targeting this growing high-value market such as our next-generation Ocean Bottom system, 4Sea, and our Full Waveform Inversion suite of imaging technologies. Building on that toolkit, we are further positioned to differentiate ourselves in this rapidly evolving OBS ecosystem with our recently developed enhanced frequency source. This novel energy source significantly extends low frequencies in the acquired data for improved velocity model estimation, while limiting higher frequencies to a more environmentally friendly range. This key ingredient has been developed in collaboration with an E&P operator and validated during multiple field trials over the last 24 months.

We rolled it out to select clients at SEG, one of our major trade shows in September, and it was extremely well received. These customers were impressed with our rapid development of the solution and commented how well it aligned with their subsurface imaging objectives in their respective portfolio geographies.

We're maturing our portfolio of OBN opportunities and have secured a number of seabed multi-client permits around the world. We are hoping to announce our first 3D OBN multi-client program in the next few quarters and we believe our seabed technology portfolio will be a key ingredient in launching this significant addition to ION's data library portfolio.

In our Operations Optimization segment, revenues were up 19% due to increases in Marlin deployments and marine equipment replacement and repairs. Our Software Group's revenue is up 25% to the highest level since the downturn due to continued strong performance of our Command & Control solutions augmented by record Marlin-related revenues and deployments. I'm very pleased that year-to-date about a third of our Software revenues have risen from recent technology investments and commercialization.

We are seeing growing adoption of our strategy to better link offshore operations to onshore offices. There's an industry-wide desire to shift a number of offshore roles to onshore to reduce risks and costs. We've expanded some of the functionality developed for Marlin and retrofitted that connectivity to our core products such as Orca Command & Control and are pleased to see commercial take-up. We plan similar derivative product enhancement to our core Command & Control software suite which can expand revenues and drive stickiness in our installed base.

Building on the growth in the seabed market mentioned earlier, we commercialized one of the last 4Sea components this quarter. A client initially trialed MESA SimSurvey and very quickly switched to a recurring license, validating the value it's providing. SimSurvey is a multi-scenario simulator for complex seabed operations, including survey costing and project duration estimates. Effectively as a digital twin for operations that enables customers to choose an optimal plan for project execution with the specific operational assets at their disposal.

After a full year of worldwide use, we held an in-depth workshop with a major E&P company who adopted Marlin to monitor global seismic operations from their Houston control room. The software has achieved high corporate visibility after repeatedly demonstrating its ability to prevent multi-million dollar operational shutdowns. Our client championed Marlin's situational awareness and re-planning capabilities that have avoided project curtailment in operational theaters highly congested with floating fisheries debris. We got great feedback listening to the clients' use cases and revealed our next feature enhancements that we believe will provide even more value to them over the coming year.

In the same timeframe, we employed Marlin at the heart of a large [indiscernible] (00:12:30) contract in a congested oilfield where ION Services team leveraging our Marlin software has been indispensable around optimizing seabed seismic operations and several other non-seismic logistics use cases. The key responsibility is to drive alerts around vessel's penetrating sensitive national boundaries adjacent to the project area.

Marlin is designed to be the Operations Optimization platform supporting a number of offshore applications. Ports & Harbors were identified last year as one of the most attractive markets for our technology. Last quarter, I alluded to the large market opportunity for digital transformation offshore. The global freight market is estimated to be over $1 trillion. 90% of goods are transported by sea using 50,000 cargo vessels and over 5,000 shipping ports. The ship tech sector alone is estimated to be over $100 billion. Tier 1 ports have been leading the digital transformation and there's an emerging need for Tier 2 ports to do so as well to compete.

New disruptive technologies such as artificial intelligence, Internet of Things, and Blockchain have the potential to transform port efficiency. It's an exciting opportunity that's just starting to unfold with immense potential. Our Marlin's SmartPort pilot in the UK is progressing nicely. We recently completed a five-year agreement with our Ports & Harbors launch partner in Scotland that now deployed the latest version of Marlin into the ports daily operations. There is early excitement around our digital solution and we are working closely with them and our AWS partners to build out a truly transformational offering for them that we can also take to other ports. It's early days, but this is an exciting milestone on our diversification journey and the fact we've attracted an industrial strength partner like AWS is very encouraging to us.

In the Devices Group of our Operations Optimization segment, revenues were up 14% year-on-year, driven by an increase in towed streamer equipment replacement and repairs. Meanwhile, our Devices team is building out new core seismic capabilities and also adjacent market offerings, and I am pleased to highlight two milestones along that path.

Our first two SailWing systems were deployed commercially in the quarter and are performing above expectations. Seismic surveys are designed in the office and the vessels towing seismic sources are expected to follow a predefined course when they get to the field. Well, the real world always gets in the way of that. Our launch partner advocated positioning the seismic sources using SailWing to predefine navigation objectives in a high-current environment, and it was very successful, so much so that they ended up using our technology and production for the entire job. And the on board client rep recommended using SailWing as the spec for all future jobs with our company and the highly productive crew performance was acknowledged by our customers' CEO.

This validates our strategy of providing technology that drives efficiency in the growing Ocean Bottom marketplace. We've also been working closely with the U.S. Department of Defense to better understand the potential defense applications of our technology stack. In August, we participated in the U.S, Navy's Advanced Naval Technology Exercises or ANTX which demonstrates the potential that emerging maritime technologies can have for the Navy in the near future. I am delighted to share that we work with U.S. Navy groups and industry partners to demonstrate an integrated port security threat detection and mitigation system that we're going to market to the military and ports around the world. Marlin served as the multisystem mission control and decision optimization tool for various threat detection and mitigation scenarios. We were able to track hostile divers and unmanned underwater vehicles and managed real-time mitigation actions in response to operations on incursions, such as SmartNET, ROV interception and shepherding of friendly assets via unmanned service vehicles. The exercises demonstrate ION's strong capability to work with partners and customers on rapid system integration. These are good examples of the sort of capabilities and dual-use technologies that are important as we move to diversify.

With that, I'll turn it over to Steve to walk us through the financials and then I will wrap up before taking questions.

Thanks, Chris. Good morning, everyone. Our total third quarter revenues were up 13% compared to the third quarter of 2018. Revenues in our E&P Technology & Services segment were up 11% and our Operations Optimization segment revenues were up 19%. The increase in revenues within our E&P Technology & Services segment was driven by Imaging Services which reported revenues of $7 million this quarter, an increase of 70%.

As we mentioned on last quarter's earnings call, Imaging Services backlog at June 30 was at its highest level since 2015. As expected, that increase in backlog drove the increase in Imaging Services revenues during the quarter. As of September 30, Imaging Services backlog was slightly down compared to last quarter as the team worked through projects, but remains at a robust level that should lead to a continued increase in year-over-year quarterly revenues in the fourth quarter of 2019.

Our multi-client revenues were $33 million, a modest increase year-over-year with a significant portion of third quarter revenues from our Brazil 3D reimaging program. In our Operations Optimization segment, our Optimization Software & Services revenues were $7 million, a 25% increase from the third quarter of 2018. This was primarily due to increased deployments of and associated engineering services related to our Marlin offshore Operations Optimization software. Our Devices revenues were $6 million, a 14% increase over the third quarter of 2018, driven by continued uptick in equipment replacement and repairs.

Overall, we reported a net loss for the third quarter of $4 million, or $0.26 per share, compared to a net loss of $8 million, or $0.54 per share, in the third quarter of 2018. Excluding special items in both periods, our adjusted net loss was $3 million, or $0.21 per share, compared to an adjusted net loss of $7 million or $0.52 per share in the third quarter of 2018. A detailed reconciliation of the special items in our financial results can be found in the tables of our press release issued yesterday.

Our adjusted EBITDA for the third quarter was $16 million compared to $13 million one year ago. The improvement in our adjusted EBITDA is a result of the revenue increase year-over-year. Our cash balance was $28 million at September 30. Our total liquidity, defined as the combination of our cash balance and the available borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility, remains strong at $65 million. There were no outstanding amounts under our credit facility at the end of the quarter.

With that, I'll turn it back to Chris.

Thanks, Steve. Before I wrap up, I'd like to give an update on our patent litigation with WesternGeco. On August 30, the District Court granted us a new trial to determine what lost profits, if any, WesternGeco is entitled to perform surveys that our customers performed. This was a great outcome for ION. The ruling wiped out a $100 million judgment that has been hanging over our head for the last seven years and I was delighted to be present in the courtroom for this milestone for ION when the judge ruled from the bench in this long-running case.

In the new trial, we will only face exposure for one patent claim instead of five and that remaining claim in our view was the least important for the performance of the surveys. The appellate court also made clear that we are entitled to seek apportionment of any lost profits. The theory behind WesternGeco's lost profits damages was that WesternGeco would have been awarded the foreign surveys but for the infringement and that they would have made $100 million of profits from those surveys.

Apportionment means the lost profits that stem from anything other than that sole remaining patent claim, whether it was data processing, vessel rates, payment of personnel, or the myriad of other factors that a seismic survey encompasses would not be recoverable. That paints a very different landscape than we have faced for the last decade and we are looking forward to making our case.

Okay. Let's shift gears to our outlook for 2019. We still believe 2019 will be an improvement on 2018 subject to fourth quarter E&P spending levels that we anticipate will depend heavily on end of your budgets and company strategies around their success or not in recent license round such as Brazil. I'm pleased with the progress we've made year-to-date executing ION strategy to deliver year-over-year financial improvement and to progress key initiatives that position the company for future success in both core and adjacent markets.

In summary, multi-client sales are up. We've sanctioned eight new survey programs this year and made progress preparing our entry into the multi-client OBN market. We've seen growth in both our Imaging Services and Software businesses. We are continuing to expand and enhance our Marlin software for both E&P and adjacent markets. We've also successfully commercialized several technology offerings we developed over the last few years. I'm looking forward to sharing even more progress next quarter.

With that, we'll turn back to the operator for Q&A.

Thank you. We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of [ph] Andrew McClain (00:21:46) with [indiscernible] (00:21:47) Company. Please proceed with your question.

Hey, Chris, on the OBN progress that you mentioned, can you just help define the timing and the potential revenue and profit from these initiatives.

Sure, yeah, [ph] Andrew (00:22:05), good to have you on the line and you asking some questions.

So, on the OBN front, yeah, I think you're referring to the large-scale 3D OBN [ph] plans (00:22:14) that we have to kind of step us up into a new product offering for our multi-client business. And, yeah, [indiscernible] (00:22:21), as I said in the prepared notes, in the next quarter or two we plan to be able to announce that. These surveys are quite large. They tend to be near infrastructure kind of things and they are – OBN is one of the more expensive types of marine acquisition compared to towed streamer, it's significantly more, but adds tremendous more in terms of the quality of the data. So, this is why the industry is looking at this and it's not just us, it's many of our peers. So, the typical project would be in the $60 million to $80 million range depending on how much acreage you're actually trying to cover and the number of underwriters you're trying to bring into this with the program. And it's – it's maybe not the high level of return we see in our 3D reprocessing, but we're talking about something like a 1.8x to 2.5x kind of return over the life of the project and with a view that we would be pretty highly underwritten coming into these as well. So – and again in the next quarter or two we'd like to be really embarking on one of these.

Does that answer your question, [ph] Andrew (00:23:22)?

Yeah. No, that's great. Thank you.

Our next question comes on line of Colin Rusch with Oppenheimer & Company. Please proceed with your question.

Thanks so much, guys. Can you talk a little bit about the portfolio technology that you have right now. Are there opportunities or needs to augment that as you look out at the landscape of growth over the next, call it three to five years?

Colin, yeah, that's a good question. So, we think we have a pretty appropriate technology stack for stepping out into these – expanding our core market but also stepping out into some of these new markets that we talked about. But clearly, we don't have everything covered in the world of digitalization and digital transformation across the marine industries that we're looking at. There's a whole host of other things. I mentioned some of them like the – all the kind of sensors that are part of the Internet of Things and some of these applications, certainly the Blockchain we don't have capability there, but we are looking at the whole ecosystem in these areas where we're playing like Ports & Harbors and also Offshore Logistics around oilfields. And there are other small players who complement our Marlin platform in those regards and we would certainly look at partnering with them.

We actually are partnering with several smaller companies as we are right now and we're also working with AWS, as I mentioned, this is kind of a platform partner and they've been excellent to work with. Actually I spoke at their E&P Day in Houston earlier, I guess, just Tuesday last week and kind of talked about the road we've been going down in terms of digital transformation and we gave our Port & Harbor (sic) [Ports & Harbors] (00:25:00) example there, but working with AWS as the platform, they're also working with lots of other providers and it's a great way for us to kind of start defining what that ecosystem is and the people that we're going to plug and play with our Marlin solution.

Okay. That's helpful.

And these are typically smaller software companies that might be doing the Blockchain kind of revenue tracking and transaction tracking, where it might be people doing the manpower handling, things like that that we need to plug into Marlin, that we don't necessarily want to develop ourselves.

Okay. That's helpful. And then as you think about the investment cycle, just internally, is there other reallocation of resources towards some of these other opportunities in technology developments, or do you feel like you've got to add some new expertise or invest a little bit more on the R&D side. Obviously, you're optimizing the operations, but just wanted to get a sense of that spend and how target is and where we might see some of it going over the next for a while?

Yeah, it's a great question because we're trying to balance the tension between a pretty lumpy recovery in our core business and the resources we have allocated to that to drive growth as the environment improves, and also to go tackle the new markets which are typically looking healthier than the oil and gas sector. So, ideally we would have – want to go and maybe accelerate some of the developments in those new markets, but given the world we live in and what pays the bills right now we need to be a little bit cautious.

So – but we have added some resources on the Marlin side for Ports & Harbors, for example, we have a dedicated team there and some of that's reallocation of resources from traditional products over into the Ports & Harbors development. We've also found that by working with a partner like Amazon and all the tools they have for development, much more modern tools than the industry, any of the industry saw 10 years ago, we are able to develop new functionality much faster in the cloud environment and cloud-native environment, so that's helping us well. We're getting more bang for our buck or the development resources.

And on the sales side, obviously, as we enter new markets, where we don't know the customers like we do with oil and gas, we are bringing on business development and sales resources that have specific subject matter expertise in Ports & Harbors and Logistics. And that's a modest investment you're talking about, ones and twos as we get traction. We've developed – we demonstrate we're getting value with the customer, like a Ports & Harbors customer and then we add [indiscernible] (00:27:31) resource to start taking that forward into the market.

Okay.

So, it's a modest investment keeping an eye on the bottom line.

That's super helpful. Thanks so much, guys.

Yeah. [Operator Instructions]

Our next question comes the line of [ph] Andrew McLean (00:27:59) with [indiscernible] (00:27:59). Please proceed with your question.

Hey, Chris, one more question I had. You mentioned in your prepared remarks that the Imaging Services, given kind of the backlog, should drive improvement in the fourth quarter year-over-year. As it relates to just kind of activity levels that you're seeing and some of the Brazil exposure that you have, can you talk about the new venture in the data library portion embedded within Technology & Services? Do you anticipate that being up year-over-year in the fourth quarter and maybe you could just discuss just some of the drivers that you see within that new venture in the data library portion?

Sure. Yeah. Well, obviously, the hallmark of our Brazil focus is our Picanha 3D reimaging that I talked about which covers 100,000 square kilometers. Our data processing guys are of course creating that wonderful dataset. And we do think Brazil is going to be the thing that really helps carry the end of the year and I – as I said we're cautiously optimistic about the year-end finishing well. Part of that is due to the fact that we're well positioned in Brazil. Money in the market is flowing into Brazil, tremendous interest from operators there. There's the successful round that just was carried off within the last three weeks. There's two more licensing rounds coming up in November. So, there's a tremendous level of activity and very focused and well-understood activity that the Brazilian government is managing there that is driving this.

So, again well positioned, more licensing rounds coming up, a lot of the people that are going to be bidding in those rounds have already access data and that's driven some of the data sales we had in the current quarter. But there's going to be winners and losers in those rounds and people that have lost are going to have to bear budgets to come in, look at where they go next and they'll still be in the broader Brazilian region [indiscernible] (00:29:50) the South American margins there, [indiscernible] (00:29:53) margins. So, we're well positioned there with our data. And, of course, we always have the end-of-year budget effect, in general, so, yeah, I think we're pretty optimistic about that.

Got it. So, on the existing library side, it sounds like that's pretty well positioned. On the new venture activity front, do you expect that to be an improvement year-over-year?

Well, we already – we're in terms of sales, it's hard to say. I mean we've got – as I already said in the first sentence of the box that we're a little bit disappointed with the level of activity on the new venture side compared to what we wanted to have occur. It's running a little bit better year-on-year in terms of the number of projects started, but as you've probably noticed some of those are reprocessing projects rather than putting vessels in the water on new 2D programs. So, a lot of that's just timing. We've got a project essentially awarded in the Eastern Hemisphere that just hasn't gotten underway due to permitting, we've had [indiscernible] (00:30:53) slowed down. So, it could be modestly better. It's hard to say at the moment.

Okay. Thank you.

Since there are no further questions left in the queue, I would like to turn the call back over to Mr. Chris Usher for any closing remarks.

Yeah. Thank you, everyone, for taking time to attend the conference call. We look forward to speaking to you on our fourth quarter call and we'll see how things turn out compared to some of the things you were asking today. Take care.

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your participation. This does conclude today's teleconference. You may now disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.