corrected transcript


Input/Output, Inc.
 
IO
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 28, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Input/Output First Quarter


Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instruction] A reminder this conference is being recorded


Thursday April 28, 2005. I would now like to turn the conference over to your Mr. Jack Lascar.


Please go ahead sir.


Jack Lascar, Investor Relations


Thank you Jack. Good morning and welcome to the Input/Output conference call. We appreciate


you joining us today. Your hosts today are Bob Peebler, President and Chief Executive Officer and


Mike Kirksey, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Before I turn the call over to


management, I have a few items to go over. If you would like to be on an email distribution or fax


list to receive future news releases or experienced a technical problem and didn’t receive yours


yesterday, please call DRG&E and provide us with that information. That number is 529-6600. If


you would like to listen to a replay of today’s call, it is available via webcast by going to the Investor


Relations section of the company's website at www.i-o.com or via a recorded instant replay until


May 5. To use the replay feature, call area code 303-590-3000 and use the pass code 11028489.


Information reported on this call speaks only as of today, April 28, 2005 and therefore you are


advised that time-sensitive information may no longer be accurate as of the time of any replay.


Before we begin, let me remind you that certain statements made by management during this call


may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation


Reform Act of 1995. All statements regarding the company’s expected future financial position,


segment sales, results of operations, cash flow, funds from operations, financing plans, gross


margins, business strategy, budget, projected costs, and expenses, capital expenditures,


competitive position, product offerings, technology development, access to capital and growth


opportunities are forward-looking statements.


These forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and include


known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which the company is unable to


predict or control, that may cause the company’s actual results or performance to materially differ


from any future results or performance expressed or implied by those statements. These risks and


uncertainties include the risk factors disclosed by the company from time to time in its filings with


the SEC, including its annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004.


Furthermore, as we start this call, please also refer to the statement regarding forward-looking


statements incorporated in our press release issued yesterday, and please note, that the contents


of our conference call this morning are covered by these statements.


Before I turn the call over to Bob Peebler, I would like to invite all of you to the analyst meeting we


will be hosting on May 10 in New York at the New York Palace Hotel. Please call me at 713-529-


6600 if you would like to join us. Bob


Robert Peebler, President, and Chief Executive Officer


Good morning and thank you for joining us. Even though we had a slow start as anticipated, we are


seeing increasing strength in the various business drivers. This is increasing our confidence on the


year as a whole. For example GXT ended 2004 with a lower then expected backlog of processing


business which resulted in significant spare capacity and therefore losses for this part of their
corrected transcript


Input/Output, Inc.
 
IO
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 28, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


business through Q1. Since the end of last year, we have seen their backlog of processing projects


grow by over 400%, entering Q2 with a much stronger book of business going forward.


After a few months of disappointing results, we are finally seeing GXT’s business regain a better


balance between proprietary processing, multi-client surveys and data sales which has positive


implications for improving profitability for GXT as the year unfolds. In addition to increasing backlog


and associated revenues we're pleased with GXT's progress in opening new international centers.


For example, we recently opened a processing center in Venezuela, and have already started


booking business. We have plans for opening two more international centers this year. We look


forward to having a broader portfolio of served markets that will help smooth out the revenue base


for GXT's processing business, and a broader future base of processing capability to support the


emerging full wave imaging market. In our land imaging systems business, we are effectively sold


out on some of our more mature product lines, such as vibrator trucks, which we are stretched to


keep pace with the market.


The only Q1 soft spot in our mature lines was sensor, and that can likely be attributed to delayed


orders, versus any slowdown. Their pipeline still appears to be large enough to support their total


2005 planned numbers. We are also making progress with System Four including a strategic sale


in April of a high density hybrid system to an established contractor in Algeria. This was very


important to us as it penetrates a market that has historically been a stronghold of our main


competitor. More importantly, we now have a land system platform in Algeria that can be expanded


as support VectorSeis as we develop demand for full-wave via the oil companies participating in


that region. We believe that the most recently approved hydrocarbon law for Algeria will


significantly increased forward investment, and will likely drive a large increase in seismic activity.


Therefore this is one of our key target areas for future business expansion, and establishing a


beachhead was very important for us.


Another important milestone that was achieved via business development activity during the first


quarter and early April was adding two new VectorSeis contractors, one in the former Soviet Union,


and the other covering the mid-continent in North America. The North America sale is an important


step for our full-wave market development activities, since we have generated more full-wave


demand than the current North American contractor could cover. We now have 10 contractors, who


are providing VectorSeis services around the world, with two in North America, and the balance in


international markets. As we stated in our last conference call, one of our key short-term missions


is to prove that recording the full-wave field using VectorSeis technology will ultimately replace


today's approach using arrays of geophones. Eventually, we believe VectorSeis will be the sensor


of choice, due to improved image quality regardless of the situation. Gains on system productivity


using full-wave point receivers will also play a significant role in converting the markets; since costs


will come down to improve field performance.


I would like to give you a brief update on some of the oil company full-wave usage numbers that I


gave during the last call. These are preliminary numbers that will be future – further refined during


our second quarter call. I will compare 2003, 2004, and Q1, 2005 full-wave data. First, estimated


full-wave oil company survey expenditures in 2003 was 7.2 million, in 2004, 36.9 million, and in the


first quarter of 2005, 21 million. With 21 million already spent this year; we believe it’s realistic


expectation that we would see oil company full-wave spending increase by over a 4 – over a 100%.


The actual number of surveys versus dollars, there were 24 surveys in 2003, 40 surveys in 2004,


and 16 surveys in the first quarter of 2005. We also expect the number of surveys to more than


double this year and as important the size of the surveys appear to be increasing. Full-wave


surveys in the first quarter include ones in India, Russia, China, Canada, and Poland. By our own


internal estimates I/O's VectorSeis market share is still 70% or higher. We will also update these


estimates in our market data, as our market data improves throughout the year.


Our marine business results were slightly down from last year, but when we back out the revenue


from the VectorSeis Ocean sale in Q1 2004, the underlying business shows strong growth. The