raw transcript


Input/Output, Inc.
 
IO
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 4, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning ladies and gentlemen. And welcome to the Input/Output Second Quarter


Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Following today's


presentation, instructions will be given for the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions].


As a reminder, this conference is being recorded today, Thursday, August 4, of 2005. I would now


like to turn the conference over to Mr. Jack Lascar. Please go ahead sir.


Jack Lascar, Investor Relations


Thank you, Eric and good morning, and welcome to the Input/Output conference call. We


appreciate you joining us today. Your hosts today are Bob Peebler, President and Chief Executive


Officer and Mike Kirksey, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Before I turn the call


over to management, I have a few items to go over. If you would like to be on an email distribution,


or fax list to receive future news releases, or expense a technical problem and did not receive yours


yesterday, please call DRG&E and provide us provide us that information. That number is 713-529-


6600. If you would like to listen to our replay of today's call, it is available via webcast by going to


the Investor Relations section of the company's website, at www.i-o.com. Or, we have recorded


instant replay until August 11. The information was provided in yesterday's earnings release.


Information reported on this call speaks only as of today, August 4, 2005, and therefore your


advised that times sensitive information may no longer be accurate as of the time of any replay.


Before we begin, let me remind you that certain statements made by management during this call


may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation


Reform Act of 1995. All statements regarding the company's expected future financial position


segment sales, result of operations, cash flows, income from operation financing plans, gross


margins, business strategies, budgets, protected costs and expenses, capital expenditures,


competitive position, product offerings, acknowledge of development, access to capital and growth


opportunities are forward-looking statements .


These forward-looking statements are based on management current expectation, and includes


known and unknown risks and uncertainties and other factors, many of which the company is


unable to predict or control that may cause the company's actual results or performance to


materially defer from any features results or performance express or implied by those statements.


These risks and uncertainties include the risk factors disclosed by the company from time-to-time,


and the filings with the SEC, including annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December


31, 2004, and on Form 10-Q for the first quarter of 2005. Furthermore, as we start this call, please


also refer to the statement regarding forward-looking statements in cormented incorporated in our


press release issued yesterday, and please note, that the contents of our conference call this


morning are covered by these statements.


At this point, I will turn the call to Bob Peebler.


Robert Peebler, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Jack. Good morning and thank you for joining us. Over the next few minutes, I will speak to


recent market trends, and update you on where we stand from an operations perspective, and in


our key strategic initiatives. Mike will then review the second quarter financial results in more detail.


As you probably know, we recorded last evening second quarter earnings of $0.03 on revenues of


84 million.
raw transcript


Input/Output, Inc.
 
IO
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 4, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


We had mentioned in the first quarter conference call that we are expecting better results over the


course of the year. I am pleased to report that we remain on track for improving our financial


performance through the second half of the year. The highlight to the quarter, which Mike and I will


elaborate on in more detail, include the fact that after several years of drought, our seismic contract


is business is proving, and they are slowly starting to increase their capital spending.


We would expect this trend to escalate as it becomes more competent in the strength of the


market, and it come up against capacity issues. Related to our operations, we are seeing increases


in full-wave VectorSeis for all companies and interest continuing to grow.


GXT has turned the corner getting back to profitability, and VectorSeis oceans is positioned for an


exciting future. As we stated in our previously conference calls, one of our missions is to prove that


recording the full-wavefield using digital technology will ultimately replace today's standard


approach of using arrays of analog geophones.


Eventually, we believe that digital full-wave will be the standard method of recording seismic data in


land and on the Seabed, and VectorSeis will be the sensor of choice due to its technical superiority.


We also believe that gains on in productivity on land using full-wave point receivers and other


system enhancements will play a significant role in converting the market to digital since operating


costs will decrease due to improved field performance.


The productivity argument also applies in marine market where we believe productivity in


VectorSeis oceans, or VSO, and the improved data quality will have the effect of making OBC


much more price competitive than in the past and thereby expanding the OBC market.


I would now like to give you a quick update on some of the oil company full-wave usage numbers


that I referred starting the last call. I will compare 2003, 2004, and the second quarter 2005 full-


wave data. Estimated full-wave surveys expenditures was 7 million in 2003, 37 million in 2004, and


for the first half of 2005, approximately 30 million.


With 30 million already spent this year, compared to 37 million for all of 2004, we believe that’s a


realistic expectation that we will see oil companies full-wave spending increase again during 2005,


likely accelerating as year progresses. The actual numbers of surveys that include both 2D and 3D,


we had 24 surveys in 2003, 4 surveys in 2004, and the total of 28 surveys in the first half of 2005.


The dollars per survey is growing which is an indication that we are moving for more experiments


and full scale acquisition jobs.


Our expectation is that we will likely see at least the 50% growth in the number of surveys year-


over-year. OH surveys in the first half of this years includes once in India, Russian, China, Canada,


Poland, Kazakhstan, and the U.S.


Our own internal estimates, I/O System Four VectorSies market share of oil companies surveys


was over 70% during the first half of 2005. We will continue to update those estimates as market


data improves throughout the year.


On the land imaging systems, in our land imaging group, vibrator truck orders remain very strong


reflect in a growing international land market with our pipeline exceeding our delivery capacity. Our


sensor geophone business started slower than expected, in the first half following a record year in


2004, but appears a slow start was due to delayed orders rather than any slow down because our


pipeline has been increasing over the last few months indicating a strong finish. We have also been


getting a feedback from some of our major oil company executive contacts that they are shifting


additional emphasis to land acquisition, as much of the future opportunities are on land and places


like Russian, Libya, Algeria, and India. Related to land full wave system sales, we most recently


closed a System Four VC [ph] sale for the new Chinese land contractor expanding our domestic


China contractor base. With a current pipeline of land system VectorSeis opportunities, we believe