Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Rachel White — Vice President, Corporate Communications, ION Geophysical Corp.
R. Brian Hanson — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, ION Geophysical Corp.
Steven A. Bate — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, ION Geophysical Corp.
David Lee Steinberg — Managing Partner, DLS Capital Management LLC
Blake Gendron — Analyst, Evercore Group LLC
Barry Bergman — President, Alba Investments, LLC
Phyllis Camara — Analyst, Pax World Funds
Garrett King — Director of Research, Truffle Hound Capital

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Greetings, and welcome to the ION Geophysical Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Rachel White, Vice President of Corporate Communications for ION Geophysical. Thank you. You may begin.

Thank you, Donna. Good morning, and welcome to ION's fourth quarter 2017 earnings conference call. We appreciate you joining us today.

As indicated on slide 2, our hosts today are Brian Hanson, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Steve Bate, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Before I turn the call over to them, I have a few items to cover. We'll be using slides to accompany today's call. They are accessible via a link on the Investor Relations page of our website, iongeo.com. There you will also find a replay of today's call.

Moving on to slide 3, information reported on this call speaks only as of today, February 8, 2018 and, therefore, you are advised that time-sensitive information may no longer be accurate at the time of any replay. Before we begin, let me remind you that certain statements made during this call may constitute forward-looking statements, which are based on our current expectations and include known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which we are unable to predict or control that may cause our actual results or performance to differ materially from any future results or performance expressed or implied by those statements.

These risks and uncertainties include the risk factors disclosed by ION from time-to-time in our filings with the SEC, including in our annual report on Form 10-K and in our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.

Furthermore, as we start this call, please refer to the disclosure regarding forward-looking statements incorporated in our press release issued yesterday and please note that the contents of our conference call this morning are covered by these statements.

I'll now turn the call over to Brian who will begin on slide 4.

Thanks, Rachel. Good morning, everyone. During today's call I intend to spend some time on our fourth quarter and 2017 financial results, but primarily will focus on an operational recap of 2017 and will set the stage for our expectations in 2018. I will cover growth in multi-client programs, momentum on high end imaging and E&P Advisors projects, progress diversifying our business into adjacent markets and commercialization paths for our new OBS technology 4Sea.

As a practice, we do not extend guidance, however, I will share some thoughts around why we see 2018 shaping up to be a considerable improvement on 2017. If there are any additional topics you'd like addressed, please feel to raise them in Q&A.

First, let's discuss the financials. I am pleased with the performance of the business not only in the fourth quarter, but also for every quarter throughout 2017. Although the market recovery has been slow for many, our efforts over the last two years to follow select segments, where capital is flowing along with our asset-light strategy has paid off.

As a niche business in the larger E&P market, we surgically targeted select geographic areas and production optimization opportunities, less dependent on cycle recovery and where our differentiated technologies delivered significant value.

We stated in our third quarter earnings call that we expected the range for our fourth quarter results would be somewhere between, A, easily exceeding the second quarter on the low end, and B, comparable to the third quarter potentially exceeding it or modestly coming in shy of it. The range was entirely driven by the amount of yearend funds available. Our fourth quarter revenue was on the high side of that range coming in at $58 million compared with $46 million in the second quarter and $61 million in the third quarter. The $58 million in revenue represents a 64% increase over the fourth quarter of last year.

Our adjusted EBITDA for the fourth quarter was $24 million on the high end of the range we provided and 3.5 times the adjusted EBITDA generated in the fourth quarter of last year. In addition, we have positive net cash flows from operations of $18 million during the fourth quarter of 2017, compared to a use of $2 million in the fourth quarter of 2016. There was a special item in the fourth quarter of 2017 related to a $6 million charge associated with stock appreciation right awards, which Steve will elaborate on soon.

In terms of our full year results, we had substantial year-on-year improvements, driven by continued strong sales of our 3D multi-client reimaging programs, as well as new 2D programs we launched in 2017. Our revenues of $198 million were up 14% compared to last year. In 2017, we did not recognize any revenue from Ocean Bottom Seismic Services, so a better year-over-year comparison would exclude Ocean Bottom revenues from 2016. Excluded, our revenues of $198 million are up 45% from last year.

Adjusted EBITDA for the full year was $64 million, a six-fold increase than what we generated last year. This is the first time since 2013 that we have reported six consecutive quarters of breakeven or better adjusted EBITDA. Net cash flow from operations was $28 million, compared to $2 million in 2016.

In our E&P Technology & Services segment, we ended the quarter with continued strong backlog of $39 million, compared to $40 million sequentially and $34 million at the end of last year. As programs progress, they move from work in progress, new venture programs, to completed programs on the shelf in our data library. When this occurs, activity shifts from backlog to revenue recognized in the quarter it's transacted in. As we continue to complete programs and build our data library, we expect backlog to reduce, becoming a less meaningful metric moving forward.

As a reminder, we sanctioned one program for the two-year period of June 2015 to May 2017. In 2017, we launched five programs, which drove the increase in backlog and we expect it to level off as we build a consistent pipeline of new projects. This continued strong backlog should translate to good first quarter 2018 revenues, in line with our potentially exceeding first quarter 2017.

However, I caution that our customers typically are still figuring out their budgets this time of the year, so the first quarter is typically the softest for us. Our diverse data library is exceptionally well positioned for upcoming license round activity. And as a result, we were direct beneficiaries of year-end spending.

This quarter, new venture revenues increased to 174% and data library sales increased 85% compared to the fourth quarter of last year. This increase in revenue and sanctioned programs demonstrates a renewed interest in clients' underwriting programs to obtain data in advance of license rounds and to evaluate new discoveries.

A majority of the increase in new venture revenues was the result of continued revenue from our 3D multi-client reimaging programs offshore Mexico and Brazil, as well as revenues from new 2D multi-client programs that were launched in 2017. Multi-client revenues came from a diverse geographic areas in Mexico, Brazil, Argentina, Nigeria, East Africa, the Mediterranean and across the Caribbean.

We continued positive new program momentum in the quarter, due to client demand and underwriting, we sanctioned the third phase of the Picanha 3D multi-client program offshore Brazil and we finalized another extension to the Campeche 3D multi-client program offshore Mexico, now bringing that program to over 100,000 square kilometers.

In 2017, we continued to benefit from our investment in multi-client data, generating solid growth in new venture revenues throughout the year. After two years of very little new venture activity, I'm excited we launched five new programs in 2017, two 3D multi-client reimaging programs and three 2D multi-client programs offshore Gabon, Panama and Argentina.

We had tremendous success with our 3D reimaging programs expanding our 3D data library from 8,000 square kilometers to over 165,000 square kilometers in just two years in proven, mature areas, where capital is flowing. I'd like to reiterate that these multi-client programs have long-term demand and sales potential for many years to come. If you'd like additional detail about any of these programs, I encourage you to read our third quarter transcript, where we provided details on each one.

Our Imaging Services group, which provides data processing services for both ION's multi-client programs and proprietary third-party projects, has continued to focus on higher value, technology-driven projects with better margins. The group remains fully utilized with a large portion of our capacity dedicated to multi-client programs.

The proprietary work we take on is in the high-end of the market, which keeps our cutting-edge technologies and skills sharp solving some of the toughest geophysical and imaging challenges. We continued investing in geophysical R&D in 2017, increasing momentum on our wave-based imaging technology such as full waveform inversion or FWI, which delivers more detailed images to better understand reservoirs and optimize production.

It's an industry-leading new approach to develop data-driven reservoir models that is already making an impact. For example in 2017 BP attributed the identification of 200 million barrels of oil in its Atlantis field and an additional upside potential of 800 million barrels of oil in other Gulf of Mexico fields to higher resolution, full waveform inversion imaging. We are one of only a handful of companies on the forefront of this ultra-high-end imaging. Recognized as leaders in Ocean Bottom Seismic and FWI imaging, enabled us to win and start executing multiple high-profile proprietary ocean bottom nodal imaging projects last year.

Our E&P Advisors Group, which expanded their focus in 2017 to more broadly advise host governments, oil and gas companies and private equity firms, completed the initial technical evaluation for the third license round management contract during the fourth quarter. In this host government advisory role, we evaluated the potential of distressed fields for rejuvenation, as well as new exploration blocks to be offered in a major oil province. In a world of heightened competition globally, to attract E&P investment, this advisory service is designed to help host governments promote their assets to attract maximum investment.

As the result of the expanded scope of our consultancy work, we indicated last quarter that we expected greater services revenues in the short-term and the success-based revenues to push out into 2019. We still anticipate the success-based revenues in the range of 4 to 7 times 2017 service revenues. We are excited to provide this capability to governments as they maximize the value of their acreage and a share in the success we create.

In our Operations Optimization segment, we maintained our core seismic software and equipment businesses, while pursuing additional opportunities for our technology in adjacent markets. For example, Marlin is expanding into the production segment offshore and devices is targeting scientific, military and robotics applications.

Throughout 2017, we successfully defended our core software business against competitive threats. During the second quarter, one of our large long time customers went through an extensive evaluation of our towed streamer offering and partnership and recommitted to us on a long-term basis.

In the fourth quarter, we renewed a major long-term contract and secured a new contract for our OBS software. In addition, we developed long-term technology roadmaps to keep our software and keep capabilities leading edge.

In 2017, we made a lot of headway in both executing deployments and developing the shrink-wrapped version of Marlin, our operations optimization platform. In 2017, Marlin deployments more than doubled with 39 new deployments across 19 projects, building a diverse portfolio of case studies, where we drove increased efficiency and enhanced QHSC compliance across a vast array of operations.

We have now successfully completed over 67 deployments of Marlin, bringing air traffic control like rigor, transparency and decision support to complex marine activities. The system integrates a variety of real time data sources in the cloud that enables multiple stakeholders to share and visualize vessel route plans, foresee and avoid conflicts between vessels and fixed assets, optimize schedules and measure and improve asset performance.

Throughout the year, we observed an increased emphasis on maritime digitization in seismic and other offshore markets we are pursuing. During the quarter, we signed up a second E&P company with our office-based version of Marlin for long-term, worldwide remote monitoring of their offshore seismic projects. These permanent installations of Marlin will provide a step change by centralizing oversight for hundreds of millions of dollars in operational expenditure covering the most remote outposts of customers' global operations.

We made excellent progress in our E&P supply vessel operations offering in Marlin and are lining up pilot opportunities for the first quarter release of the shrink-wrapped software version with both supply vessel operators and the E&P companies.

We have also started assessing Marlin for adjacent markets outside of oil and gas such as offshore wind farms, port management and harbor security. For example, we completed an exhaustive study on Marlin's applicability for wind farm management. The results of the study indicate Marlin is highly applicable for both the construction and ongoing operation and maintenance of wind farms.

Our strategy includes engagement with the right partnerships in these markets to enhance our offerings and to accelerate its adoption. As I've said before, we believe Marlin has the potential to develop into a very nice software business for ION.

Our Optimization Services group, which delivers engineering and consulting services to help oil companies optimally plan and execute their offshore projects, doubled revenues year-over-year in large part due to the increase in Marlin deployments.

In the devices group of our Operations Optimization segment, we were able to offset some of the decline in seismic revenues from selling new incremental offerings and selling existing technology to new customers outside the E&P space.

During 2017, we commercialized three new technologies that provide valuable new capabilities for our marine contractor customers while leveraging their existing equipment. The first is digiLIFT, a smart streamer recovery device that is coupled with our DigiBIRD to provide a more accurate protection against cable loss.

The second is our acoustics and deployment software that enables customers see real time positioning of cables during deployment, retrieval and turns for safer, faster operations. The third is our new line of rechargeable batteries for our industry-leading streamer positioning systems. These will allow customers to recharge their batteries onboard, reducing hazardous environmental waste and challenging shipping locations, logistics and remote locations.

In addition, we are close to commercializing our SailWing technology, which is an innovative foil-based alternative to conventional bulky marine diverters. SailWing has a potential to be a significant growth area for ION. SailWing can be employed to optimize towing configurations and source array positioning, yielding significantly less drag, faster towing, improved fuel efficiency and safer operations through their flexible and smaller footprint. In the fourth quarter, we had another successful field trial of SailWing, which met all objectives and we are now moving into commercial tests with potential partners.

In addition, we worked diligently to broaden and diversify our customer base for devices into adjacent markets. We sold existing technologies to new customers who are using scientific, military and academic applications beyond traditional seismic operations. We are particularly proud of the development effort to eliminate time-consuming calibrations for military diving platforms by incorporating our highly differentiated compass from a positioning solution. During the fourth quarter, we had successful field trials of our technology that demonstrated its accuracy and robustness in GPS-derived environments, leading to our first commercial order.

In our Ocean Bottom Seismic Services group, we introduced our new fully integrated nodal system 4Sea in 2017. We are confident that the OBS market is growing, projected to be at pre-downturn levels of $1 billion in 2018 with significant growth projected by the industry in the following years. OBS will continue to take market share from the distressed streamer market spurred by the improved economics of the next generation of systems as well as the growing adoption by E&P companies as a technology of choice to manage their reservoirs.

In addition, we see OBS projects starting to address the multi-client space as well as exploration projects on held acreage. So we see a fundamentally healthy demand side. That being said, we see increased risk in the conventional supply side of deploying and operating a crew, which is asset heavy, with large amounts of capital required to bring a crew to market.

This is against the backdrop where we are seeing low cost providers entering the market, concentrating on a market share instead of returns and contractors taking more risk and operating on slimmer margins, driven by pressure from E&P procurement to simply take the low bid, without any uplift for the investment in technology the contractors have made. Currently, we see as many OBS service providers as towed streamer companies today.

At a time when companies are not receiving proper returns on investment and capital, it's reinforced the ingenuity of our asset-light approach as the correct one. For example, Schlumberger recently decided to stop providing acquisition services and is moving to an asset-light model similar to ION's.

We've evaluated numerous possible commercialization paths for 4Sea and believe there are smarter alternative approaches to commercializing 4Sea to take our offerings more broadly to market, while staying true to what makes us successful, being asset-light.

We have settled on two business models to more successfully participate in this growing market moving forward. The first is making the individual components of 4Sea available more broadly to all OBS service providers on a value-based pricing model, allowing us to participate in the success we enable. While the commercial availability of each individual component varies, we believe we could be in a position for external deployment with the first component in the second quarter of 2018.

Examples of some of the components would be, SailWing for the efficient control of source operations, a central data hub and imaging engine, enabling extremely efficient onboard processing for timely data delivery and our [ph] SIM survey (00:19:41) tool, enabling efficient survey design integrated with our Gator Command & Control software.

The second approach is to license the right to manufacture and use the fully integrated system to a service provider on a value-based pricing model such as a royalty stream. We still believe our fully integrated system is the most effective in the market today, differentiated in its ability to deliver a step change in economics, QHSE performance and data value and a paradigm shift in final image delivery time enabling enhanced E&P use for critical reservoir management decisions.

We believe these two approaches will deliver a higher, more sustainable return over the long-term for our shareholders. While the value-based pricing models are our primary route to market, we will continue to evaluate OBS opportunities on a case by case basis that meet our long-term risk and return thresholds.

With that, I'll turn it over to Steve to walk us through the financials and then I'll wrap up before taking questions.

Thanks, Brian. Good morning, everyone. Our total fourth quarter revenues were up 64% compared to the fourth quarter of 2016. Revenues in our E&P Technology & Services segment increased by 90% and revenues in our Operations Optimization segment slightly decreased by 3%. Our OBS Services segment had no revenues in the fourth quarter of 2017.

Within our E&P Technology & Services segment, our new ventures revenues were $30 million, an increase of 174%. Our data library revenues were $15 million, an increase of 85%. And our Imaging Services revenues were $3 million, a decrease of 52% compared to the fourth quarter of 2016.

Similar to past 2017 quarterly results, the decrease in Imaging Services revenues reflects the continued reallocation of resources to high-return multi-client programs. The Imaging Services group is fully utilized with 60% of our capacity dedicated to higher-return multi-client programs.

In our Operations Optimization segment, our Optimization Software & Services revenues were up by 4%, while our devices revenues decreased by 7% compared to the fourth quarter of 2016. Overall, we reported a net loss for the fourth quarter of $1 million or $0.12 per share, compared to a net loss of $6 million or $0.55 per share in the fourth quarter of 2016.

Both periods included special items during the quarter, which excluding those items, we had an adjusted net income of $5 million or $0.38 per diluted share in the fourth quarter of 2017, compared to an adjusted net loss of $12 million or $0.99 per share in the fourth quarter of 2016.

The special item in the fourth quarter of 2017 related to a charge of $6 million associated with our then outstanding stock appreciation right, or SARs awards. The SARs program was launched in 2016 with the intent of keeping the management team highly focused on executing our strategy to drive the recovery in the stock price. There were both performance and time vested and had a ceiling of $22.50 a share.

Once that celling was hit, vested SARs came due for payment. The program had three tranches that vested a third each in March 2017, March 2018 and March 2019. Because of the significant upward movement in ION's stock price in 2017, we perceived a real possibility of the stock price hitting or exceeding $22.50 per share in the first quarter of 2018, which would have resulted in a cash obligation to ION of $13 million.

During the fourth quarter of 2017, we accelerated the vesting of the second tranche of our SARs awards to facilitate the exercise of the first two tranches of SARs to minimize the cash exposure, dropping it from $13 million in the first quarter of 2018 to $6 million in the fourth quarter of 2017. Additionally, in order to encourage executive officers and other key employees to purchase ION common stock and further align their interest with those of ION stockholders, we launched some equity investment program that permitted these individuals to purchase common stock at market prices. Based on the continued rise in our stock price during the first quarter of this year, vesting these awards 90 days early, saved us about $7 million of additional cash in 2018.

Moving on, our income from operations, as adjusted, was $5 million during the fourth quarter, compared to a loss from operations, as adjusted, of $8 million one year ago. Adjusted EBITDA was $24 million in the fourth quarter of 2017, compared to $7 million in the fourth quarter of 2016. This represents our sixth consecutive quarter with breakeven or better adjusted EBITDA. Net cash flow from operations during the quarter was $18 million, compared to a use of cash of $2 million during the fourth quarter of 2016.

Including both investing and financing activities, we generated total net cash flows of $12 million in the fourth quarter of 2017, compared to a consumption of cash of $10 million in the fourth quarter last year. While our total receivables declined during the fourth quarter, compared to the third quarter, our total receivables were up compared to one year ago, due to the significant increase in revenues. In total, our accounts receivable and unbilled receivables were $57 million at December 31, 2017, up $23 million from the end of last year. This increase in receivables should lead to further cash generation during the first quarter of 2018.

Our liquidity was $68 million at the end of the fourth quarter, a $15 million increase from September 2017. Our cash balance, excluding borrowings under our credit facility, was $42 million at December 31. The $68 million in liquidity at year-end more than sufficiently provides the capital required to retire our third lien indentures of $28.5 million, which mature May 15, 2018.

We have already received verbal consents from a majority of our second lien bond holders to retire the third lien bonds early and we have started the process to complete that this quarter. The combination of finishing the fourth quarter with $68 million in liquidity, potential to further harvest working capital in the first quarter and our strong backlog heading into 2018 should further strengthen our liquidity by the end of the first quarter.

With that, I'll turn it back to Brian.

Thanks, Steve. Let's switch gears and discuss our outlook for the industry and ION. We are seeing increasingly positive signs of growth and recovery in the oil and gas industry. There is a growing consensus that the E&P market is in balance, thanks to a healthy global demand and continued production cuts. Inventory levels are declining and Brent crude hit $70 in January for the first time in three years.

As a result, market analysts are projecting E&P spending to increase 8% in 2018, following 4% growth in 2017 and preceded by consecutive years of double-digit declines. This is the first time in three years that international spending is expected to increase, where our offerings are more relevant.

Offshore 2018 is likely to be the last of four consecutive years of double-digit declines. While those were significant declines, the majority of those cuts were on large offshore production infrastructure and we are still seeing capital flow to select proven areas offshore with acceptable return potential.

As I stated at the beginning of the call, we do not extend guidance. However, I will now share some thoughts around why we see 2018 shaping up to be a considerable improvement on 2017. In our E&P Technology & Service group, we have a strong hopper of potential multi-client programs and have already secured underwriting and sanctioned three programs for 2018. As a reminder, we launched five programs in all of 2017.

As a point of comparison, entering 2017, we were working on six active programs. Entering 2018, we are working on 12 active programs and anticipate initiating another 5 to 8 programs during the year. Clearly, this acceleration in program activity is a great indicator of how 2018 is shaping up. In addition, our existing data library is exceptionally well positioned for upcoming license round activity. 2018 is looking to be even better with more diverse interest and programs across the globe.

We're seeing a significant uptick in offshore license round activity over the last year. We expect 109 active announced or anticipated license rounds to start in the next two years. In fact, more than 84 rounds are active are expected to launch in the next 12 months. This includes 20 of the 33 offshore license rounds deferred through the downturn starting in 2014, a further indicator that the market is picking up. Our programs are exceptionally well positioned and relevant to 59 of the 109 active or anticipated offshore license rounds in 2018 and 2019.

While our Imaging Services group remains primarily focused on higher return potential multi-client programs, our proprietary projects are on the high end of the market. Our imaging backlog increased two quarters in a row and is at a healthy volume similar to levels entering 2017. Our proprietary projects with an Ocean Bottom component account for 40% of our backlog and our wave-based imaging represents 70% of our backlog, positioning us optimally for the high-end imaging market in 2018 and beyond.

We transformed our E&P Advisors team to provide services that help E&P companies host governments and private equity firms, maximize value sharing in the success we create. By 2019, we would expect the total revenue stream to be in the range of 5 to 8 times 2017's service levels.

In our Operations Optimization segment, we maintained our core seismic software and equipment businesses while positioning our shrink-wrapped software version of Marlin to excel in the production sector of the E&P market and adjacent markets such as offshore, wind farms and supply vessel management.

On the devices side, we commercialized incremental new technologies that should positively contribute to 2018, and we are continuing to evaluate our existing technology as valuable in adjacent markets, in scientific, military, and robotics industries. Our goal in the Operations Optimization group is to drive a significant amount of ION's revenues in five years to non-seismic markets.

The $68 million in liquidity year-end more than sufficiently provides the capital required to retire our third lien indentures of $28.5 million, reducing our total indebtedness to $118 million, excluding our revolver. We have started the process and expect to complete it this quarter. With $64 million of EBITDA generation in 2017 and a clean balance sheet of only $118 million of leverage or a little less than 2 times trailing EBITDA, we believe we have delivered significant shareholder value in 2017 and have positioned the company well for 2018.

Finally, our continued strong backlog should translate to a good first quarter 2018 revenues in line with or potentially exceeding the first quarter of 2017. However, I caution that our customers are usually still figuring out the budget this time of year, which is why the first quarter typically generates the least amount of EBITDA in the year and for the past three years, it has been breakeven or worse.

Generally, the majority of our EBITDA is generated in the back half of the year. We expect 2018 to be a significant improvement on 2017 results on a full-year basis, but would not be surprised to see breakeven or slightly better EBITDA generation in the first quarter, similar to 2017.

With that, I'll turn the call back to the operator for Q&A.

Thank you. The floor is now open for questions. [Operator Instructions] Our first question is coming from David Steinberg of DLS Capital. Please go ahead.

Hey, guys. What a difference a year makes, terrific, terrific year. Thanks for doing such a good job running the company; it looks like we have a good year coming. I have two questions; they are all related to Ocean Bottom Seismic Services business. Number one, I know it's zero now. I know you guys reclassified how your business was classified for revenues. But historically if I look back 5, 10 years and I were to look at that business, what percentage of total revenues that that business run when the industry was in a more normalized condition? That's the first question.

So, David, I'll take the first one and then come back to the second one. It's been an interesting history, we've been in the Ocean Bottom business for since 2004 I believe. But we primarily entered the Ocean Bottom business as an equipment provider and from 2004 through approximately 2011 or 2012 we provided equipment to one primary service provider out there. They ultimately went bankrupt and we changed our strategy completely. We actually decided that the better strategy was to -- [ph] in our own (00:34:04) dog food and take the technology we develop and put it into a service model.

So we went through a process over a couple of year period of buying in and then ultimately buying out a service provider and owning them 100% and that was the birth of OceanGeo. And so really 2013 to 2016, we went through that process of putting OceanGeo into the market and participating as a service provider. That technology was pretty relevant and it did fairly well, but that technology now is dated and it's not applicable to the current market.

That revenue stream was pretty lumpy. The projects were periodic and they were – there were big lumps of revenue that came through, and we made good profits and good returns on them. So I can't answer your question exactly other than say it's been sort of an interesting path we've gone through. What we're seeing today is the service providers today are so – the barriers to entry are very low. They can get access on an asset-light basis to ships and to nodal equipment, rent it. And so, they're responding to these tenders and they're doing it in a way that they're just taking – they're dropping their price and they're getting very low returns on the work they're doing. It doesn't meet our return thresholds.

And so the analysis we've done is we feel that if we go into the market more broadly with our offering, not in an equipment sales model, because we don't want to go and just say here's a cost plus 30% percent model. We want to take differentiated technology to the market and do it in a value-based pricing model that we will participate alongside of them in the success of the surveys, without having to participate in the procurement process with the E&P companies, we think we can actually get some really good returns. So that was a long way of not answering your question at all.

Right. So let me – instead of me asking another question that way, maybe it's a better way, can you give me a framework the way I should look at that business depending on what the growth is in general offshore businesses or is it an impossible task to, it's just a complete unknown? I mean you're talking about it growing and I know you can't give us a forecast, but there used to be significant margins in that business. And I'm trying to figure out – [ph] if I look at (00:36:21) an industry question, how much goes to the Ocean Bottom business, whether it's profitable or not, is it a 20% growth business, is it – what looks like a normalized level for that industry? How do I frame that relative to you guys, without you promising anything or forecasting anything in particular?

I'll say how I think about it. I think about it two ways. When I look at our business, I look at what we're going to do on the Ocean Bottom side will be incremental to our core business, which has good strong growth capability. So I think, A, it's an incremental opportunity and B, what my objective is, is to grow a long-term sustainable recurring revenue stream, rather than have one-off lumps of revenue and margin come through the business. So we're going to take our time and we're going to be smart about how we commercialize each component. I think 2018 will give us a little bit of experience around this and tell us what we should really be able to expect in the long-term. So I'll probably be in a better position in 12 months to answer that question than I am right now.

Okay. Well. I appreciate it, and always it's a kind of a difficult question. Just I'm, obviously, like everybody else, trying to figure out what this [ph] model this (00:37:32) business is going to look like. And I mean, once again you guys did a spectacular job. Thank you. You come through Chicago, I owe you dinner.

Fantastic.

Thank you, Dave.

Thank you. Our next question is coming from James West of Evercore ISI. Please go ahead.

This is Blake on for James. You guys broke down the interplay between the new venture opportunities and the data library from a timing perspective, but you made a comment about the initial new venture service versus the longer-term, I guess, data library successes being 4 times the revenue opportunity, the initial opportunity. Can you just talk about the interplay again between those two and maybe the timing with respect to 2019 sort of longer-term success follow on work and how confident you are that you'll actually get that work based on the conversations that you're having with clients?

Yeah. Let me clarify, I was referring to the E&P Advisory Group, Blake. And that business model there is to be paid through your service revenue work, that's sort of the consultancy work we do, so we get compensated for the service revenues when we do it but then we get success-based revenue based on the successful launch of their leasing ramp. So when a block is launched, we compensate it for the data packages we create, we get compensated relative to the success of the sale of the block. So we've done all the work, what we're now waiting for is the launch of the license round and the placement of those blocks and we feel that that will be pushed into late 2018 early 2019. And so once that license round occurs and those blocks are placed and the oil companies write the checks back to the host government, that's when we'll see the success-based revenue associated with that work. And what our comment was the success-based revenue, to put in perspective, will be in the range of 4 to 7 times what the actual service revenue was for the consulting work that we did on it.

Got it. Yeah, that helps. And then, moving over to the Operations Optimization segment, can you just frame for us right now as it stands, how much of your revenue is standalone devices, how much of it is maybe a bundle between the systems and software? And then how much now is software standalone and how do you see that evolving moving forward, especially as you roll out the prepackaged Marlin as sort of the software-only offering?

Just hang on, Blake, I'm grabbing the number for you. So, the total revenue from that segment for the quarter was just under $10 million and it's about half and half, maybe 60%-40% devices and software.

Okay. And how much of that is bundled versus I guess you rent the devices standalone, sometimes you have an integrated offering, where you kind of bundle the devices and the software? And then, I'm assuming you are starting to generate revenues with software standalone as you roll out the shrink-wrapped Marlin package?

Well, first of all, we actually don't bundle when we go to the customers. The customers pretty much pick, they pick à la carte. So the software – when we approach a customer on the software side of the business, it's different than when we approach them on the devices side. And keep in mind, it's a small handful of customers, right. It's not a huge universe and that's probably why we do that. We don't have to bundle them.

When I look at – I look at two things when I look at the software business. The quality of the revenue stream and as we roll the software version of Marlin out, it's going to behave like a traditional software business, which is a very high margin business and we're going to do it in a way that's recurring revenue. I can't tell you how much I expect because that gets a little bit too close to guidance, but I think that side of the business has a tremendously more potential than the devices side of the business simply because of the quality of the revenue stream. But that being said, the devices side of the business has nice prospects too outside of seismic and I can see it over a five-year period diversifying on and quite nicely outside of the E&P sector totally.

Awesome. Thanks, guys.

Thanks, Blake.

Thank you. Our next question is coming from Barry Bergman of Alba Investments. Please go ahead.

Hi, guys. Thanks for taking the call and again as everybody reiterated, you guys did a great job. Can you give us an update on that Schlumberger litigation and maybe you said at the beginning, I came on a little bit late and I also understand if it's outstanding, you may not be able to talk that much about it? Thank you.

Actually I appreciate the question and I'll tell you what. I've got some prepared remarks because it is an important topic but its complex. So I'll spend a little time on it. I'd also like to point you to our website, where we posted a detailed press release on it and a flowchart with all the possible timing of the proceedings.

There are a number of avenues that this case could take. The first is the argument at the Supreme Court. The second is the preserved claim in the Court of Appeals that ION has. And the third is the Inter Partes Review process. It's our opinion that the Court of Appeals got this right, but even in the event the Supreme Court sides with WesternGeco and remands the case back to the Court Of Appeals, they've got a tall hill to climb to win this, and let me explain.

The issue on appeal to the Supreme Court is whether WesternGeco can recover lost profits from ION for surveys performed by our customers that occurred entirely outside of the United States. In most areas of law, U.S. courts will not find U.S. laws to apply to foreign activities absent a very clear indication from Congress that they were intended to apply to foreign activities. The Supreme Court has [ph] held (00:43:45) numerous times that this strong presumption is especially relevant in patent law.

The position that WesternGeco wants the Supreme Court to adopt is that if a party is found to have infringed a patent under Section 271(f) of the patent statute, which prohibits export of components of a patented product for use abroad, that the exporting party is liable for all lost profits even if the ultimate use of the product abroad didn't infringe any patents in the U.S. or anywhere else.

This would be a real sea change in the law of patent damages and would cause some really absurd results. For example, if company A exported a hammer to a customer and that customer used the hammer to build houses in Tanzania, where there is no patent protection, and company B, convinced the jury that the U.S. patented method of building a house required the same kind of hammer, company A can be found liable for lost profits associated with an entire town built in a foreign jurisdiction using that method versus a reasonable royalty on the sale of the hammers.

You can imagine how egregious this would be and the tremendous damages that U.S. companies would face, would provide a strong incentive for U.S. hammer manufacturers to move their operations abroad. So a change in law would have huge ramifications. Why would companies seek patent protection in foreign jurisdictions if U.S. patent law was that far reaching? With no statutory limitations on the availability of worldwide damages, businesses that choose to do the manufacturing in the U.S. would be subject to the whims of a jury as to whether an active infringement caused worldwide damages. Bottom line, U.S. patent law is applicable to the United States.

If you want patent protection in a foreign jurisdiction, you need to file for it in that foreign jurisdiction. We think that the Court of Appeals got it absolutely right. And we're looking forward to making this the case to the Supreme Court. And if we don't win outright in the Supreme Court, that's not the end of the road for us. We have additional avenues of attack that could extend into 2020 and beyond. Even if the Supreme Court agrees with WesternGeco, the case will be remanded back to the Court of Appeals where we preserved another solid argument.

The Court of Appeals ruled in our favor with respect to whether lost profits attributable to foreign non-infringing activity is recoverable. In addition, there is case law that supports the requirement that ION would have to be a direct competitor to be liable for lost profits, for example ION would have to be a house builder, not a hammer manufacturer. We argued in the Court of Appeals that ION was not a direct competitor with WesternGeco in the applicable market. ION wasn't a direct competitor of WesternGeco for the surveys in question. ION was selling a product, DigiFIN, to contractors that conducted surveys for E&P companies. WesternGeco was a contractor that wanted to conduct those surveys for the same E&P companies, that makes them a direct competitor of our customers, not our direct competitor.

The Court of Appeals didn't rule on this, because they rightly in our opinion determined that lost profit were not available, whether or not we were a direct competitor of WesternGeco. But we weren't a direct competitor and we have preserved this argument. So the Court of Appeals is required to decide this issue in the event the Supreme Court overturns a victory. And we believe the current [indiscernible] (00:46:53) favors our argument.

In addition, secondly and concomitantly, you probably saw in our press release that we engaged in a parallel proceedings against WesternGeco, arising from a procedure known as Inter Partes Review. An IPR is an administrative proceeding in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office that allows any party to challenge the validity of a patent. This relatively new process was not available to us when WesternGeco sued us in 2009 but we were able to tack onto an IPR proceeding initiated by a customer of ours in 2014 against WesternGeco.

The Patent and Trademark Office ruled in 2015 that four of the six patent claims that WesternGeco prevailed on our case against us in the District Court should never have been patentable. WesternGeco appealed this ruling to the Court of Appeals and having just finished our arguments, we expect the Court of Appeals to rule on this case late this quarter or in Q2.

While the District Court didn't assign particular values to any of the six claims, we believe that the bulk of any damages assessed against us are attributable to cancelled patent claims. Of the two claims that were not cancelled, one was a claim pertaining to turning vessels between acquisition lines and the Patent and Trademark Office found that we're not infringing alternatives to accomplish these turns. The other remaining claim was a system claim that we don't believe should have formed a part of the lost profits calculation.

In the event that we do not prevail in the Supreme Court or in the Court of Appeals on our direct competitor claim, we intend to forcibly challenge the award of lost profits on the basis that the bulk of WesternGeco damages are attributable to patents that should never have been issued. This litigation will have to be resolved in the near-term in our favor or could last for multiple years potentially beyond 2020. And for your reference, we have a timeline posted on the Investor Relations section of our website. Hope that helps.

Thank you very much. Can you hear me? I have one other question. How much in legal fees are you guys paying a year to defend yourselves on this?

I don't think I can answer that question.

Okay. Because it's not public – for any reason in particular, just...

Yeah. We just don't break out that level of detail in our financial disclosure.

That's fine. Thank you very much. Appreciate it and thanks again for doing a great job.

Thank you.

Thanks, Barry.

Thank you. Our next question is coming from Phyllis Camara of Pax World. Please go ahead.

Hi. Thanks for having the call. One question and thanks again too for breaking out the whole patent litigation issue. That was one of my questions. And I was looking on your website and actually it's pretty good spreadsheet or chart, so appreciate that information.

Can we go back to the Ocean Bottom business though and talk about – so you had no revenues from Ocean Bottom in 2017 and you sort of changed things around a little bit so that it's more software rather than devices or equipment. How does that – I think you mentioned that some of that work now was no longer or some of that equipment was no longer really relevant in today's technology. Are you going to have to spend more money to update software? If we could get a quantification of potentially how much money you have...

Let me clarify for you, Phyllis.

Okay.

That – I think mixing couple of things up here.

Okay.

Our legacy system that we actively deployed doing Ocean Bottom systems was called VSO. That system has run its course, is now end of life. And it isn't applicable to the types of surveys that are being designed today because the types of surveys are much larger size and scale, so they require a lot more equipment and that's why systems are moving from cable-based systems like VSO into the nodal-based systems.

Okay.

The new technology that we announced in 2017 4Sea is a nodal-based system.

Okay.

And it is not only equipment, it's software, it's processing and imaging, it's quality control. It's a fully integrated approach to doing Ocean Bottom work. We are through the majority of the development of that system. So it's now – but what we've made a decision to do is to break up the components, whether it's equipment, whether it's software, whether it's imaging and we're going to offer those components broadly to the market to OBS service providers and get properly compensated for it in a recurring revenue type model versus bidding against them on projects and doing it in a crew model. And the difference is very simple. If I want to roll a crew out, I've got to invest $60 million to $80 million in capital. I've got to contract with vessels. It's a high fixed cost business. It's capital intensive and I'm out there competing against too many service providers today who are not focused on returns, but are focused on low bids on – when you look at the natural procurement process of the E&P customers.

Okay.

So it's a bad business from the supply perspective. So what we're doing is stepping back and saying, we'll break up the components of our system, offering them to all the service providers but we'll do it in a way that we get properly compensated outside of the E&P procurement process and it will enable the service providers to be much more competitive and they'll do what they always do, they'll just drop the price further to win the tenders. So we'll let them play that game with the oil companies and we'll sit back, and we'll develop a nice quality revenue stream.

Okay. Does that mean your basic customer base has changed then from the way you were going to market to the way you're going to market now...

Yeah.

...in that business?

We were participating in tenders with oil companies and competing with these service providers.

Okay.

We're going to flip that around and we're going to enable the service providers with our technology and let them go participate in the tenders.

Okay, okay. And so you'll be competing then with the groups more like the Schlumberger or you'll be selling to, I'm sorry, more the Schlumbergers or the Halliburtons or others who are doing that type of work with the E&P companies?

Well. Yeah. Halliburton is not in the space and Schlumberger just announced they're exiting all acquisition services.

Okay.

But there are companies out there, there's a half a dozen Ocean Bottom Services companies out there and they will be our customers. They're our customers today.

Okay.

They're already our customers. All these guys run on our software to execute those surveys already. So this is just a natural extension and expansion of the offering to them.

Okay. Okay, great. Thank you for the explanation. Then, I think that takes care of most of my questions. Okay. Thank you.

Thank you.

Thanks, Phyllis. [Operator Instructions]

Our next question is coming from Garrett King of Truffle Hound Capital. Please go ahead.

Hi, good morning.

Good morning.

I just had a question about the color you gave regarding the next quarter as in line to slightly exceeding. Given that the backlog has increased about 15% year-over-year, and the other indicators that you mentioned that were looking positive, is there something I'm missing regarding why Q1 shouldn't be a little bit stronger?

No, not really. It's just really a hard one to call. I've been here for 12 years and I have seen Q1s all over the board. So I'm just absolutely gun shy. And I know that our customers are always scratching their heads at this time of the year trying to figure out what the budget allocations are going to be. So I just – I'd err on the side of caution.

Okay. Great. Thank you so much and congratulations on the quarter.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you. At this time I'd like to turn the floor back over to management for any additional or closing comments.

Well, thank you for taking the time to attend our conference call. And we look forward to talking to you on the next one.

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your participation. This concludes today's conference. You may disconnect your lines at this time and have a wonderful day.