corrected transcript


Jackson Hewitt Tax Service,


Inc.
 
JTX
 
Q4 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jun. 2, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the fourth quarter and full fiscal 2005


Jackson Hewitt Tax Service Inc. earnings conference call. My name is Jen, and I will be your


coordinator for today. At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. We will be facilitating a


question and answer session towards the end of today's conference. If at any time during the call


you require assistance, please press star followed by zero and a coordinator will be happy to assist


you. I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today's conference, Mr. David


Kraut, Senior Director of Treasury and Investor Relations. Please proceed, sir.


David Kraut, Senior Director of Treasury and Investor Relations


Good morning, and welcome to Jackson Hewitt's fiscal 2005 earnings conference call. I am David


Kraut, Senior Director of Treasury and Investor Relations. Joining me today are Michael Lister,


Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Mark Heimbouch, Chief Financial Officer. Earlier this


morning, we issued a press release announcing the financial results for the company's fourth


quarter and full fiscal year. You may access that press release and the slide presentation for


today's call at the Investor Relations section of our Web site located at www.jacksonhewitt.com.


Mike Lister will begin today by summarizing results for 2005, sharing insights from the past tax


season and highlighting areas of focus for next tax season. Mark Heimbouch will then provide


additional details on our financial results and capital allocation strategy. Following our prepared


remarks, we will leave sufficient time for questions. Please note that this presentation contains


forward-looking statements, including those relating to debt refinancing, implementation of a share


repurchase program, prepayment of senior notes, earnings projections and revenue forecasts, as


well as other statements that express the company's expectations, beliefs, plans and forecasts.


Such forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events or


results to differ materially from those expressed or implied. In addition, this conference call contains


time-sensitive information that reflects management's analysis, expectations and assumptions as of


the date of this live call. Jackson Hewitt does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-


looking statements or information made during this presentation. For further information concerning


issues that could materially affect financial performance related to forward-looking statements,


please refer to Jackson Hewitt's public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. This


call is open to the public and is being webcast simultaneously on our Web site at


www.jacksonhewitt.com. Additionally, the webcast will be available for replay on our Web site. The


information provided on this call is not disclosed in connection with an offer to sell or the solicitation


of an offer to buy a franchise. Any such offer or solicitation is made only through our uniform


franchise offering circular and only in jurisdictions where such offerings are lawful. Now let me


introduce Mike Lister.


Michael Lister, Chairman and CEO


Good morning, and thank you for joining us. I am pleased to speak with you today as we complete


our first year as a public company. It's been an exciting year for Jackson Hewitt, achieving record


revenues, record earnings and record cash flows. We delivered on targets in terms of revenues and


exceeded our targets on income from operations and earnings per share growth. As we enter into


the new year, we remain focused on growing the business and continuing to deliver shareholder


value. As David indicated, included on our Web site are several slides that I will refer to on today's


call. I will begin by referring you to page four of that presentation. Throughout the call today, we will


focus on four key areas.
corrected transcript


Jackson Hewitt Tax Service,


Inc.
 
JTX
 
Q4 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jun. 2, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


First, we will talk about our strong financial performance. Second, we will discuss some of our


insights from the past tax season, and then we will focus on – and also that when we will focus on


as we prepare for the coming year. Mark Heimbouch will then talk about our cash flow generation.


And finally, we will walk you through our strategy to deploy excess capital to drive shareholder


value. Moving to slide five, for 2005, we delivered record revenues, which on an adjusted basis


grew by 15%. Net income as adjusted grew by 38%, corresponding to diluted EPS growth as


adjusted of 37%. One of the underlying strengths of our franchise model is the strong profit margins


and the amount of cash that we generate. For the year, free cash flow as adjusted was $66 million,


or $1.75 per diluted share. We remain confident in the ongoing operating strength and cash flow


generation of our franchise model. In fact, I'm pleased to announce that the Board of Directors has


declared an increase in the quarterly dividend from $0.07 to $0.08 per share, payable on July 15,


2005 to shareholders of record as of June 28, 2005. Moving to slide number six, the biggest driver


behind the success of the business is tax return growth. As you can see, since 1999, we've grown


the business by a compounded growth rate of 16%, nearly 2 million customers. At a time when the


total number of individual tax returns filed with the IRS has grown by a compounded annual growth


rate of less than 1%, and paid preparer market has grown at a compounded growth rate of 3%.


We've been successful at growing market share through this period.


Now please turn to slide number seven. Our key performance metrics continued to improve in


2005. We continued to drive strong location growth. Franchisees gained momentum during the


season, growing significantly faster than the industry, increasing tax return volumes and gaining


market share, while also increasing revenue per tax returns. We also achieved strong growth in


financial product penetration rates, which further contributed to strong revenue growth. Before I


share some observations about the tax season, it is important to again review the levers of the


business. So please turn to slide number eight. As you can see, growth in 2005 of 50% in revenue


growth, attributed to revenue per return growth of 7% and new locations at 5%, was above prior


year rates. Same-store sales of 2% and growth from conversions and acquisitions of 1%, on the


other hand, were below the rates we've seen in the past two years. Looking more specifically at tax


return growth, tax returns in the franchise side of the business actually grew at a higher rate of


6.7%, again a clear indication of the strength of our franchisees who were successful at building


their business despite the slow start to the tax season. And although same-store sales growth at


2% was lower than expectations, it still continued to outpace the market. Next, I will share four key


observations from last tax season, so please turn to slide number nine. First, as we explained


before, there was a delay in the distribution of W-2s this season. This delay impacted the entire


industry, as evidenced by the IRS being down in tax returns at the end of January. It resulted in a


compressed tax season, and also created a capacity constraint that primarily affected our new


customer growth. Same-store sales growth was also impacted. Average tax returns per location


declined by about 5% to 605 returns. This decline was experienced regardless of the age of the


offices, and was primarily the result of lower than expected performance in the early season. Now,


notwithstanding the slow start and its effects, we finished the early season with approximately 4%


tax return growth, again outpacing the industry. Second, the overall tax market improved in the late


season, and we were successful in leveraging key assets to drive growth.


Major factors leading to our strong growth in March and April included relationships with retailers


such as Wal-Mart, which tends to attract a broader customer base including the late season filer.


For the entire 2005 tax season, the number of tax returns that we filed in Wal-Mart locations grew


by 14%. In addition, several of our other initiatives were key contributors to our growth in the


second half of the tax season, including our enhanced marketing relationships with NASCAR and


the Pro Bowler's Store, our expanded employer benefits programs focusing on both national and


local level, and our franchisees' targeted local marketing efforts. Third, as you are also aware, there


was industry-wide location growth this past tax season. Notwithstanding this increased competition,


in markets where franchisees continued to invest in new locations, we continued to see strong


growth in both new and existing locations. This demonstrates that our strategy works and that we


continue to grow in a competitive environment. Moving forward, we will continue to work with our