corrected transcript


Jackson Hewitt Tax Service


Inc
 
JTX
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 23, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Cal l St re et .co m • 21 2. 9 3 1. 65 1 5 •
 
Co p yr ig ht © 2 00 4 C al l S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Third Quarter 2005 Jackson Hewitt


Tax Service Conference Call. My name is Ann Marie and I'll be your coordinator for today. At this


time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. We will be facilitating a question-and-answer session


towards the end of today's conference. If at any time during the call you require assistance, please


press "*" followed by "0" and a coordinator will be happy to assist you.


I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today's call, Mr. David Kraut, Senior


Director of Treasury and Investor Relations. Please proceed sir.


David Kraut, Senior Director of Treasury and Investor Relations


Good morning and welcome to the Jackson Hewitt Tax Service Third Quarter Fiscal 2005 Earnings


Conference Call. I am David Kraut, Senior Director of Treasury and Investor Relations. Joining me


today are Michael Lister, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Mark Heimbouch, Chief


Financial Officer.


Last evening, we issued a press release announcing the financial results for the Company's third


fiscal quarter. You may access that press release at the Investor Relations section of our website


located at www.jacksonhewitt.com. Mike Lister will begin by briefly summarizing the results for the


quarter, and updating you on our early season tax business. He will also highlight some areas of


focus surrounding our marketing efforts this tax season. Mark Heimbouch will then provide a more


detailed review of the Company's financial results. Mike will then return to discuss expectations for


the remainder of the tax season. Following our prepared remarks, we will leave sufficient time for


questions.


Let me just remind you that this presentation will contain forward-looking statements including


estimates of full fiscal year performance, as well as, other statements that express the Company's


“expectations,” “beliefs,” “plans,” and “forecasts”. Such forward-looking statements involve risks and


uncertainties that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from those expressed or


implied. In addition, this conference call contains time sensitive information that reflects


management analysis, expectations, and assumptions as of the date of this live call. Jackson


Hewitt does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking


statements to reflect future events, information or circumstances that arise after the date of this call.


For further information concerning issues that could materially affect financial performance related


to forward-looking statements, please refer to Jackson Hewitt’s public filings with the Securities and


Exchange Commission. This call is open to the public and is being webcast simultaneously on our


website at www.jacksonhewitt.com.


Additionally, the webcast will be available for replay on our website. The information provided on


this call is not disclosed in connection with an offer to sell, or the solicitation of an offer to buy a


franchise. Any such offer or solicitation is made only through our uniform franchise-offering circular,


and only in jurisdictions where such offers are lawful. Now, let me introduce Mike Lister.


Michael D. Lister, Chairman, President, Chief Executive Officer and Director


Good morning and thank you for joining us. The third quarter marks the beginning of our first tax


season following our IPO. For the 2005 tax-filing season, we had more franchisees and more
corrected transcript


Jackson Hewitt Tax Service


Inc
 
JTX
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 23, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Cal lS tr e et. co m • 21 2 .9 3 1. 65 1 5 •
 
C op yri gh t © 2 0 04 C a l l Str ee t
 
2


offices ready to meet the demands of our customers. I’ll walk you through the third quarter and then


later update you on our progress and expectations for the year.


As indicated in our press release, revenues were $73.2 million for the quarter as compared to $59.5


million for the same period last year. We reported net income of $17.5 million or $0.46 per diluted


share versus net income of 11.4 million or $0.30 per diluted share.


In a few minutes, Mark Heimbouch will review our results for the quarter. But first let me update you


on some of the drivers of the first part of our tax season. Based upon our results through January


31st, we believe the tax industry got off to a slow start this year. While there has been a lot of


speculation, the IRS is yet to provide formal results on the progress of the season. As has


historically been the case, we would expect the IRS to provide filing information with respect to the


tax season within the next week or so. Meanwhile, two pieces of our own internal analysis support


the view of a slow start. First, we’ve seen W-2s from some of the largest employers in the country


coming later this year as compared to the prior year. And second, on a year-to-date basis when you


adjust the results for the third quarter to exclude the impact of the additional weekday at the end of


January, tax returns were actually down for us compared to the prior year. However, we’ve seen


good growth in the business for the month of February and therefore expect our year-to-date return


growth through the end of February to be 3% to 4% on a day-over-day basis.


To update you on our drivers, on our last conference call, we indicated that we expected our total


offices to grow by 450 to 500 stores. The number of offices actually increased by 10%, bringing our


total to 5,447 and they prepared 1.1 million tax returns during the third quarter. Territory sales also


met expectations. For the nine months ended January 31st, we recognized 202 territory sales,


which is in line with our historical three-year average.


Now, let me take a moment to discuss our marketing. The execution of our marketing strategy


continues to focus on our core customer. The early part of our media campaign saw increased


reach and frequency in our local and regional television, radio, outdoor, and transit advertising, as


well as, direct mail with a message focused on speed in filing and the receipt of funds. Continuing


to grow our second half of the season, we’ve now turned our marketing focus to a more appropriate


later season message of expertise in identifying credits and deductions for customers along with


electronic filing.


We also broaden our reach and exposure opportunities through our sponsorships of NASCAR and


the Professional Bowlers Association Tour, which help us to promote our brands, products, and


services to the millions of loyal sports fans.


And finally, let me update you on our separation from Cendant. We completed most transition


agreements with Cendant during the third fiscal quarter and are now predominantly operational on


our own financial systems and infrastructure. Remaining relationships for which we rely on Cendant


and which we continue to evaluate include the sublease of our corporate headquarters in


Parsippany, as well as, data center management capabilities and ongoing telecommunication


services. We expect to address these issues during the 2006 fiscal year. With that, let me now turn


it to Mark Heimbouch.


Mark L. Heimbouch, Chief Financial Officer and Director


Thanks Mike. Good morning. I’ll provide a more detailed financial review of the third quarter. As


indicated, revenues for the third quarter increased by 23% as compared to the same period last


year. Adjusting to exclude for other financial product revenue of approximately $800,000 from the


prior Santa Barbara Bank & Trust Agreement, revenue would have grown by 21% and net income


would be $17 million or $0.45 per diluted share. I’ll now walk you through three primary drivers for