raw transcript


Jackson Hewitt Tax Service,


Inc.
 
JTX
 
Q2 2006 Earnings Call
 
Dec. 1, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day ladies and gentlemen. And welcome to the 2006 Second Quarter Jackson


Hewitt Tax Service Incorporated Earnings Conference Call. My name is Minotia [ph] and I will be


your coordinator for today. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the presentation over to


your host for today, Mr. David Kraut, Vice President of Treasury and Investor Relations. Sir, you


may proceed.


David Kraut, Vice President Treasury and Investor Relations


Thank you. Good morning and welcome to the Jackson Hewitt Tax Service Second Quarter Fiscal


2006 Earnings Conference Call. I am David Kraut, Vice President of Treasury and Investor


Relations. Joining me today are Michael Lister, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Mark


Heimbouch, Chief Financial Officer. Earlier this morning we issued a press release announcing the


financial results for the company's second quarter of fiscal 2006. You may access that press


release at the investor relations sections of our website located at www.jacksonhewitt.com. Mike


Lister will begin by summarizing results for the second quarter and will provide insight for the


coming tax season. Mark Heimbouch will then review some financial highlights for the quarter.


Following our prepared remarks we will leave sufficient time for questions.


Please note that this presentation contains forward-looking statements including those relating to


operating and financial as well as other statements that express the company's expectations,


beliefs, plans and forecasts. Such forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that


could cause actual events or results to differ materially from those expressed or implied. In addition


this conference call contains time sensitive information that reflects management's analysis,


expectations and assumptions as of the date of this live call. Jackson Hewitt does not undertake


any obligation to update any forward-looking statements or information made during this


presentation.


For further information concerning issues that could materially affect financial performance related


to forward-looking statements and the company's risk factors, please refer to Jackson Hewitt's


annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2005 and it's other public filings with


the Securities and Exchange Commission. This call is open to the public and is being webcast


simultaneously on our website at www.jacksonhewitt.com. Additionally the webcast will be


available for replay on our website. The information provided on this call is not disclosed in


connection with an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy a franchise. Any such offer or


solicitation is made only through our Uniform Franchise Offering circular and only in jurisdictions


where such offers are lawful.


Now let me introduce Mike Lister.


Michael D. Lister, Chairman, President and CEO


Thanks, David. Good morning and thank you for joining us. I'd like to begin by briefly reviewing


key financial results for the second quarter and the first six months of the year. I'll then provide


some insight for the coming tax season. For the second quarter we reported total revenues of $9


million as compared to $7.4 million in the same period last year. We reported a net loss of $11.3


million or 31 cents per share as compared to $10.7 million or 29 cents per share in the same prior


year period.
raw transcript


Jackson Hewitt Tax Service,


Inc.
 
JTX
 
Q2 2006 Earnings Call
 
Dec. 1, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


For the first six months of the year we reported total revenues of $15.1 million as compared to


$16.2 million in the first six months of last year, and a net loss of $24.5 million or 67 cents per share


as compared to $22.2 million or 59 cents per share. Through November we've repurchased 2.5


million shares of our common stock, returning $61 million to shareholders. The share repurchase


program combined with our quarterly dividends paid to shareholders resulted in a return of capital


to shareholders of $75 million since our IPO, representing a pay out of 150% of our 2005 net


income.


Now I'd like to share with you some insights for the coming tax season. This year we enhanced our


efforts to help franchisees better prioritize investment within their neighborhoods to drive growth.


We've provided franchisees with stronger tools including retail data, demographic data and


population trends, as well as publicly available competitive data to help them identify the best


growth opportunities. In selected markets we've even taken a limited amount of our own capital to


provide financing to new office locations.


Our franchisees have embraced the tools and information we provided them in their continuing


efforts to be more convenient to their customers and recognizing the opportunity to leverage


multiple locations. As a result of these efforts we're expecting to add approximately 650 new


franchise and company-owned offices this coming year as compared to a net increase of 549 new


offices last year. This will bring the number of Jackson Hewitt offices operating this coming tax


season to over 6,100. This represents an average of two offices per territory, moving us towards


our long-range target of three offices per territory.


While our franchisees continue to focus on developing existing territories, equally important to our


growth strategy is our sale of new territories to new and existing franchisees. As reported in our


press release, in the second quarter we sold 81 territories as compared to 75 in the second quarter


last year. Through the first 6 months of the year we sold 133 territories as compared to 140 over


the same period last year. Approximately 72% of territories sold this year were to existing


franchisees, which is consistent with prior years. We believe this is an important measure of


success because it reinforces that franchisees believe in the business model and are re-investing in


new territories. We're on track to meet our targets of selling approximately 200 new territories this


year.


With taxes rapidly approaching our franchisees have already begun reaching out to new and


existing customers. This ground level campaign reinforces the value of Jackson Hewitt products


and services and has the impact of driving customers through our doors. Each year we strive to


enhance the products and service offerings to our customers. We've also expanded our


partnerships to include 2 of the largest W2 providers allowing us to deliver an increased number of


individual W2s directly into our preparation software from thousands of employers as soon as the


W2s are available. The W2 downloads allow us to prepare customer's tax returns faster than


having to wait for W2s to arrive in the mail.


This service along with our proprietary interview based profile or software allows us to focus on our


customer in very specific ways. For example our unique deductions-at-work program gives tax


preparers the ability to enhance the tax preparation interview process with very specific questions


based on approximately 40 of the most common occupations to help identify more deductions and


credits that apply to those customers.


In addition, to better serve the many taxpayers who are without traditional banking relationships we


have expanded check cashing options with our network of banks and retailers that now includes


Wal-Mart to provide inexpensive, convenient and necessary service to many of our core customers.


We continue to evolve our marketing strategy to emphasize local and regional marketing delivering


key messages to our core customer and reinforcing our value proposition to attract new as well as


retain existing customers.