corrected transcript


Jackson Hewitt Tax Service,


Inc.
 
JTX
 
Q1 2006 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 25, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Cal lS tr e et. co m • 21 2 .9 3 1. 65 1 5 •
 
C op yri gh t © 2 0 05 C a l l Str ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Jackson Hewitt Tax Service First


Quarter 2006 Earnings Conference Call. My name is Ann Marie, and I will be your coordinator for


today. At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. We will be conducting a question-and-


answer session towards the end of today's conference. [Operator Instructions]. I would now like to


turn the presentation over to Mr. David Kraut, Vice President of Treasury and Investor Relations.


Sir, you may proceed.


David Kraut, VP, Treasury and Investor Relations


Thank you. Good morning, and welcome to Jackson Hewitt's first quarter fiscal 2006 earnings


conference call. I am David Kraut, Vice President of Treasury and Investor Relations. Joining me


today are Michael Lister, Chairman, and Chief Executive Officer; and Mark Heimbouch, Chief


Financial Officer.


Earlier this morning, we issued a press release announcing the financial results for the Company's


first quarter of fiscal 2006. You may access that press release at the Investor Relations' section of


our website located at www.jacksonhewitt.com. Mike Lister will begin by summarizing results for the


first quarter, and highlighting areas of focus for the upcoming tax season. Mark Heimbouch will then


review the quarterly results in more detail, and discuss the implementation of several financial


initiatives from this past quarter. Following our prepared remarks, we will leave sufficient time for


questions.


Please note that this presentation contains forward-looking statements including those relating to


operating and financial plans, as well as other statements that express the Company's expectation,


beliefs, plans, and forecasts. Such forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that


could cause actual events or results to differ materially from those expressed or implied. In addition,


this conference call contains time-sensitive information that reflects the management's analysis,


expectations, and assumptions as of the date of this live call. Jackson Hewitt does not undertake


any obligation to update any forward-looking statement or information made during this


presentation.


For further information concerning issues that could materially affect financial performance related


to forward-looking statements and the Company's risk factors, please refer to Jackson Hewitt's


annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2005, and its other public filings with


the Securities and Exchange Commission. This call is open to the public and is being webcast


simultaneously on our website at www.jacksonhewitt.com. Additionally, the Webcast will be


available for replay on our website. The information provided on this call is not disclosed in


connection with an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy a franchise. Any such offer or


solicitation is made only through our uniform franchise offering circular, and only in jurisdictions


where such offers are lawful.


Now, let me introduce Mike Lister.


Michael D. Lister, Chairman, President, and CEO


Thank you, David. Good morning, and thank you for joining us. 2005 was a record year for Jackson


Hewitt, and we intend to leverage that success for 2006. Following last tax season, we began


executing our plans for the coming year, and currently have a number of significant initiatives
corrected transcript


Jackson Hewitt Tax Service,


Inc.
 
JTX
 
Q1 2006 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 25, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Cal lS tr e et. co m • 21 2 .9 3 1. 65 1 5 •
 
C op yri gh t © 2 0 04 C a l l Str ee t
 
2


underway. I will walk you through those initiatives, but first let me briefly review the key financial


results for the first quarter.


As you know, Jackson Hewitt typically reports a loss in the first and second quarters of each year,


as our business is highly seasonal with revenues primarily earned in the January through April time


period. We reported total revenues of $6.1 million as compared to $8.8 million in the first quarter of


last year, and a net loss of $13.2 million, or $0.35 per share, as compared to $11.4 million or $0.30


per share. In conjunction with our debt refinancing, we reduced total debt from $175 million at April


30 to $110 million at the end of the first quarter.


Focused on driving growth for the 2006 tax season, we have put in place several major initiatives.


One is to enhance our efforts with franchisees to increase their investment in under-penetrated


territories. Approximately one-third of the country's territories are still available for sale. And of the


territories that have already been sold, approximately 75% operated at less than our desired target


of three offices during the past tax season. Even with our successful growth to over 5,400 offices


around the country last year, we were still not easily accessible to many potential customers. We


view increased convenience through the opening of additional strategically located offices as a key


opportunity for us to increase our customer base. As a franchisor, we can help drive this new office


growth with limited corporate capital investment, and we are taking several steps to more


aggressively pursue this opportunity.


First, by utilizing more sophisticated planning and mapping tools to analyze both internal and


external market data, we are helping our franchisees gain a more comprehensive understanding of


the opportunities in their own markets, including expansion within their territories where we have


identified the highest potential for customer growth. Second, we are helping franchisees better


manage their working capital needs, and obtain capital for reinvestment through arrangements we


have made with several financial institutions to offer financing alternatives to our franchisees. This


initiative has taken the form of personal introductions to our largest franchisees, to our own banking


partners, as well as separate bank-sponsored financing program for our general franchisee


population.


We have also implemented our own financing incentives to encourage investment in new offices by


existing franchisees in selected markets. This initiative is underway, and is anticipated to drive tax


return growth. We continue to market new territories with a dedicated sales force located


throughout the country. Our expectation for the sale of new territories in fiscal 2006 remains


consistent with prior years at approximately 200. Throughout the year, we will update you on our


progress on territory sales, and during our next conference call, we will update you on our office


growth plans.


On the company-owned side of our business, we anticipate continued improvement in operating


performance. We've built upon last year's success with further organizational changes, such as the


realignment of the local and regional management structure. These changes will provide greater


operating efficiencies as we grow tax returns, and leverage resources in existing markets. Although


our revenue is primarily earned over four months, the work of our employees and franchisees occur


year-round. For example, franchisee training began in June during our national convention, which


was attended by over a 1,000 people, and was followed with more than 40 regional training


sessions held throughout the country, and two separate meetings with our largest franchisees.


During this quarter, we will continue to provide training to our franchisees and their staff at another


40 regional meetings, 3 separate training sessions for new franchisees, a training conference for


the general managers of our franchise offices, as well as host our national advisory committee of


representative franchisees. All of these efforts allow us to continue to articulate our tactics to build


growth in 2006. So with that, let me now turn it over to Mark Heimbouch.