raw transcript


James River Coal Corp.
 
JRCC
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 8, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, everyone and welcome to the James River Coal Company Third Quarter


Earnings Results Conference Cdall. This call is being recorded. At this time, for opening remarks


and introduction, I would like to the call over to the Director of Investor Relations, Ms. Beth Cook.


Ma'am, please began.


Beth Cook, Director of Investor Relations


Thank you and good morning. Welcome to James River Coal Company's third quarter earnings


call. We released our earnings today before the market opened and our current release is posted


on our website and it was furnished to the SEC on our Form 8-K. With me today on the call are,


Peter Socha, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Sam Hopkins,Vice President and Chief


Accounting Officer; C K Lane, Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer and Jim Ketron,


Vice President and General Counsel. Before we begin this morning, I need to remind you that this


conference call contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Securities


Laws. Forward-looking statements include all statements, estimates, projection, expectations, or


predictions of our future events. Reliance should not be placed on forward-looking statements


because they involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties which may cause the actual


results, performance or achievements of the company to differ materially from anticipated future


results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.


These risks and uncertainties are detailed in the company's filings with the Securities and


Exchange Commission. The company disclaims any obligation to update any of the forward-looking


statements contained here in to reflect future events or developments. Now, I will turn the call over


to Peter Socha.


Peter Socha, Chairman, President & CEO


[indiscernible] on Kentucky today, last time we were in Blacksburg, Virginia today, we are in


Pipeville [ph]. We have in the room today, we have nine of our senior Mine Operations Managers,


we have the presidents of all of our mining companies. We have been going over five-year mine


plans for each of our both current mines as well as the projected mines, and we have been putting


the finishing touches on our 2006 budget. In the interest of time, I won't go around the room and


introduce everyone, but I do hope that when we get to the Q&A session, that some of these


gentlemen could give you their insights into both Central App mining and in the Illinois Basin


mining.


In keeping with past practice, I have a few general comments followed by more specific comments


about cost, sales contracts, Mine 15, our growth projects and labor. In general, James River Coal


Company continues to have the foot on the gas tunnel. We believe that we are in a growth sector of


Central App mining, that we have a great number of growth opportunities in front of us and we are


putting our foot on the gas pedal to develop those opportunities and to put the people and the


resources in place for future growth and development. We are making decisions and taking actions


today, yesterday and today actually, that we expect to increase our production and lower our


normalized cost of mining coal on the future. This past quarter was a very – I would characterize it


as a very, very busy quarter for this company. Most of the things that were going on we expected,


there were a couple of things that did not, that we did not expect and I will cover those in just a


moment. We expected Mine 15 to open in September smoothly, relatively smoothly. It did. We


expect the Commissary, our new surface mine at Blue Diamond to open relatively smoothly. It did.


We expected a quite of bit of noise in our mining costs during the quarter. Just in any given quarter


when you open two new mines you are going to have mining costs that are a little bit noisy. We got
raw transcript


James River Coal Corp.
 
JRCC
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 8, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


the noise. We expected our average sales price to be a little bit lower than would normally be the


case.


As we talked about last year, and we talked about a little bit earlier this year, we believe that when


we have a contractual commitment with our customers to ship coal within a given year that we will


ship that amount of coal within that given year. The third quarter and early on the fourth quarter are


important periods for us to make sure that those contractual commitments are honored. And that


can have a negative impact on our average sales price. On the other hand, we go into 2006 with


little or no carryover tons. That is not the case throughout the industry, but it is certainly the case


with James River. We expected the trains to run a little bit better later in the quarter than they did at


the beginning of the quarter. If you all remember from previous discussions at the beginning of the


quarter over the minor holiday, the railroad shuts down for what they called the Jamberry [ph] which


is pretty much a total shutdown and they do their maintenance. They did that this year and they got


caught up later in August and September.


We expect the turnover to take up a little bit during the quarter. It is summer time, it is typically


when people will change jobs this year with the increase in gasoline prices, there was a fair amount


of movement of people as they were looking to relocate to mines that were closer to their home,


and that was expected. I think we have got as many people as we lost, but that did increase our


turnover a little bit. We expected to add net reserves, in both Central App and the Illinois Basin


during the quarter. As you may have seen in the press release, we added a significant amount of


reserves in Central App and we added a marginal amount in Illinois, although I will speak more


about that in just a moment. Those are a couple of the things that we expected. There were a


couple of things we didn't expect. We didn't expect to see price spikes in so many of our raw


material inputs. CK and I had a Board meeting a couple of weeks ago and we laid up to the Board


what the twelve month increases were on a number of raw materials that we put into our mines. In


most cases it was double digits and in one or two cases it was triple digits. So, we didn't expect


that. We did not expect when we opened Commissary we had 10 open positions and which is now


14. We since went up to 14 positions. We didn't expect to get a 121 applications, we got


applications from some of the best surface mining people in Central App and we were truly able to


hire an A team. We didn't expect that level of response. We did not expect to be able to recruit and


retain and those are two very important terms, recruit and retain, so many young men into under


ground mining positions. We have been able to do that, we have been able to do it very


successfully. We have also been able to move them into some of the skill positions that are


required in coal mining. That has a short term cost, but we think it has a very, very significant long-


term benefit to our company. Again the recruiting and the retention is very important.


Let me address cost, first, as we discussed during the conference call in August, we expected our


cash mining cost for the third and fourth quarter to have a quite bit of noise. The noise would be


due to opening two new mines during the third quarter at our ongoing prep plant projects to


upgrade and to increase the efficiency of those plants. During the preopening and opening stages


for Mine 15 at McCoy Elkhorn and the Commissary surface mine at Blue Diamond we have


incurred significant additional expenses. During that period, not everything is capitalized. There is


just a significant amount of things that you buy better expenses as they are incurred. At McCoy


Elkhorn, we talked about it all of this week, we carried about 60 people extra on the payroll in our


cost structure. We also kept a very high cost mine opened during that period in order that we would


have experienced miners going into Mine 15, it doesn't mean that all of the men from that high cost


mine were going to Mine 15 because we did quite a bit of shuffling, but it does mean that when


Mine 15 was ready we had trained and experienced miners ready to go in there and that in fact did


happen. The high cost mine was closed down, it was closed down two weeks ago. So, we are no


longer incurring that expense. At the Commissary surface mine at Blue Diamond, we had about 10


people who were spending a great deal of time constructing haul roads [ph], drainage ditches and


were getting ready to mine coal. They were locating equipment that was needed and they were


relocating supplies and purchasing supply. This was all before they mined a single pound of coal.