corrected transcript


Lannett Co., Inc.
 
LCI
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 9, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Lannett Company Fiscal


2010 First Quarter Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we


will conduct a question and answer session. Please note that this conference is being recorded.


I will now turn the call over to Mr. Robert Jaffe. Mr. Jafee, you may begin.


Robert Jaffe, Senior Vice President, PondelWilkinson Inc.


Thank you, operator. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us today to discuss


Lannett Company’s fiscal 2010 first quarter financial results. On the call today are Arthur Bedrosian,


President and CEO; and Keith Ruck, Chief Financial Officer.


Please be advised that this conference call is being broadcast live on the Internet at


www.lannett.com. A playback of this call will be available for three months and may be accessed on


the Internet at Lannett’s website.


I would like to make the cautionary statement and remind everyone that all of the information


discussed on the call today is covered under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Litigation Reform


Act. The company’s discussion today will include forward-looking information reflecting


management’s current forecast of certain aspects of the company’s future, and our actual results


could differ materially from those stated or implied.


This afternoon Arthur will review the company’s business highlights, then Keith will discuss the


financial results for the quarter in more detail, followed by Arthur making some concluding remarks.


We will then open the call for questions.


With that said, let me now turn the call over to Arthur Bedrosian. Arthur?


Arthur P. Bedrosian, J.D., President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Robert, and good afternoon, everyone. The economic environment continues to post


challenges for the American industry, but I’m pleased to report that Lannett had solid performance


in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. Our solid performance was a result of strong sales of Lannett’s


key products, specifically thyroid and pain management products.


We also benefited from our adherence to current good manufacturing practice standards, which


helped us capture market share from our competitors and enabled us to deliver important


medications to the marketplace. It is during these times that our strict adherence to high standards


of manufacturing is absolutely imperative. There is no room for error when it comes to delivering


the highest quality products to our customers.


During the quarter, the FDA completed its cGMP, that’s current Good Manufacturing Practice


compliance inspection of our Cody Laboratories subsidiary.


Cody is a manufacturer and supplier of bulk active pharmaceutical ingredients and finished dosage


form products. The two-week long FDA inspection resulted in two minor 483 observations, neither


of which prevents Cody from continuing to manufacture products and both of which have already


been remediated. The positive inspection results are a key step in clearing the way for FDA


approval of our pending application for Hydromorphone tablets as well as future product


applications.
corrected transcript


Lannett Co., Inc.
 
LCI
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 9, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


As we discussed in the last earnings call, we were able to secure the FDA’s help in resolving an


issue over our quota with the DEA favorably. We have helped FDA alleviate shortages in Digoxin


tablets, oxycodone and morphine sulfate oral solution. Working hand-in-hand with our regulators is


not without its attendant frustrations, but we continue to be proactive in our relationship.


Before I turn the call over to Keith, I’d like to welcome back Bill Farber. Bill has resumed his role as


the company’s Chairman of the Board after taking a leave of absence for health reasons. I’d also


like to note two changes to our management team.


We named Keith Ruck as Chief Financial Officer on October 2009. Keith has served as our interim


CFO since April and became a great asset to our team. He has an extensive financial background


and expertise in identifying key areas in – key areas to enhance operating efficiency.


We also named Stephen Kovary as our Vice President of Operations in September 2009. Stephen


is an industry veteran who brings a depth of breadths – excuse me, breadth of operations, plant


management, and manufacturing experience to our company to replace our former colleague who


retired. We are excited about these appointments and believe they will enhance the performance of


our company in the years ahead.


With that, I’d like to turn the call over to Keith for an overview of our first quarter financial


performance. Keith?


Keith R. Ruck, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Arthur, and good afternoon, everyone. For the fiscal 2010 first quarter ended


September 30, 2009, net sales rose 23% to 31.4 million, compared with 25.6 million in the same


period for fiscal 2009. Net income increased to 2.9 million or $0.11 per diluted share compared with


a net income of 1.2 million or $0.05 per diluted share for the prior year.


Gross profit increased to 11.5 million, compared with 9 million in the same period in the prior year.


R&D expenses were 3 million versus 1.9 million in fiscal 2009. The increase in R&D expenses is


mostly related to an increase in the number of drugs in development. SG&A expenses decreased


to 3.8 million from 4.9 million for the prior year, primarily related to a reduction in legal fees.


With that brief financial overview, I’d now like to turn the call back over to Arthur. Arthur?


Arthur P. Bedrosian, J.D., President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Keith. Our first quarter performance is a result of hard work and dedicated employees


who tirelessly focused on quality and integrity. We’re off to a good start in fiscal 2010. We continue


to seek out opportunities to grow and enhance our business and further differentiate ourselves as a


leader in the generic pharmaceutical industry. As always, I’d like to thank our customers,


employees, and shareholders for their continued support.


With the time available, we would like to address any questions you may have operator. Operator?