corrected transcript


Lannett Co., Inc.
 
LCI
 
Q3 2011 Earnings Call
 
May 11, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Welcome to the Lannett Fiscal 2011 Third Quarter Financial Results Conference Call.


My name is John and I’ll be your operator for today’s call. At this time, all participants are in listen-


only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session.


I will now turn the call over to Mr. Robert Jaffe, Investor Relations for Lannett.


Mr. Jafee, you may begin.


Robert Jaffe, PondelWilkinson Inc.


Thank you, operator. Good afternoon, everyone and welcome to our fiscal 2011 third quarter


financial results conference call. On the call today are Arthur Bedrosian, President and CEO; and


Keith Ruck, Chief Financial Officer.


Please be advised that this conference call is being broadcast live on the Internet at


www.lannett.com. A playback of this call will be available for three months and may be accessed on


the Internet at Lannett’s website.


I would like to make the cautionary statement and remind everyone that all of the information


discussed on the call today is covered under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Litigation Reform


Act. The company’s discussion today will include forward-looking information reflecting


management’s current forecast of certain aspects of the company’s future and our actual results


could differ materially from those stated or implied.


This afternoon, Arthur will review the company’s business highlights, then Keith will discuss the


financial results for the quarter in more detail, followed by Arthur’s concluding remarks. We will then


open the call for your questions.


With that said, let me now turn the call over to Arthur Bedrosian. Arthur?


Arthur P. Bedrosian, J.D., President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Robert, and good afternoon, everyone.


As all of you saw in our third quarter news release, a number of factors, which were out of our


control impacted our financial results. More specifically, our top line and margins were affected by


price declines on certain key products, the temporary discontinuation of our Morphine Sulfate Oral


Solution product, limited quota from the DEA for our Oxycodone Hydrochloride Oral Solution and a


lack of product approvals due to the FDA backlog.


Unfortunately, the lack of product approvals can and did undermine our sales of our existing


products. This is because we were not able to exploit the sales of our new products to our existing


customer base. Also without newly approved products, our sales people are largely left defending


our existing market share rather than growing market share.


New generics are the life blood of our industry, and they allow us to leverage our sales calls and be


more efficient. While we have no control over the FDA delay in approving our products, we continue


to strengthen our operations, invest in R&D and seek out branding opportunities that will enhance


revenue.
corrected transcript


Lannett Co., Inc.
 
LCI
 
Q3 2011 Earnings Call
 
May 11, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


Looking ahead, our antibiotics supplemental and application for methicillin-resistant staphylococcus


aureus has been filed with the FDA. And a C-Topical 505(b)(2) application will not be filed this fall


as the FDA is requiring additional clinical work before the application can be approved.


We have identified a currently marketed product for branding, and have begun discussions with two


potential firms, both with a direct sales force to market the product for us. This will be our first


branded drug product.


Also we have 17 product applications pending at the FDA, which is a large number of applications


for a company of our size. Some of these product candidates present larger market opportunities


than we previously filed for. Since we have no reason to believe otherwise, we continue to


anticipate that several of our drug applications, including our New Drug Application for Morphine


Sulfate Oral Solution, will soon be approved.


With that, I would like to turn the call over to Keith for an overview of our financial results.


Keith R. Ruck, Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Arthur, and good afternoon, everyone.


For the fiscal 2011 third quarter ended March 31st, 2011 net sales were $25.9 million compared


with $31.3 million for the third quarter of last year. Gross profit was $5.3 million, compared with


$10.4 million of the same period in the prior year.


Research and development expenses decreased to $1.9 million from $3.4 million in the fiscal 2010


third quarter. Sales, general and administrative expenses declined to $4.3 million from $4.4 million


in the same quarter of the prior year.


Net loss attributable to Lannett was $362,000 or $0.01 per share, compared to net income


attributable to Lannett of $2.1 million or $0.08 per diluted share for the prior-year third quarter.


Turning briefly to our results for the first nine months of fiscal 2011, net sales were $81.3 million


compared with $91.4 million for the comparable period of fiscal 2010. Gross profit was $19.6 million


compared with $30.0 million for the same period in the prior year.


R&D expenses decreased to $5.6 million from $9.1 million in the first nine months of fiscal 2010.


Sales, general and administrative expenses decreased to $11.8 million from $12.2 million in the


same period of the prior year.


Net income attributable to Lannett was $1.6 million or $0.06 per diluted share compared with $5


million or $0.20 per diluted share for the first nine months of the prior year.


Turning to the balance sheet, as of March 31st, 2011, cash, cash equivalents and short-term


investment securities were approximately $22.8 million. And long-term debt, including the current


portion, decreased to approximately $3.0 million at March 31st, 2011 from $7.7 million at June 30th,


2010 after paying off the $4.5 million PIDC Torresdale Avenue facility loan in December.


We have negotiated a set of mortgages on our new Townsend Road facility with both Wells Fargo


and the Pennsylvania Industrial Development Authority. The Wells Fargo portion of the loan is for


$3.1 million, bears a floating interest rate of the one month LIBOR rate plus 2.95%, amortizes over


a 15 year term, and matures in eight years. The PIDA portion of loan is for $2 million and is


expected to bear a 3.75% interest rate and mature in 15 years. Both loans are expected to close


shortly.