Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Robert Jaffe — Public Relations and Communications Consultant and Contractor, Robert Jaffe Co., LLC
Arthur P. Bedrosian — President, CEO, Director & Head-Investor Relations, Lannett Co., Inc.
Martin P. Galvan — Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer & VP, Lannett Co., Inc.
Sumant S. Kulkarni — Analyst, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc.
Steven Crowley — Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC
Rohit G. Vanjani — Analyst, Oppenheimer & Co., Inc. (Broker)
Scott R. Henry — Analyst, ROTH Capital Partners LLC
Dan D. Trang — Analyst, Stonegate Securities, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to the Lannett Announces Fiscal 2014 First Quarter Financial Results Conference Call. My name is Vanessa, and I'll be your operator for today's call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. Please note that this conference is being recorded.

And I will now turn the call over to Robert Jaffe, Investor Relations for Lannett Company. You may begin.

Thanks, Vanessa. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us today to discuss Lannett Company's fiscal 2014 first quarter financial results. On the call today are Arthur Bedrosian, President and CEO, and Marty Galvan, Chief Financial Officer. This call is being broadcast live on the Internet at www.lannett.com. A playback will be available for three months and is accessible on Lannett's website.

I would like to make the cautionary statement and remind everyone that all of the information discussed on today's call is covered under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Litigation Reform Act. The company's discussion will include forward-looking information reflecting management's current forecast of certain aspects of the company's future, and actual results could differ materially from those stated or implied.

This afternoon, Arthur will provide a brief overview and Marty will discuss the financial results for the quarter in more detail, followed by Arthur's concluding remarks. We'll then open the call for questions.

With that said, I will now turn the call over to Arthur Bedrosian. Arthur?

Thanks, Robert, and good afternoon, everyone. Today I have the pleasure of reporting another quarter of record financial results. Our positive momentum continued into our fiscal 2014 first quarter with net sales increasing 30% to $46 million from $35 million in the first quarter of last year and excluding a charge related to the contract extension with Jerome Stevens Pharmaceuticals, our first quarter adjusted net income of $6.7 million or $0.22 per diluted share was significantly higher than expectation.

Primary drivers for our outstanding first quarter performance was a combination of strong sales of existing products, a favorable product mix and price increases on key products. I'm pleased to report that we believe these positive trends will continue throughout fiscal 2014. Accordingly we have raised our guidance for fiscal 2014 which Marty will address in more detail shortly.

With that brief overview, I'd like now to turn the call over to Marty to review the financials in more detail. Then I'll provide an operational update and we'll open the call to questions. Marty?

Thank you, Arthur, and good afternoon, everyone. As Arthur mentioned, we are off to a strong start in fiscal 2014. For our first quarter, net sale rose 30% to $45.8 million from $35.3 million in last year's first quarter. Net sales for our largest product category, thyroid deficiency, grew to $20 million, or 44% of our total net sales. Our two other largest categories, pain management and cardiovascular, had net sales of $5.2 million and $4.5 million, respectively, representing 11% and 10% of our total net sales respectively.

As to net sales are our remaining categories: antibiotic was $3.4 million, or 7% of total net sales; migraine was $2.7 million or 6%; gout was $2.0 million, or 4%; glaucoma was $1.5 million or 3%; gallstone was $1.4 million equal to 3%; obesity was $1.1 million or 2% and other represented $4.0 million or 10% of our total net sales.

As previously announced, we issued 1.5 million shares with our common stock in connection with the signing of a contract extension with Jerome Stevens Pharmaceuticals to continue as the exclusive distributor in the United States of three of their products. As a result, cost of sales for the fiscal 2014 first quarter included a non-recurring pre-tax charge of $20.1 million related to this contract extension.

Continuing with the remainder of the income statement and for completeness and comparative purposes, I will provide both GAAP and adjusted amounts for gross profit, operating income and net income.

Gross profit on a GAAP basis was $1.3 million or 3% of net sales. Excluding the JSP contract renewal charge, gross profit was $21.4 million or 47% of net sales. This compares with last year's first quarter gross profit of $13.6 million or 39% of net sales. This improvement reflects an eight percentage point increase.

Research and development expenses increased to $4.7 million compared with $3.8 million. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased to $7.2 million, compared with $6.2 in the same quarter of the prior year. Operating loss reported in accordance with GAAP was $10.6 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2014. Excluding the JSP contract renewal charge, operating income more than doubled to $9.5 million from $3.7 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2013.

For the fiscal 2014, first quarter GAAP and net loss attributable to Lannett Company was $6.0 million or $0.20 per share. Adjusted net income, which excludes the impact of the JSP contract renewal charge equaled to $12.7 million after-tax, was $6.7 million, or $0.22 per diluted share. This compares with fiscal 2013 first quarter net income attributable to Lannett Company of $2.9 million, or $0.10 per diluted share.

Adjusted diluted earnings per share is based on approximately 30.7 million weighted average common shares outstanding. Last year's first quarter included a favorable pre-tax litigation settlement of $1.3 million, equal to $0.02 per diluted share.

Our balance sheet at September 30, 2013 remained strong with cash, cash equivalents and investment securities of $45.8 million. This amount does not include the $71.5 million of net proceeds related to our stock offering which was completed subsequent to quarter-end.

Now, turning to our guidance for fiscal 2014 full year. As Arthur noted, we have raised our guidance for the year due to anticipated strong sales of our existing product portfolio and improved gross profit resulting from favorable sales mix and price increases.

It is important to note that our guidance for fiscal 2014 does not include the impact of the Jerome Stevens contract extension which we expensed in the first quarter of fiscal 2014. With that said, we expect net sales in the range of $245 million to $255 million, up approximately 35% from the previous guidance of $181 million to $186 million.

Gross margin as a percentage of net sales of approximately 57% to 59%, up 15 percentage points from 43% to 44%. R&D expense in the range of $27 million to $29 million, up from $24 million to $26 million in the previous guidance. SG&A expense ranging from $35 million to $37 million, up from $28 million to $30 million, and the full year effective tax rate to be in the range of 36% to 38%, up from the previous guidance of 34 to 36%.

Weighted average common shares outstanding for fiscal 2014 to be approximately 35.4 million, the increase reflecting the impact of the recently completed public offering of 4.3 million shares. Regarding our quarters in fiscal 2014, we expect a significant increase in net sales and EPS in Q2 versus Q1 and anticipate modest sequential growth in net sales and EPS through the remaining quarters.

Capital expenditures in fiscal 2014 are expected to be in the range of $28 million to $32 million unchanged from previous guidance. The outlook includes $20 million with a purchase in partial fit out related to a new facility.

In our last earnings call, we announced how we entered into an agreement to purchase a building in Philadelphia. However, we're currently exploring alternate expansion sites due to an unresolvable issue that arose during our diligence.

With that I will now turn the call back over to Arthur.

Thank you, Marty. I could not be happy with our financial performance and the progress we have made growing our company. As I've mentioned before, we continue to step up our product development initiatives with products that we believe can generate more revenue and higher margins than we have typically experienced historically.

Accordingly, our current pipeline includes 58 product applications pending at the FDA and an additional 58 products in various stages of development which is a significant increase from just a few months ago.

We submitted our first Paragraph IV ANDA filing which has now passed the time for the innovator company to file suit, and additional Paragraph IV candidates are in the later stages of development.

We continue to await approval of our oxycodone hydrochloride solution, which we expect in the third quarter of fiscal 2014.

We continue to lay the groundwork to expand our detailing effort for our C-Topical Solution product and are finalizing a contract that will add at least 10 additional sales representatives over the next two quarters. We expect to commence our Phase III clinical trial in January and the target date for our new drug application submission remains December 2014.

Regarding our ANDA for thalidomide we've successfully passed both the fast and fed bio-equivalency studies and is on track for FDA filing in the third quarter of fiscal 2014.

Last month, we successfully closed on a public offering of 5.9 million shares of our common stock. The offering included 4.3 million shares offered by the company with the remaining shares offered by certain selling shareholders of the company. We received net proceeds of approximately 71.5 million and intend to use those net proceeds for potential acquisitions, strategic partnerships and general corporate purposes.

We continue to evaluate several potential acquisition candidates. Our team is looking at products as well as companies that are a strategic fit and accretive to our business. We're extremely pleased with our first quarter results and excited about the opportunities that lie ahead. We look forward to reporting on our progress and we're grateful to the 345 employees of Lannett Company.

Marty and I'd now like to address any questions you may have. Vanessa?

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Sumant Kulkarni with Bank of America-Merrill Lynch.

Good evening. Thanks for taking my questions. The first one is on your significant topline guidance increase, could you perhaps break that out into how much of that is related to price increase versus other things.

Increasing the guidance, probably a significant portion is the price increases that we've talked about previously, that have now really hit us in a beneficial way.

And how sustainable do you think those are especially because a large competitor could potentially return on the thyroid product sometime in the calendar first quarter of 2014.

I believe you are referring to the innovator, one of the innovator companies. We don't really expect them to return to the market and if they did we would expect them to have to put a detailing effort behind that innovator brand name because without it all the products have been switched to other companies now. So they have to regain their market. I see that as an uphill battle for them quite frankly. So we are not concerned about the remainder of this fiscal year with regards to that product.

I have one more before I hop back into the queue. On your gross margins, how sustainable are they beyond the fiscal year?

That's hard to, but I would believe they are sustainable, because we are not expecting any changes that we anticipate at this point. But we are in a commodity business, so it's always hard to determine when you are going to get additional competition or when prices will erode as they generally do.

Thanks.

Okay, thank you.

And our next question comes from Steven Crowley with Craig-Hallum Capital

Good afternoon gentlemen and congratulations and wow fantastic performance?

Thank you very much, Steve.

In terms of the phenomenon leading up to your price increase, or right after you announced price increases. There is buy-in period in which customers can buy-in at least some of them at prior prices. I assume given your guidance most of that's already been reflected and you are now in the new paradigm?

That's correct. The number of contracts that we have with certain customers that they can avail themselves, starting the notification about any price increases. That's all been concluded now.

Excellent. Now in terms of some of your efforts in the pain management space, in terms of C-Topical and how it has been performing in the limited number of geographic markets where you've been detailing. Can you talk to us about those efforts and how quickly you can bring on this contract sales force and see I guess a positive reaction to those efforts?

The contract sales organization is actually engaging and hiring people at the moment. So we're all moving along on that. We would expect that they'll be fielded on to the marketplace by January and as far as whether we will see an uptick, we're starting to find that the marketplace really wants and desires this particular product, recent organization of ear, nose and throat surgeons, actually recommended the use of the product for surgery.

So we believe just by merely getting the product in to the formulary of those hospitals that discontinued the powder version of this product and letting the surgeons know that this product's available if they want to use it in their practice will bring an uptick in the performance of the sales of this product that will continue. As you recall our product has been selling well without any really effort on the part of the company to detail it. We had two people in the test market. We found the results to be strong enough that we felt that we increase that number to – up to 20 people that we would see a significant uptick and our goal now is to get that out there quickly, and we are planning to maybe even increase the additional 10 to an additional 18 people. So, we have the full complement of 20 sales reps in the marketplace this year by our fiscal year end I'm talking about.

And in terms of your guidance increase, did it include any changed assumptions in the performance if C-Topical at this point, or if you're going to revise. Well, I guess that's the question, were there any positive revisions yet to C-Topical in your guidance change?

Yes, Steve. This is Marty. So, on the guidance at this stage, we have not put in anything significant for that uplift with the detailing effort.

Okay. And then one more from me, I'll hop back in the queue in terms of Cody and its effort to provide more of your API needs. What can you tell us Arthur about progress in objectives as we stay in here today?

I need to be cautiously optimistic. Let's say that they look carefully leading all their goals and objectives for the fiscal year ending June 30. So I'm expecting to receive fourth additional APIs then we could start to use and they seem to be on track to deliver them. So, currently, I think everything is working well there at the moment.

Great. Thanks for taking my questions.

Okay. Thank you.

And our next question comes from Rohit Vanjani with Oppenheimer.

Hi, guys. Thanks for taking the questions. Congratulations on the quarter. So just a couple of modeling questions. What happened to the amortization of intangibles and product royalties lines. Is that absorbed somewhat.

We – it's in cost of goods sold at this stage.

Okay.

It's only three more quarters of it left and – but for this fiscal year we've moved it up on to – into that number.

Okay. And then is there a tax adjustment to the reported 4.242 million because of the JSP agreement?

Well, there isn't an adjustment, I mean, there is a – you know, when we talk about adjusted EPS and GAAP EPS, the 4, the negative 4242...

Yeah.

That's a GAAP number. So if you want to go to the adjusted number, once you pull out the chart, your adjusted number would be, your adjusted number would be 3202.

3202, okay. Okay, that's what I was after. And then on the price increase for digoxin, have you gotten any push back from formularies or anything like that? I mean, do you see that, I am assuming it's a Tier 1 product, is that right?

It's a Tier 1, did you say Tier 1 product?

Yeah, it's preferred tearing or its, you know, they look the lowest tearing in a formulary plan because it's a generic, I am guessing that's probably the case, is that true?

No, I wouldn't say, I don't know when you say lowest, I am just not sure whether I'm understanding the question right way. The brand products are usually the ones that are preferred by surgeons let's say, and then everybody reimburses from prescriptions they prefer the generic because they have to pay for it.

We still see a tremendous use of generics for this product. We don't see that changing. We do see a decline overall in the market for the Digoxin, brand and generic because the physicians that are prescribing this to new patients, these are the products that continually used on older patients, are those who already been placed on the product. And I'm presuming that because the kind of heart failure that the older people had is not the same that they are experiencing, as you know, they have made a lot of strides in preventing heart attacks. So the decline of the Digoxin in prescription volume continues every year.

However, we've been successful in benefiting from the difficulties of our competitors who have left the market and as a result, our market share has continued to grow. We've had a recent price increase on the product as well because we are now only one of two people in the market. And as a result, I expect that product to do very well. We do believe some of the other competitors may come back into the market. We're anticipating that, but we're not expecting any particular difficulties with the product because they have to face their – the ASUs and make sure that their products, when they are reintroduced in the market are not going to cause any harm. This is a very serious drug. It's a Narrow Therapeutic Index Drug, and has been allegations again some of those companies with the obese tablets that they have caused the deaths of some people. So this is a serious drug for these companies to reintroduce. So I believe the FDA will be scrutinizing those companies very carefully. So I don't see any particular issues in that particular product going forward except a general decline in prescription volume.

And maybe I didn't ask it right. I was more asking about the -- so I understand everything that you said, and I agree with it. But I was just asking more of the formularies. Have you seen any formulary pushback because of the – I think it's more than five times price increase? Have you seen them...

No. That is...

Okay.

No, you never would because their alternative is to go to the brand and the brand significantly raised their price.

I just wanted to make sure that didn't to a worse tiring for you guys because of that pricing.

No. We are still 50% of the brand price in the marketplace. So...

Right.

... the alternative is to use my product or pay more and use the brand.

That's right.

They're still saving a significant amount of money and we have to face the increased cost of doing business that the FDA's going to be expecting from us when those stability studies going in effect the product development and the additional commercial batches. So these price decreases that are going on in the industry, I think they're going to stick for all the companies.

Okay. And then the last question for me and this again is on the guidance. If that reflective so our future price increase is also reflected in your guidance or its only the price increases that you have right now on Levo and Digoxin there primarily include in there along with – with the quarterly beat that's in there?

Yes, Rohit. We had some of the price increase on Levo and Digoxin there. They are in the guidance. We've been a little bit on the conservative side in our outlook for the year only because this is the earlier days of the increase, particularly on Digoxin. So there is some of the price increases in the guidance, yes.

Okay. Thanks for taking the question from us. Congrats again.

Thank you.

And we have our next question from Scott Henry with ROTH Capital Partners.

Thank you. And good afternoon guys. Certainly very strong numbers. Just a couple of questions, I apologize Marty, but could you just give me the pain, cardiovascular and thyroid numbers again, I want to make sure I had them correct.

I only just find that – page. And which one did you want, Scott, I'm sorry.

The big three, pain, cardiovascular and thyroid.

Right. So pain is $5.2 million, cardiovascular is $4.5 million and thyroid was $20.0 million.

I guess the next question and I don't know if you want to give this granularity or not, but as we look at the revenue guidance, it would seem that it's heavily dependent on thyroid and perhaps cardiovascular, could you give any color on what kind of magnitude, I guess thyroid is probably a little easier to ballpark given Q1, but how should we think about that cardiovascular section?

Well cardiovascular is a section there is two products there. First of all, it's the generic Dyazide product which we launched in December of 2011, and the other piece of it is the Digoxin product. So as far as modeling it, it's to decide on the part of the – on your part to how much the price increase that's out there right now, to what extent it will hold and for how long. But it is the Digoxin price increase that would have a significant impact on the cardiovascular category.

Okay. And I think that's certainly fair. And then we would expect some incremental I guess in the thyroid as well, but it seems like digoxin will be more notable in Q2, it doesn't seem like that had really any effect in Q1, is that fair?

Yes.

Yes, that's fair.

Okay. And I notice antibiotics and migraines were trending pretty strong as well, anything going on there timing or just simply better trends there?

No we expect those to continue to grow in the marketplace as well, both of them.

Okay. I guess another is kind of strategy question and particularly relevant these days is the tax rate 36% to 38% is certainly pretty painful to stomach, any thoughts on ideas to bring that down in the long-term? It certainly takes time, but would you look at it trying to get assets overseas or different avenues to get that number down?

Being like having another party in Boston where they threw cases of steal over board. That is sort of problem for all the companies. We have looked at that. Marty and I interviewed some people that were very expert in that particular area and we are exploring those possibilities. We understand what we need to do to qualify and it's not something we can resolve right away unfortunately, certainly not this year. But we are actively looking to do something about that tax rate. It does pain us to know that some of our bigger competitors are paying rates that are 12 to 14% below what we are paying.

Okay. Certainly, makes sense, something to follow. And just quickly on the pipeline, is the Cocaine Topical marketing that you are going to do -- did I hear -- do you say that that launch would be in January?

Yeah. Physically the sales people on the road in January and we will be tracking their progress from January on. The recruiting and training is all going on right now. And we've had some success in finding additional base to train them on, because apparently the recent organization of ear, nose and throats – I don't have the exact proper name handy, but I can get it to you by email, actually endorsed the use of this product. Not C-Topical, not by brand name, but the use of Cocaine Topical for ear, nose and throat surgery and as a result we expect a lot more physicians looking for information on that and we are now training the staff to reflect that information. It's a very promising aspect. We didn't expect it, and we discovered it when we attended a recent meeting of the ear, nose and throat surgeons in October. So this is...

Okay. Great. And then...

... a great drug.

Okay. We'll look forward to that. And then it looks like the other cocaine topical trials are on track. The thalidomide filing – did – I was juggling some things earlier. Have you filed that product yet?

No. That's – the bio studies are done. We're assembling the application, as we speak, and it should not go into – it should go in there next quarter.

Okay. So in Q1 or in Q4?

No, at our Q – well, we're past Q1 – in our Q3 at the latest.

Okay.

We're a little unsure. Well, we'll get it in by December. So let's say, for sure, Q3 with the agency.

Okay. Thank you. That's helpful. And then I thought I heard you mention that you did submit your first Paragraph IV. Can you give us any comments about the market size for that product? How we should think about that?

Yes. That one was – it's a little over $200 million in the marketplace. There is two other competitors in the market as we were not sued by the innovator company and the patent holders.

So once we get the product approved, we have clear sailing. But that product is at the agency now. But it is being reviewed, as we speak, and we've already received some comments on it. So we know that application should get approved. Remember on the GDUFA, they're supposed to do things quickly. And that was a GDUFA application.

Okay. Great. Well, thank you for taking all of the questions, guys.

Okay. Thank you, Scott.

Thank you, Scott. [Operator Instructions]

Our next question comes from Dan Trang with Stonegate Securities.

Hi guys. Thanks for taking my call. Congratulations on the latest quarter.

Thank you, Dan.

Regarding the capital raise of $71.5 million, can you give any light as far as breakdown is what you are going to spend on or kind of timeframe around that?

Yes, well we were looking and continue to talk to three potential acquisition candidates. Our concern in the spring of course was that if we concluded any one of these transactions we have to estimate what the cost would be to us and we felt we didn't have enough money to conclude a transaction, especially if any one of the sellers wanted to cash out and since these were second generation companies there was that possibility.

So as a result we certainly needed to raise money, so that if they go through it allowing us to acquiring them, we wouldn't have the problem of Dan having to go out applying the money and may be not being successful. So having the money handy, puts us in a better position to do some or all the acquisitions presuming all of them we were not going to want to cash out, but if they did we estimated we might need $260 million. We only had projected $50 million by June 30, so we have to do something and raising equity was one of the choice, selling equity of course was one of the choice.

Now we are closer and discussing one of the transitions a little more in more detail, but again just we are not married yet or engaged, It's a very early stage, but we are hoping one of them will agree to merge with us and acquire them and then we will start to show you, that's really the bulk of why we wanted that money for. It wasn't for anything else other than really acquisitions that we needed it for.

We are looking at some product licenses. We made some offers to one of the larger generic competitors that liquidating about 30 ANDA and we've put in a bid there. And that was in the substantial, let's say teens of millions, the offer was. So we certainly knew that we are going to need money to acquire licenses. We would need money to do acquisitions and those were the drivers behind that raise.

Okay. Thank you.

You are welcome.

And we now have a follow-up question from Sumant Kulkarni with Bank of America-Merrill Lynch.

Thanks for the follow-ups. What level of new product launch activities have you built into this fiscal year other than oxycodone?

We have the anorexia prospects, we talked about. We have the cytotoxic drug we expect it around February. We have another product, a pain product at the age two expected this year and the fifth product escapes my recollection. So we are expecting five products to be approved by June 30 of 2014. And in a small degree, they are in some of our numbers. But we tend not to make any projections until we get the approval.

And this is a bigger picture question, all the stars seem to be aligning in good way for the company, but what keeps you up at night in terms of risks?

In terms of risks, I will be frank with you, nothing. I don't see any – we have so many pokers in the fire pace that any one product or any one thing really not going to harm this company. Would we be as successfully as we are today as we sitting here, no, of course, not, but we would be far ahead where we use to be regardless of anything terrible happening. We are cautious. We have a lot of concerns about facilities, we have you know we make sure with complying with FDA requirements. We always try to stay ahead of those things so we don't have to worry about them. And quite frankly those are the things I worry about in that sense. I worry that I'm not ahead of the curve as of now when it comes to compliance.

You know, we have a lot of government agencies that regulate us and we always try to make sure we're ahead all of them. And so far, knock wood, we have maintained a very good compliance record. But I worry about never being compliant enough. It's a tough environment we're in, and the FDA is getting very tough on all companies during their normal inspections. Nothing that we can't handle, but it certainly makes me stay on my toes, let's say.

But I really have to admit, there is really nothing that we worry about here. The company yes, it's a perfect alignment. A lot of things we've been saying would happen, happened finally. And it's good. And some of them happened, coincidentally, with other good things happening. For example, the company is a strong company, but having price increases on some of our products wasn't anticipated. So certainly that was beneficial to us. But I don't really see anything significant on the horizon that could cause us any pain, quite frankly. We're still conservatively run. We're still careful how we spend money. We still realize we're in a commodity business. While we're enjoying the success of the company, it's not getting to our heads in anyway.

Thanks.

Thank you.

And we now have a follow-up question from Rohit Vanjani with Oppenheimer.

Hi, guys. Thanks for taking my follow-up. Along those lines, just had a question on that Form 483 observations. I think you sent the resolutions in mid-August. Have you received the response from the FDA or is there an exit interview expected in near timeline? Or when do you expect the conclusion of that?

No, unfortunately, with their furlough -- they were part of the furlough, so they lost a lot of time and this district is very busy. So we don't really know when they're going to come around. We've tried to anticipate that and contact them, but they don't know themselves when they're going to be able to follow up. We do believe our responses were very strong though and there wasn't much room for controversy as we were following up on all agreements we made. So if they were to come in for an exit interview, they'll find everything we told them we're going to do we've undertaken to do or completed already.

Okay. Just wanted to make sure. Thanks.

Okay. Thank you.

And we have no further questions at this time. I will now turn the call over to Mr. Bedrosian for closing remarks.

Well, thank you again for joining us today. We are always available to answer further questions and we look forward to reporting on our continued progress on our next call. Thank you, everyone.

And thank you, ladies and gentlemen. This concludes today's conference. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.