Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Roger S. Pondel — Chief Executive Officer, PondelWilkinson, Inc.
Arthur P. Bedrosian — President, CEO, Director & Head-Investor Relations, Lannett Co., Inc.
Martin P. Galvan — Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer & VP, Lannett Co., Inc.
Dana Flanders — Analyst, Canaccord Genuity, Inc.
Steve F. Crowley — Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC
Scott R. Henry — Analyst, ROTH Capital Partners LLC
Dan Trang — Equity Research, Stonegate Securities

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to the Investor Relations for Lannett Conference Call. My name is Lesley, and I'll be your operator for today. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. Please note that this conference is being recorded.

I'll now turn the call over to Mr. Roger Pondel. Mr. Pondel, you may begin.

Thanks, Lesley, and good afternoon. everyone. Thank you for joining us today to discuss Lannett Company's fiscal 2013 third quarter financial results. On the call today are Arthur Bedrosian, President and CEO, and Marty Galvan, Chief Financial Officer. This call is being broadcast live on the Internet at www.lannett.com. A playback will be available for three months, accessible on Lannett's website.

I would like to make the cautionary statement and remind everyone that all of the information discussed on today's call is covered under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Litigation Reform Act. The company's discussion will include forward-looking information reflecting management's current forecast of certain aspects of the company's future, and actual results could differ materially from those stated or implied.

This afternoon, Arthur will provide a brief overview and Marty will discuss the financial results for the quarter in more detail, followed by Arthur's concluding remarks. We'll then open the call to questions.

So, with that said, I will now turn the call over to Arthur Bedrosian. Arthur?

Thanks, Roger, and good afternoon, everyone. As you are probably aware, today we reported excellent results for our fiscal third quarter. In fact, we generated record net sales and net income. The momentum we achieved in recent quarters continued and we significantly improved our operating performance in all major areas of measurement.

For the third quarter, net sales rose significantly up 27% over the prior year period to $39 million. Operating income doubled to $4.7 million and net income declined to $3.9 million.

The quarter exceeded our expectations, which is why we preannounced preliminary results last week. I want to take this time to thank our entire team for their hard work, long hours and extraordinary achievements. With our press release today, we also announced that we are increasing our guidance for the fiscal year and Marty will provide the details. Marty will review our financial performance in detail momentarily.

The growth we achieved in the quarter reflects solid sales in our base products and growing market penetration from our more recently approved products. Our gross margin was positively impacted by favorable sales mix and price increases as well as enhanced manufacturing efficiencies related to incremental sales volume.

With that brief overview, I would like now to introduce our CFO Marty Galvan to review the third quarter financials in more detail. Then I will provide an operational update and we'll open the call to questions. Marty?

Thank you, Arthur. And good afternoon, everyone. As Arthur mentioned, we posted excellent fiscal third quarter financial results. Starting with the top line, net sales increased 27% to $39.0 million, from $30.7 million in last years fiscal third quarter.

I want to note that the sales growth for the most recent quarter was achieved despite essentially no sales of oxycodone for which we soon expect FDA approval with our ANDA. We had approximately $700,000 of oxycodone sales in last year's third quarter.

Net sales for our largest product category, thyroid deficiency, grew to $14.0 million or 36% of our total net sales. Our two other largest categories, cardiovascular and pain management, had net sales of $7.0 million and $5.0 million, respectively, representing 18% and 13% of our total net sales, respectively.

As to net sales of our remaining categories, antibiotic was $3.5 million or 9% of total sales, gallstone was $1.4 million or 4%, obesity was $1.1 million equal to 3%, migraine was $1.3 million or 3%, glaucoma was $1.6 million or 4%, gout was $1.8 million or 5% and other represented $2.4 million or 6% of our total net sales.

Gross profit for the fiscal 2013 third quarter rose significantly to $15.2 million from $10.9 million for last year's third quarter. As a percentage of net sales, gross margin rose to 39% from 35% for the fiscal third quarter of last year. The increase was primarily due to favorable sales mix and price increases along with enhanced manufacturing efficiencies related to our higher sales volume. Strict cost control also was an important contributor.

Regarding operating expenses, R&D expense rose to $5.2 million from $2.9 million a year ago. As we discussed in previous earnings calls this fiscal year, the increase is due to our significant incremental investment in R&D in order to drive future growth. However, we now expect Q4 R&D expense to be in the range of $4.0 million, less than we previously anticipated, primarily because some of the planned expenses for fiscal 2013 we now expect to be incurred in the first half of fiscal 2014.

SG&A amounted to $5.2 million, down slightly from $5.6 million for the same quarter of last year. Operating income increased sharply to $4.7 million from $2.4 million for the comparable quarter last year.

The effective tax rate was 25% compared to 38% for the third quarter last year. The decrease was primarily due to the reinstatement of the R&D tax credit, retroactive to January 1, 2012, which was recorded in the third quarter. An increase in incentive stock option exercises also provided additional tax benefits during the quarter.

All these metrics resulted in net income attributable to Lannett of $3.9 million, or $0.14 per diluted share, compared with $1.7 million or $0.06 per diluted share for last year's fiscal third quarter.

Our balance sheet at March 31, 2013 remained strong with cash, cash equivalents and investment securities of $39.0 million.

As Arthur mentioned and as we stated in today's press release, we are revising our guidance upward for the fiscal 2013 full-year. We now expect net sales of $147 million to $149 million, up from the previous guidance of $140 million to $142 million; gross margin as a percentage of net sales of approximately 38% up from 36% to 37%; R&D expense in the range of $16 million to $17 million, down from $17 million to $18 million; SG&A expense ranging from $22 million to $23 million versus $24 million to $25 million; other income of approximately $2.0 million, essentially equal to the favorable litigation settlement the company reported in the first quarter, and year-to-date gains on investments; the full-year effective tax rate in the range of 35% to 37%; and capital expenditures in the range of $7 million to $9 million versus $10 million to $12 million in the previous guidance.

And with that, I will now turn the call back over to Arthur.

Thank you, Marty. We are pleased with the third quarter performance, the improvement in our stock price and the recognition by our shareholders of our achievements. As we have discussed for several quarters now, we are stepping up our product development initiatives with products that we believe can generate more revenue and higher margins than we have typically experienced in the past.

We have submitted our first Paragraph IV filing and additional Paragraph IV product candidates are in the latest stages of development. We are waiting our approval of our oxycodone hydrochloride solution, which we expect soon. Our Specialty Pharma division continues to lay the ground work that the expansion of our detailing of our C-Topical. We expect to sign a contract, which will add a number of sales person over the next two quarters and we are on track to the FDA filing by December 2013.

Our ANDA for thalidomide is on track for FDA filing in the fall. We were hopeful to file sooner, but faced delays in receiving an API for our commercial production of our exhibit batch. We have begun talks with a number of potential generic manufacturing candidates, which would add complimentary products that we believe would be accretive. We look forward to hopefully conclude a transaction with one or more of these firms.

Our current pipeline includes 15-product applications pending at the FDA and an additional 30 products in various stages of development. This is an exciting time for Lannett. In addition to our excellent financial results, we are developing a strong pipeline, making changes to our Board and investing in the company's future. We look forward to continuing to report on our progress.

Marty and I would now like to address any questions you may have. Operator?

Thank you. We'll now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Randall Stanicky with Canaccord Genuity. Please go ahead.

Hi thanks. This is actually Dana Flanders filling in for Randall. Thanks for the questions and congrats on the quarter. So first, Arthur, could you just give us an update on contract negotiations with JSP and potential timing on when we could see an agreement come through?

Yes, we have been having ongoing discussions with the Jerome Stevens Pharmaceutical Company, and I will be submitting to them a term sheet with regards to certain adjustments we plan to make to the agreement that we have in place currently that expires March of 2014, and I expect that we will conclude something shortly.

Okay. That's great. Thanks. And then second, I know last quarter you talked about some of the issue at Cody regarding product development, I was wondering if you could us an update on some of the progress made there and integration of that asset?

Well not much to say in one quarter in terms of the integration. But we are actively working closely with Cody and I'll have more to report in the next couple of quarters when we can see the integration actually taking root. But there is definitely a lot of movement in that direction and I do expect that the cooperation between the two companies will become more seamless than it has been in the past.

Okay. Great. And then regarding quota with the DEA, have you been having discussions regarding this calendar or where do that stand?

Well, we have discussions with them every calendar year besides the annual submission that we make in April for the next calendar year that we have to do every year. We also have ongoing discussions about additional quota or not receiving enough quota and going back for additional quota. And so far, at this point in time, there hasn't been any particular unusual delays with our quotas.

Okay. Perfect. And then just last question to wrap up. Can you give us some more color on the M&A front? I know you just gave some closing remarks regarding some companies that you are in discussions with. What sort of companies are those? What areas? And how close are we to potentially seeing a transaction? Thanks.

Okay. Well. First of all, they are all in the generic drugs space as we are. And they're all manufacturing businesses. And we've made some discussions I'd say that date back a few months with some, with others we're, you might say, at the earliest stages. But clearly, there are three transactions that we are looking at. And the size of the companies are modest compared to our size, certainly the type of acquisitions that would fit in nicely.

The companies bring product to the table that we don't currently have. A form of dosage form that, while we make for ourselves, they offer quite a larger portfolio of products in that dosage form. And I believe that the relationships will get stronger as we continue to court these companies.

At this point in time, there has been no due diligence, but there has been an interest on the part of one of the companies that was an overseas company to sell their U.S. subsidiary. However, that might – doesn't mean that we'll be the ones that acquires it, but that's a decision that apparently has been reached. And the other company – are privately health companies and we had some preliminary discussions with them. So, at this point, I really don't have much more to say than that.

Great. Thanks.

Okay.

Our next question comes from Steven Crowley with Craig-Hallum Capital. Please go ahead.

Good afternoon, gentlemen, and another round of congratulations on a great quarter.

Thank you.

In terms of a couple of things drilling down you gave us some nice granularity there, Marty, and a couple of things stood out to me and I'm hoping we might be able to get a little bit more color, for example, the antibiotic category, you seem to have quite a bit of success maybe on a little different scale than historical. What was that all about? Obviously, you're gaining market share or is that one of the areas where there was price increase?

Yes, Steve. Well, some of the favorable results you see in that particular category are the result of some market conditions where there have been some – there have been some shortages actually in the marketplace. So, one the opportunities that Lannett generally benefits from are from these circumstances. With a range of over 40 products, we're in excellent position to take advantage of shortages that to develop and this one instance where that has happened.

And in terms of the pain management category there was also some nice sequential and year-over-year growth there, I know that's part of your longer term strategy to drive that category, but this little bit of a pop was pre-oxycodone, was that a function of several products or one product in particular and is that the start hopefully of a trend? How would you characterize it?

I would say, some of the success, as you heard us talk, we perceive our C-Topical product to be a significant opportunity for Lannett going forward. And one of the primary drivers of that category in this third quarter sequentially was just the uptick in that particular, in the performance of that particular product. So that's what you're seeing.

Okay. Now you gave us some good guidance on research and development backing off temporarily here in the fourth quarter, before it goes north again in 2014. On the SG&A front, I'm trying to – you gave us some overall year guidance. It seems to allow for a jump in SG&A in fourth quarter, maybe with some of that commercialization that Arthur – additional investment and commercialization C-Topical that Arthur referenced, so we should think about a jump in the fourth quarter, I guess, of as much as maybe a $1 million or so. What are the variables in that equation that you're weighing?

The big driver in SG&A, that's separate apart from a run rate you might say is the expense that we're allocating or providing for a – for the detailing effort behind the C-Topical product. So as you recall in the three months ago in the guidance, we said, okay, we're going to forward with an expansion of that sales force. And we provided additional monies in our guidance for SG&A.

At this point in time though, we're seeing a bit of delay in that expansion and the guidance now, the reduction in the SG&A outlook for 2013 is because of just moving back a bit that expansion – the timing for it. So that's, I mean – but there is still money in the fourth quarter for it. So the uptick you see would be less then we had before, but there is still some in there for that.

Okay. And I would think on the – downtick in CapEx, is that really just the push-out also to next year and is there any preliminary look at what you might spend on the CapEx front next year?

No preliminary outlook that we can provide at this time, Steve, for that one, but the reduced CapEx in the fiscal 2013 is primarily timing like any company as we put forward, as we start a year we have a whole lot of – we're ambitious and have as many projects and just as the months go by, we're just not able to get everything we might like to think we're getting to.

So, a lot of those projects – probably the bulk of them will move into 2014, but conceptually the 2014 projects maybe move into 2015. So I think it is primarily timing, but for now for 2013 it will come in less than what we had previously guided to.

And then one more from me, which is, in terms of your revenue guidance the approach you took coming out of last quarter, so Q2, the December quarter, was you had a period where most things went well within the product mix. It looks like you had another one of those quarters. But your approach was to not assume that, that was a steady state condition. In other words, not everything would go well in the next quarter. And it looks like in the June quarter, the implication of your guidance is that revenue is likely to be a bit below the March quarter. Is that a function of that same exercise and process and conservatism or there are some things that are fairly certain to drop-off here in the fourth quarter?

I would say it's a bit of both, Steve, the guidance is such that you're right, the four quarters kind of looks like our first and second quarter closer to that second quarter. So, yes, three months ago we were saying the second quarter wouldn't be the new norm, and the guidance right now kinds of says, okay, the fourth quarter will kind of look like the second quarter. But the third quarter had some even better than the second performance to it, so sequentially it was up significantly, as you see. But there is a conservative aspect to our outlook for the fourth quarter.

But there is also a couple of business dynamics that we are aware of right now that we are not prepared to share on this call, but there is some business arrangements or things that help tell us or help our ability to forecast and it is, for those – for these business situations, we can expect – we should expect to see the sales drop off a little bit.

Okay. That's useful, thanks.

So, you know, there's both those factors in that fourth quarter outlook.

Thanks for the extra color and taking the questions.

Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

Your next question comes from Scott Henry with ROTH Capital.

Thank you, and good afternoon. I guess to start on the big picture. We've got three quarters down in fiscal 2013; I guess can you give us kind of some big picture outlook for 2014? I mean business is hitting on all cylinders right now, do you expect 2014 to be kind of a growth year just want to get any color that you can provide kind of from the top?

Well, first of all, it's bit early to be commenting on 2014. We expect to provide full year fiscal 2014 guidance on our next conference call. Having said that, I'll touch on a couple of key items that we'll be thinking about as we put together our outlook for fiscal 2014. First, we expect fiscal 2013 was much improved over fiscal 2012. The progress is largely due to strong sales of many of our traditional products, several new products gaining traction and opportunistic price increases and, of course, enhanced manufacturing efficiencies as well as a gain on the settlement of litigation.

Naturally the $0.03 gain is a non-recurring item. So regarding our very early outlook for 2014, the early indications are that we expect continued strong sales growth and anticipate the percentage increase in net sales to be in the high-single-digits to low-double-digits.

Regarding expenses in 2014, as you know, we have moved a significant amount of spending to 2014 that was originally planned for 2013. This has contributed to the higher-than-expected earnings per share for 2013. But the additional expense in 2014 has the effect of holding down earnings per share next year.

You may recall that we originally guided 2013 to be flat year-on-year with 2012. Now, we are thinking 2014 earnings per share maybe similar to 2013 earnings per share, but at a much higher earnings per share level than we were discussing a year ago. Hope that helps.

That is actually very helpful, Arthur. Thank you for that color. Now just drift into some of the specifics, certainly a new accomplishment getting a P4 filed, can you give us any color on that? Do you think you are first filer? Any thoughts on the market potential for that product, I mean obviously you don't want to give you a lot of color, but I just – I thought that was interesting, so...

Well, we haven't received our acceptance letter. So until we receive that we won't be able to put the innovators, the patent holder on notice. But the market opportunity for that I believe is in the $50 million range.

Okay. Thank you.

And I believe we are the first to file on it.

Okay. You said you believe you are the first to file.

Yes.

Okay. And a lot of R&D spend in the quarter. Any color on kind of what the bolus of that is for, I mean any projects specifically or just multiple things going on?

Well, the R&D – the expense – it's high in the quarter, because we do have some – we've talked a lot about the Phase III trial for C-Topical. So, the quarter does have a – that's causing the blip essentially as compared to the other two quarters of this fiscal year.

Okay. And then on the pain management franchise and I know I've asked you about this in the past, but there were some recent events on abuse resistance front they make abuse resistance, at least to me appear an appealing category going forward. Have you thought about how may incorporate abuse resistance into some other things you're doing at Cody and what are the opportunities there?

Yes. It's something we've been looking after sometime. So we were not surprised by this announcement from the FDA or just the opposite, we were expecting it. The good side to this, of course, is we're going to now have brand products introduced into this marketplace that was traditionally dominated by generic drugs. Now, all the companies that are coming out with their patented abuse technology platforms and introducing either new opiates like the Opana, the oxymorphone as opposed to the traditional oxycodone, the OxyContin formulas, I

believe you're going to see a greater opportunity in front of Lannett for these brands and at the same time the generic marketplace where most of the narcotics are currently in is also going to be open to us for our vertical integration.

So, we kind of benefit in two ways, we capture a share of the market for which we provide our own raw material and then we see the market growing in the brand area. Now what's exciting about that of course is the brands introduce these products at substantially higher prices than what typically generics sell for, which means, my profit margins going forward will be higher than I was anticipating. So, this just to me is additional good news.

On the issue with the abuse technology, really the biggest stumbling block, I would say, facing us at the moment isn't creating an abuse technology. It's really making sure that the ones we create and use in our products are not involved in patents that are pending at the Office, but not been approved yet. I'd hate to find out that a technology I developed and use and launched my product will get approved to be used in my product some that belongs to somebody who happened to file a patent on it.

So, we are considering as a result of that risk on some of the more [ph] vulnerable (28:38) products to possibly license existing patented technologies, so I don't have to worry about running across anybody who has a patent pending, but has not announced that formulation yet. So we look forward to this market as really expanding what were anticipating doing in that market with more opportunities for Lannett.

Okay. Great. Thanks for that color. Final question, the pricing environment has been pretty favorable for your product portfolio, and I would speculate that it's been pretty favorable for the levothyroxine franchise. Could you talk about, I mean, is the environment for pricing there? It's obviously good right now. Are you concerned that it may change in the near term or does it seem relatively stable, I guess, in an increasing price environment you would think it will be stable, but I am just curious if there is anything that I would expect to change that in the short-term?

Well, we're in the generic drug space. So for me to sit there and I'll tell you that we're not vulnerable to price declines would be foolish. However, with this particular drug there is some unusual aspects, the physicians and the patients have a lot of extra work in front them, every time they want to switch a patient to another product.

So even if another generic comes along and offers the product at a lower price, most of the customers have rights to first refusal. So the likelihood is I will not lose one customer. I conceivably could lose profit margins, but in the past when we've encountered competition from some generic brands or let's just say, are one-third the quality of the product that we sell, we've refused to match those prices and we've retained those customers.

Sometimes we'll make a bit of compromise, but we've never actually have to match a competitor's price on this product. And as a result because our product is never involved in recalls and we're a good supplier, actually a great supplier on the product, we're able to command a better share of the market and a higher price for our product. And I believe, while I expect there might be competition coming up, I really don't think it's going to have a major impact on us.

Okay. Great. Thank you for taking the questions.

You're welcome. Thank you, Scott.

Our next question is from Marco Rodriguez with Stonegate Securities. Please go ahead.

Hello, this is actually Dan Trang sitting in for Marco Rodriguez. Art, did you mention that there were no sales of oxycodone based drugs in this past quarter?

Yes, Marty did, yes, that's true.

Okay. Marty – okay. Could you give me some color as to why or...?

Well the FDA had asked us to – in exchange for withdrawing our grandfather product and filing an application they would expedite the application's approval process, so we agreed to stop marketing the product in the third week of October of 2012. Filed the ANDA prior to that, and we're expecting and we're promised an expedited review. At this stage, of course, I always hate to predict anything when it comes to FDA approval process, I am expecting it by the end of June in which case we'll re-launch the product.

Okay. And I knew that you mentioned that -- you expect to sign a contract in the next few quarters for C-Topical. Just wondering launch, how soon after that contract is signed would you expect to go to market?

Well probably within 60 to 90 days after they are put through some training. As you know there is lot of legal requirements for detailing brand products these days and with our brand experts we are certainly working with them to make sure that we don't run afoul of any of those regulations that are out there with regards to the physician contact and things like that.

So I would say that we'll start hiring and start training and after the end of the two quarters most likely we should have that sales force on the field month following. So within those two quarters we should start to see some of those people in the field, literally. We do have two people in the field currently, the original two of the test market we started last June. They are still on the payroll and they're continuing to do the work. We have been successful with that pilot study and that's why we decided to expand and increase the number of sales people out on the road.

Okay. All right. Thank you.

Okay. Thank you.

Thanks, Dan. [Operator Instructions]

I show no further questions at this time.

Okay. Thank you again for joining us today. We are always available to answer further questions. And look forward to reporting on our continued progress in our next call.

Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. This concludes today's conference. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.