corrected transcript


Lannett Co., Inc.
 
LCI
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
May 12, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. And welcome to the Lannett Company


Incorporated Third Quarter Fiscal 2009 Financial Results Conference Call. At this time, all


participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session.


Please note that this conference is being recorded. I will now turn the call over to Mr. Evan Pondel.


Mr. Pondel, you may begin.


Evan Pondel, Investor Relations, PondelWilkinson Inc.


Thank you very much. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us today to discuss


Lannett Company’s fiscal 2009 third quarter financial results. On the call today are Arthur


Bedrosian, President and CEO and Keith Ruck, Interim Chief Financial Officer. First some


housekeeping items before we start.


Please be advised that this conference call is being broadcast live on the Internet at


www.lannett.com. A playback of this call will be available for three months and may be accessed on


the Internet at Lannett’s website.


Before we begin, I would like to make the cautionary statement and remind everyone that all of the


information discussed on the call today is covered under the Safe Harbor Provisions of the


Litigation Reform Act. The company’s discussion today will include forward-looking information


reflecting management’s current forecast of certain aspects of the company’s future, and our actual


results could differ materially from those stated or implied.


With that said, let me now turn the call over to Arthur Bedrosian. Arthur?


Arthur P. Bedrosian, J.D., President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Evan, and good afternoon, everyone. I will begin with a brief overview of the quarter


and then turn the call over to Keith to provide a more detailed description of the financial results. I


will make some concluding remarks at the end of the call.


As the oldest generic pharmaceutical company in the United States, we have a long history of


manufacturing, marketing, and distributing a variety of prescription medications in tablet, liquid,


topical and capsule form.


Our experience bodes particularly well in this environment when many of our customers appreciate


the fact that our deep roots translates the high quality standards. Our third quarter results are


testament to Lannett’s commitment, drive and focus with strong sales of several key products as


well as our growth of our base business.


For example, looking at our top line growth, a significant percentage of sales came from


Levothyroxine indicated for the treatment of hypothyroidism and pituitary TSH suppression. I’d also


like to note that Lannett has maintained an uninterrupted and safe supply of Digoxin tablets to the


United States market.


Looking beyond the third quarter, we were pleased with the FDA’s decision last month to allow


companies, including Lannett, to continue to market morphine products, an important healthcare


need for patients suffering with pain. Even though these products constitute a relatively small


percentage of our total revenues, product safety is our number one priority no matter what product


we are manufacturing, distributing, or selling.
corrected transcript


Lannett Co., Inc.
 
LCI
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
May 12, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


With that, I would like to turn the call over to Keith Ruck. Keith?


Keith R. Ruck CPA, Interim Chief Financial Officer and Corporate Controller


Thank you, Arthur, and good afternoon, everyone. For the third quarter of fiscal 2009, net sales


grew 73% to 28.8 million from 16.6 million in the last year’s third quarter. Net income was 1.3


million or $0.05 per diluted share versus a net loss of 1.3 million or $0.05 per share in last year’s


third quarter.


Gross profit increased to $11.6 million or 40% of net sales compared with 3.9 million or 24% of net


sales for the prior year third quarter. Research and development expenses were $2 million


compared with 1.5 million in the same quarter of fiscal 2008. Selling, general and administrative


expenses were 7.5 million compared with 4.2 million in last year’s third quarter. The increase in


SG&A was largely due to legal expenses associated with litigation involving a patent challenge and


to a lesser extent severance costs related to the departure of an executive.


With that brief financial overview, I would now like to turn the call back over to Arthur. Arthur?


Arthur P. Bedrosian, J.D., President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Keith. This is an exciting time for Lannett, and I would like to thank our management


team and employees for doing an excellent job in building our robust product line and helping our


company grow. In particular, I want to acknowledge the excellent work of our Quality Assurance


Team. These professionals go above and beyond in making sure we manufacture high quality


products. Their attention to detail has allowed Lannett to capitalize on certain market opportunities


as some in our industry have experienced difficulties in cGMP that means current Good


Manufacturing Practice compliance.


I would like to briefly discuss the status of our search for a permanent CFO. We are in the process


of evaluating a number of highly qualified individuals, including Keith Ruck, our Interim CFO. We


currently expect to conclude the search and name a permanent CFO by the end of June.


We have accomplished a lot in the first nine months of our fiscal 2009 calendar, and we expect our


future performance to benefit from increased sales of our existing product lines, as well as our pain


management products due to the current market shortage. In addition, we have resolved all patent


litigation and as a result expect to see lower SG&A expenses beginning in the current fourth


quarter.


With the time available, we would now like to address any questions you may have. Operator?