Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Robert Jaffe — President, Robert Jaffe Co., LLC
Timothy C. Crew — Chief Executive Officer, Director, Lannett Co., Inc.
Martin P. Galvan — Vice President-Finance, Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer, Lannett Co., Inc.
Gregg Gilbert — Analyst, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc.
Dana Flanders — Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC
Andrew Finkelstein — Analyst, Susquehanna Financial Group LLLP
Elliot Wilbur — Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc.
Charlie Eidson — Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC
Gary Nachman — Analyst, BMO Capital Markets (United States)
Scott R. Henry — Analyst, ROTH Capital Partners LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Hello, and welcome to the Lannett Company Fiscal 2018 Third Quarter Financial Results Conference Call. My name is Michele, and I will be your operator for today's conference. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Please note that today's conference is being recorded.

I would now turn the call over to Mr. Robert Jaffe, Investor Relations for Lannett. Sir, you may begin.

Thanks, Michele. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us today to discuss Lannett Company's fiscal 2018 third quarter financial results.

On the call today are Tim Crew, Chief Executive Officer; and Marty Galvan, the company's Chief Financial Officer. This call is being broadcast live at www.lannett.com. A playback will be available for at least three months on Lannett's website.

I'd like to make the cautionary statement and remind everyone that all of the information discussed on today's call is covered under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Litigation Reform Act. The company's discussion will include forward-looking information, reflecting management's current forecast of certain aspects of the company's future, and actual results could differ materially from those stated or implied.

In addition, during the course of this call, we refer to non-GAAP financial measures that are not prepared in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies.

Investors are encouraged to review Lannett's press release announcing its fiscal 2018 third quarter financial results for the company's reasons for including non-GAAP financial measures in its earnings announcement. The reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures is also contained in the company's earnings press release issued earlier today.

This afternoon, Tim will provide brief remarks on the quarter as well as comments on recent developments and near-term goals. Then Marty will discuss the financial results in more detail, including the company's fiscal 2018 guidance. We will then open the call for questions.

With that said, I will now turn the call over to Tim Crew. Tim?

Thanks, Robert, and good afternoon, everyone. After five months as CEO, I'm pleased with our overall progress. We're executing on our growth strategy and adding depth and expertise to the management team. We're proceeding with several product launches and our organization is operating efficiently and effectively.

For the fiscal 2018 third quarter we just reported, net sales were $174 million, an increase of approximately $9 million over the prior third year quarter. Profitability on an adjusted basis for the quarter was in-line with our expectations. A couple of key products performed better than anticipated, while others faced volume declines. Gross margin was lower largely on sales mix due to decline of the sales of the high margin products offset by sales of lower margin generic TOPROL, a product we first began selling this reported quarter.

Positively impacting the quarter was reduction in operating expenses. With regard to our fiscal 2018, we are affirming our full-year outlook for net sales and adjusted profitability, although certain items between the top and bottom lines have been tweaked. A more thorough discussion of our financial results and guidance will be provided by Marty shortly.

Stepping back from the financials, on our last conference call, my first as CEO, I said our focus would be to align the team, reorganization and our investments along the lines of our fresh strategies. With that in mind, I'd like to begin today by welcoming Maureen Cavanaugh to Lannett's family. Today is Maureen's first day, and she's told me it's looking good so far. Maureen will serve as our Senior Vice President and Commercial Operating Officer and in this role she'll oversee Sales and Marketing, Research and Development and Regulatory Affairs.

Maureen and I previously worked together at Teva and Bristol-Myers Squibb. And she's an extremely skilled and well-known industry executive with a long record of driving commercial organizational success.

In addition to Maureen, two other executives recently joined our team. Grant Brock is Vice President of Operations, and Alicia Evolga as Vice President of Marketing. Both are talented experienced executives in their respective areas. Grant will be focusing on increasing our manufacturing output and improving efficiency, and Alicia will focus on driving our near-term product launches and future product selection. Moreover, new heads of engineering, project management and site quality have also joined us this last quarter.

In conjunction with these new team members, we also realigned some of our organizational structure and management responsibilities of a few of our tenured officers. John Kozlowski has been named our Chief of Staff and Strategy Officer, while John Abt has been promoted to Vice President and Chief Quality and Operations Officer. All of these changes are intended to provide increased managerial depth to drive operational discipline and execution, enhance efficiencies, increase the output of our development production sites and ultimately increase our sales through our customers through a myriad of new product launches and customer shareholders.

On a related note, we also announced some changes to our Board of Directors that'll become effective July 1st of this year. Patrick LePore, an exceptional and seasoned pharmaceutical executive as many of you may know has been appointed Chairman, succeeding Jeffrey Farber who will remain on our board. In addition, John Chapman, who has extraordinary experience as a very tenured audit partner has been named to our board. John will succeed James Mayer as our audit chair.

Jim will step down from the broad after completion of the audit of our fiscal 2018 financial statements. I personally thank Jeff for his steady and insightful leadership as Board Chair and of course look forward to working with him in the future. Similarly, we wish Jim all the best for his next chapter. He has also made personal thanks for easing my transition to publicly traded life.

Turning to our strategies and investments, as I said in the last conference call, because of our mid-market position, capabilities, and Lannett is an attractive and ready for business partner. As said, we're particularly focused looking for new products to expand our offering and I'm happy to share we have progressed this goal with several partnerships over the last few months that supplements our internal development efforts.

To recap these recent transactions, we launched generic TOPROL in January following an agreement executed in late calendar 2017. In February, we acquired five products from UCB. These products include Metaxalone where we already have received major customer awards and will begin shipments this quarter.

In March, we entered into three separate agreements with three additional strategic alliance partners. The first was an exclusive U.S. distribution agreement for diclofenac ER tablets, another product we plan to launch in the current quarter. In the second agreement, we acquired the exclusive U.S. distribution rights to Fluvastatin ER. The application for this product is pending at the FDA and we believe it could be approved and launched late in the second half of the current calendar year.

Under the third agreement, we've provided five of our currently marketed products to Pharmaceutical Associates Incorporated for repacking into unit dose cups and distribution of the managed care and hospital markets. This transaction has already begun generating new revenue streams for our business. For all three of these agreements, no upfront payment is required and profit to be shared with partners.

And last but not least, earlier today, we announced the acquisition of a portfolio of 23 approved ANDAs, one pending application from Endo. The portfolio mainly consists of oral solutions with a few semi solid products. The products will primarily be manufactured at liquids generics facility, in Carmel, New York, which has the requisite capacity expertise and capabilities.

We will immediately begin transfer activities in the associated regulatory filing and we currently estimate that we'll begin launching the products in the second half of fiscal 2019. While we are well pleased with this new blizzard of activity, we remain actively engaged with a number of similar discussions and are optimistic that several of these discussions will result in transactions that drive more near term revenue. Our overarching goal is to augment internal development efforts with immediate opportunities to diversify our revenue streams, generate cash fees to grow our business and to pay down debt.

Now let's turn to some other operational developments and opportunities. First, I'm pleased to report in the past few weeks we've had satisfactory FD inspection at our main manufacturing sites in Seymour, Indiana, and Carmel, New York, where there is a well-earned reputation for tight holding manufacturing standards and congratulations to our current staff for continuing this impressive history.

Second, last year we announced a $50 million expansion related to our Cody Laboratory subsidiary. As part of our focus on near-term opportunities, we have decided to suspend that significant expansion, while we reassess the timing risks and opportunities associated with the investment. We continue to make substantial investments in Cody and continue to believe in the vertical integration opportunity of this business.

Third, later this month I'll be spending time with the leadership teams of our China based partner HEC. In addition to reviewing multiple near term ANDA product opportunities we will be discussing the generic insulin pen opportunity. I'm increasingly optimistic that the relationship will be able to deliver an affordable customer product option with a prudent level of investment well within the strategic planning timeframe. I hope to provide an update in this matter on our next conference call.

Fourth, with regard to our C-Topical product, as many of you know in December 2017 another company received FDA approval to market and sell a Cocaine Hydrochloride topical product. To our knowledge that product has not yet been launched.

Meanwhile, our 505(b)(2) NDA for Numbrino, which is related to our grandfathered product continues to be reviewed by the FDA. We have a PDUFA goal date of July 2018. However, due to ongoing FDA guidance expectations, we do not anticipate approval of that product until the 2019 calendar year.

Finally, with regard to the long-standing partnership with Jerome Stevens, we continue to discuss with them a myriad of business matters of mutual interest to strengthen that partnership. We remain optimistic that Numbrino will be extended at the point in time that makes sense for both parties to do so.

So, to summarize, I'm feeling very good about the rapid progress we're making to improve our overall operations and grow the business. We have strengthened our already talented management team and encircled near-term revenue streams and continue to pursue a number of additional opportunities to add even more products to our portfolio. To date, our progression has been well received by our employees, our partners and importantly our customers.

With that, I turn the call over to Marty. Marty?

Thank you Tim and good afternoon everyone. As was mentioned earlier, I will be referring to non-GAAP financial measures. The reconciliation of the GAAP to non-GAAP numbers can be found in today's press release. Our earnings release also includes a schedule of our net sales by medical indication.

Now for the financial results on a non-GAAP adjusted basis. For the fiscal 2018 third quarter, net sales increased $174.4 million from $165.7 million for the third quarter of fiscal 2017. Gross profit was $76.7 million, or 44% of net sales, compared with $85.5 million, or 52% of net sales, for the prior-year third quarter.

R&D expenses were $2.7 million compared with $8.3 million. SG&A expenses decreased to $14.1 million from $17.3 million. Operating income was $59.8 million compared with $59.9 million. Interest expense decreased to $16.2 million from $16.7 million. Income tax expense decreased to $13.2 million from $15.0 million, reflecting a favorable impact of the recently enacted tax reform. Net income attributable to Lannett increased to $30.5 million, or $0.80 per diluted share from $29.2 million, or $0.77 per diluted share for the fiscal 2017 third quarter.

As Tim mentioned, our overall profitability on an adjusted basis exceeded our internal expectations. Having said that, I'd like to add a bit of color to our third quarter performance compared with those expectations. During the quarter, sales of a few products were negatively impacted by volume pressure, most notably in our anti-psychosis and migraine categories. This was partially offset by a higher than anticipated sales of two key products in our thyroid deficiency and CNS categories.

Gross margin was lower due to a change in our overall sales mix. R&D expenses were lower due to a canceled order for pre-launch inventory totaling $3.8 million and the timing of milestone payments. In addition, as Tim mentioned earlier, we're supplementing interim product development efforts with product acquisitions and in-licensing deals to enhance our product portfolio.

Lastly, our effective tax rate in the quarter was approximately 30%, a couple of percentage points higher than expected. The increase in the third quarter reflects the catch-up impacts related to a reduction to our R&D tax credit and other tax deductions that resulted in our expected full-year effective tax rate of 28%.

Turning to our balance sheet, at March 31, 2018, cash, cash equivalents and investment securities totaled $123.1 million and our debt was $851.5 million. As a reminder, in February, we made a voluntary payment of $25 million toward our debt balance and we remain well within our required debt covenant ratio.

Turning now to our guidance. Our guidance for fiscal 2018 full-year on an adjusted basis for net sales and profitability is unchanged, although individual elements have been revised as follows. Net sales in the range of $685 million to $695 million, we're timing the range from $680 million to $700 million, though the midpoint is unchanged. Adjusted gross margin as a percentage of net sales was approximately 48%; down from the range of 48% to 49%. Adjusted R&D expense in the range of $30 million to $32 million down from $36 million to $38 million. Adjusted SG&A expense ranging from $71 million to $73 million, unchanged. Adjusted interest expense and other in the range of $62 million to $63 million, unchanged. The full year adjusted effective tax rate to be approximately 28% up from approximately 27%. And lastly, capital expenditures in fiscal 2018 to be approximately $50 million changed from the range of $45 million to $55 million.

As a reminder, our guidance does not include sales from product applications currently pending at the FDA nor does our outlook include sales of pending ANDAs of our strategic partners or the benefit from any potential acquisitions, future strategic alliances or possible further pay-downs of debt.

And with that overview, we would like to now address any questions you may have. Operator?

Thank you, sir. We will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] The first question in the queue comes from Gregg Gilbert with Deutsche Bank. Your line is open.

Yes. Thanks. I have a couple. First Tim I'd like to better understand the screen that you're using to bring products in, other than revenue generation near-term and a price that can generate a good return, what are the operational and strategic linkages that are important to you? And my second question is about Cody. Did I hear correctly that you're still committed to vertically integrating in controlled substances, but you're spending that investment or changing your mind about the magnitude of it? Just want to square those things up. Thanks.

Thanks Gregg. And I guess you'll see in a couple of days. First off, I'll take the Cody question first. Yes, what you said is a reflection of our impatience at this time. I still believe in vertical integration, I still believe in the impactful amount of customer need in the pain stage. However, the scale and rate of our investment, the degree of the vertical integration is what we're reconsidering now at this time and we'll get back to you in the coming weeks as we work that through the process. We still have a fairly significant footprint in Cody Wyoming. Before the expansion we continue to support that portion of our business accordingly.

As it relates to the thresholds we have on new product launches, I think it's fairly straightforward. We want to typically look for something that's accretive almost immediately at this level of purchasing. We're looking to minimize risk expenditure, that is to say near-term approvals or approved products that are in our threshold. We're, maybe a bit more flexible on the margin point than the company historically has had for its overall blended margins, but we're certainly looking for some room that can support if there is later price pressure that we'd still [ph] deem possible and we'd continue (19:12) to supply our customers.

It's very important to those folks that we come and bring the product to market to their patients that you're able to sustain them through thick and thin. So we obviously need some room to do that. And then obviously there were certain limitations of what we do internally versus the partnerships, so off in the partnerships if it's non-oral non-solution we needed to come with its own sort of manufacturing capacity which is also a great thing to tap into near-term as our internal capacity is still working through the acquisition of the KU product.

So, I think, those are kind of the moving parts, right, and I think more importantly with the exact threshold we are seeing quite a few opportunities that are virtually may be accretive when you bring them into the market. I think that's a far turn from some of the more expensive acquisitions you've seen in recent years in the industry.

And one follow-up if I could, just on your JFP situation sort of the elephant in the room or one of them. Is there anything you can tell us about, under what circumstances you would not proceed with expanding that collaboration in some way? Just want to understand whether you're sounding confident about getting something done versus something that looks a particular way? So, anything you're willing to say on that would be really helpful. Thanks.

Yeah. So, it's a big beautiful elephant. We embrace that as an organization. Look, I've met with the team there, we speak with them regularly, they're terrific folks, there're exciting managers, we have a great dialog on an ongoing basis all the various moving parts. And I believe they are very supportive initiatives that we've been talking about. I don't want to put the cart from the horse, elephant aside. But I am optimistic that we will get a chance to renew this agreement when it's right for both parties. There's clearly nothing more important to our business than doing so and we'll continue to be focused on doing just that.

Thanks a lot.

Thanks.

The next question in the queue comes from Dana Flanders with Goldman Sachs. Your line is open.

Hi. Thank you very much for the questions. My first one here, just on the Endo deal that you recently announced. Can you give us just a little bit more flavor in terms of key products, concentration? And then, just from a profitability standpoint, how much profitability does that add? And then, going back to some of the other deals you announced, can you help us just understand how much incremental revenue is captured in your fiscal 2018 guidance from these deals? Thank you.

All right. Thank you for the question. I'll start with the last one first. In terms of impact of this quarter outside of the Metoprolol launch from earlier, and some pretty good value coming from the Metaxalone later this is quarter. Most of these products are just obviously ramping up into the market and so their effects in this quarter will be muted and more substantial moving forward.

As it relates to the Par transaction, you will see it in our – I guess our Q shortly, but we paid about $10 million for an upfront payment and a few million dollars of milestones related to the transfer and first launch of the product. While there are 24 products in that portfolio, there's handful of them that are obvious near-term opportunities. We will be hopeful that our first year sales will be less than the acquisition price and the margins here, because they are typically products with not a ton of competitors were actually pretty healthy. And I know that while the seller had a very large plant and perhaps excess capacity made it hard to be profitable. We have a more appropriately sealed plant in Carmel, New York. It has that capability, and it has that ability, and capacity to bring those products in fairly profitably, but we have a transfer process, we got to go through. So those products also don't really hit our books until nine months or so from here as they start flowing through the approval and transfer process.

Okay. And then maybe just a quick follow up. You mentioned I think it was fluphenazine and Sumatriptan some weakness this quarter. Is that competition coming back in, I think previously you had been pretty optimistic about the potential of those over the next 12 to 18 months. Can you just give us a little bit more flavor on what's going on in those markets?

Yeah. For Sumatriptan, the competitor did come back and we're kind of reverting to the position we were prior to their supply disruptions. So that's been working its way through our numbers for a few quarters now. On fluphenazine it's a bit more of a bouncing ball around the slow erosion in our position. Late last year, there was some share shifts that didn't get maybe fully picked up as we went through a transition in our computer systems, right, to SAP, a couple of customers brought in some additional product that to make sure there's no interruption to the supply of this important therapeutic area.

And that washed its way through a bit in the first quarter of this calendar year and now we'll be having some recovery into the final quarter of this – of our fiscal year, sorry to be bouncing calendar and fiscal on you. But so I'm trying to say that there is a little bit of incremental sales in the second fiscal quarter of our year which bled through in the third fiscal quarter of this year and on the fourth quarter comes back up a little bit although on a level that's declining steadily since late last year.

I don't know if you caught all that, but?

No. That's helpful. Thank you very much for the questions.

The next question in the queue comes from Andrew Finkelstein with Susquehanna. Your line is open.

Hi. Good evening and thanks for taking the question. I was hoping you could talk a little bit more about the gross margin dynamics in the quarter, certainly TOPROL is a lower margin product, but levothyroxine is above average, as I understand it, it was strong in the quarter. So if you could provide any more color, and also I think the midpoint of guidance implies a bit of a rebound in gross margin in the fourth quarter you know so if you could comment on that? And then anything else you can say on your comment about guidance relative to Numbrino would be helpful to understand the timeline for that product?

All right. So I think fundamentally the comment on the gross margin is related to the mix. We do have more products coming in as we both partner and then launch some products with lower average margins than our overall margin rate. Marty do you want to add anything to that?

One other piece I'd add Andrew is the fluphenazine as we said had a weaker quarter. So that's a high margin product for us so it makes sense that was somewhat off our expectations and just what also you see rolling into the company's gross margin percentage in the quarter.

As it relates to C-Topical again as I think I noted in the prepared remarks the FDA continues to review our file, they've asked for some additional data which pushes our belief of an approval to more into next calendar year. But meanwhile on the sales of our existing product continues well. The other company was an entry into this space is not showed up in the market yet, so we've had no ill effects of that arrival and continue to providing that product to our customers.

Great, thanks very much.

Thank you.

The next question in the queue comes from Elliot Wilbur with Raymond James. Your line is open.

Hey good afternoon. Just a couple of follow up questions with respect to [indiscernible] (27:40) and possible impact on Numbrino review and timing of launch. Given that [indiscernible] (27:49) has received NCE exclusivity, your vantage point any potential impact the ongoing review of Numbrino or ultimately launch of the product? And then similar line of question. Would you think it could possibly have an impact on your currently marketed C-Topical?

Thanks for the question. Elliot, I think two things. First of all it relates to the grandfathered product in the market. Typically the FDA guidance on the arrival of an approved application of the same variety, which is just about a 12-month period as it relates to the remaining useful life of the grandfather product. The FDA of course is very sensitive to supply disruption issues. This is a controlled substance obviously involving cocaine. So, I'm sure the FDA will be thoughtful. But in general we would expect to be able to sell this product at least through December assuming their product shows up into the market beforehand.

As it relates to the exclusivity in the vagaries of technical written language, if you go through the CFRs and review the nature of what that exclusivity means, it reads under the plain statute to block submission. And since our product has earlier been submitted, we do not believe we are blocked. Additional applications could be blocked, but we believe that we're able to proceed to an FDA review as we meet the requirements they have on that product.

Okay. Then two additional follow ups here. I had expected perhaps a softer quarter than we actually saw in levothyroxine given return of one of the major players in that space. Can you maybe just talk about sort of current market dynamics there? Is it better than expected results this quarter? Simply a function of delay of that particular player not recapturing share or is there perhaps been something that has gone your direction in terms of potentially being able to retain more of that business?

And the last question is, I may not get the numbers correctly, but I think you have 12 owned ANDAs and six partnered products that are in launch phase or will be launched or could be launched relatively soon. I'm just wondering if all those assets at this point in fact will be launched over the balance of this year, heading into fiscal 2019. Thanks.

All right. Thank you, Elliot. First of all, I'm again happy to announce in today's transaction, our owned ANDAs are north of 30 now that are approved or pending launch. That new block will take a bit longer to get through the sequencing of the ones that we've been talking about previously. We have launched a couple of products this last fiscal quarter, I think we will launch half a dozen or so in this fiscal quarter, that compares to number not much more than that of the previous two calendar year.

So, the company has been working for some time to get our capacity up and running, we've added some management bandwidth to focus on that issue. So all of those products will be under very high level of scrutiny and pressure to bring the market if the dynamics justify doing so. I wouldn't want to suggest all of them will come to market, because dynamics change over a period of time, but a fairly substantial block of them will in the coming fiscal quarter. So we're excited about that and it's a lynch pin quite frankly of how we drive value in this company as we move into the coming quarters and years.

As it relates to levothyroxine, yes, there were some spillover effect that continues to benefit us in this last fiscal quarter. Some of the share information depending upon how you look at probably peaked in the mid or higher 30s. Now during the disruption, as that competitor came back on market, our share is drifting down. They're still somewhat higher than it was before the disruptions. So there is some persistency to our position subsequent to that disruption.

I'd also note some of our key customers continue to aggregate their competitors and some of that share is also coming to our side of the house given one of our major customers in that space has added quite a bit of necessary source from us. And so that also provides a little bit of a bump to our share position, but it's going to look a lot like the first fiscal quarter – in the fourth fiscal quarter it was a little bit of upside from the matters, I just forwarded you to.

The next question in the queue comes from Matt Hewitt with Craig-Hallum Capital Market.

Hi. This is Charlie Eidson on for Matt Hewitt. Thanks for taking my questions. A couple from me. First, you showed an ability to in-license a number of products since taking the helm. How much runway is there for LCI with this strategy and what does the pipeline of additional in-licensing opportunities look like today?

Thanks for the question. It's one of my favorite, reflective to the position you see for the company, as a mid-market firm with adequate portfolio, but nothing like the size of the majors. We see fairly sizable set of opportunities in front of us, right. Some of the larger well known players in the space or cash in the side of products doing lot of rationalization leaving us great opportunities to partner with their former partners, as we've done with diclofenac or TOPROL or add new partners as we've done with several of the other transactions that we note about.

So I see a very substantial runway. We have relatively modest share in the market. And we've got great commitment to it and I believe we're building the team, and we got a company here with the right capabilities to avail ourselves to that situation. In any given moment obviously we have dozens of conversations ongoing, not all of them will come to fruition or bear and we'll be spending time to make sure we balance the full value of internal development against the sort of opportunistic situations on external parties that we are absolutely open for business. In this space we get called literally every week on opportunities, most all of them with reasonable financials and we'll continue to execute that as we drive forward in the coming quarters.

Okay. That sounds great. And then one more. You've added a number of people to your operations and commercial teams over the last couple of quarters. Can you talk about how long you think it'll take them to get fully acclimated to where things are moving like you want them to move?

Well, that's tumbling around the table right now. We [indiscernible] (35:04) – we're hoping to bring it up to bring them up to speed in matters of weeks obviously some steps makes a needed impact, some of this is a bandwidth issue like the company is considerably larger today than it was just a few years ago and we've been working with that same management team for a period of time. So some areas get underserved, right. So some of it is simply the bandwidth of experienced management joining with the team we have here to make things move more quickly.

These are not young, I'm sorry, children but seasoned executives that can make immediate impact. So obviously the new ones with the company and the situation history in the context will take some time, but they're already now recruited as such to help drive our progression forward. And again I add that in context to the great team that was already here, and this is an intention to provide additional bandwidth particularly around these areas where we've been a bit less than ideal in getting new products into the portfolio or into the market from our organization. All of the rest of the moving parts are going quite well. But we're a little under-served on the teams in that space and therefore we add to production, operations, quality, marketing, commercial et cetera and so far so good and looking forward to the coming quarters from the extended team.

Okay. Great. Thanks for taking my questions.

Thanks Charlie.

Thank you. And the next question in the queue comes from Gary Nachman from BMO Capital Markets.

Hi, good afternoon. Tim on these other deals that you're looking at, are most of them similar to Endo with mostly marketed products? Any real pipeline that you're looking at? Just clarify that. And as your internal R&D spend is coming down, how will you be able to appropriately fund the pipeline? How do you think about managing that going forward? Just I think it's an important point to elaborate on?

Yes. Thank you for the questions. As it relates to the spend, I think there's a lot of moving parts, right. We haven't had any reductions in our staffing, we haven't reduced any of the products that we're developing in our portfolio. There are some moving parts about the timing of specific projects. There's issues around the specific timing of bio studies what have you. And of course we just spent $10 million, $12 million acquiring 23 products right, that isn't going to hit the R&D lines, but there is both income statement investments, and there is also you know balance sheet sort of investment. So I would not align with an impression we're do anything other than spending more on R&D. We are spending some time balancing what we can do now versus later.

Because of this interest and availability of products that are available right now, the disproportion number of products have been approved products. We've done a couple of in-licensing a pipeline, but as you get into the pipeline, we have our own internal capabilities, but so you're not necessarily accelerating your time to market as quickly.

So we will judiciously add some pipeline efforts particularly around technology that we're looking to access or specialized manufacturing capability. But again right now, there's this large pool of things that are very clearly in our wheel house, that is coming to us and we're executing on and we'll continue to do so until that faucet runs dry. But I don't see that happening anytime soon.

Okay. And then just a couple of follow-ups on Levo. How has pricing held up with that product since Sandoz reentered, are they – is everyone still I guess behaving nicely? And when are you guys expecting an additional competitor to enter the market, and any visibility on your side when you think that might happen? Thanks.

I'm not going to comment on market pricing for a whole host of competitive and compliance reasons. We are pleased with where we are with the product and they're meeting our expectation. As it relates to moving forward, you know, there is a whole lot of moving parts of bringing this product into market, I don't want to bore our audience too extensively. There is obviously ongoing rumors and expectations of people coming into this market, but that's been going on for a long time.

I just always have to reiterate a couple of reasons why that hasn't happened recently as a result of a number of logistical and technical challenges including the products narrow therapeutic index making customers and patients reluctant to switch from a current supplier, but very broad range of extremely low dose and very high volume product presentation is making it very hard to rely on the manufacturer as our partner GSP has done so well for so many years.

As a result of multiple brands and entities in the space regarding multiple so called AB ratings to create flexibility for the customer to substitute from whatever physician brand preference may exist out there. And again we're a company that has a product with our partner with three of those AB ratings, and a long history of reliable supply of this high volume low dosage narrow therapeutic index. So eventually someday someone will show up, it's not the sort of product environment where you would expect significant and rapid deterioration of your position.

Okay. Great thanks.

A – [0HTP4M-E Tim Crew]>: Thanks, Gary.

And the next question in the queue comes from Scott Henry with Roth Capital. Your line is open.

Hi, it's Scott Henry at Roth Capital. A lot of questions have been asked, just really wanted to focus if you can, we're into the fourth quarter of the fiscal year. Any thoughts on fiscal 2019 not looking for guidance, but just directionally on the top line and do you view it as an up year or down year a flat year and within that context how do you think about Levo in that year?

Super, well that sort of sounds like guidance. We'll be a bit circumspect relative to what we say at this time, later in the summer we'll get into a little bit more clarity once we had the chance to review all the moving parts with our board. But I would note that, this year, we're going to be large enough that even modest erosion on the base part of our business is notable. I would note that we've discussed at length, this year the sort of supply disruptions that we benefited from that we don't expect to repeat next year. And so, as you deal with that sort of normalization, particularly levothyroxine that starts with a number of things you got to make up, before we start layering in all of these approved and un-launched products, some of which will be launched by the time you exist this quarter, and into next. So that's bit of a moving series of adjustments that we're not comfortable providing any comment at this time.

Marty, you want to add little?

Yes. The only other piece Scott, I would add is that, as Tim said, anomalies of our per fiscal year and will that not certainly going to repeat next year, right. A little point, I mentioned, and again these are always to recoup specific numbers. But the other piece of way, if you look at fiscal 2019 from a gross margin perspective is that, the point I want to mention is that, we have a stronger first half of the gross margin perspective, and a slower second half of the year as everyone knows. So I would say, it's historic thinking about fiscal 2019, most of the gross margin we've had like in this quarter, the 44% right now what you're working out to see for the fourth quarter. There are margins in fiscal – gross margin in fiscal 2019 will be on the lower end, much like what we're seeing in the second half of fiscal year 2018, so I just wanted that point from a direction perspective.

Okay. That's helpful, and I appreciate the color on that. Just separately, this is a pure modeling question. I'm looking at the line items here putting in and urinary kind of fell off the map. I don't typically see that sequentially and a change in that magnitude. Is something happened there? Is urinary going away? Or how should I model that going forward?

Yeah. So as far as modeling, Scott, in the quarter we had a couple of other things that impacted that that drove us to a very low number that you're seeing $33,000. Yes, so two things actually happened there, we had some pricing adjustments that we had to make with a particular customer that affected our number.

And the volume number, if you look at the volume, it is down about 25% or so to 30% as compared to the second quarter and also compared to last year's third quarter. Well, that is just a temporary production backlog that we've had at the end of our third quarter and that number will – we felt that number to go back up to a normal run rate that we've been experiencing when you get to the fourth quarter.

Okay. So it sounds like Q2 is more representative than Q3. Right?

Correct.

Perfect. Thank you for taking the questions.

Thanks, Scott.

Thank you.

We have no further questions in the queue at this time. So I'll turn the call over to management.

Well, thank you everybody for joining us today. We look forward to sharing our progress on our next scheduled conference call. Thanks again for joining.

Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's teleconference. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.