corrected transcript


Lannett Co., Inc.
 
LCI
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
Sep. 13, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Welcome to Lannett Company’s Fiscal 2010 Fourth Quarter and Full Year Financial


Results Conference Call. My name is Monica, and I’ll be your operator for today’s call. At this time,


all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session.


I would now like to turn the call over to Robert Jaffe, Investor Relations for Lannett Company. Mr.


Jaffe, you may begin.


Robert Jaffe, Senior Vice President, PondelWilkinson Inc.


Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us today to discuss Lannett Company’s fiscal


2010 fourth quarter and full year financial results. On the call today are Arthur Bedrosian, President


and CEO; and Keith Ruck, Chief Financial Officer.


Please be advised that this conference call is being broadcast live on the Internet at


www.lannett.com. A playback of this call will be available for three months and may be accessed on


the Internet at Lannett’s website.


I would like to make the cautionary statement and remind everyone that all of the information


discussed on the call today is covered under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Litigation Reform


Act. The Company’s discussion today will include forward-looking information reflecting


management’s current forecast of certain aspects of the Company’s future and our actual results


could differ materially from those stated or implied.


This afternoon Arthur will review the Company’s business highlights, then Keith will discuss the


financial results for the quarter and year in more detail, followed by Arthur’s concluding remarks.


We will then open the call for questions.


With that said, let me now turn the call over to Arthur Bedrosian. Arthur?


Arthur P. Bedrosian, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Robert, and good afternoon everyone. Our top line growth in the fiscal 2010 was


primarily driven by strong sales of our pain management products, as well as certain base business


pharmaceutical products, including Levothyroxine. We have spoken about our plans to vertically


integrate our pain management products and those plans are bearing fruit, and will continue to bear


fruit for the foreseeable future.


Last month we announced that we received FDA approval of Ondansetron injection USP 2


milligram per ml single dose vials. This approval is in addition to the one we received in May for


Ondansetron multi-dose vials. Both the single dose and multi-dose vials of Ondansetron injection


come from our joint venture with Wintac Limited.


We have delayed the launch of these products while we negotiate with our suppliers for better


pricing in light of the number of approved competitors already on the market. In July, we announced


that we received FDA approval of phentermine hydrochloride, blue and white seed capsules USP


30 milligram. We plan to launch this month or early October at the latest.


With regard to our shelf registration, as I mentioned on our last conference call, we continue to


review our needs for additional funds to more rapidly exploit the potential for vertically integrating


our operations. We believe vertically integrating the company would significantly increase our


prospects for growth.
corrected transcript


Lannett Co., Inc.
 
LCI
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
Sep. 13, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


We are also exploring potential acquisitions of complementary products and/or companies, and


evaluating the benefits of upgrading our facilities and expanding our pain management business.


Utilizing the shelf for these purposes creates greater shareholder value.


With that, I’d now like to turn the call over to Keith for an overview of our financial results.


Keith R. Ruck, Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Arthur, and good afternoon everyone. For the full year ended June 30, 2010, net sales


increased to 125.2 million, compared with 119.0 million in fiscal 2009. As Arthur mentioned, sales


from our pain management business contributed to the increase to net sales. We added products to


our pain management portfolio, and a competitor withdrew from the market.


Partially offsetting our topline growth was a decrease in sales of our prenatal vitamin product, even


though we command 95% of the market. As we have previously discussed, the manufacturer of the


brand version ceased marketing and promoting its product in December of 2008, leading to a


decrease in demand for our OB-Natal ONE.


Gross profit was 41.3 million, compared with 45.2 million for the same period in the prior year. The


decrease is primarily due to royalties accrued in connection with the sale of certain products and


two months of idle capacity costs at our Cody Labs subsidiary during the second quarter of fiscal


2010.


Research and development expenses increased to 11.3 million from 8.4 million in fiscal 2009.


Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased significantly to 17.4 million from 26.1


million in the prior year. A brief explanation regarding the significant decrease in SG&A: In fiscal


2009, we incurred professional fees related to the OB-Natal ONE patent challenge of 6.5 million,


and 818,000 for the full year and fourth quarter, respectively. Operating income rose to 13.0 million


compared with 10.8 million in fiscal 2009. Net income increased to 7.8 million or $0.31 per diluted


share, compared with 6.5 million or $0.27 per diluted share for the prior year.


Turning now to the financial results for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. Net sales were 33.8 million,


compared with 35.4 million for the comparable period of fiscal 2009. Gross profit was 11.3 million


compared with 13.6 million for the same period in the prior year. R&D expenses decreased to 2.1


million from 2.7 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. SG&A expenses decreased to 5.2 million


from 6.9 million in the same quarter of the prior year. Operating income increased to 4.3 million


from 3.9 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. Net income grew to 2.8 million or $0.11 per


diluted share from 2.4 million or $0.10 per diluted share for the fourth quarter of the prior year.


Turning to the balance sheet, the company has as of June 30, 2010 approximately 22.5 million in


cash, cash equivalents and short-term investment securities available for sale, and approximately


7.7 million of long-term debt including the current portion.


With that brief financial overview, I’ll now turn the call back over to Arthur. Arthur?


Arthur P. Bedrosian, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Keith. According to data reported by IMS Health in August 2010, Lannett is among the


top 20 companies based on the number of prescription transactions for unbranded generic products


in the United States. Additionally, our Levothyroxine tablets were recognized by IMS Health as the


18th most prescribed pharmaceutical product, including both branded and generic products in the


United States.