corrected transcript


Lannett Co., Inc.
 
LCI
 
Q2 2011 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 10, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Welcome to the Lannett Fiscal 2011 Second Quarter Financial Results Conference Call.


My name is Monica, and I’ll be your operator for today’s conference. At this time, all participants are


in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session.


I would now like to turn the call over to Robert Jaffe, Investor Relations for Lannett Company. Mr.


Jaffe, you may begin.


Robert Jaffe, Investor Relations, PondelWilkinson Inc.


Thanks, operator. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us today to discuss Lannett


Company’s fiscal 2011 second quarter financial results. On the call today are Arthur Bedrosian,


President and CEO; and Keith Ruck, Chief Financial Officer.


Please be advised that this conference call is being broadcast live on the Internet at


www.lannett.com. A playback of this call will be available for three months and maybe accessed on


the Internet at Lannett’s website.


I’d also like to make the cautionary statement and remind everyone that all of the information


discussed on the call today is covered under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Litigation Reform


Act. The company’s discussion today will include forward-looking information reflecting


management’s current forecast of certain aspects of the company’s future and our actual results


could differ materially from those stated or implied.


This afternoon Arthur will review the company’s business highlights, then Keith will discuss the


financial results for the quarter in more detail, followed by Arthur’s concluding remarks. We will then


open up the call for questions.


With that said, let me turn the call over to Arthur Bedrosian. Arthur?


Arthur P. Bedrosian, J.D., President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Robert, and good afternoon, everyone. We are certainly pleased with our overall


financial performance in the quarter. The increase to our bottom line was driven by higher sales of


certain key products and lower operating expenses. We continue to be impacted by a lack of


product approvals due to a backlog at the FDA. We believe, however, that several of our


applications including our NDA for Morphine Sulfate Oral Solution will soon be approved following a


positive inspection by the FDA of our manufacturing facility. We have notified the FDA that we’re


ready for the inspection and expect it to occur shortly.


Last week, we announced the promotion of Bill Schreck, the Chief Operating Officer. Bill joined


Lannett more than eight years ago and brings broad experience to his new role. His initial


responsibilities will include overseeing operations, sales and certain administrative functions.


With that, I’d now like to turn the call over to Keith for an overview of our financial results.


Keith R. Ruck, Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Arthur, and good afternoon, everyone. For the fiscal 2011 second quarter ended


December 31st, 2010, net sales increased to $30.0 million from $28.7 million for the second quarter
corrected transcript


Lannett Co., Inc.
 
LCI
 
Q2 2011 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 10, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


fiscal of 2010. The increase is primarily due to higher sales of certain key products including


Oxycodone Solution, Levothyroxine, and OB Natal One.


Gross profit climbed to $8.4 million from $8.1 million for the same period in the prior year. Included


in gross profit for the recently completed quarter are two items I’d like to highlight.


First, due to the delay in the FDA’s approval of our Morphine Sulfate Oral Solution NDA, we


recorded approximately $1.5 million of additional inventory reserves specific to the Morphine


Sulfate inventory. And second, during the quarter, we settled outstanding litigation, which resulted


in reversing approximately $618,000 of previously expensed royalties.


Research and development expenses decreased to $1.7 million from $2.7 million in the fiscal 2010


second quarter. Selling, general and administrative expenses declined to $2.9 million from $4.0


million in the same quarter of the prior year. The decrease primarily reflects the reversal of accrued


employee bonuses from the fiscal year 2010, the payment of which was tied to the timely approval


of the Morphine Sulfate Oral Solution NDA. Due to the delay in receiving this approval these


bonuses will not be paid.


Operating income nearly tripled to $3.8 million from $1.3 million in the same quarter last year. Net


income was $2.4 million or $0.09 per diluted share, compared with $55,000 or breakeven on a per


share basis for the prior year second quarter.


Turning briefly to our results for the first six months of fiscal 2011. Net sales were $55.4 million,


compared with $60.2 million for the comparable period of fiscal 2010. Gross profit was $14.3


million, compared with $19.6 million for the same period in the prior year. R&D expenses


decreased to $3.7 million from $5.8 million in the first half of fiscal 2010. SG&A expenses


decreased to $7.5 million from $7.8 million in the same period of the prior year. Net income was


$1.9 million or $0.08 per diluted share, compared with $2.9 million or $0.12 per diluted share for the


first half of the prior year.


Turning to balance sheet, in December, we completed a secondary offering of common stock for a


total of 3,250,000 shares, net proceeds of the offering were approximately $14.9 million. As of


December 31st, 2010, cash, cash equivalents and short-term investment securities available for


sale were approximately $23.4 million. And long-term debt including the current portion decreased


to approximately $3.1 million at December 31st, 2010 from $7.7 million at September 30th, 2010.


We paid off the $4.5 million PIDC Torresdale Avenue facility loan in December, and we expect to


replace it with a $3.8 million mortgage on that same property in the current quarter.


With that brief financial review, I’ll now turn the call back over to Arthur. Arthur?


Arthur P. Bedrosian, J.D., President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Keith. Early in our fiscal 2011 second quarter we launched Fluphenazine Hydrochloride


tablets USP, the generic equivalent of Prolixin, in 1 milligram, 2.5 milligram, 5 milligram and 10


milligram dosages, one of the ANDAs we purchased previously. For the 12 months ended


September 2010 Fluphenazine Hydrochloride tablets USP 1 milligram, 2.5 milligram, 5 milligram


and 10 milligram had U.S. sales of approximately $28 million at average wholesale price according


to Wolters Kluwer data.


As Keith mentioned, during the second quarter, we completed a stock offering including the over


allotment. We intend to use the proceeds of the offering to accelerate the growth of Cody


Laboratories, our pain management division, and enhance our margins. We are implementing plans


to expand our pain management business by adding APIs and investing in infrastructure to have


capacity. We are also assessing a number of business opportunities including acquisitions,