Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Robert Jaffe — Investor Relations, Pondel Wilkinson Inc
Arthur P. Bedrosian — President, CEO, Director & Head-Investor Relations, Lannett Co., Inc.
Martin P. Galvan — Chief Financial Officer & Vice President, Lannett Co., Inc.
Scott R. Henry — Senior Research Analyst, ROTH Capital Partners LLC
Chris Mark Holterhoff — Director & Senior Analyst, Oppenheimer Securities
Laura S. Engel — Research Analyst, Stonegate Securities, Inc.
Gregg Hillman — Senior Analyst, First Wilshire Securities Management, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to the Lannett Company Fiscal 2011 Fourth Quarter and Full Year Earnings Conference Call. My name is Monaca and I will be your operator for today's call. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session.

I will now turn the call over to Robert Jaffe, Investor Relations for Lannett Company. You may begin.

Thanks, Monaca. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us today to discuss Lannett Company's fiscal 2011 fourth-quarter and full-year financial results.

On the call today are Arthur Bedrosian, President and CEO, and Marty Galvan, Chief Financial Officer. Please be advised that this conference call is being broadcasted live on the Internet at www.lannett.com. A playback of this call will be available for three months and maybe accessed on the Internet at Lannett's website.

I would like to make a cautionary statement and remind everyone that all of the information discussed on the call today is covered under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Litigation Reform Act. The company's discussion today will include forward-looking information reflecting management's current forecast of certain aspects of the company's future and our actual results could differ materially from those stated or implied.

This afternoon, Arthur will review the company's business highlights, then Marty will discuss the financial results for the quarter and year in more detail, followed by Arthur's concluding remarks. We will then open the call for questions.

With that said, let me now turn the call over to Arthur Bedrosian. Arthur?

Thank you, Robert, and good afternoon, everyone. Before we begin, I'd like to take a moment to introduce Marty Galvan, our new Chief Financial Officer. Marty is a season financial executive with extensive experience in the healthcare industry. He has worked for both large and small companies, as well as public and private entities including VIASYS Healthcare, Rhone-Poulenc Rohrer, Revlon and Bristol-Myers Squibb. Marty is a welcome addition to our team.

Turning briefly to our financial results. As expected, a number of factors and expectations which were largely out of our control impacted our financial results, more specifically, our top line and margins were affected by price and volume declines on certain key products, the temporary discontinuation of our Morphine Sulfate Oral Solution product, and a lack of product approvals – impacts the expected price decline on customary – that are customary in our business. As we said on our last conference call, without newly approved products, our sales people are largely left defending our existing products, excuse me, market share, rather than growing market share.

Lead generics are the lifeblood of our industry and they allow us to leverage our sales calls and be more efficient. We have and continue to work closely with the FDA to get our product applications through their log jam. I am very pleased to say that we have recently received a number of product approvals, which we expect to launch shortly. Of the four recent approvals, Morphine Sulfate Oral Solution has been launched and is meeting expectations.

Diethylproprion is ready for launch, Phentermine Hydrochloride Capsules 37.5 milligram will be launched shortly and the Phentermine Resin, which has no competition in the marketplace, will be marketed through our newly created specialty pharma division. We estimate the launch of this product by the third quarter. Looking ahead, our [ph] supplemental application for Mercer (03:42) was filed in February and we are working with FDA to receive expedited review. Our C-Topical 505(b)(2) application will not be filed this fall as originally planned. The FDA is requiring additional clinical work before the application can be approved, and we are in the process of providing the FDA with the requested data.

Our intention to launch our first branded drug has already begun. We, along with the marketing firm we have engaged for this product, believe that the favorable opportunity exists for our drug. We estimate the market to be more than $30 million. Also, we have 14 product applications pending at the FDA, which is a large number of applications for a company of our size. Some of these product candidates represent meaningful market opportunities.

With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Marty for an overview of our financial results.

Thank you, Arthur, and good afternoon everyone. For fiscal 2011 full-year, net sales were $106.8 million, compared with $125.2 million for the prior year. Gross profit was $23.3 million, compared with $41.3 million for fiscal 2010. Research and development expenses decreased to $8.6 million from $11.3 million in fiscal 2010. SG&A also declined, to $15.9 million from $17.4 million last year.

Net loss attributable to Lannett was $277,000, or $0.01 per share, compared to net income attributable to Lannett of $7.8 million, or $0.31 per diluted share, for the prior year.

Turning to our results for fiscal 2011 fourth quarter, net sales were $25.5 million compared with $33.8 million for the comparable period of fiscal 2010. Gross profit was $3.8 million, compared with $11.3 million for prior year fourth quarter.

R&D expenses were $3.0 million, as compared with $2.1 million in last year's fourth quarter. SG&A expenses decreased to $4.2 million from $5.2 million in the same period of the prior year.

And lastly, net loss attributable to Lannett was $1.9 million, or $0.07 per share, compared to net income attributable to Lannett of $2.8 million, or $0.11 per diluted share, for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010.

Now turning to the balance sheet, as of June 30, 2011, cash, cash equivalents and investment securities were approximately $24.7 million.

With that brief financial overview, I'll now turn the call back over to Arthur. Arthur?

Thank you, Marty. With regard to our Pain Management Division, the recent approval of our new drug application for Morphine Sulfate Oral Solution is an important development in getting this part of our business back on track. We launched the product in August, and we're working to capture market share. Currently, there are two other competitors in the market for this product, only one of which is selling the drug. We expect to recapture the market gradually.

We are investing in infrastructure at Cody Laboratory to increase capacity, and looking toward API towards product offering. I am pleased with the progress we have made. We expect to receive approval in the coming weeks for two NDAs. We also anticipate additional approval over the next several months for other product applications currently pending at FDA. Our pipeline includes an, excuse me, our pipeline includes an anti-hypertensive drug, and two chemotherapeutic drugs from which we expect revenues of up to $100 million.

Moreover, we continue to invest in product development. Currently, we have a large number of product applications pending at FDA and additional 50 to 60 product candidates in various stages of development. According to the IMS data presented recently at the National Association of Chain Drug Stores, Lannett ranks 17 of the top 20 generic companies. We were also ranked number 15 for sales of Levothyroxine Sodium, an increase of 6.6% and ahead of the innovator drug Synthroid, which was ranked 16.

In broad terms, we expect fiscal 2012 to be much improved over fiscal 2011. Recent product approvals has gotten the year off to a good start. More specifically, we expect our financial results in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 to compare favorably to the last two quarters of fiscal 2011. And based on current market conditions, we expect to see continued financial and operational improvements throughout the coming year.

Turning to 2012, we expect full-year net sales to increase close to previous levels and reflect the growth rate in the low double-digits as compared to fiscal 2011. We expect the full-year gross margin percentage to be in the mid-20s. We expect full-year R&D expense to increase to between 9% and 10% of revenue versus the 8% of revenue in 2011.

And finally, we believe SG&A will increase at less than the rate of increase in net sales and as a percentage of revenue, decrease by 30 basis points to 40 basis points as compared to 2011. Regarding capital spending in 2012, we expect our spending to be in the $6 million to $10 million range.

With the time available, we'd like to address any questions you may have. Operator?

Thank you. We will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Scott Henry of ROTH Capital Partners. Please go ahead.

Thank you and good afternoon. I guess for starters, I always like to ask when the Q comes out, you're going to give us the product breakdowns. Could you hit on couple of those for Q4, such as pain management, Digoxin thyroid deficiency, where the subsectors of revenue came in for the quarter.

Sure, Scott, this is Marty, and I can give you some of the highlights. And you're right, while the K in this case will come out on Friday and you will see these details there, but just to give you some of the information at this stage. And the fourth quarter revenue, the Thyroid pipeline was $12.2 million in the fourth quarter, Heart Failure about $2.7 million, Pain Management is $3.6 million. And I know that sometimes the company looks at pain in two different ways, but also I give you Migraines, the Headache products, that is $1.7 million. Those are the larger clients I can give you now, if that works for you.

Okay, and just looking at, again, it looks like Heart Failure was a little low than Thyroid, I guess, a little on the low side. Anything going on in, two biggest products as Digoxin and Levothyroxine, anything going on there in terms of trends, anything we should think about going into 2012?

Well, the Levothyroxine we're expecting another 6% increase and that was over prior year and was increased last year. The Digoxin – we are expecting a decline annually because there is a lack of use for the product. We are projecting a roughly 10% decline in Digoxin sales year after year after year, based on the lack of use for the product, not because we've lost market share or customers or anything. It was just not being prescribed like it was, but we see growth in [ph] Renal (12:26) I mentioned earlier, we have the example of our sales has now surpassed the Synthroid brand in terms of our ranking. So, more prescriptions are being filled with Lannett's Levothyroxine than with the innovative products and that's an increase over the prior year. We expect that to continue this year at the level of roughly 6%.

Okay, and I guess, you hit on a lot of guidance, I guess this thing that jumps out to me, is that it looks like 2012 is going to look a lot like 2010. In 2010, you did about $125 million in revenues and about $0.30 in EPS. I mean is that ballpark what you are thinking about for next year, it just seems like everything seems to gravitate to those years looking similar?

Well, I would say the years are looking similar, but I don't want to predict $0.30 cents earnings per share per se, but I certainly do think that the revenue would be too similar to the prior year's revenue.

Okay, and...

With the launch of the products and we don't know when we are expecting competition on the Morphine Sulfate. Presently, there's just Roxane and Lannett in the market place.

Okay. When you think about Q1, do you think you can be profitable in the first quarter of next quarter, I know there is a lot of time we get in terms of shipments are made, but is it realistic that Q1 2012 could be profitable?

Yes Scott, this is Marty, so yes, we're looking at the first quarter at being profitable. We had the lowest that we saw in the fourth quarter of this year, so it's, it will be slightly profitable is what our expectation is. We have, the way our quarters look for 2012, the far majority of the profit will be in the Qs – in the quarters second, third and fourth, not much in the first quarter.

Okay. And then I guess, Arthur, with regards to Pain Management, the $15 million in 2011 fiscal year, I mean how should we think about that in 2012? I mean that's kind of the biggest black box. I mean, is $25 million unreasonable. I'm just trying to get kind of big picture outlook on that product in that category.

Up from $15 million, it's possible, a lot depends on whether or not we get quota from one of the other products that we sold in June and July, that the quota applications pending, that's where I get hung up in making a commitment. We haven't been turned down for the quota, but if we don't get the quota then I don't get sales and we are at a point where we need that quota now to start manufacturing. So, I'm expecting those sales, even though I don't have it in my in my annual operating plan at the moment.

Okay. Well that's great, I'll jump back into the queue and certainly welcome aboard, Marty could start here as well.

Thanks guys, I look forward to working with you.

Our next question comes from Christopher Holterhoff of Oppenheimer & Co.

Hi, good afternoon, guys.

Good afternoon, Chris.

Hi, Chris.

How are you doing? Just a quick question for Marty. It looks like there was a deterioration in gross margin from this quarter, but it looks like 20% this quarter compared to about 20% last quarter. Just wondering if that was solely due to price declines or if there was something else that worked there?

Yeah, the other thing that we experienced in the fourth quarter was some factories – we had a degree of under-utilization of labor and plant overhead, but we see that as a one-time item and already in the weeks of 2012, we can see that that situation, we've addressed the situation, but we did have a weak throughput in the quarter and it's now reverse, it's reversing itself.

Okay. Thank you. And just a question or two for Arthur, I guess just probably can you comment any recent communication you had lately with the agency regarding these 14 product candidates that are pending and just kind of give us some colors as to what gives you confidence that some or all might be approved by the end of this year?

Well, certainly we have no regulatory issues and we have been in touch with them, with at least two applications that are imminent, so, within a week or two, we have both of those, and then we have another application for which there's a shortage in the marketplace that could produce roughly $26 million in revenue on an annualized basis. If we receive that at the beginning of our second quarter, then we'll have three-quarters of those sales, and that's also pending.

And, there is no reason they won't be approved. They're at that stage where I would say two are imminent, the anti-hypertensive one that I expect we could do $26 million on an annualized basis is probably within a month, and then we still have two inspections going on in India in September, they are prior approval inspections. Once those inspections are over, there is two applications further that these are [ph] ophthalmic (17:43) products that will be approved for us.

So, over the next first and second quarters, we're expecting somewhere of the neighborhood of five approvals, so we'll be getting a lot of approvals over a short period of time, and we're gearing up to sign those products as well, so, that we're not wasting those approvals. So, that's why I'm very optimistic about this year. I had hoped that some of those approvals would come in last year, but unfortunately, they didn't come in in that fiscal year and I did note that eventually they would be approved, so the communication with the FDA is ongoing and very encouraging, and it should show up in the way of approval shortly.

Okay, yes, thanks for the added color there. And just on the two additional NDAs that you expect to be for the products rather that you expect to be approved in the next two weeks or so. Can you just give us a sense of what markets they address or any additional color you can about those products?

Two are ophthalmic products we anticipate may, the expected revenue to us is about $6 million, on the anti-hypertensive, I said that'd be about $26 million and the other two applications, in the neighborhood of $2 million. So, that would be, two six is eight, and 20 – it's about $34 million in additional revenue if those get approved quickly this fiscal year.

Got it. Okay, great. Thanks a lot for the added color.

Okay. Thank you.

[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Laura Engel of Stonegate Securities.

Good afternoon, gentlemen, and congratulations on a good quarter.

Thank you.

And welcome to Marty. I wanted to see if we could talk about the results for just a minute. You made a comment on the, I guess it's going forward, expected operational improvements in the SG&A line item. I was going to see if you could tell us a little about where you expect those improvements to come from, and how that will kind of compare to current levels?

Well, one of the areas would be the decline in royalty that we were paying – that'll be a reduction in the SG&A, but overall – I think we're predicting a slight increase in SG&A, but not an increase in line with the sales increase and revenue and profit increase. But we will see a small increase in SG&A.

Okay. And then also, related to that somewhat if you look at the research and development line item, a little higher than in previous quarters and than we had expected. I wondered if you could tell us kind of what went into that number, and if you expect that to continue at the – about that $3 million a quarter level?

Yes, hi, Laura, this is Marty. So, in the fourth quarter, the tick-up versus the third quarter, that's primarily some milestone payments that, the timing, the milestone payments related to bio-studies, so those payments occurs as the work gets done, so that's really what's driving increases here, the sequential increase. And with respect to next year, that $3 million number, we are increasing the full-year spend, as Arthur said in his outlook, so that does put you at a point where you ,mathematically, you will see that the quarters tend to be at about that $3 million mark.

Okay. And then one last question, just for someone newer to the company. On August 11, the release about the Morphine Sulfate Oral Solution was released, but then the press release mentions the temporary discontinuation of the Morphine Sulfate Oral Solution when it's discussing the impact on the quarter sales. How do those delay, or different, can you give me some insight on that?

Sure, what happened is, if you recall, last July 24, we were asked to stop selling the Morphine Sulfate, so not only did we have inventory to write-off during that period of time, but we had a loss of sales. At that time last year, we had 65% of the market. So, we lost all those sales. That product was approved under the New Drug Application June 24, even though the original PDUFA date was January; nevertheless, when we did get the approval from the FDA, we launched the product in August, so for the full year ending June 30, the loss of Morphine Sulfate, not only for its profits and sales volume, was significant to us. In this first quarter, beginning in August, we shipped [indiscernible] (22:35) I should say and as a result, you will see full-year sales of Morphine Sulfate going forward under the new drug application that was approved in June.

Okay, okay. Well, great. Well I appreciate it, and thanks for taking my questions.

Well, thank you, Laura.

[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Gregg Hillman of First Wilshire Securities.

Yeah, good afternoon, gentlemen. Arthur, could you talk about Oxycodone a little bit – what's happening there in terms of quota, marketing, et cetera?

Well, the product is a very profitable product for us, and we did receive quota. We have actually sold through that quota, have another quota pending at the Agency. As far as we know, that quota will be honored and will be delivering material to us so we can purchase raw material and relaunch the product. But, I don't give the quota, I don't want to mislead the public by talking about sales, when, if I don't have material, I don't have material.

With the quota system, until you get the permission to buy raw material, you don't have any sales to make. With the demand for the product is out there, we know the only other competitor has had some issues with a warning letter recently that was put on the FDA website, and since they're the only other supplier in the marketplace, we expect that the material will be given to us under the quota, otherwise another shortage could be created by a lack of product in the marketplace.

We don't have the Oxycodone in the numbers because, until we get a quota, there's really no predictions that we can make as far as our sales are concerned. But I can assure you that if the quota is given to us, and that is pending any day now, to have that quota, we expect to do a very – a large volume of business with the Oxycodone, not only in revenue, but also in profits. So, that product would be a significant profit maker and revenue maker for us. We are expecting to get it. But again, I didn't predict it because I don't have the quota, and at the current time, we're out of stock, and waiting for the quota to come in.

Would you do a press announcement if you got the quota on that?

Normally I wouldn't, but I would take a look at its materiality, because we try to keep our press releases based on the material value of things to the company and quite frankly, that is material to us, so we probably would put out a press release that we announce the product. Again, the last shipments we made were in July, we do have a quota that is pending, I believe since sometime in June, and we are expecting to be granted the quota.

And when you say quota, you mean quota from the DEA?

That's correct.

Okay. And then, Arthur, on your API business in the narcotic area, can you tell me what you did in the API business for the year just ended, and what's the outlook for this year?

I don't have Cody's numbers broken out separately, but I can tell you that during this past fiscal year, they've been equipping a facility and fitting out the rooms that we spoke about previously. I was just out there a couple of months ago and I'll be going out again in another month. And I can assure you, I'm very pleased with the progress, the rooms are just about completed, the R&D where we're manufacturing additional APIs is on schedule. Between December and March of this coming calendar and fiscal year for us, we expect to have additional APIs approved – Cody to make available to the marketplace and to Lannett. As we've always mentioned though, once I get those raw materials, I still need FDA approval to use them within our formulas, but the important thing is, Cody becomes self-sufficient with those launches of those products.

Okay. I didn't quite catch the last point you made Arthur, that you need FDA approval for the raw material that's coming in?

In other words, when Cody makes another raw material for example, I'll be using that raw material in my application, and in some cases, asking the FDA to approve the use of a secondary supplier, this being my subsidiary, for an already approved application and generally, you have to file a prior approval supplement to the agency to allow you to use another raw material supplier.

So, the impact of Cody's raw material sometimes is delayed by the delays at the agency in approving, changing the source of my raw materials; but over the course of our future, and the reason we are so excited about our Cody subsidiary, is that vertical integration and the use of Cody's raw material from my finished dosage forms, gives me additional profit margins. But nothing happens quickly in our business. Everything is waiting for FDA approval, unfortunately, but we do see some headwinds at the agency, where approvals are coming through not only for us, but I do believe the shortage that's at the agency is starting to [ph] a pace (27:41).

Okay, okay, thanks very much Arthur.

Okay. Thank you.

[Operator Instructions] The next question comes from [ph] George Kuchar, (27:56) Private Investor.

Yes, thank you. Arthur, I'd like to see if you could break down a little bit with Marty there. The revenue stream in the quarter was down $8.2 million year-to-year, but the cost of sales were about the same, dipped a little bit, $21.2 million versus $21.8 million. It's surprising not to see the cost of sales down on that kind of a decline in revenue stream, my question is, is that due more to Philadelphia or is it due more to Cody?

Yes, this is – George?

Yes.

Yeah, this is Marty. It's due primarily to the two locations in Philadelphia.

I see. I see, okay. And then, in terms of just following up on Cody, the construction number that's under construction is $5 million, $6 million. How has that improved since the last time we had a call, what's the structure of that construction number at this point in time? Where is all that taking place, can you break it out?

Well, from my recollection, they didn't spend all $6 million that was allocated to them, but I believe they spent something around $4 million, and the facility, if you were to visit the facility, of course you can't visit it, but you'd see the progress that's been made there. As we spoke, the rooms, the multi-purpose rooms, are up and running. They've already manufactured the, I believe, the third batch of the synthetic cocaine raw material and some of the other APIs that we talked about are being manufactured as we speak, but the cocaine is already into its third validation batch. So, you will see some improvement from the C-Topical product, because we'll be using raw material that we acquire from Cody on those products going forward this fiscal year.

With regards to the other products that they are making and the versatility of the rooms, that's all on schedule. As far as the capital expenditures that went on there, I'm very pleased with Cody's facility. You know, if you were to inspect the facility, it's clearly a very modern state-of-the-art API facility for narcotic production in the United States.

As far as the API that they're producing, they're on schedule to meet their goals for December and March for roughly six APIs and the filing or the preparation of the six DMFs with the FDA for those raw materials, those are drugs master files that when a company wants to use their own material, they reference that drug master file, and the FDA looks at the raw material manufacturing processes, that's all ongoing. There's no regulatory issues at Cody either. So, we have a very vibrant company, and I believe that we'll start to see the benefits of Cody constantly year after year at Lannette as those continue to make more and more APIs. But you'll start to see those improvements this year.

Okay. And another question on the total revenue scheme projected for the first quarter here. Can you cap September of last year, which was $25.4 million? Do you anticipate that you can beat that? I mean that's pretty close to what you did in the current – the most recent quarter while you did...

Yes, we do anticipate beating that.

So, you would have an up-quarter year-to-year in terms of revenue stream?

That's correct.

Okay, all right. I'll go back in the queue. Thanks.

Okay.

The next question comes from Gregg Hillman of First Wilshire Securities.

Yeah, Arthur, just a kind of a follow-up on, Mr. Henry from Roth earlier alluded about doing $125 million in this, in fiscal year you've just ended. And I just wanted to make sure what was not included in that. I take it that the Oxycodone was not included in that and additional things that were not included would be the anti-hypertensive, the two chemo drugs and the ophthalmic drugs, is that correct?

Yes and no. The anti-hypertensive drug was not included and neither the two ophthalmic products, nor the chemotherapeutic product, that's correct.

Okay, and then the whole, I was just checking on this, I guess the Phentermine Resin, is that included in the $125 million?

No, the Phentermine Resin is not available on the market as a brand. When we filed that application, the brand, remove the brand from the marketplace. So, we are in a unique situation where we have a generic for which no brand exists. However, we've developed a specialty pharma subsidiary and that product is being offered to the firm that we're negotiating with to do the marketing to sell that as one of our branded products.

Since there's no generic on the market, we don't see the value of introducing this as a generically priced product into the market. We believe the obesity problem in the United States is so severe that one of the marketing firms will probably take the product up and do the marketing of it. And what we mean by marketing, detail the product to position as a brand and we would be the manufacturer and supplier, and joint venture or partners with that firm.

Okay. And – but do you have to do additional testing for that to go into market?

No, no, we're just finding a marketing partner and start manufacturing the product. There's no sense manufacturing the product when you're not going to have a brand to substitute for, but it does give us the unique situation where we have a product in what I consider to be a market vacuum for anti-obesity products. As you know, all the newer ones are getting rejected by the FDA or advisory committee. This is a drug that was previously on the market and we believe we can bring it back to the market and the firms we've been talking, although I don't have a definitive agreement signed, we do feel comfortable one of them will take this product on.

Okay. And you do have FDA, but you still need the final approval to market it from the FDA?

No, no, we have the FDA approval.

Okay.

We can launch the product as soon as we want, but – let's put it this way, soon as we create a trademark for it and we have a marketing firm, we'll launch the product. If we don't make a deal with a marketing firm, we are clearly capable of contract sales organization doing the marketing for us. We're looking at that aspect as well. But we find it sometimes working with dedicated firms that have a field sales force already under contract or under their employee, actually, as employees I should say, that we would get more bang for the buck if we work with those firms, and my sales department has been in touch with a few people and we are discussing this product with them.

And do you know what that was doing well, was on the market. It was like $5 million or $10 million product?

No, it was about $11 million, and the brand was Ionamine. It was a $11 million brand at the time.

Ionamine. Okay that's pretty interesting. And what – and did you give any amounts earlier for the two chemo drugs and the ophthalmic drugs? You said, two chemos...

I said I lumped them together. The two chemos I lumped together. One would be, that's not available for this year, just so we're clear, that's the pipeline I was talking about, that's worth at least $60 million to us, one of the chemo; the other chemo drug about $24 million.

Okay. You mean that's just a size of the – of what would be the generic market for it.

The expected generic market, right. And since we know we'll be number two on one of them, it's the Thenalidine product, generically it's Thenalidine. Celgene has offered to settle our litigation and provide the brand to us. Since those documents have been unsealed by the court, I can talk about that particular product. That's why we expect to do about $60 million. The brand revenue is around $500 million on that and Celgene has indicated they're providing the capsules to two firms. My company is one of them and I'm not aware who the other firm is.

But we're anticipating being, let's say, second in the marketplace. First, or share the marketplace with a second – the other firm, and that's where the $60 million conservative number comes from.

Okay, that's pretty interesting. And then finally, what was the number on the ophthalmic?

The two of them are $6 million and expected revenue at our end. And these products are currently on the market, we expect that would be our revenue from them.

Okay. Okay, thanks for the clarification.

If I can just jump in here just to say one thing before as we go along here. The outlook for revenue for 2012, we kind of broadly talk about comparing 2012, 2010, I will just encourage everyone when you are thinking about revenue and modeling, I will just encourage you to look at the words in Arthur's prepared comments for guidance on the revenue line.

Okay, thank you.

Thanks. Operator?

The next question comes from Scott Henry of ROTH Capital Partners.

Hello, and thank you for taking the follow-up. Just a quick question. Gross margins except the guidance was mid-20 for fiscal year 2012. When you get beyond 2012, how do you expect that line item to move? I mean, it used to be the mid-30s, you know on its way to 40% for gross margin, do you think you can improve considerably from that mid-25 or that mid-20 range in outer years or how should we think about that?

Yeah, we do expect it will improve because you remember the vertical integration starts to improve my profit margins year-after-year. It's incremental, depends on how many products I get approved from the FDA, how quickly I get my applications in, we're certainly ready to get the applications in for the use of Cody's raw materials. Matter of fact, there are some formulas already been produced and all are waiting for is Cody's raw materials to come in, and once that go down to the agency, some of them – quite a few of them, have no bio-equivalency study. So we expect those applications to get inspected by the FDA rather quickly, or review it, I should say. And as a result, when those products are approved, they are going to be at higher profit margin level than the existing products. So, there's constant growth in profit margin.

Okay. And I did hear that correct. There was mid-20s guidance for the gross margins?

Yes. That's correct.

Okay. Thank you for taking the follow-up.

You're welcome, Scott.

We have no further questions in queue at this time. I'll now turn the call over to Arthur Bedrosian for any closing remarks.

Well, thank you for joining us today. If anyone has any further questions, please do not hesitate to contact the Investor Relations team at Lannett. That concludes our call and thanks again for joining us today.

Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. This concludes today's conference. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.