Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Roger S. Pondel — President & Chief Executive Officer, PondelWilkinson, Inc.
Arthur P. Bedrosian — President, CEO, Director & Head-Investor Relations, Lannett Co., Inc.
Martin P. Galvan — Chief Financial Officer & Vice President, Lannett Co., Inc.
Scott R. Henry — Analyst, ROTH Capital Partners LLC
Laura S. Engel — Analyst, Stonegate Securities, Inc.
Chris Mark Holterhoff — Analyst, Oppenheimer Securities
Gregg Hillman — Analyst, First Wilshire Securities Management, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to the Lannett 2012 Fourth Quarter and Full Year Financial Results Conference Call. My name is John, and I will be your operator for today's call. At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session.

I will now turn the call over to Mr. Roger Pondel. Mr. Pondel, you may begin.

Thanks so much, John, and good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us to discuss Lannett Company's fiscal 2012 fourth quarter and full year financial results.

On the call today are Arthur Bedrosian, President and CEO, and Marty Galvan, the company's Chief Financial Officer. Please be advised that this call is being broadcast live on the Internet at www.lannett.com. A playback will be available for three months and maybe accessed on the Internet at Lannett's website.

I would like to make the cautionary statement and remind everyone that all of the information discussed on the call today is covered under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Litigation Reform Act. The company's discussion will include forward-looking information reflecting management's current forecast of certain aspects of the company's future and actual results could differ materially from those stated or implied.

And this afternoon, Arthur will review the company's business highlights, and Marty will discuss the financial results for the quarter and year in more detail, followed by Arthur's concluding remarks. We will then open up the call to questions.

So with that said, let me now turn the call over to Arthur. Arthur?

Thank you, Roger, and good afternoon, everyone. Looking at our fiscal 2012 full year results, you'll see that we met our expectations and delivered on our promise to get the company back on track after a challenging fiscal 2011. The growth of our top and bottom line in fiscal 2012 was largely due to improved sales of certain key products in our base business, as well as the eight product approvals we received. Included in these approvals were seven ANDAs and one supplemental ANDA.

By contrast, due to a backlog at the FDA in the prior fiscal year, we received only two ANDA approvals and one new drug application approval. The launch of these products positively enhanced our manufacturing efficiency and helped increase our gross margins to 32% of net sales from 22% for fiscal 2011.

During the past year, we made changes to our Board of Directors and Management team, adding seasoned professionals with relevant industry experience to help guide the company toward the future. We were more aggressive on the Investor Relations front. Over the past year, we met with and made presentations to the professional investment community at a number of prestigious healthcare investor conferences. You may be interested to know that later this month, on September 19th, we intend to present at the 2012 UBS Global Life Sciences conference in New York.

As I've mentioned on previous conference calls, we continue to work with appropriate government officials in an effort to rectify or at least mitigate the impact on Lannett, of costs related to the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act or PPACA. This relatively new legislation requires pharmaceutical companies to rebate a portion of the cost of branded prescription drugs for Medicare Part D beneficiaries.

We believe the PPACA has been inappropriately applied to our levothyroxine product, which was approved as a new drug, but is marketed as a generic. Accordingly, we contended our Levothyroxine product is outside the spirit and intention of PPACA. Until the situation is resolved; we will continue to record and accrue this charge, which was approximately $450,000 for the fiscal 2012 fourth quarter, and $1.8 million for the fiscal year.

With that brief introduction, I'd like to turn the call over to Marty for an overview of our financial results. Marty?

Thank you, Arthur, and good afternoon, everyone. For the fiscal 2012 fourth quarter, net sales rose 40% to $35.7 million from $25.5 million in the fiscal 2011 fourth quarter. By category, net sales were; thyroid deficiency, $14.1 million; cardiovascular, $6.6 million; pain management, $6.3 million; gallstone, $1.7 million; obesity, $1.2 million; migraine, $1.4 million; antibiotic, $1.9 million.

Gross profit more than tripled to $12 million from $3.8 million for fiscal 2011 fourth quarter. As a percent of net sales, gross margin was 34%, compared with 15% for the fiscal fourth quarter of last year. The higher gross profit percentage was due to favorable mix, sales mix that is, price increases and enhanced manufacturing efficiencies.

Research and development expenses rose to $4.0 million from $3.0 million in last year's fourth quarter, primarily reflecting our increased investment in new product development.

SG&A was $5.4 million, compared with $4.2 million for the same quarter of last year. The increase was primarily due to our investment in the C-Topical test marketing program, as well as performance incentives in 2012, which were not earned in the prior year.

Operating income was $2.6 million versus an operating loss of $3.4 million for the comparable quarter last year. And lastly, for the quarter, net income attributable to Lannett was $1.4 million, or $0.05 per diluted share, compared to a net loss attributable to Lannett of $1.9 million, or $0.07 per share for last year's fiscal fourth quarter.

Comparing full year of fiscal 2012 with fiscal 2011, net sales rose 15% to $123 million from $106.8 million. Gross profit increased 67% to $38.9 million from $23.3 million, and as Arthur mentioned, gross profit percentage improved to 32% of net sales from 22%.

Operating income was $6.9 million versus an operating loss of $1.2 million. Net income attributable to Lannett was $3.9 million, or $0.14 per diluted share, compared to a net loss attributable to Lannett of $277,000, or $0.01 per share.

Now turning to the balance sheet, as of June 30, 2012, cash, cash equivalents, investment and investment securities were approximately $29.2 million. I'm pleased to report that our free cash flow in the fourth quarter was the strongest quarter this year.

Turning to our outlook for fiscal 2013, in the coming year, we expect our top line and gross margin to increase over fiscal 2012 levels. We expect to make a major investment in drug development, having identified several product candidates with significant market potential. Our outlook for fiscal 2013 also takes into consideration the FDA's new generic drug user fees, otherwise known as GDUFA fees. As a result, we currently anticipate our fiscal earnings – our earnings for fiscal 2013 to be steady and comparable to fiscal 2012.

Regarding our quarters in fiscal 2013, earnings are not evenly distributed due to the timing of our C-Topical clinical trial and biostudies. We expect EPS in Q2 and Q3 to be lower than in Q1 and Q4. More specifically, for fiscal 2013, we anticipate full-year net sales of $132 million to $136 million, full-year gross margin as a percent of net sales, to increase in the neighborhood of 3 percentage points over fiscal 2012's actual gross margin percentage of 31.7%.

With respect to operating expenses, we expect full-year R&D expense to be in the range of $18 million to $20 million, and SG&A expense to be in the range of $21 million to $23 million. And finally, we expect capital expenditures to be approximately $10 million to $12 million.

And with that brief financial overview, I'll now turn the call back over to Arthur. Arthur?

Thank you, Marty. Overall, we are very pleased with our financial performance in fiscal 2012. We also delivered on our promise of significant improvement to our financial results in the second half for our fiscal year.

Looking ahead, we believe we'll see continued top line and gross margin improvement. We have a strong line of products in development, being prepared for submission or already at the FDA, which includes approximately 40 in various stages of development, and an additional 14 product applications pending at the FDA.

As Marty said, we intend to invest heavily in the company's future by ramping up our product development efforts. For the coming fiscal year, we have increased our R&D budget by $6 million to $8 million. The major portion of that increase is earmarked for clinical trials related to our C-Topical branded drug strategy, for which we are utilizing a 505b2 to gain FDA approval. We expect the C-Topical clinical trial to be completed and to file a related new drug application by the end of fiscal year 2013.

We have engaged a marketing partner to test market C-Topical in certain geographies around the country. The firm has begun detailing the product using a dedicated sales force. In the fiscal year just ended, we invested approximately $1 million toward the marketing effort and have earmarked a significant amount in fiscal 2013 for the clinical testing.

We signed a contract for the clinical testing utilizing our own API and expect those results in due course. We are on track and on budget with the marketing effort and expect to see initial results beginning in the second quarter of fiscal 2013. We believe our R&D investments will pay off handsomely in terms of expanding our product portfolio with the kind of products from which we expect higher revenues and higher margins than we typically enjoy.

Let me highlight another one of our product opportunities. We completed developing the chemotherapeutic drug, thalidomide, a generic version of Thalomid, which according to IMS has annual brand sales of approximately $277 million. Our bioequivalency studies began this week, and it is still looking like a first-to-file candidate. Needless to say, the product candidates that are first-to-file often generate significant sales and carry higher margins.

We continue to grow our pain management franchise in which we seek to command our major presence in the multibillion dollar market. According to trade sources, the potential markets of pain management drugs ranges from $15 billion to $35 billion globally. The controlled substance market alone represents a substantial opportunity for our company. Our plan is to become a one-stop shop for all controlled substance dosage forms. Over time, we believe we could capture a significant share of the finished dosage market and be vertically integrated on those APIs as well.

Cody Labs is focusing on developing all controlled substance APIs for all finished dosage forms that are currently being marketed or that are in Phase III studies in United States. We recently passed FDA inspection of our three facilities at Philadelphia, and we enjoy a good reputation for compliance. We are optimistic that our financial and operational momentum will continue.

With the time available, we would now like to address any questions you may have. Operator?

Thank you. We will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Scott Henry from ROTH Capital. Please go ahead.

Thank you, and good afternoon. I guess just for starters, Marty, I didn't get all of the product segments. I missed a couple of those. Do you mind just running through that quickly one more time?

Sure, Scott, no problem. Let me grab my note here. So, thyroid deficiency is $14.1 million. These are dollars, of course, so. Cardiovascular is $6.6 million. Pain management $6.3 million, gallstone $1.7 million, obesity $1.2 million, migraine $1.4 million, antibiotic $1.9 million.

Okay, great.

Okay?

Now shifting gears, I appreciate the detailed guidance. The revenue total number looks very good at $132 million to $136 million. Could you comment on where you expect the growth to come from in 2013? What should be the biggest growth drivers?

Probably the levothyroxine sodium that we continue to grab market share away from the Synthroid brand product, and as a result, that market has continued to grow every year, and we expect growth there in particular. We also expect to see some growth in some of the new ANDAs we just got approved. We're projecting some sales growth there, because we'll have one of those ANDAs for the full year where we only received six months of benefit from it previously. That drug was approved back in December, as I recall. And then certainly, the pain management products, we expect to see some significant growth.

Okay. And when I put in the prescriptions for a lot of these generic products, I noticed in the digoxin market, it looks like westward is fading. And at one point, that was 25% of the digoxin market. Now, it's 5%. Anything going on there that you're aware off?

Yes, if you recall, they've been under our – an FDA warning letter and there you have the issue of, I call them, obese tablets. They're actually double-punched tablets, so that the amount of active ingredient in each tablet is greater than the label claim. And as a result, they've really been off the market for a while with the digoxin product. And of course, we've benefited to some degree from that withdrawal. They didn't actually withdraw the product, but they stopped manufacturing and supplying the product.

Okay. Now, shifting gears, $18 million to $20 million in R&D investments, can you quantify how much of that is C-Topical?

Yes. Approximately $5 million of that will be the C-Topical clinical study.

Okay. So, we should probably – I mean, when that goes off the books in 2013, we would expect that R&D to come down in the following year, I mean, barring something new coming out like -

That's correct.

Okay. Thanks. That's helpful. And then just with regards to the pipeline, Dyazide, I know that was expected to be kind of a $10 million to $15 million product down the road or – how is that doing basically?

It's doing very well actually. That's the one I was alluding to, will be part of the growth for this year. We only had it for six months in the last fiscal year and now we're going to enjoy that product for the whole year. We were anticipating some competition returning to the market, but that seems to have been delayed. The prices are still holding up, and we are getting some very good business on that product right now. We're anticipating holding that for the year, but of course, we're in a generic marketplace and you never know when the competition will come in. But right now, we are enjoying increased sales.

Okay. And then just with regards to what are looking as kind of the big four pipeline products, I thought you said – so the C-Topical NDA should be filed by the end of fiscal year 2013, correct?

That's correct, before the fiscal year-ends.

Okay. And then I believe you're going to start selling or you're going to start marketing the non-approved cocaine topical in fiscal year Q4 2012 or right around now. I mean, how is that progressing?

That's – we've been selling that product, but we've actually now started selling it as a branded product. So, we're literally detailing doctors. The beauty of that particular product is there is nobody detailing anything against that product. Currently, doctors use a combination of generic lidocaine and generic – Oh, jeez, epinephrine, and they combine the two in an injectable form. The product is then injected into patient and then they have to wait 30 minutes for the onset.

In the case of topical cocaine, they are able to get quick onset, and they get the same benefit, the same analgesia benefit. And of course, the side effect of cocaine topical is basal construction. So, they get the added benefit of that product as well or that effect, I should say.

As a result, the doctors have been very receptive to the product, and we've been getting some very good results with regards to the acknowledgement of the medical community that this is a product that's needed in the marketplace. And of course, we've been getting a lot of cooperation from the FDA with regards to our filing and the protocols and the approval of those protocols.

So all of that is in the works. An agreement has been signed with the clinical laboratory already, and they've already started recruiting patients for the clinical studies. So, we're comfortable that this product will have a successful clinical outcome, and we also feel that the marketing effort will be successful as well. But again, we won't know that till the test market is over in December.

Okay. And then the thalidomide, when do you expect to file that product?

Right now, it's looking like probably by Christmas time we'll have filed that application. The biostudy has just been started, literally this week.

Okay.

But we expect to file sometime by Christmas, let's say.

Okay. So, it'd launch probably in first half 2014?

Yes.

Okay. And the final question, the phentermine resin, when do you expect to start selling that product?

Well, that's been delayed. The – unfortunately, the company that supplied the resin no longer will supply GMP resin. They offered us non-GMP resin. It's a technicality, food grade for example. Nevertheless, when we decided we were able to use that material because the process is really almost considered an intermediate step, they decided not to sell that product.

We then went to another firm. They've offered the material to us. Then they've changed their mind. We finally, found a third company, and we've been testing their product. So, we've had a bit of a setback in getting the resin from a resin supplier. Currently that's being tested and evaluated. So, there is no deadline I can give you right now. But there are some interested parties in that product right at the moment, but it's going to be at least a year off.

Okay, great. Thank you for taking the questions.

Okay. Thank you.

Our next question comes from Laura Engel from Stonegate Securities. Please go ahead.

Good afternoon. Thank you for taking my questions. As far as the last quarter and just recent releases, we haven't seen a lot of new product approvals. Do you feel like there is anything as far as FDA bottleneck or any issues coming back around, or is it just simply timing of the specific filings and you feel that it's in the near term?

Well, I think it's just FDA delay. Remember, they're really tied up now with this GDUFA. They have to determine what the fees are. And they do get a fee for the backlog. So, I don't think they were incentivized to actually push any approvals through for anybody, because the more approvals they sent out, the less incentive they got, less payment.

No, we don't see any problems. It's really just the backlog, and we do expect some approvals momentarily. There are a couple that are literally within the next few months, I would say, approvable, but they're certainly going to come in after the GDUFA fee goes into effect in October. So, next month, we'll pay a backlog fee, and then any new filings of course, will have a supplement application fee and a separate fee for ANDAs. And we expect approvals – there is probably about four pending approvals, two that I would say are close to the next few months, the other two may be a few months after.

As we mentioned previously, three of our applications are being held up, because the supplier of the two ophthalmic products, for example, and one of the injectables is Wintac in India. They received a warning letter, and they've been resolving that warning letter with the FDA. But for that warning letter, those applications would have been approved. So, unfortunately, we have to wait for their FDA problems to get cleared up.

Okay. And then you referenced also improved manufacturing efficiencies. I guess could you give me a little bit of detail on that and then also an update on Cody.

Yes, Laura, hi. This is Marty. So, on the manufacturing efficiencies, a good deal of that is the extent to which our volumes have been increasing significantly, both at Cody and at the Philadelphia sites. So, just in terms of the fixed overheads, we've been able to absorb a lot of our overhead now with the increased volume, particularly on when you compare it to last year's volumes where sales were down so much. And in addition to that, there is usual tightening of the purse strings, if you will, and in controlling expenses throughout the manufacturing organization. Arthur, I don't know if you want to comment on Cody.

No, that really covers Cody as well. Cody is always more susceptible to the delays of quota. So, it's always more difficult to discuss what Cody's benefits will be, because sometimes they lose months waiting for quotas to be approved, and it's a little more difficult for them to manage their business than it is for us on the dosage side.

Right. But as far as the quota, currently you are fine and you have what you need for the API to progress?

Yes, for now we are, but we still have some pressing applications for additional quota that are before the agency that we haven't been made aware of what the responses have been yet. So, there are still some things that are outstanding, and we certainly could never have enough quota quite frankly.

Right. Okay. And then lastly, related to the PPACA legislation and the rebate, have you all heard of anyone else that is in a similar boat or is having any issue that having the success at I guess getting a favorable determination on this, and what might the timing be on that? I guess you said there was about $1.8 million reported for the year. What might the timing be on something like that?

Well, we do have disputes filed with CMS on the prior filings and the payments that we made to them and trying to recover that money. And going forward, this issue seems to be one that's going to have to be dealt with legislatively. Nevertheless, we are meeting with CMS, and we are engaging Washington counsel with our lobbying efforts, because we believe that CMS may realize that levothyroxine is a generic and remove it from the Part D.

If they refuse, then we'll have to go the legislative route. But we are working on it. We don't expect that to be resolved for another six months in terms of any legislative or CMS activity. With regards to disputes, those should be resolved in the next couple of months, one way or the other. We're waiting for access to audit the findings down at their facility.

Okay. Okay. Well, appreciate the detail and -

Well, I'm sorry.

– especially the guidance.

Laura, one other thing, you said, are other companies impacted by it? All the authorized generics are impacted by this as well because all of those products are considered brands, because they had new drug applications filed. So, they are a little bit unhappy about this dilemma as well.

Right. Okay, great. Well, thank you. I appreciate it.

You're welcome.

Our next question comes from Chris Holterhoff from Oppenheimer & Company. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good afternoon, guys. Thanks for taking my question.

Hi, Chris.

You mentioned part of a reason for the increase in gross margin this quarter was just related to price increase. So, I'm just wondering what the major products were that you took price increases on, and then kind of how you're thinking about having any additional ones for price increases in the future.

First of all, I'll point out Chris, though we call it price increase, but in spirit, it's probably moreso just a mix of customers kind of point where, being generics, as you know, it's not where we necessarily can increase our prices and often it is just a – it's a channel matter on distribution, where the product's going, which customers. We have seen some price increase in certain categories; pain, we saw some. We don't get too specific as you know, but we did see some price increase there.

For example, on the C-Topical, because of the cost of the detailing program, and converting that product to a brand, you can't continue to sell something at generic prices when you're detailing doctors. If we don't detail the doctors, we can't expand that marketplace, and clearly, the market for that product has been projected to be rather large, in the $58 million to $111 million range. We were doing roughly $18 million with the product. So, in anticipation of the cost to market that product in a branded way, we've begun raising prices on that product as well.

Got it. Okay, thanks. And then, as far as your 2013 revenue guidance, I'm just wondering what's implied there in terms of your expectations for new product launches? Maybe just the number of product launches and sort of the magnitude of the difference between revenue this year – this fiscal – fiscal year 2013 and fiscal year 2012. That will be helpful?

Yes, Chris I'll answer that. I'll say that in our planning for 2013, the impact of any new products is very limited. As it works out, we do have the effect, as Arthur mentioned, of Dyazide or generic, the triamterene. We do have an increase there because we have a full-year effect. That's one of our larger increases on a year-on-year comparison. But yes, in terms of new products, it's very – it's limited. It's in $100 million of new products. We tried to be conservative there, just never been sure, obviously.

Sure. Fair enough. Okay, thanks. And then, just lastly, on the C-Topical program, I know you mentioned you're selling your branded version of that. I think, if I'm correct, you have about three to four reps currently selling that, and I know you're looking at possibly adding some more, maybe up to 15 or so, and I guess I'm just wondering, are you really waiting for the results of that marketing study that's out there, or could you possibly increase those number of reps by maybe the end of this calendar year?

I'll answer that, Chris. The plan was that in December, we'd evaluate the test market results for the six months, and then if they have been successful, the plan was to begin hiring an additional 16 salespeople. We believe we needed 20 total to cover the United States because this drug is used in the hospital setting or surgery centers, emergency rooms. So, it's not like we have to call on GPs or internists. And as a result, 20 should cover the main hospital groups in across the country.

And we won't hire them, of course, day one because recruiting these people is going to take some time, and we're trying to recruit only those experienced reps in the pain management field that already know some of the requirements for detailing a product like this. And you're not going to see a big jump in January, but in January, we'll certainly begin hiring people because we do think this product is going to be successful. So far, the very early indications are that the response from the physician market is very overwhelmingly positive, and as a result, we expect that we'll see these results show up in sales.

Okay. Okay, well, thanks a lot for the added color and congratulations on a good fourth fiscal quarter.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Our next question comes from Gregg Hillman from First Wilshire Securities. Please go ahead.

Yeah, good morning, gentlemen. Also congratulations on the progress you're making at the company. Arthur, first of all – for the C-Topical filing at the middle of next year, will that get expedited approval of the FDA, or will that just be normal?

Yes. It's a PDUFA filing, so it will get expedited. We're expecting maybe 7-8 months outside 11 for approval.

Okay, that's great. And then in terms of coming up with different forms of the narcotics such as liquids or nasal spray, can you just tell me what progress you're making there in terms of getting narcotics in different administration forms, and how you're doing in liquids in general?

We're doing very well. We actually have been talking to a couple of brand companies on that hydromorphone nasal delivery product. And we are moving, and we've actually successfully completed a biostudy for one of the nasal products that we'll be filing shortly. So, that end of the business is doing extremely well.

We've gone into some new dosage forms, nasal just being one of them, and we've been successful in taking on these new areas, new dosage forms, heretofore new to Lannett anyway. And as a result, we expect to do a lot more with it. We're partnering with people because we can develop more nasal products in the brand area than we would be capable of manufacturing and marketing ourselves, because we're not a real brand company. So, as we're gradually getting into the branded market, some of these drugs, the opportunities are too big for us to take on, let's say. In other words, if I would have launched a hydromorphone nasal, I probably couldn't do as good a job as, if one of a larger DMA companies, certainly the pharmaceutical brand companies were to take on.

So, we are under negotiations with one of them now that have expressed an interest in these products. And we'll probably announce shortly whether we're going to do anything with one of them in a joint venture where we will be the API supplier in terms of its – Cody's raw material, and our colleague that makes the nasal deliveries exclusively for us, will be the manufacturing site for the products, and then of course, the joint venture partner will do the marketing. Now, we're looking at partnering with people that can benefit Cody and benefit Lannett, even though Lannett won't be the actual marketer of that product.

And so presumably these are people that have trouble swallowing that could use the nasal?

That's one reason. Also, it uses a smaller molecule so there's less side effects. And it's – in the case of the hydromorphone, the initial work they did, there was a quicker onset with nasal than injectable version of that same product. So, there seems to be multiple benefits here, plus the main benefit, it's an abuse deterrent product because within the device, you're only getting one tenth of one ml of the liquid. So, there's no incentive to break the product apart to try to capture the one-tenth of one ml – abuse the drug, so there's no abuse with these devices either.

That's brilliant. And you'd be the one of the first to market with the – is there a nasal one on the market right now?

Not for the pain management. There is, as you know, a fentanyl nasal delivery and there is other forms of delivery of migraine products delivered by nasal, but the hydromorphone, that would be the first product in nasal delivery.

Okay, great. And then just one final question for Marty. You said the GAAP EPS will be back loaded to the last two quarters in the next – this fiscal year we're in right now. Is that correct? And so that would mean like the first two quarters would be like – like zero basically?

No, Gregg, I think, I mean, just to clarify, what we were saying was that the – first of all, the quarter's R&D then is what happens, and what we said was that the second and the third quarter actually are down from an EPS perspective, and it's primarily related to the phasing of the expense for the C-Topical trial. So, as you look at the quarters, the first quarter is, from an EPS perspective is, almost similar to the quarter we're just finishing now, the fourth quarter. And there's a dip in the second and third. Within the fourth quarter, EPS is, we think we expected to be back up again due to the timing of some of our R&D-related expenses such as biostudies and outside development work we have planned.

Okay. So, basically, a lot of the earnings, or the GAAP earnings would occur in the fourth quarter again in next year, I mean, the lion's share?

It's more like it's more evenly distributed between the first and the fourth.

Between the first and the fourth?

Right.

Okay. Okay. Thanks very much. And then just – and so just the biggest wildcard for the company is still just disapprovals. Is that correct, more or less?

Well, unfortunately, yes. On an immediate basis, that's the wildcard. On a long-term basis, the more we vertically integrate with Cody supplying us raw material, the higher the profit margins we enjoy. So, we continue to push Cody to make more EPI for us so we can file more applications and then the profits just roll in after that because the market – we've proven we can certainly capture market share. We've proven we have no – we have good regulatory compliance. So, the typical problems that affect other people, we don't have. And once these products start getting approved, it's a fait accompli that we'll be a very profitable company on these vertically integrated products.

So really it's, if one was thinking about the earnings, Marty, one should really take out the R&D because that's really an investment, or the R&D spend on the topical to get a more of a normalized earnings?

Well, certainly yes, and I think in one of the earlier calls – one of the earlier questions was more about, would we expect to see earnings go back up after that spend is over for the trial, and that's, it's yes, on that same vein, it's a non-recurring expense.

Yeah. Okay, okay, that's great. And then it's really high – It's almost certain that the thing is going to pass the trials because you've had such good experience already with that product.

Yes. Yes, absolutely.

Okay. Okay. Thanks, guys.

Thank you.

Take care. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

We have no further questions at this time. Do you have any closing remarks?

I would like to thank you all for joining us today. If anyone has any further questions, please do not hesitate to contact the Investor Relations team at Lannett. That concludes our call and thanks, again for joining us today.

Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. This concludes today's conference. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.