Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Robert Jaffe — Investor Relations, PondelWilkinson Inc.
Arthur P. Bedrosian — President, CEO, Director & Head-Investor Relations, Lannett Co., Inc.
Martin P. Galvan — Chief Financial Officer & Vice President, Lannett Co., Inc.
Scott R. Henry — Analyst, ROTH Capital Partners LLC
Chris Mark Holterhoff — Analyst, Oppenheimer Securities
Laura S. Engel — Analyst, Stonegate Securities, Inc.
Gregg Hillman — Analyst, First Wilshire Securities Management, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to the Lannett Fiscal 2012 Second Quarter Financial Results Conference Call. My name is Monica, and I will be your operator for today's call. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session.

I will now turn the call over to Robert Jaffe. You may begin.

Thank you, operator. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us today to discuss Lannett Company's fiscal 2012 second quarter financial results.

On the call today are Arthur Bedrosian, President and CEO; and Marty Galvan, Chief Financial Officer. Please be advised that this conference call is being broadcast live on the Internet at www.lannett.com. A playback of this call will be available for three months and maybe accessed on the Internet at Lannett's website.

I would also like to make the cautionary statement and remind everyone that all of the information discussed on the call today is covered under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Litigation Reform Act. The company's discussion today will include forward-looking information reflecting management's current forecast of certain aspects of the company's future and our actual results could differ materially from those stated or implied.

This afternoon, Arthur will review the company's business highlights, then Marty will discuss the financial results for the quarter in more detail, followed by Arthur's concluding remarks. We will then open the call for questions.

With that said, let me now turn the call over to Arthur Bedrosian. Arthur?

Thank you, Robert, and good afternoon everyone. Our fiscal 2012 second quarter results were largely in line with our expectations with a notable exception of the negative impact of $945,000 on our net sales from the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act also known was PPACA. Let me share a little background on PPACA.

As part of this legislation, pharmaceutical companies are now required to help reduce the cost of branded prescription drugs for Medicare Part D beneficiaries. For example, our Levothyroxine product was approved under a 505(b)(2) New Drug Application and as such is considered a brand drug accordingly when that is required to provide this rebate. However, while our Levothyroxine product is considered a branded drug for purposes of PPACA, it is marketed and priced as a generic and does not enjoy the margins typically associated with the branded drug.

In essence, we are rebating funds we never received in the first place. Because we believe our situation is outside the spirit and intention of PPACA, we have been and will continue to discuss our specific situation with appropriate government official in an effort to rectify or at least mitigate the impact of this legislation on Lannett.

Moving on, without the impact of the PPACA, net sales, gross profit and operating income in the recently completed quarter were comparable to our fiscal 2012 first quarter results. Thus far in fiscal 2012 our financial performance has positively benefited from recently approved products. Over the last seven months, we have received nine product approvals, which include seven ANDAs, one supplemental ANDA and one New Drug Application. This is the most approvals in any seven month period in the company's 70 year history.

We continue to believe the second half of our fiscal year will show further improvement, largely due to the products approved in the first half of fiscal 2012, as well as, the two approvals we have received thus far in our fiscal third quarter.

Since our last conference call, we have received FDA approval and launched Triamterene with Hydrochlorothiazide capsules and we have also received approvals for Hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 milligram capsules and Phentermine Hydrochloride 15 milligram. Both will be launched shortly. This gives us positive momentum going into the second half of fiscal 2012.

With that brief introduction, I'd now like to turn the call over to Marty for an overview of our financial results. Marty?

Thank you, Arthur, and good afternoon everyone. Before I begin, I would like to point out that last year's second quarter results benefited from certain non-recurring items. Accordingly, we do not believe the second quarter over second quarter is an apples-to-apples comparison. In last year's second quarter results, we recorded sales of OB-Natal One tablets, a high margin product we no longer market of $952,000 and we reversed a royalty expense in the amount of $618,000 related to the same product.

In addition, two non-operating items impacted last year's quarter. First, we reported a $264,000 tax credit related to an agreement reached with the IRS. And second, weighted average shares outstanding used for calculating diluted EPS were 10% lower in last year's second quarter due to our stock offering completed in December of 2010.

In addition, the line-by-line comparison of the current quarter to last year's second quarter is impacted by two additional unusual items in last year's second quarter, which essentially offset each other from an EPS perspective. First, last year we recorded inventory reserves related to Morphine Sulfate Oral Solution for $1.5 million. And second, we reversed accrued bonuses of $1.4 million, which impacted the COGS, R&D and SG&A lines.

With that in mind, let's turn to our current year second quarter results. Net sales were $27.7 million compared with $30.0 million in the 2011 second quarter. Gross profit was $7.4 million compared with $8.4 million for fiscal 2011 second quarter. As a percent of net sales, gross margin was 27% compared with 28% for the second quarter of last year.

Research and development expenses increased to $2.5 million from $1.7 million in last year's second quarter. SG&A was $4.4 million compared with $2.9 million for the same quarter of last year.

Operating income was $495,000 compared with $3.8 million for the comparable quarter last year. Net income attributable to Lannett was $609,000 or $0.02 per diluted share compared with $2.4 million or $0.09 per diluted share for last year's fiscal second quarter.

Now turning to the balance sheet. As of December 31, 2011, cash, cash equivalents and investment securities were approximately $25.2 million.

Turning to our outlook for fiscal 2012. We are updating our guidance, more specifically, we are increasing our full year gross margin percentage. We now anticipate achieving the following. To clarify our sales outlook, we expect full year net sales to be between $120 million and $126 million, reflecting a growth rate in the low to mid teens as compared to fiscal year 2011. We are revising upward our full year gross margin percentage to be approximately 30%. With respect to operating expenses, we continue to believe full year R&D expense to increase to between 9% and 10% of revenue. We expect our SG&A expense in the second half of fiscal 2012 to be similar to the first half. And finally, we expect capital expenditures to be in the $6 million to $10 million range.

With that brief financial overview, I will now turn the call back over to Arthur. Arthur?

Thank you, Marty. Overall we are pleased with our financial performance thus far in fiscal 2012. Looking ahead, we have a deep pipeline with several near term opportunities. Our products and development include two chemotherapeutic drugs from which we expect revenues of probably in the neighborhood of $70 million annualized.

Our pipeline also includes thalidomide, a brand version of Thalomid currently with $300 million brand sales revenue. We are continuing to expand our pain management franchise and have a team focused on developing APIs, which ultimately will help expand our margins. In addition, we continue to make progress in our branded products strategy.

We have identified several opportunities, including Phentermine Resin, which currently has no competition on the market. We intend to market this product through our newly created Specialty Pharma division. We estimate the launch of this product in our fiscal 2012 fourth quarter.

Our antibiotic supplemental application for MRSA, methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, was filed in February of 2011, and we're working with FDA to receive expedited review; And our C-Topical product, we are utilizing our 505(b)(2) strategy.

Early last month, we reached agreement with the FDA on a Special Protocol Assessment regarding the design of a Phase III study for this product. The SPA agreement provides a clear registration pathway for our C-Topical product. We expect C-Topical clinical trial to be completed and to file a related new drug application by the end of calendar year 2012.

We have spoken with a number of potential marketing partners for our C-Topical product as well as our Phentermine Resin and chloramphenicol products. We have narrowed the field to a few companies and are hopeful to name the final list shortly.

As I said on the last conference call, we expect fiscal 2012 to be much improved over fiscal 2011. Recent product approvals have added to our optimism for continued financial and operational improvement throughout the current fiscal year.

With the time available, we would now like to address any questions you may have. Operator?

Thank you. We will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Scott Henry. Please go ahead.

Thank you and good afternoon. I guess just to get started, Marty, could you just give us the product categories, including thyroid deficiency, heart failure and basically all the stuff that makes into the Q as well?

Okay. So, I'll give you the main ones there Scott and tell me what more you need. So, on cardiovascular, the number is 2.952 million. The thyroid category is 11.211 million, pain management 5.257 million and I think those are the key – those are all the key categories.

Okay. Yeah, I mean as long as I get those I can work with the other ones.

Okay.

Shifting gears a little bit, this issue with the PPACA I guess my question is has this ever come up before and do you expect it to impact future quarters?

Well, first of all, the law was passed in March 22, 2010 and went into effect in 2011 calendar year. So this will be the first year that we wouldn't see any impact from it. And the first, second and third quarters of the calendar year, we did have some revenue and we did have some reserves for it .Actually in the third quarter, my colleagues contacted CMS to find out what we could expect for the fourth quarter of reserves and what we would expect for the rebate to be? And they indicated it would be less than the third quarter. Our third quarter reserve – third quarter rebate was $270,000. So we reserved $200,000 for the fourth quarter. The one that they said would be lighter turned out to be four times the size of the third quarter or $945,000. So while we did all we could by working with CMS to make sure that our reserves were adequate for this new rebate because no one else had any expectations of what that amount would be. We thought we had everything planned long behold a week ago they give me the invoice and tell me the rebate is much higher than it was.

In the meantime, we have been working with the government to try to make sure that the numbers are correct and the way the system works. You have to pay the bill first and then you could dispute it and that's something we already have planned. We do know that the unusual situation here is because of the type of filing that's made. So if you file a new drug application or what they call a 505(b)(2), which is you might say smaller version as opposed to abbreviated version of the new drug application that these products because they are sold generically wouldn't be impacted. But unfortunately the way the law reads, if it's a 505(b)(2) new drug applications or a new drug application is considered a brand and a rebate is applicable.

So in essence, we are giving a rebate for something that we sold as a generic as if we sold it as a brand. We do expect to get this resolved. We do know that there is a process where you can raise objections to the pricing of these products and we'll work it out. But all of this is new and this is the first calendar year that this one went into effect. So there was no way to anticipate anything other than the revenues and the correspondence we had with CMS. I hope that answers the question.

I'm sorry, that is helpful. And I guess just looking at – so it sounds like almost the whole difference was all in that thyroid deficiency line, correct?

Well, actually correct. It does cover our Morphine Sulfate, which is also a 505(b)(2) application. But since Morphine Sulfate is not dispensed necessarily to patients, but it is used in a hospital setting or by care givers, it wasn't a prescription item I'd say. But as the Levothyroxine product was all dispensed under prescriptions and it is a convoluted process as to how they determine what the rebates will be, which they're trying to help us understand, but unfortunately they don't understand that themselves at CMS and having difficulty explaining it to us. So we will get more information from them and probably be able to explain it to our shareholders a little better once we get some clarification from outside counsel and from CMS and my staff.

We have made provisions for this rebate over the future quarters of this fiscal year and we are not concerned about the impact or guidances or taking into consideration that rebate.

Okay. And just a couple of more questions, on the pain management side, should we expect a continued uptick in the second half of your fiscal year 2012?

Yes, you would.

And I guess a significant uptick from where we are, from the $5 million level, is that fair, I mean?

Well, it depends on what I'd call significant, but I would say significant. Remember, some of the quotas didn't come until late December, so certainly most of the pain management products for which we received quota now at Lannett will start to be impacting the third and fourth quarters. I hate to use a word like significant because what you mean by, what I mean by might be different, but there will certainly be a growth in the pain management business in the third and fourth quarters.

Okay, fair enough. As well – Arthur, you gave a little more color on the pipeline than is typical. I was particularly interested in the thalidomide program and the two chemotherapeutics. What kind of data points you would be looking for on those programs? What should we focus our attention on over the next 6 to 12 months in evaluating progress in those programs?

Well, let me start by saying that I am restricted under the settlement agreement in terms of what I can say, but I can talk about where we are with the progress. We do have the brand product in our possession and we are working diligently on getting a submission batch prepared and submit it. We do know that someone else is being given these capsules as well. So there at least two people that we are familiar with will have this product, at least have the brand to do their testing again.

We hopefully are ahead of say other party, but depending on who the other party is, they could be ahead of us. Nevertheless, the market for the product as we speak today is $300 million. If we get our submission batch made in March, the biostudies will be done and we expect to file by the fall. If it's a first time generic, it will be approved probably within a year's time. So roughly a year from now let's say or say if I am going to file next fall, say by the fall of 2013 we will probably be on the market with this product.

Okay. Thank you. That is helpful. And the two chemotherapeutics, anything there we should look for?

Well, one is already at the agency waiting approval. We expect that probably in another six months, but again predicting when an FDA will approve something is something no one gifted at. But based on the reviewing process that's going on my guess is in another six months that should be approved. The other one was the one we just spoke about the thalidomide.

Okay. I didn't know [indiscernible] (19:44). Okay. All right, sir. Thank you very much for taking the questions. I appreciate it.

You're welcome, Scott. Thank you.

Our next question comes from Chris Holterhoff. Please go ahead.

Hi guys, congratulations on some good progress this quarter.

Thank you.

Just – first question just aside from the – impact from the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, I was wondering if there is any other – if there are any other pricing pressures in any of the major product categories that you could kind of quantify for us?

No. Quite frankly, currently, we are not facing any pricing pressure on the remainder of our product line with the exception of Digoxin. So one product has had some pricing pressure on it, the rest of the products have not. So we are expecting that to continue.

Okay. And then I may have missed this, but can you give us an update to the extent that you can on the quota issues, the DEA quota issues with Cody Labs?

Yes. Well, with Cody, they are still waiting for some additional quota. Lannett's received all of their quota with regards to our need; Cody, of course, applies for their own quota and they did receive a good part of their quota by their calendar year end and they started to work on those. They're getting the – they are applying for additional quota and we are expecting those quotas to come to us a lot quicker than the previous one. There has been some changes at the DEA that hopefully are now behind both us and the DEA and I don't expect any more difficulties with the quota. But that's my optimism, but that does seem to be the case in the marketplace currently.

Okay. And I think on past calls you talked about expectations for approval of antihypertensive drug and then two ophthalmic drugs during this past quarter. And I think if I'm right the approval of the ophthalmic drug hasn't come yet. So I'm just wondering if you could tell us a little bit about what your conversations or communication has been like with the agency regarding these two products.

Sure. Those products did have pre-approval inspections conducted at the Indian site, where the products are made for us and there was some minor observations there. And the inspectors told us depending on how promptly and the quality of the responses to those observations that were made would determine whether those products will be approved.

From our perspective this is – I'm talking about Lannett here, we are pretty comfortable that the responses were adequate and that those products will be approved, and to me that means eminently, there is no other delay that we would expect. We haven't heard any rejection of the 43 responses at this point. So we're just sitting and waiting any day for those to be approved. We are certainly talking to our colleagues in India to make sure that they can quickly make both products once the approvals come and might go so far as to ask them to make some batches in anticipation of getting those approvals.

Okay. Thanks for the color there. And just a general question, it does seem like the pace of FDA approvals is picking up, I guess you got nine over the last seven months and just kind of want to get your, opinion as to why you think this might be happening and obviously it's a positive, but just kind of wondering if you expect this trend to continue into this calendar year?

Well, we're certainly working with the agency and with our local district. And I do want to give credit to our local FDA as well as the reviewers down in Washington that have been working with us. And in some cases the shortage side of the FDA has been extremely helpful as well in recognizing that some of the products in the marketplace that we were approved on were in short supply.

So, overall, really there is a combination of factors that helped us get these approvals. And, of course, the quality of our applications and my staff, I must compliment them for putting in good applications. I do expect those to continue to come our way. They have been delayed for significant periods of time as you know from my prior earnings call discussions.

So it was a matter of time before they would finally come through. And without having any regulatory issues or any inspectional issues, there is no reason any of the applications should be held up. We are expecting the two opthalmics as I just mentioned and also another oral dosage form any day now. So we are expecting more approvals over the near-term.

Okay, great. And maybe just one last question for Marty. Can you just remind us what is left under the current share buyback program that Lannett has in place?

Well, in the current quarter, let me [indiscernible] (24:37) answer, we bought 33,000 shares and it's based on dollars. So the authorization from the board was $5 million and to-date we've used 27% of that or $1.4 million.

Okay. I'm sorry the total was $5 million in change?

$5 million, we were authorized for $5 million.

Okay.

And today we bought $1.4 million.

Got it. Okay. Great. Well that's all I had on my end. Thanks a lot for taking the questions.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from Laura Engel. Please go ahead.

Good afternoon, gentlemen. How are you?

Fine, thank you, Laura. How are you today?

Good, good. I guess I'll start with an easy one. When exactly are we celebrating the 70th Anniversary?

Everyday here.

Has it already – has the official date already passed?

No, it hasn't actually. But we're a party town; we want to start partying early. Actually I think it's in the middle of the year, so probably around April or May I believe it was the actual date. But 1942 is the date of incorporation and we're kind of proud of that because in the 70 years we've been in business, we've never had a warning letter from the FDA. We want to keep it that way. So we are very diligent, everybody is appreciative of our reputation and keeping it intact. But we are enjoying the 70th year of Lannett's existence.

Good, good. Well congratulation on that. On the branded – potential branded product launch, can you kind of review, is that alone or do you have anybody you're working with on that and what will it take to make that launch happen as far as additional overheads?

Well, there will be some – won't be so much additional overhead. We've already engaged a marketing firm to do some market research on the products. And then we've entertained some offers from some actual sales groups that would actually do the detailing to the doctors. And for example, the first product the C-Topical will probably be the first one we plan to launch. We've already received proposals. We're going to select one of those parties. But we are waiting to have a meeting with the DEA to make sure that we don't launch a product and then run into any difficulties with quota.

So, we want to make sure we're coordinating our efforts with the DEA, so they know what our plans are, what our expectations are for the sales results from those detailed efforts. And then not have a situation where we have a successful launch, successful sale and then run into a quota issue. So, the DEA products with its quotas above, it's not really up to us to make the determination when to launch. It really is an effort where we have to cooperate with the DEA and not surprise them with a sudden demand for material.

The other products, although it's a scheduled drug is not involved in quotas and now when we need roughly nine months to have Cody get that material ready for us, because we don't want to sell – make the raw material in anticipation of launch until we have a partner and now that we're talking to some people about the marketing of that product, we were hoping that we might launch that the latter part of our fiscal year. But certainly the C-Topical would be the first brand that we will launch.

The Chloramphenicol, as soon as that's approved, will probably be the second or third. The Phentermine Resin somewhere between might be the second or third one to launch. Those are the three initial products. And we are working with one of our colleagues on the nasal delivery of Hydromorphone, but that has Phase III studies to one to go yet.

So, we are putting together a list of branded opportunities and partners that will help us with the launch and the amount of money that we're talking about is about $1 million for the C-Topical. And that really is going to be a launch – a pilot launch to see how well the product is received in the marketplace, because this is something new with us in terms of brand marketing and because of the brand marketing business has changed dramatically, we wanted to make sure we understood all the requirements legally and otherwise for creating demand for products like this. The C-Topical is not something that's prescribed to patients. It's used by surgeons and physicians in emergency rooms or an ear, nose or throat surgery.

So it's a different marketplace than a typical prescription product would be in. And we've been – we are pretty sure, who we are going to work with. We are looking at the contract. We are preparing a master agreement to work with them under which the statement of work will be handled. So, I would say within the next few weeks we probably will have an announcement about the launch of that product.

Okay, great. And I guess, last question. On the gross margins, you gave the guidance for the year, and we know it's the first and the second quarter, which of these, I guess, newer launches are you expecting to pull up those margins, which were the highest area, I guess, if you just talk about the larger categories of treatment areas, as far as gross margins and looking at those going forward?

And so Laura, this is Marty. The gross margin in the second half of the year, we see it being moved upwards really along the lines of two areas, one is the new products that we've launched and are launching probably – particularly the antihypertensive is one of the higher margins and also the pain management products. We had some restrictions with quota earlier in the fiscal year. As Arthur mentioned, quota – we are in good shape now from a quota perspective for the rest of this fiscal year. So we see the pain management products contributing more so in the second half and of course they bring a higher gross margin to the extent these are the vertically integrated products within Lannett.

Okay, great. Well, thank you. I appreciate your time.

Thank you.

Thank you, Laura.

[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Gregg Hillman's line. Please go ahead.

Yeah, good afternoon. Arthur, can you talk about the antihypertensive drug, are you the first generic to market for that one, the one you announced just a couple weeks ago?

No, that would be the generic for Microzide. That one is on the market. I believe there was two competitors in that market. So we are not the first on that one nor the other one, the Triamterene with Hydrochlorothiazide that preceded it in the latter part of December. But, if you recall, the Triamterene with Hydrochlorothiazide was in short supply in the United States both by the branded company and the generic company. So when we entered the market in late December, we were able to go into a marketplace where there was a big demand and not enough suppliers. That continues to be the case in January. So we've certainly enjoyed the opportunity of having a shortage in the marketplace as we entered the marketplace with our product. But we were I think the third generic on that one and of course the brand. So both thyroidic products will probably be helping us, but the one that's on the market is the Triamterene with Hydrochlorothiazide now. We have not launched the Hydrochlorothiazide capsules, 12.5 milligram, that we just received approval on a week or two ago.

Okay. And for the MRSA product, if you would get like an unexpected approval for that, are you prepared -- do have API lined up to go ahead and produce that?

Yes, we have API lined up. The capsules are in-house and we have a marketing proposal for that product as well. Again, this is not the initial drug for MRSA. It's one of the drugs that would be used for MRSA when the other drugs aren't working. As you know, the bacteria has developed resistance to all the typical antibiotics that are used. So there is a limited market for this one which we are estimating to be between $5 million and $25 million on an annual basis. We do expect that sometime before let's say May or June that product will be approved. So, if we don't launch it in this fiscal year, it will certainly be launched in the beginning of our next fiscal year. But everything is ready to go on that product.

Okay. And speaking of market sizes, what was the market size for the C-Topical, the liquid?

We're anticipating a roughly $19 million market for that product. But if we, according to the market research firm, if we were to detail this product, they believe the range of the market would be between $58 million and $111 million in sales annually.

Okay.

And we're going to do about $19 million annually. So the sales potential is tremendous for that product. There is a good – big need for it. A lot of the physicians' responses were rather very positive with regards to this product. And that's what drove us toward expanding the marketplace by alerting the physicians that this product is available.

Okay. And how many years do you get protection from generic competition with the 505(b)(2)?

Well, with the plain 505 you don't get any protection. In this case though, we will be filing an NCE, a new chemical entity, because this raw material that we use for this product has never been approved in an approved product. So there is a five-year exclusivity from the date my new drug application gets approved. So assuming I submitted in a full one year later, it gets approved, the five year exclusivity goes from that period forward.

From when you submit the application or when it gets approved?

From the day it gets approved.

Okay. So that will be really positive for that one.

Absolutely. It gives us plenty of time to reach those levels of volume that they talked about. Even if we look at the $58 million, that's a significant volume for us. But we don't see any reason why we wouldn't hit $111 million or somewhere in that range. The demand was very enlightening from the physicians that we survey.

But it would take two years to get up there, it would take a while to get up to that level.

Well, sure, certainly. Well, I don't know it would take two years. But, again, we don't have experience here. So I don't want to mislead you, but since we're already doing $19 million, I don't think it will take that long to get to the $58 million. For the $111 million, which of course is the high side, certainly would take two years.

Okay. And what was the market size for Phentermine Resin?

When the brand left the market, it was roughly $11 million in size.

Okay. Okay. So that's your addressable market. And then going back to the antihypertensive drug, the two ones you just alluded to, what's the size of the generic market for those, for those two drugs respectively?

Well, the Microzide, which is the Hydrochlorothiazide 12.5, I know was $203 million at AWP. I don't recall what the Triamterene was according to our press release. Do you have that handy by any chance, Marty? Marty is going to look that one up. I am not sure what that market is. I just don't want – I don't want to guess, but...

Okay.

While you move on to your next question, we'll look it up.

Okay. Okay, well that's good for me for right now. I'll get back in queue. Thank you.

Okay. The market for that Triamterene with Hydrochlorothiazide was $111 million at AWP.

Okay, thanks. And then – so in those markets you'll be splitting with the other generic firms?

That's correct. Hopefully, we get the bigger piece.

Okay. Okay, good. And then just one other question. In terms of competition, have you seen any more competition from any of the other pain management companies, the generic in terms of trying to undercut you on price for a big account? Or do you think you ought to be able to hit a big – hit – win a big account like a Wal-Mart or something like that?

Not really. There has only been one competitor that's the – and I don't like to mention names about competitors, but there was one other vertically integrated company that I've talked about in the past that we compete with currently, all the rest just sell raw material. And on one item, they have been very aggressive on pricing, but that has not stopped us from gaining market share, getting customers, and even though we've walked away from those opportunities with a low balled the quote, we're still on a backorder situation with our product. So we are selling all that we can produce.

How about supplying API for narcotics to other vendors, is that effort going well?

Well, again, that was never our plan at Cody or Lannett, the goal was to vertically integrate Lannett. However, there are some small companies that we have nice relations with and sometimes we do get into those deals, one company particular we are currently supplying raw material to and that's it. We are not really generally soliciting or looking to sell raw material to other companies. It would probably be on a case-by-case basis because of our relationship with them or maybe an opportunity to do some kind of joint marketing with the dosage form that they make. But generally speaking, we are using this raw material for Lannett.

Okay. Okay, great, Thanks very much.

You're welcome.

Our next question comes from [ph] Tom Harenburg (38:45). Please go ahead.

Fellows, can you give me a little bit of an update on Cody? Is the expansion there completed or where do you stand on that, how many employees you have and is Cody profitable or not at this point? And if not, when do you expect it to be profitable?

Hey, let me see if I remember all four questions. You asked there the money that they were given part of when we raised money in 2010 has been used to complete an expansion. That expansion is virtually complete right now. They are actually validating equipment manufacturing in some of the rooms and validating those batches. So, from a perspective that you are talking about, the equipment is in place, the rooms are ready to go. We're now actually manufacturing in the rooms. Cody is profitable. Occasionally, when we have quota issues, we are held up and not getting the quota on time. Cody can fall into a negative category. But then generally speaking on an annual basis, Cody is profitable.

Okay. And what's roughly your employment level there?

They have roughly 94 employees out of Cody.

Okay. Thank you.

You are welcome.

We have no further questions at this time. I will now turn the call back over to management for any closing remarks.

Well, I would like to thank you all for joining us today. If anyone has any further questions, please do not hesitate to contact the Investor Relations team at Lannett. That concludes our call and thanks again for joining us today.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.