corrected transcript


Lannett Co., Inc.
 
LCI
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
Sep. 9, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Lannett Company Fiscal


2009 Fourth Quarter and Full Year Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only


mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. Please note that this conference is


being recorded.


I will now turn the call over to Mr. Evan Pondel with Investor Relations for Lannett. Mr. Pondel you


may begin.


Evan Pondel, Investor Relations, PondelWilkinson Inc.


Thank you very much. Good afternoon, everyone, and thanks for joining us today to discuss


Lannett Company’s fiscal 2009 fourth quarter and full year financial results. On the call today are


Arthur Bedrosian, President and CEO and Keith Ruck, Interim Chief Financial Officer. First some


housekeeping items before we start.


Please be advised that this conference call is being broadcast live on the Internet at


www.lannett.com. A playback of this call will be available for three months and may be accessed on


the Internet at Lannett’s website.


Before we begin, I would like to make the cautionary statement and remind everyone that all of the


information discussed on the call today is covered under the Safe Harbor Provisions of the


Litigation Reform Act. The Company’s discussion today will include forward-looking information


reflecting management’s current forecast of certain aspects of the Company’s future, and our actual


results could differ materially from those stated or implied.


With that, let me now turn the call over to Arthur Bedrosian. Arthur?


Arthur P. Bedrosian, J.D., President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you Evan and good afternoon everyone. Please bear with me as I struggle through today’s


discussion with [inaudible] I will begin with a brief review of our fiscal 2009 fourth quarter and full


year results. And then turn the call over to Keith to provide a more detailed description of the


financial results. I will make some concluding remarks at the end of the call.


We reported strong fourth quarter and full year results a testament to the progress we made


expanding our pipeline and continuing our tradition of providing high quality prescription


medications in tablet, liquid topical and capsule forms.


Our performance in fiscal 2009 demonstrates Lannett’s ability to rapidly adapt to changing market


conditions and provide our customers with an uninterrupted supply of important products.


Specifically, we had strong fourth quarter sales of our key products as well increased demand for


our existing products.


During the year, Lannett’s ability to maintain an uninterrupted and safe supply of the Digoxin


tablets, a mid-market shortages was critical. We worked with the FDA to alleviate shortages for this


clinical drug. Other drugs that we worked with FDA on to reduce shortages where Oxycodone


Hydrochloride Oral Solution and Morphine Sulfate Oral Solution used in palette of care


environments.
corrected transcript


Lannett Co., Inc.
 
LCI
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
Sep. 9, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Our ability to react to these situations further established Lannett as a go to supplier in an


increasingly competitive marketplace. We also achieved several important milestones in preparing


our company for future growth.


In the fourth quarter, we received positive results from an FDA inspection of our wholly-owned


subsidiary Cody Laboratories. Cody Labs, received approval earlier in the year from the United


States Patent and Trademark Office regarding a method for preparing Hydromorphone and


Hydrocodone greatly enhancing our ability to manufacture these widely prescribed products quickly


and efficiently.


We also launched two products in fiscal 2009, including the segment Topical Anesthetic product


used in a variety of hospital and out-patient settings and amounted the Hydrochloride, a generic


equivalent to [inaudible].


At the same time, we expanded our product offering after receiving FDA approval for our Ursodiol


300 milligram capsules and Pilocarpine Hydrochloride 7.5 milligram tablets. These


accomplishments coupled with the progress we continue to make at Cody Labs all contributed to


our strong performance in fiscal 2009.


I would like now to turn the call over to Keith Ruck, for a review of the financial results, Keith?


Keith R. Ruck, Interim Chief Financial Officer and Corporate Controller


Thank you, Arthur and good afternoon everyone. First I’ll review the full year results and then


highlight the fourth quarter. For the year ended June 30, 2009 net sales rose 64% to 119.0 million,


compared with 72.4 million for the fiscal 2008. Net income increased to 6.5 million or $0.20 per


diluted share -- $0.27 per diluted share compared with a net loss of 2.3 million or $0.10 per share


for the prior year.


Gross profit nearly tripled to 45.2 million, compared with 16.3 million for the same period in the prior


year. R&D expenses were 84 – sorry 8.4 million versus 5.2 million in fiscal 2008. And SG&A


expenses were 26.1 million, compared with 16.6 million for the prior year. Turning to our fourth


quarter results, net sales grew 71% to 35.4 million from 20.7 million in the last year’s fourth quarter.


Net income was 2.4 million or $0.10 per diluted share versus a net loss of 278,000 or $0.01 per


share in last year’s fourth quarter.


Gross profit increased to 13.6 million, compared with 2.9 million with the prior year fourth quarter


R&D expenses were 2.7 million compared with 1.5 million in the same quarter of fiscal 2008. And


SG&A expenses were 6.9 million compared with 4.1 million in last year’s fourth quarter.


With that brief financial overview I’d now like to turn the call back to over to Arthur. Arthur?


Arthur P. Bedrosian, J.D., President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Keith. Our solid performance is the result of our hard working management team and


employees. I’d now like to thank each of them for doing his fellow job helping our company maintain


a cGMP compliance company provide a safe and steady supply of high quality medications. We


recently announced a couple of key appointments that we believe will further strengthen our


organization, Terence Vollrath was named the Executive Vice President of Cody Laboratories. Terri


brings more than two decades of operations, process development, and business development


experience. And yesterday, we named Stephen Kovary, Vice President of Operations at Lannett.


Stephen brings extensive operations, plant management, and manufacturing experience. I would


like to welcome these two Executives to the Lannett family.