corrected transcript


Lannett Co., Inc.
 
LCI
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 11, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Welcome to the Lannett Company Fiscal 2011 First Quarter Financial Results


Conference Call. My name is Monica and I’ll be your operator for today’s conference. At this time,


all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session.


I’d now like to turn the call over to Robert Jaffe, Investor Relations for Lannett Company. Mr. Jaffe,


you may begin.


Robert Jaffe, Investor Relations, PondelWilkinson Inc.


Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us today to discuss Lannett Company’s fiscal


2011 first quarter financial results. On the call today are Arthur Bedrosian, President and CEO; and


Keith Ruck, Chief Financial Officer.


Please be advised that this conference call is being broadcast live on the Internet at


www.lannett.com. A playback of this call will be available for three months and maybe accessed on


the Internet at Lannett’s website.


I’d like to make the cautionary statement and remind everyone that all of the information discussed


on the call today is covered under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Litigation Reform Act. The


company’s discussion today will include forward-looking information reflecting management’s


current forecast of certain aspects of the company’s future and our actual results could differ


materially from those stated or implied.


This afternoon Arthur will review the company’s business highlights, then Keith will discuss the


financial results for the quarter in more detail, followed by Arthur’s concluding remarks. We will then


open up the call for questions.


With that said, let me turn the call over to Arthur Bedrosian. Arthur?


Arthur P. Bedrosian, J.D., President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Robert, and good afternoon, everyone. Before we begin, we think it’s important to take


a moment on Veterans Day to acknowledge the brave men and women in our armed services.


Lannett’s employees – and we would like to thank the members of the military past and present for


their service to our country.


Now moving on to the company’s business, as expected sales in overall financial performance in


the quarter was impacted by competitive pricing pressure, reduced demand for certain key


products, and lost revenues resulting from the FDA’s action to force all but one competitor to cease


distributing Morphine Sulfate Oral Solution.


We continue to be optimistic about receiving FDA approval within the next two months for our NDA


for Morphine Sulfate Oral Solution with an expected relaunch of the drug in early calendar year


2011.


During the fiscal 2011 first quarter, we received FDA approvals for phentermine hydrochloride, blue


and white seed capsules USP 30 milligram, and Ondansetron injection USP 2 milligram per ml


single dose vials. The approval of Ondansetron transfigured those vials is in addition to the one we


received earlier in the year for our Ondansetron multi-dose vials. Both the single dose and multi-


dose vials of Ondansetron injection came from our joint venture with Wintac Limited.
corrected transcript


Lannett Co., Inc.
 
LCI
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 11, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


We plan to launch Phentermine in our fiscal third quarter, and while we received a reduction in our


transfer pricing from our partner Wintac, the market for Ondansetron injectables remains


unattractive.


Also during the quarter, we purchased approximately 20,000 shares of Lannett common stock in


the open market and open market transactions and the FDA completed inspections of the


company’s facilities in Philadelphia with no observations and our Wyoming facility with two minor


483 observations.


With that, I’d like to turn the call over to Keith for an overview of our financial results for the quarter.


Keith R. Ruck, Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Arthur and good afternoon, everyone. For the fiscal 2011 first quarter ended September


30th, 2010, net sales were 25.4 million compared with 31.4 million for the first quarter of – fiscal


2010. Our net sales were down compared with previous quarters due to the loss of revenue


approximating $2.8 million associated with the FDA’s actions on Morphine Sulfate Oral Solution,


price reductions granted on two of our largest products due to pricing pressures from the


marketplace, and recording of approximately $1.4 million in shelf stock adjustments on those two


products in order to retain one of our largest customers on those products.


Gross profit was 5.9 million compared with 11.5 million for the same period in the prior year. The


decline in gross profit was due to decreased revenues mentioned above as well as a change in


product mix. Research and development expenses decreased to 2 million from 3 million in fiscal


2010 first quarter.


Selling general and administrative expenses rose to 4.6 million from 3.8 million in the same quarter


of the prior year primarily due to increased legal costs related to litigation with the FDA regarding


morphine sulfate oral solution and the company’s grandfathered products as well.


Operating loss was 726,000 versus operating income of 4.7 million in the fiscal 2010 first quarter.


Net loss attributable to Lannett Company was $404,000 or $0.02 per share compared to net


income attributable to Lannett Company of 2.9 million or $0.11 per diluted share for the prior year


first quarter.


Turning to the balance sheet, as of September 30th, 2010, cash, cash equivalents and short-term


investment securities available for sale were approximately 17.8 million. Long-term debt including


the current portion was approximately 7.7 million.


During the fiscal 2011 second quarter, we expect to close the financing of our Townsend Road


project, which will increase our cash position by approximately $5 million. This is the amount we


previously spent to purchase the building and complete the fit out. We will record a corresponding


increase to debt by that same amount.


With that brief financial overview, I’ll now turn the call back over to Arthur. Arthur?


Arthur P. Bedrosian, J.D., President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Keith. Early in our fiscal 2011 second quarter we launched Fluphenazine Hydrochloride


tablets USP, the generic equivalent of Prolixin in 1, 2.5, 5 and 10 milligram dosage forms. For the


12 months ended September 2010, Fluphenazine Hydrochloride USP 1 milligram, 2.5, 5 and 10


milligram has U.S. sales of approximately 28 million at average wholesale price according to


Wolters Kluwer.