Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Robert Jaffe — President & Chief Executive Officer, Robert Jaffe Co. LLC
Arthur P. Bedrosian — President, CEO & Director, Lannett Co., Inc.
Martin P. Galvan — Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer & VP, Lannett Co., Inc.
Matt G. Hewitt — Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC
John Newman — Analyst, Canaccord Genuity, Inc.
Scott Robert Henry — Analyst, ROTH Capital Partners LLC
Rohit G. Vanjani — Analyst, Oppenheimer & Co., Inc. (Broker)
Elliot H. Wilbur — Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to the Lannett Company Fiscal 2015 Third Quarter Conference Call. My name is Adrian, and I'll be your operator for today's call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we'll conduct a question-and-answer session. Please note that this conference is being recorded.

I'll turn the call now over to Robert Jaffe, Event Relations, for Lannett. Please go ahead.

Thanks, Adrian. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us today to discuss Lannett Company's fiscal 2015 third quarter financial results. On the call today are, Arthur Bedrosian, Chief Executive Officer; and Marty Galvan, Chief Financial Officer.

This call is being broadcast live at www.lannett.com. A playback will be available for three months on Lannett's website. I would like to make the cautionary statement and remind everyone that all of the information discussed on today's call is covered under the Safe Harbor provisions of the Litigation Reform Act. The company's discussion will include forward-looking information reflecting management's current forecast of certain aspects of the company's future and actual results could differ materially from those stated or implied.

This afternoon, Arthur will provide a brief overview and Marty will discuss the financial results for the quarter in more detail, followed by Arthur's concluding remarks. We will then open the call for questions.

With that said, I'll now turn the call over to Arthur Bedrosian. Arthur?

Thanks, Robert, and good afternoon, everyone. I hope you enjoyed our latest theme song, Baby, hold on to me, by Eddie Money.

Turning to our financial results, we reported a solid quarter driven by strong sales across multiple product categories and a significant increase in gross margin compared with last year.

For the fiscal 2015 third quarter, net sales were $99 million with gross margin of 76% and net income was $36 million, equal to $0.97 per diluted share. We've now reported the 13th consecutive quarter in which net sales and adjusted earnings per share exceeded the comparable prior-year period. Our outlook for fiscal 2015 remains strong and with the excellent performance in the third quarter and outlook for a solid fourth quarter, we have raised our full-year guidance. Marty will discuss this in more detail shortly.

With that brief overview, I'd like now to turn the call over to Marty to review the financials, then I will provide an update and will open the call to questions. Marty?

Thank you, Arthur, and good afternoon, everyone. As Arthur mentioned, we reported a solid fiscal 2015 third quarter, with net sales increasing 24% to $99.4 million from $80.0 million in last year's third quarter. Net sales for our largest product category, thyroid deficiency, grew to $36.7 million or 37% of our total net sales. Our two other largest categories, gallstone and cardiovascular, had net sales of $20.5 million and $8.5 million, respectively, representing 21% and 9% of our total net sales, respectively.

As to net sales of our remaining categories, migraine was $6.7 million, glaucoma was $5.7 million, pain was $4.3 million, antibiotic was $3.0 million, gout was $1.5 million, obesity was $1.1 million and other represented $11.4 million.

Gross profit rose 35% to $75.6 million or 76% of net sales from $56.1 million or 70% of net sales. Research and development expenses decreased to $9.2 million compared with $10.6 million in the same quarter of the prior year. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased to $12.2 million compared with $9.6 million. SG&A expenses for the fiscal 2015 third quarter included acquisition-related expenses of $1.1 million.

Operating income grew 51% to $54.3 million from $36.0 million in the third quarter of last year. The effective tax rate was 33% compared to 37% for last year's third quarter. The lower effective tax rate was due primarily to changes in the Philadelphia local tax laws, as well as higher federal domestic manufacturing deductions recorded in fiscal 2015 related to a shift in our product mix.

In addition, Congress recently extended the R&D tax credit law, which also contributed to the lower rate. Net income attributable to Lannett Company increased 58% to $36.2 million or $0.97 per diluted share from $23.0 million or $0.63 per diluted share for the third quarter of fiscal 2014.

Turning to our results for the first nine months of fiscal 2015 compared with the same period of the prior year. Net sales increased 59% to $307.6 million from $193.2 million. Continuing with the remainder of the income statement and for completeness and comparative purposes, I will provide both GAAP and adjusted amounts for last year's nine-month results.

As you may recall, in last year's first quarter, we issued 1.5 million shares of our common stock in connection with the signing of the contract extension with Jerome Stevens Pharmaceuticals. Accordingly, cost of sales included a non-recurring pre-tax charge of $20.1 million related to this contract extension. Gross profit was $234.4 million or 76% of net sales. This compares with gross profit last year of $98.5 million or 51% of net sales. Gross profit, excluding the JSP contract renewal charge, was $118.6 million or 61% of net sales.

Research and development expenses increased to $23.4 million compared with $21.1 million in the same period of the prior year. SG&A expenses increased to $35.6 million, compared with $26.6 million. SG&A expenses for the first nine months of fiscal 2015 included acquisition-related expenses of $3.2 million. Operating income was $175.5 million compared with $50.7 million. Excluding the JSP contract renewal charge, operating income was $70.8 million in the first nine months of last year.

Net income attributable to Lannett Company was $116.0 million, or $3.13 per diluted share, compared with $33.6 million or $0.97 per diluted share. Adjusted net income, which excludes the contract renewal charge, was $46.2 million or $1.34 per diluted share for the first nine months of fiscal 2014.

Our balance sheet at March 31, 2015 remained strong with cash, cash equivalents and investment securities totaling $225.4 million. After quarter end, we completed an amendment to our revolving credit facility, which increases our borrowing capacity from $50 million to $120 million with an accordion feature for an additional $30 million.

Turning now to our guidance, given our strong third quarter performance, we have raised our guidance for the full year of fiscal 2015 as follows: net sales in the range of $403 million to $408 million, up from previous guidance of $395 million to $405 million, gross margin as a percentage of net sales of approximately 75% to 76%, up from 74% to 75%. R&D expense in the range of $30 million to $31 million, up from previous guidance of $29 million to $31 million, SG&A expense range income of $51 million to $52 million, up from $47 million to $49 million, the full year effective tax rate to be in the range of 34% to 35%, unchanged from previous guidance and capital expenditures in fiscal 2015 in the range of $30 million to $35 million, which includes $4 million to continue the partial fit-out of two buildings recently acquired by the company, revised from previous guidance of $40 million to $50 million.

With respect to our outlook for next fiscal year, we intend to discuss our guidance for fiscal 2016 in more detail on our next conference call. For now, we'll provide some preliminary thoughts. We anticipate the percentage increase in revenue to be in the low single-digits compared with fiscal 2015 with modest volume growth in sales of our existing products. We're not anticipating any significant price increases in fiscal 2016. We expect fiscal 2016 full year gross margin as a percentage of net sales to be in the low 70%s. While we have a deep pipeline, including a large number of product applications currently pending at the FDA, our expectations do not include sales from these products nor does our outlook include the benefit of any potential acquisitions or strategic alliances.

With that, I will now turn the call back over to Arthur.

Thank you, Marty. For the quarter, we recorded strong sales across a number of product categories, including gallstone, glaucoma, migraine and thyroid deficiency. As expected, Digoxin sales decline compared with sales in the second quarter due to competition. The guidance Marty just provided anticipates sales of Digoxin to be similar in the fourth quarter compared with the third quarter.

As we said, we completed an amendment to our revolving credit facility. The increased credit facility, together with our strong balance sheet, provides additional financial resources and flexibility to fund our acquisition and our organic growth strategy. Excuse me; I've a bit of a cold today. On the business development and M&A front, we continue to evaluate potential acquisitions and seek out other opportunities for both products and companies.

Our team continues to look at opportunities that are a strategic fit and accretive to our business. We are particularly interested in opportunities that globalize our business, further vertically integrating our operations, or enhance shareholder value through an acquisition in a tax favorable jurisdiction.

We continue to increase our pipeline. We currently have 20 ANDAs, including five with paragraph IV certification pending at the FDA. Of our additional 42 products in various stages of development, we expect to submit several additional product applications in the near future. And our plans call for continued significant investments in R&D.

I would like to address another matter that Lannett fortunately has very little experience in. During the third quarter, our Cody Laboratory subsidiary voluntarily initiated a limited recall of its C-Topical product due to a mislabeling issue. A small number of bottles were labeled with 10 milliliters when they actually contained four milliliters. We believe this is a minor issue as use of the product is not considered to present a health risk and product quality was not affected. We have placed an order for equipment design to prevent this from happening and in the interim, have instituted additional controls. We take product safety very seriously and believe there was no danger to patients.

I want to thank our entire staff for doing an outstanding job and our shareholders and Board members who have continued to support our efforts. We remain very positive about Lannett's future.

Marty and I would now like to address any questions you may have, Operator, Adriana? (sic) [Adrian]

Thank you. We will now begin the question and answer session. [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Matt Hewitt from Craig-Hallum Capital. Please go ahead.

Good afternoon, gentlemen. Thank you for taking our questions and congratulations on the progress in the quarter.

Thank you, Matt.

Thank you, Matt.

It sounds like you – you kind of addressed some of the questions I had as far as the pain management. So, the C-Topical recall, can you quantify what that impact was in the quarter? I mean, it was pretty weak relative to the recent history, was that a couple of million dollar hit or even greater than that?

Yes, Matt, it was $2.4 million.

Okay. That's helpful. Thank you. Another question and you've laid out some preliminary guidance, I guess, you should call it for FY 2016. What can you do here over the short-term or near-term that would enable you to grow at a faster rate for the full year? Obviously, if you get an approval, that would help. But, is there anything and it doesn't sound like there is pricing, but is there anything else that could occur in the next couple of quarters that would enable much faster growth during the year, barring some acquisition?

No. I'm afraid [ph] though (15:34) I don't know what we could do fast in our industry, everything, we're always waiting on some government bureaucrat to approve. So I don't think there is anything that we have in our works that we would say would enhance the growth. I believe is that there was some feeling that 2016 would be a down year and all we're trying to do is point out that we don't expect it to be a down year. But we also are not sitting here saying we're going to have outstanding growth either.

Okay. One more from me and then I'll hop back in the queue. A few of your peers have recently been dealing with some pricing issues, a large competitor came back and offered greater rebates in several products with one of the channel partners. I'm curious if you've seen anything on pricing? From my research, you guys weren't impacted by this, but have you seen anything where the pricing story over the last of couple years, price going up, maybe you're starting to revert back and we're starting to see pricing come down?

Well, I wouldn't say that that's really a change in the business model. While there's been increases, most generics, if you look at the universe of generic drugs, they were all on a decline. You had a handful of products and when handful, I certainly don't mean that they're not 10,000 bottles, I would say, I mean assuming 10,000 drugs out of maybe 100,000 drugs that have price increases. But the number of products that have increases is far smaller than the number of generics that are out there that are reduced in price year after year. So, there is always the competition issue we deal with, and some who want to get market share, they use the lower price to gain that market share, sometimes it works, sometimes, it just brings the price down in general.

So, I'm not going to say we're immune from it, but it's the nature of our business and something we've been dealing with for 73 years. And I'm the one who has predicted that by December 2016, I tended to believe there wasn't going to be a decline in these opportunities to raise prices. So I'm not surprised that some of that behavior is starting to come back into the markets.

Okay, great. Thank you very much.

You are welcome.

And your next question comes from John Newman from Canaccord. Please go ahead.

Hi, guys. Thanks for taking the question. A question I had actually in regard to the Digoxin, on the last call, you talked about the potential concerns regarding one of the API suppliers, but you also pointed out that you believe that you had adequate API supply, so I just wondered if there has been any changes on that?

No, we caution people about things that we learn, we've not had any issues with it ourselves and we don't believe it's going to be a factor in the market now that we have more time to determine how many of our competitors might be impacted by that. It certainly doesn't appear to be, let's say, favorable in terms of any shortages or difficulties to get the product, things like that that might give opportunities to those that are in the product. So I would say that Digoxin guidance we've given for this year, conservative as it is, is probably spot on.

Okay. And then in terms of just the, looking forward into 2016, into your fiscal year 2016 in terms of potential approvals from the FDA, I know that historically you've said that it's been very difficult to try to get a sense as to when approvals might come but would you say at least that the pattern that you've been seeing from the agency has been more consistent? If it's just things are going to take a little bit longer, has that been more consistent in terms of the timing or is it still a little bit more variable?

I am afraid it's still more variable. I try to be the optimist here – that's my nature. But it's very hard to be optimistic with the agency, because there is really nothing to guide us. We've had occasions in the past where once they were looking at the labeling, you might presume that was the final stage of a review. We have instances today where they could be looking at the labeling and not even looking at the CMC section of an ANDA. So there is really nothing to guide us. We are trying to read the tea leaves at the agency to try to get a handle on how they're going to be evaluating both the pre-GDUFA filed ANDAs, the ones that are at the backlog, as well as the ones that are being filed under GDUFA. And there is still no consensus among the industry as to what the time frames will be for any approvals. So I'm afraid I've given up trying to predict anything I'm going to get approved, because I've been wrong more than I've been right.

Okay, great. Thank you. I'll jump back in the queue.

Okay. Thank you.

And your next question comes from Scott Henry from ROTH Capital. Please go ahead.

Thank you, and good afternoon, guys. Just a couple of questions, I'll start with the 2015 numbers, looking at your guidance in fiscal Q4, it looks like SG&A should take a notable uptick. Could you just give me a sense of what's driving that uptick for Q4?

Yes, Scott. The increase is primarily driven by what we provided for M&A where it's an acquisition-related expense. This is basically consulting and legal expense. That's the single largest driver of what's taken that up in the fourth quarter.

Okay, thank you. That's helpful. And then, when I look at the numbers for cardiovascular and gallstone which have almost reversed from a year ago, do you think that – are those kind of good – I mean, I guess we should expect cardiovascular to continue to decline. But how do you feel about that number in the quarter for gallstone? Is that a reasonable proxy, at least, in the immediate near term?

Yes. For gallstone, our perspective is that we had a very strong third quarter in gallstone and had one particular customer who bought more than we were expecting, but – okay, and also, well, with this particular product, [indiscernible] (22:13) we have discussed it before – there is an active ingredient issue in the industry, but all that being said, we had strong sales, a particular customer in the third quarter, we think it might have been related to the API supply concern, issue, but you'd see right now more as a one-off additional sale in our third quarter. So, we have our fourth quarter outlook more similar now to our – what we saw historically as our second quarter. So right now, we haven't made our fourth quarter look like the third quarter from a projections perspective.

Okay, thank you. That's helpful. And then on the pain management, even if I add in $2.4 million, still kind of flattish to down, when would you expect to see that kind of segment start to produce more meaningful growth?

We're hoping to third – should be the fourth quarter and into next year. The recall did set us back a little bit and at the moment, we have been backordering the item as well. So hopefully, we'll recover from that in the fourth quarter, but nevertheless, we still haven't made the decision on putting the other 10 sales people out there. But we did hire a product manager from the brand world and we're starting to make some inroads into the success of that sales effort that before was, let's say, lackluster. And again, we used the contract sales organization to launch the detail people. So, we are still enthusiastic about this, but this is new ground for Lannett. We're not a brand company as you know and it's a learning experience, but we do see an increase in revenue coming from this product and we do see a success in this product's potential outlook for us. So rather than a little setback with regards to the recall and it was a minor one, nevertheless, it was a costly one. We do think that the products upward trend is still there.

Okay, great. And the final question, yes, just when we think about the pipeline, can you talk about maybe any catalysts or events we should be looking at over the next 12 months, obviously, the key products being dorzolamide, and the cocaine-Topical filing or maybe even the Zomig nasal spray, P4, just I guess I'm really wondering is, what should we be focusing on in your pipeline over the next six to 12 months?

Well, I'm always one who doesn't to predict FDA approval, but I will bring you up to speed. With regards to dorzolamide, they've already done pre-approval inspection at the contract research lab, they did the bio-equivalency testing. They've also recently gone to the firm that will do the packaging for us, because this product is sold in a blister pack. So we do know this application is being viewed rather seriously at the agency. So, there is a good likelihood the product might be approved. My predictions are never good, so I don't want to predict, but that's one I would certainly think will be useful for next year. But more importantly is the arrangement we have with the Chinese company, the HEC Group that we announced and their Sunshine Lake division here in the U.S.

They've also had pre-approval inspection on one of their key items, actually two products, that they expect to get approved shortly. So we might get the benefit from that alliance. Remember, we have the exclusive distribution rights for all their filings and we learned when I recently made the trip to China that they have about 15 ANDAs at the agency, some dating back to 2010. So the approval process will start to come through and we may be the beneficiaries of their application pipeline as well. These were products we've never put into our guidance or anything else, but now that they have communicated that they did receive a pre-approval inspection themselves, we're expecting to launch some of their products this year as well. Again, these are not in the guidance though, because until something is approved, we generally don't put it in the guidance.

Okay, great. Thank you for that color and thank you for taking the questions.

You're welcome, Scott. Thank you.

And the next question comes from Rohit Vanjani from Oppenheimer. Please go ahead.

Hi, Arthur and Marty, thanks for taking the question.

Hi.

Hi, Rohit.

Did I hear that right on cardiovascular, it was $8.5 million versus last quarter of $18.33 million? And if that's right, can you maybe speak to the dynamics of the market, that decrease strictly a function of new competitors, because the script data maybe doesn't indicate that. I don't know if there's a lag on the scripts though?

Well, the third quarter – the third quarter was $8.5 million. I'm sorry – you're asking about.

Cardiovascular.

Cardiovascular. Yes

Yes. It was down – sorry, go ahead.

Yes, and down from $21 million last year's third quarter.

I meant quarter over quarter, it came down significantly, is that strictly a function of new competitors, because it doesn't really seem to be showing up in the script data that it is down that much?

Well, this change will be – I mean, this is Digoxin.

Right.

Right.

Yes.

And last year, 12 months ago, we had our peak in the winter time that is.

Last year, it was on market share then.

We peaked out right then and there that was a little...

I'm just speaking to the quarter-over-quarter change, Marty, I mean, even...

Sequential?

Yes.

Sequentially sorry, okay. I was thinking year on year, okay. Well, that still is pretty much Digoxin.

Yes.

So what was it in the second quarter he wants to know.

Second quarter was $16.7 million

And now it's $8.5 million.

And now it's – well – if I talk about just Digoxin --

$7 million in the third quarter.

Right.

So that drop is what we were expecting. We had projections that was a little bit lower in the quarter than we were expecting. We were expecting $8 million in each of the third and fourth quarter, so we came in at $7 million, slightly lower than we were expecting, but this, Rohit, is consistent with what we've been saying.

So you're saying it's strictly a function of a new competitor and that's what is driving this?

Yes.

Competitors, yes.

Competitors. And I think you're referring to the script data, but as we've said, it is always a lag with that information.

Sure.

It doesn't capture the whole market that we sell Digoxin into. So we might see the decline in some markets that are not captured in that data, but it's in line with our guidance than what we expected for the year. So we predicted accurately and it's unfortunate that we have the extra competition, but that's the business we're in.

And then the same thing with the thyroid, I mean, I thought you had picked up some business, maybe it was a one-time deal in the last quarter, did you lose that business or was there some ad hoc business?

No.

Was there volume changes there?

No, the customer picked up some additional – well, they made a small acquisition. So they picked up some additional customers and then they just placed additional orders in anticipation of what that new customer base might use. So it was just a blip let's say for that quarter. But we haven't launched anything now that the business is back to normal, let's say the quarterly numbers, the market, the trend in the script data is all the same.

Okay. So this is?

We haven't lost any market share at all.

So this is kind of a good run-rate number?

Yes.

And then for the guidance for the separate products where you gave I think the $155 million, $60 million and $50 million for Levo, Ursodiol, and Digoxin, do you still – are you still good with those numbers?

Yes, Rohit. Let me go back to the thyroid piece, because – so thyroid, we were projecting for the third and fourth quarters, we were projecting about $38 million in each quarter. So at $36 million or so, it came in $36.5 million, it came in a bit lower than we were expecting.

Okay.

In our own thinking, we've actually rolled that so called decrease, let's say, against our expectations, we rolled that into the fourth quarter. So half-year-on-half-year sequentially, we just were where we expected to be. We thought there was some timing differences in the third quarter and like I said, we rolled that into our fourth quarter. So we're still about that $155 million, is what you're asking. We're still about that – we are about that same number on a full-year basis as we were projecting three months ago.

Okay. And then the $50 million and $60 million for Urso and Digoxin still good?

Yes. On Digoxin that's still good at $50 million. And on Ursodiol, because we had such a strong quarter, we rolled that into our full-year outlook. We have not increased the fourth quarter, but when we were at $60 million previously, now we've taken that full year outlook up to $65 million. But again consistent with my comments earlier on this call, our fourth quarter – if you look sequentially, third quarter going into the fourth, it drops down, fourth quarter again being similar to our second quarter, because we're not expecting a repeat of the incremental business. We're not expecting a repeat of what we saw in the third quarter.

Okay. And then the other category, I think that was up quarter over quarter, something like $4 million. What was the strength there?

The strength there in the fourth quarter, you're saying? I'm sorry.

In this quarter, it was $11.4 million and last quarter, I think it was something like $7.9 million, just wondering what the quarter-over-quarter strength was in there.

It was – well, actually it was?

Baclofen?

Yes, it was Baclofen, yes.

And then the last one for me, I just want to confirm that C-Topical that won't impact the fiscal fourth quarter, that was just a $2.4 million impact for this quarter and it should be right sized going forward?

Yes. I mean, the fourth quarter – we had the fourth quarter, I mean, we do to the math, you'll see, it's about $7.5 million in the fourth quarter which is about our run rate. As you know, C-Topical, the particular product has fluctuations in the quarters. It can swing a bit, but right now, we're projecting about – we are projecting $7.4 million in the fourth quarter.

Okay, great. Thanks very much for taking the questions.

Yes, very welcome.

And the next question comes from Elliot Wilbur from Raymond James (sic) [Needham & Co. LLC] Please go ahead.

Thanks, good afternoon. First question for Arthur around some of your earlier commentary on the M&A front. Arthur, you continued to talk about international opportunities, and I'm just wondering if you are leaning that direction or maybe just seeing more idea flow coming internationally and you just think that there's better relative valuations there or it's really just more reflection of your desire to diversify revenue stream, and potentially look for tax arbitrage opportunities? And then, I want to ask a follow-up question to Marty as well and going back to some of the earlier questioning around the sequential increase in SG&A and obviously, expecting around a $5 million uptick in the fourth quarter. And we certainly know that lawyers and bankers can be quite expensive, but even.

You can say that again.

Well, they don't offer the value the research guys do, but I'm not, I'm not...

You're right, Elliot.

Yes.

...or anything. But even if you think about a $500 million M&A transaction with a 1% fee, we're talking about $5 million. I mean, seems we've got a lot of money to be spending in one particular period on activities that I would have thought kind of have been going on for some period of time. So, Marty, if you wouldn't mind maybe just to elaborate on that a little bit more? Thanks.

Sure. I don't want to get anybody's hopes up, because my colleague Marty had told me because he has come from that background, but if you look at 50 deals and do one of them. So clearly, you might say that's exactly the experience we're faced with. But a lot of the time was spent only on for an overseas opportunity. And let's just say even though we didn't close on that as expected, that discussion is ongoing and some discussions will lead to some product reliances and it possibly might lead to merger and acquisition of them as well. So that discussion and that effort has not been wasted and of course, when you're dealing overseas, there is a lot more involved than the typical transactions done here in the U.S. While we were doing that one, we were talking about doing that tuck-in, a small domestic company, that's gone through its due diligence stages.

So we also have been tied up with that one and we looked at another opportunity that we've talked to you, to the public about, we didn't specify them. So I would say that we've looked at between two to four transactions; some heavily involved with due diligence and some just initial contacts and discussions. So, yes, some of the money was spent and no fees were paid per se to any bankers. But there is a considerable amount of fees that are paid to our consultants that help us do the due diligence. Remember, we're not experienced in M&A. So it's not something we can turn to our staff for and my staff has really stepped up to the plate and I would now say are quite capable of doing a M&A deal, but we are leading and leaning towards outside consultants which I have to admit they are just as expensive as those bankers.

I'm sorry, your first part of your question was, are we looking overseas? No, we really were not looking overseas for an acquisition. We certainly were looking overseas to do an inversion and we continue to have confidence that we might be able to find an opportunity there. So, we're not giving up on that, again, as Marty will call it a plain vanilla inversion is the type we are looking at which is not precluded by any of the activity in Washington back in the fall. So, yes, we're looking at inversion. As far as globalizing internationally, no, that was not the emphasis of our company, it really was domestic. But sometimes, you find opportunities that you don't look for that are brought to you by a banker and they are perfect fit. So I would say that the time we spend there may not turn out to be wasted. There may be actually a closing transaction occurring there six months end, but the relationship and the effort, probably will turn into, at least, to alliances of some kind on a product basis and then whether it leads to M&A, we'll see. Does that cover all your questions, Elliot?

Elliot, you're still there?

Elliot. Not there.

We have no further questions. I'll now turn the call back to speakers for final comments.

Well, on the note that we lost Elliot Wilbur, you know how to reach us. So we'd be more than happy to continue our discussions. We seemed to have lost your connection.

So I thank everybody for joining us today. We're always available to answer further questions. I look forward to it. Planning on our continued progress on our next call. Thank you very much everyone.

Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. This concludes today's conference. Thank you for participating, and you may now disconnect.