corrected transcript


Lumber Liquidators, Inc.
 
LL
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 4, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning Ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the Lumber Liquidators Third Quarter


Earnings Conference Call. With us today is Mr. Jeff Griffiths, President and CEO of Lumber


Liquidators; and Mr. Dan Terrell, CFO of Lumber Liquidators. As a reminder, ladies and gentlemen


this conference is being recorded and may not be reproduced in whole or in part without permission


from the company. I would now like to introduce Ms. Leigh Parrish of FD. Please go ahead.


S. Leigh Parrish, Senior Managing Director, Financial Dynamics Limited


Thank you. Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today. Before we begin, let me


take a moment to reference the Safe Harbor provisions of the United States Securities Laws for


forward-looking statements. This conference call may contain forward-looking statements that are


subject to significant risk and uncertainties including the future operating financial performance of


Lumber Liquidators. Although Lumber Liquidators believes that the expectations reflected in these


forward-looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that such expectations or any


of its forward-looking statements will prove to be correct.


Important risk factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those reflected in the


forward-looking statements are included in Lumber Liquidators filings with the SEC. The information


contained in the call is accurate only as of the date discussed. Investors should not assume that the


statements will remain operative at a later time. And lastly, Lumber Liquidators undertake no


obligation to update any information discussed in this call.


And now with that out of the way, I’ll turn the call over to Jeff Griffiths, President and CEO of


Lumber Liquidators. Jeff?


Jeffrey W. Griffiths, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you. Good morning everyone, and thank you for joining us on short notice for our earnings


call today. With me on the call is Dan Terrell, our CFO. We announced our results for the third


quarter earlier than scheduled, yesterday afternoon and acknowledge that they are not what


anyone, including us, expected. Given the difference in our results versus what we had anticipated


for the quarter as well as the change to our outlook for the full year, we wanted to communicate


with our shareholders and analysts now rather than waiting until our previously scheduled earnings


date.


As we outlined in our release our under-performance during the third quarter resulted from


productivity issues we experienced due to our implementation of SAP and I want to spend some


time talking about this. I’ll then turn the call over to Dan to review our financial results for the quarter


including additional details on the financial impact of our system implementation and discuss our


outlook for the fourth quarter. I’ll then return to update you on our areas of focus for the remainder


of the year before we open the call to questions.


As you are aware, in late August we began the implementation of the most significant phase of our


integrated business solution from SAP, including our point of sale, warehouse management,


inventory control, merchandizing and product allocation. We converted all critical information


existing and our previous information system and we have continued to operate our business


without interruption since the conversion. However, we experienced significant declines in


productivity both at the store level and in our warehouses in the weeks following the system


implementation. The system implementation had a pervasive negative impact on execution across


our operations and the issues we experienced are reflected in our net sales, gross margin, and


operating expenses as well as our inventory levels at the end of the quarter.
corrected transcript


Lumber Liquidators, Inc.
 
LL
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 4, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


To provide more color on the productivity issues we experienced at our stores, we were not able to


service customers or identify new sales opportunities at the level that has been typical for our


business historically. Overall, we were not as effective or efficient in identifying open orders or


tracking and processing orders. We also encountered issues with visibility into what inventory was


in stock to fulfill customer orders which led to orders not being completed during the quarter as they


should have been. All of this combined with our associates acclimating to the new system, reduced


the time that could be spent helping potential customers shopping at our stores and converting


those shoppers into sales.


I think it is important to spend a few minutes discussing our customer deposits on open orders, both


in terms of the strong customer demand reflected in the level of deposits and how we view the build


in deposits over the course of the quarter. We ended the third quarter with customer deposits at a


level that is almost double the level we recorded at the end of the third quarter last year.


During the quarter, as we evaluated the build in customer deposits, we believed that we would be


able to convert them into completed orders at a rate that was in line with historical norms and that


would allow us to meet sales expectations. However, we were not able to make improvements in


our operations quickly enough to fulfill existing customer orders as expected and did not maintain


our focus on serving new customers at our stores. Ultimately, as we look at historical trends in


customer deposits and third quarter results prior to the implementation, we believe that we have


approximately 12 million to $14 million in unrealized net sales in the third quarter as a result of our


reduced productivity.


On a more positive note, we believe our unique value proposition of price, selection, quality, and


availability continues to resonate with customers and that the level of customer deposits


demonstrates that there is solid demand by consumers for our products despite the challenging


economic environment.


In looking at our gross margin performance, we were impacted by disruptions in the flow of product


at our warehouses and delays in shipping products necessary to fulfill orders that resulted in having


to use more expedited modes of transportation generally at higher costs. Prior to the system


implementation, we significantly reduced product flow in preparation for a physical inventory count


at a number of our distribution points servicing our stores including our central warehouse


operation.


In the first few weeks following implementation, we were not able to reestablish the product flows to


satisfy customer demand as quickly as expected. We returned to expected levels of product


distribution by mid-September however, the unit count shipped during the third quarter of 2010 was


significantly lower than planned. In addition, as a result of the reduction in warehousing and


merchandizing productivity, we experienced an impact to our finishing operations for a period of


time following implementation which caused us to finish fewer units per hour in comparison to


historical norms and expectations.


We also experienced higher than expected operating expenses during the quarter as a result of the


system implementation. Because of additional time required to perform activities associated with


our associates’ normal day-to-day operations, we experienced higher payroll costs. Overall, we


allocated a higher level of both internal and external resources to the system implementation than


we had initially planned to help address the issues we were experiencing, support operations, and


address specific productivity concerns. We also made a decision to invest additional dollars in


strategic advertising and promotions to help drive sales and did not leverage advertising as


planned.


Turning finally to our inventory levels; as we discussed last quarter, we significantly increased our


inventory levels prior to the system implementation to ensure we have appropriate inventory in