corrected transcript


Lumber Liquidators, Inc.
 
LL
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 11, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to today’s Lumber Liquidators Fourth


Quarter and Full Year End Conference. With us today is Mr. Jeff Griffiths, CEO of Lumber


Liquidators, and Dan Terrell, CFO of Lumber Liquidators. As a reminder, ladies and gentlemen,


today’s conference is being recorded and may not be reproduced in whole or in part without


permission from the company.


At this time, I would like to introduce Ms. Leigh Parrish of FD, please go ahead.


Leigh Parrish, Managing Director, Investor Relations – FD International


Thank you, operator. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. Before we


begin, let me take a moment to reference the safe harbor provisions of the United States’ securities


laws for forward-looking statements. This conference call may contain forward-looking statements


that are subject to significant risks and uncertainties including the future operating financial


performance of Lumber Liquidators. Although Lumber Liquidators believes that the expectations


reflected in its forward-looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance that such


expectations or any of its forward looking statements will prove to be correct. Important risk factors


that could cause actual results to differ materially from those reflected in the forward-looking


statements are included in Lumber Liquidators’ filings with the SEC.


The information contained in the call is accurate only as of the date discussed. Investors should not


assume that the statements will remain operative at a later time. Lastly, Lumber Liquidators


undertake no obligation to update any information discussed in this call.


And now, I’m pleased to turn the call over to Mr. Jeff Griffiths, President and CEO. Jeff?


Jeffrey W. Griffiths, President and Chief Executive Officer


Good morning everyone. Thank you for joining us for Lumber Liquidators’ fourth quarter and full


year 2008 earnings call. With me on the call today is Dan Terrell, our CFO. I would like to begin


today with some highlights of this past year’s performance. Dan will then review our financial results


in detail, as well as our outlook for 2009. I will return with comments on our ongoing strategic


direction and our plans for the remainder of the year before we open the call to questions.


Overall, we are very pleased with our performance for 2008, our first full year as a publicly traded


company. We are particularly gratified with our results in light of the very difficult macro


environment, which, as we all know, began to deteriorate rapidly in the fourth quarter. Despite


these external challenges, the company’s performance met our expectations for the year, as we


expanded our gross margin and leveraged our operating expenses.


We successfully demonstrated that our business model is flexible and resilient and we ended the


year solidly positioned to continue to grow and expand our market share, as well as drive earnings


growth in 2009.


Much of our success last year was due to our ability to grow our store base and expand our market


share at a relatively low cost. In 2008, we added 34 new stores to our base, which was in line with


our expectations, and we ended the year with 150 stores across an expanded national footprint.


These new stores consistently performed above expectations and made significant contributions to


our sales growth for the year.
corrected transcript


Lumber Liquidators, Inc.
 
LL
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 11, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Helping to drive the solid performance and quick ramp up of our new stores was our well-known


brand and unique value proposition, both of which are supported by our strong national advertising


program. This high brand recognition and acceptance of our offering, combined with our low startup


cost, enabled us to gain significant market share in 2008 and to take advantage of the expansion


opportunities presented by the highly fragmented hardwood flooring industry in which we operate.


We intend to continue to grow our store base and capture additional market share in 2009, even in


light of challenging external factors, and we’ll continue to maximize the strategic opportunities for


growth that we identified at the time of our initial public offering. But, before I touch on our growth


strategy, I would like to discuss the other important drivers of our success in 2008.


Our unique value proposition of price, quality, selection and availability has been and continues to


be one of our key contributors to our strong performance. In 2008, we saw greater acceptance for


our value proposition, as well as an expansion of our customer base as demand for our offering


grew. As consumers became more price and value-conscious during the latter part of the year, we


quickly adjusted our marketing strategies to address their shifts in attitude. We moved from


branding to call-to-action messages and specifically focused on our value proposition. Notably, we


were able to shift a significant amount of marketing dollars to this call-to-action strategy in a


relatively short time period, allowing us to keep pace with the rapidly changing atmosphere and


generate sales without negatively impacting margin.


Our gross margin continued to benefit over the course of the year from our expanded product


selection and increased in-stock position of premium products. Margin expansion was also driven


by increased sales of high-margin items such as moldings, trims, treads and risers. In addition,


during the year, we continued to take advantage of opportunistic liquidation purchases. Our solid


cash position puts us in a great position, allowing us to act quickly when these opportunities arise.


We believe that these liquidation opportunities will continue to occur during this difficult economic


time.


Another important driver of our success throughout the year was our ability to improve operational


efficiencies and strengthen our infrastructure. We made several advancements on these fronts by


adding support at the store and regional management levels, upgrading our merchandising


processes in the areas of inventory and product allocation, and improving the quality of our in-store


product presentations.


Our improvements in product planning and forecasting enabled us to shift more deliveries to


intermodal and more cost-efficient carriers without reducing our frequency of deliveries to our


stores. As a result, we were able to contain the increases related to fuel costs by reducing the


amount of miles traveled. The improvements in planning and forecasting also led to more


consistent in-stock positions of our core flooring SKU’s. One of the resulting benefits is that we are


able to continue to reduce the number of days outstanding for open orders, which we believe leads


to greater customer satisfaction and continues to strengthen our competitive position.


This is a good example of how our investments in infrastructure continue to yield benefits and


enable us to further improve our execution. In addition to all of these important advancements, we


believe that there are more opportunities to create further operational efficiencies as we continue to


position the company for long-term growth and expansion. I will discuss these in greater detail later


in the call.


Before I turn the call over to Dan, I would just like to say that we are very pleased with all of our


achievements for the year and encouraged by our performance, especially against the backdrop of


a challenging economic environment. It’s a testament to our entire team and their hard work over


the past year, as we have established a strong foundation and put the right pieces in place to


support our long-term growth strategy.