corrected transcript


MF Global Ltd.
 
MF
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 5, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, good day and welcome to the Fiscal Third Quarter 2009 Results


Conference Call. My name is Artiara and I’ll be your conference coordinator for today. At this time,


all participants are in a listen-only mode. We will be facilitating a question-and-answer session


towards the end of today’s conference call.


I will now turn the presentation over to your host for today’s call, Mr. Jeremy Skule, Senior Vice


President of Investor Relations. Please proceed.


Jeremy Skule, Vice President of Investor Relations/Corporate Communications


Good morning and thank you for joining MF Global’s third quarter call. With us today is Bernie Dan,


CEO, and Randy MacDonald, CFO.


This conference call is being recorded on behalf of MF Global and consists of copyrighted material.


It may not be recorded, reproduced, or otherwise used without MF Global’s express written


permission.


This information is made available and contains certain forward-looking statements that reflect MF


Global’s view of future events and financial performance as of December 31, 2008. Any such


forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties indicated from time to time in the


company’s SEC filings. Therefore the company’s future results of operations could differ from


historical results or current expectations, as more formally discussed in our SEC filings. The


company does not undertake any obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements.


The information made available also includes certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined


under SEC rules. The reconciliation of these measures is included in the company’s earnings


release, which can be found on our website or in our SEC filings.


With that, I’ll now turn the call over to Bernie.


Bernard W. Dan, Chief Executive Officer


Thank you. Good morning and thank you for joining us today. Three months ago, in my first call as


CEO of MF Global, I outlined three priorities to better position the company, to capitalize on


emerging trends within the financial-services industry, and to drive greater shareholder value.


Before turning to our results for the quarter, I’d like to update you on our progress thus far.


We’ve already completed the first priority, a strategic-planning process that identified short-,


medium- and long-term opportunities to grow the business. Secondly, I said that we’d enhance our


governance model. We’ve since accomplished that as well, establishing a new organizational


structure that reflects the global nature of our business and the emerging needs of our customers.


The final priority is to align the organization around our key strategic initiatives and deliver the


anticipated value. This effort also is well underway.


Later in the call, I’ll expand on the specific initiatives we’ve undertaken. But I’d first like to say that


I’m excited about our market position, our operating model and our future prospects. There’s a


definite feeling of renewed enthusiasm throughout MF Global, particularly as we capitalize on a


broad range of product-, customer- and geographic-driven initiatives.


I’d like to now give you an overview of the quarter. Randy will then provide more details on our


financial performance. After that we’ll be happy to take your questions.
corrected transcript


MF Global Ltd.
 
MF
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 5, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


So let’s now turn to Slide Three. Like every company within the financial-services industry, our


business has been impacted by the broad economic downturn. However, through sound business


judgement and a greater focus on risk-adjusted returns, we’ve maintained profitability and


demonstrated consistent performance.


Our diverse business model has enabled us to maintain adjusted net revenues of $367 million in


the most challenging macro environment the global financial-services industry has ever


experienced. This consistency reflects our geographic and product diversity. For example, while our


exchange-traded business has been challenged by declining volumes, particularly in the U.S. and


Europe, most of our non-listed or matched-principal business performed very well. Additionally,


proactive management of the interest rate and spread environment allowed us to expand our yield.


We also continued to generate solid EBITDA of $62 million for the quarter. When calculated


according to our debt covenants, we have a three-month cushion against those covenants. A


recent positive development was the release of $100 million in excess capital by the Financial


Services Authority in the United Kingdom. We’re pleased with this initial success and we expect


more capital to be returned as we continue to go through this process.


During the quarter, we had to make some tough decisions to improve our market model and


position MF Global for the future. We also maintained our strong commitment to shareholders by


delivering adjusted non-GAAP earnings per share of $0.19.


Slide Four provides an illustration of how our balance model has delivered consistent results. For


example, transaction-based revenues range from 51% of total net revenues in the first and second


quarters to 38% this quarter as exchange-traded volumes decline. At the same time, revenues from


principal transactions in the last three months was up from the previous two quarters. Our focused


efforts during this period allowed us to deliver these steady net revenues.


Slide Five illustrates how proactive we’ve been in taking advantage of one of the prevailing market


trends, widening spreads between certain asset classes. We’ve extended duration and broadened


the assets in which we invest client payables, of course while remaining within the guidelines


established by the CFTC and staying well within our level of risk tolerance. Although our client


balances have declined in response to heightened economic uncertainty, our efforts to capture the


benefits of widening spreads have made a significant contribution to our strong bottom-line


performance.


Slide Six provides a good example of how MF Global has been benefiting from wider spreads. As


many of you know, we pay interest on client balances between the prevailing 30-day and 90-day


Tbill rates. Our strategy has been to selectively extend duration into a variety of asset classes,


including two-year treasuries and agency notes. Through these efforts, we’ve captured additional


revenue. The current situation may not be sustainable over the long term, but we remain proactive


in seeking the most profitable opportunities for investing our client payables.


Moving to Slide Seven. I believe that the most successful companies will be those that consistently


demonstrate strong risk management. Our philosophy is to take measured risk and mitigate


unnecessary risk. In the last quarter we’ve made significant progress in our enterprise risk-


management strategy. We’ve introduced new and refined existing procedures. And we’ve further


developed technology to ensure seamless interaction among our risk-management staff. We


believe the organization – or the re-organization of our risk team is largely complete.


A validation of our efforts came at a recent report from Moody’s, which highlighted the fact that


we’ve strengthened our risk management, compliance and operational-risk management. We’re


focused on fine-tuning our enterprise-risk-management systems and procedures, with the goal of


being the recognized leader in this area.