corrected transcript


Midwest Banc Holdings, Inc.
 
MBHI
 
Q1 2009 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 29, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Hello, and welcome to the Midwest Banc Holdings First Quarter Earnings Conference


Call. All participants will be in listen-only mode. There will be an opportunity for you to ask


questions at the end of today’s presentation.


This call contains forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from the results


suggested by these forward-looking statements for a number of reasons. These forward-looking


statements are within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 as amended and


Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as amended and should be reviewed in


conjunction with the company’s annual report on Form 10-K and other publicly available information


regarding the company, copies of which are available from the company upon request and on the


company’s website at www.midwestbanc.com. Such publicly available information sets forth certain


risks and uncertainties related to the company’s business, which should be considered in


evaluating forward-looking statements.


[Operator Instructions]. Please note this conference is being recorded.


Now I would like to turn the conference over to Jay Fritz, CEO of Midwest Banc Holdings, Mr. Fritz?


Jay J. Fritz, Chief Executive Officer and President


Thank you, Amy, and thank you everyone for participating this morning. Following my opening


remarks I will turn the floor over to Tom Caravello, our Chief Credit Officer. And then instead of our


CFO, JoAnn Lilek, who unfortunately is dealing with a death in the family, we will have Jan Thiry,


our Chief Accounting Officer handling some of the financial reporting this morning. And then of


course, I will have some closing remarks.


I was elected CEO on January the 29 and within 30 days the Board accepted management’s


recommendation to strategically shift from a growth model to a back-to-basics budget, a budget that


acknowledges current economic reality. This conservative strategy will position our company to


withstand the possibility of an extended recession while reducing the need for new capital.


Back to basics demands slower loan growth. It seeks more revenue while controlling expenses,


maintaining safe capital levels and strong liquidity, while growing relationships, which is a code


word for core balances.


Before discussing first quarter initiatives, let me address loan quality and our philosophy towards


distressed credits. Once we are comfortable with loss estimates on a non-performing loan, we will


conservatively charge down the balance to a realistic recovery level. We try to take our hits early


and appropriately.


However, recognizing the difficulties in this current economic environment and its effect on our


borrowers, we continue to build reserves. In fact, this is the fourth straight quarter we have taken


provisions larger than our net charge-offs.


During the first quarter we provisioned $13 million or almost three times our net charge offs of 4.4


million, resulting in reserves at 2.05% of loans. While the level of quarterly provision is sizeable, the


trend is sharply down since peaking in the third quarter of 2008, and let’s face it, even severe


recessions have to eventually run out of steam; at least we are hoping that.


First quarter loan growth of 81.3 million reflects the significant opportunities in this market to attract


quality new business with attractive pricing and core balances. This performance resulted from our


former growth model armed with TARP capital. During the quarter, loan growth was removed from
corrected transcript


Midwest Banc Holdings, Inc.
 
MBHI
 
Q1 2009 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 29, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


the performance objectives of all executive management, bringing even more focus on core


balance growth and fee initiative.


2008 brought significant changes and additions to our management team. Brogan Ptacin, who


became Head of Corporate Banking, brought in an individual by the name of Jon Gilfillan to head


up Commercial Real Estate. Jon is making some wonderful changes in our Group there, he’s


upgrading talents throughout department. And in fact, Jon’s group was responsible for a significant


portion of first quarter new business.


Our new CFO, who unfortunately is not with us today, has made several key additions to our


financial team, which now provide us with timely information with which to make good business


decisions. We also have a new Chief Investment Officer, we have a new Head of Wealth


Management, we have a new Director of Marketing, all joining during 2008, and all indicative of a


really strong management team.


And the strength of this team, the new additions coupled with existing talent, allowed MBHI to


quickly embark on first quarter initiatives, which combined retail promotions with incentives to our


corporate bankers, our private bankers to explore, expand core balances, which moved up 14.4


million in the quarter. And we also brought in a $100 million in new CD deposits.


We reduced our reliance on brokerage CDs by almost $50 million, which represents about 16.2 of


our deposits, broker CDs are at that level, down 2% from December levels.


Our margin improved 12 basis points during the quarter, thanks to our team, which delivered lower


funding cost, lower borrowing cost as LIBOR spreads improved. And we found the -- we found


continuing market acceptance of rate floors, which we all know has been margin friendly and will


continue to be so.


In February, we launched a cost control initiative involving virtually all departments of the Bank. Our


goal was to ensure that growth budget had been effectively adjusted to our back to basic strategy.


We also renewed our focus on eliminating core performers and identifying corporate wide cost


savings opportunities. And let me emphasize this will be a continuing process during 2009.


In spite of expenses associated with new talent coming on board in 2008, we expect operating


expense growth to be less than 1% in 2009. Of course, this will be exclusive of any extraordinary


items that may come into play.


In closing, we recognize this year will be a difficult one for us and for the entire industry. We have


confidence that our strong management team following a back to basics approach will position our


company to seize the significant opportunities, which will follow.


Now I am going to turn things over to Tom to give you some more detail relative to loan quality.


Thomas A. Caravello, Executive Vice President and Chief Credit Officer


Thanks Jay, and good morning. I’d like to make a few comments and observations concerning loan


quality in first quarter and ‘09, loan data related to past due loans, non-accruals, troubled debt


restructured loans, allowance, and charge-offs. The current economic and credit market challenges


that the bank sees continue to exhibit business and financial risk characteristics that are the most


challenging that we and our industry have encountered. The challenges have affected our local


community base of customers and those risks have continued to broaden and expand nationally


and internationally. This has resulted in both our commercial and retail clients seeing more risk and


hence the need for an increased level of risk identification.