raw transcript


Midway Games Inc.
 
MWY
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 28, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon, my name is Marcus, and I will be your conference facilitator. At this time,


I would like to welcome everyone to the Midway Games Fourth Quarter Results Conference Call.


All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks


there will be a question-and-answer period. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the


conference over to Mr. Miguel Iribarren, Vice President of Corporation Communications and


Strategic Planning. Sir, you may begin your conference.


Miguel Iribarren, Vice President of Corporation Communications and Strategic Planning


Thank you operator. Good afternoon, everyone. With us on the call today are Midway's President


and CEO, David F. Zucker, Our Chief Financial Officer, Tom Powell, and our Senior Vice President


of Product Development, Matt Booty. I will begin today's call with customary legal disclosures, after


which Tom will discuss our financial performance for the quarter and full year. David will then


provide his comments and thoughts regarding our strategy and direction going forward, including


outlining our financial guidance. After David's remarks, we'll open up the line for questions. With


that I'll read our Safe Harbor statement and turn the call over to Tom.


Ladies and gentlemen, the following presentation and responses to questions may contain certain


forward-looking statements concerning future business conditions, and the outlook for Midway


Games Inc. based on currently available information that involve risks and uncertaintities. The


company's actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking


statements as a result of these results and uncertainties, including with out limitation the financial


strength of the interactive entertainment industry, dependence on new product introductions and


the ability to maintain the scheduling of such introductions. The upcoming console platform


transition and other technological changes, dependence on major platform manufacturers and other


risks more fully described under item 1, business risk factors in our annual report on Form 10-K for


the year ended December 31, 2003 and in the more recent filings made by the company with the


Securities and Exchange Commission. Tom?


Thomas Powell, Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice President-Finance and Treasurer


Good afternoon. And thanks, Miguel. Starting with the fourth quarter results, during the quarter we


released two new titles, Mortal Kombat: Deception for the PlayStation 2 and Xbox and Midway


Arcade Treasures 2 for the PlayStation 2, Xbox and GameCube systems. Revenues for the quarter


were $77.2 million, up over 150% from the prior year quarter, and in line with our guidance provided


on November 8. Revenue mix for the platform was 59% on PlayStation 2, 37% on the Xbox and 3%


on the GameCube. Our international business contributed approximately 19% of it will fourth


quarter revenues.


Net income for the quarter was $17.6 million, compared with the net loss of $27.8 million last year


and again in line with our guidance. Net income a foot over the common stock was also $17.6


million, compared with a net loss of $28.6 million last year. During the fourth quarter gross margins


improved dramatically to approximately 46% of revenues versus approximately 26% for the first


three quarters of 2004. The expansion in gross profit margin is attributable to a solid performance


by the Mortal Kombat: Deception release in North America. For the quarter we sold in


approximately 1.7 million in units worldwide at a launch price in the U.S. of $49.99 for the base


product and $59.99 for the collector's edition. As a result of our Mortal Kombat solid revenue


performance, development and advertising costs were spread over a significant revenue base,


resulting in improved profit margins. Also during the fourth quarter, we settled aggregate liabilities
raw transcript


Midway Games Inc.
 
MWY
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 28, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


of $6.5 million [Audio gap] to WMS Industries for $1.5 million, and as a result we realized a $5


million gain that was reflected in other income during the quarter.


Turning to full year results, during 2004 we released six new front line console titles and one value


priced product. Revenues for the year were $161.6 million, up 75% from the prior year. Revenue


mix by platform was 60% on PlayStation 2, 34% on the Xbox and 3% on the GameCube. Our


international business contributed approximately 18% of total revenues. Net loss for 2004 was 19.9


million, compared with a net loss of $115.2 million last year. The net loss applicable to common


stock was 24.7 million, compared with a net loss of $117.9 million last year.


Turning to the balance sheet, our year-end cash balance stands at $118.3 million versus 41.7


million at the end of 2003. For the quarter, cash provided from operations was $4.6 million. For the


year, cash used in operations was $45.7 million. The year – the year-over-year increase in cash is


attributable to several financing actions that contributed approximately $102 million of cash and the


exercise of investor warrants and stock options that contributed another $28 million of cash. Of the


$47.5 million Series D redeemable convertible preferred stock originally issued, as of the end of the


third quarter all but 4.5 million of face value had been converted to common. As a result, the


quarterly charge associated with both the distributed and imputed dividends declined to $65,000


dollars during the quarter, and we expect the quarterly charge to remain at that level until the


remaining shares are converted or redeemed.


At the end of the year, the balance of capitalized product development costs stood at 28.7 million,


up to 28.7 million of capitalized costs, $1.9 million relates to product in the market place as of the


year, and the remaining 26.8 million relates to products that we expect to introduce in subsequent


years. Gross receivables at December 31 were $24.6 million. Reserves for price concessions,


returns, and uncollectible accounts were $8.8 million or approximately 36% of the gross receivable.


Our day sales outstanding were 19 days. And this concludes the financial update. David?


David Zucker, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Tom. Our 2004 fourth quarter results cap a year of accomplishments that has repositioned


the company for future success as we actively prepare for the upcoming console transition. During


the fourth quarter we shipped one front line product, Mortal Kombat: Deception and one value


product, Midway Arcade Treasures 2. Both of these were well received by consumers and game


critics. Success of these titles and continuing reorders for other games like NBA Ballers produced


the first profitable quarter for Midway in several years.


During the fourth quarter three Midway releases, Mortal Kombat: Deception and two previously


released titles NBA Ballers and Midway Arcade Treasures 1 topped the one million ship mark. This


is an important distinction and milestone for the current team at Midway. As prior to 2004, only two


Midway titles had crossed that threshold during this console cycle. Although these


accomplishments are noteworthy, we believe our most important accomplishment in 2004 was


creating the infrastructure and building blocks for success in future years, but the fruits of these


labors yet to be seen.


We set out in 2004, to strengthen key operating functions and build a solid base from which we


could grow. We made great progress toward these goals in 2004, and significantly strengthened


the most important element of any video game company, product development. In November, we


announced the acquisition of our third development studio during the year, Paradox Development.


A studio that has been working on the Mortal Kombat: Shaolin Monks title due out later this year.


Like our other two acquisitions this year, Surreal Software and Inevitable Entertainment, Paradox


brings this specific talent pool to our organization. In this case, Paradox has a unique skill in near


life fighting is rare and especially valuable to supporting our ability top produce annual releases of