raw transcript


Midwest Banc Holdings, Inc.
 
MBHI
 
Q3 2006 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 25, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
6 4 6. 44 2 .0 2 70 •
 
Co p yr i g h t © 2 0 01- 2 00 6 C a l l Str e et


(ed i te d)
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: And welcome to the Midwest Banc Holdings Incorporated Third Quarter Conference


Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A brief question and answer session


will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instruction] It is now my pleasure to introduce your


host James J. Giancola President and Chief Executive Officer. Thank you, you may begin.


James J. Giancola, President and Chief Executive Officer


Good morning everyone, Dan would you read our disclaimer, to get that out of the way.


Daniel R. Kadolph, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


This presentation contains forward-looking statements, actual results may differ materially from the


results suggested by these forward-looking statements for a number of reasons. Certain forward-


looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 as amended,


and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as amended, and should be reviewed in


conjunction with the company’s annual report on Form 10-K and other publicly available information


regarding the company, copies of which are available from the company upon request on our


website www.midwestbanc.com. Such publicly available information sets forth certain risks and


uncertainties related to the company’s business, which should be considered in evaluating forward-


looking statements. Jim, back to you.


James J. Giancola, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you for that warming adoption Dan and let’s get into the highlights of the quarter. Obviously


the most exciting thing that happened is the world transaction closed on July 1st. The conversion


including sign changes unlike also completed in the month of July. The cost base that has been


previously announced have been more than achieved and Dan will give some color for those


numbers in a moment. Much more important [indiscernible] we have retained higher sales staff of


Royal American Corporation. Jay, Kelly O'Keeffe, Brogan Ptacin have assumed senior positions on


the combined team and are already making a contribution to our company. The conversion team


deserves some congratulations, they have done extremely well. With that said, all conversions are


difficult and this is no exception.


The company continues to be a revenue story. Top line revenues up 54% from last year. We are


up 29% from last quarter essentially all of that, the royal bank position, to subtract one from the


other core Midwest is up about 20% plus from the same period last year. Third quarter was spent


doing the conversion and doing the clean up and depending the base, whenever you announce an


acquisition, people believe your eye is off the ball and your customers are honorable, and come out


its pretty hard, we successfully depended the base and very proud of our team for doing that.


Q4 is about beginning to realize about the cost savings and the revenue opportunities at this


transaction brings to the company. One of the motivating factors behind the transaction was our


intention to diversify the balance fees and reduce the risk profile. As I said, in the press release, we


reduced on our reliance of commercial real estate from 84% to 81%. More importantly, we have


reduced our reliance on what our cost rates, commercial real estate, that is net of owner occupied


manufacturing businesses to about 70% of the total and of so that migration from 84 to 70 is a very


significant change in our – significant reduction in our concentration in commercial real estate. A


DVA component again went up from 10% to 13% as we reported, the C&I business that the Royal


team brought over is much more self-funding than the commercial real estate business.
raw transcript


Midwest Banc Holdings, Inc.
 
MBHI
 
Q3 2006 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 25, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 6 C a ll S tr ee t ( e d it ed )
2


Let me comment for a second on Chicago, and I am sure most of you have listened in to other


conference calls and the competitive situation in Chicago is not going away and with that I think it is


beginning to get a litter more reasonable but still very, very competitive market for us. One other


thing that we have done is we are walking away from the price shopping CD only customer who


goes from institution to institution. To raise the incremental CD fund in Chicago, we have to pay


between 5.5% to 6%. We can buy brokerage CDs all day long at five in a quarter, 530. We did the


math, the figure outside in the quarter was less than 6. We are buying brokerage CDs instead of


competing for the various top end retail CD market. As we get installed back to the yield curve,


whenever that happens, we get back into that market and regain those customers as soon as we


are willing to take the process.


Loan pricing continues to be tough, but again we are starting to see a little more rational behavior


as some of the real outline or some of the prime time get acquired and as everybody begins to look


at their net interest margin and realize some of those pricing just to make a whole long stand. On


the credit quality side, we have increased in non-accruals that is due to a single large non-accruing


participation that we disclosed last quarter over half of our $21 million in change in non-accrual is


from this single relationship. It remains our number 1 to get this situation resolved and I am


involved and other members of our management team are involved in getting the successful


resolution of this class [ph]. The real business, the real balances have reduced from $11.2 million a


year ago to $2.9 million today, again a very positive trend there. Charge offs year-to-date are


running about 15 basis points and continue to be low by historical trend. We are maintaining our


level of reserves compared or high level of reserves compared to most of our peers continue to be


very conservative in our classification and the calculation of specific reserves for potential


problems, we think that is the right strategy for us. Credit quality remained absolutely at the


forefront.


Let me talk for just a second about the acquisition business. It seems like every 300 to $600 million


bank in Chicago is for sale. Books are forming around all over the place. We basically have no


interest in a lot of these organizations that are essentially in all construction loans funded by Jumbo


CD that done within our strategy and that if a lot of owners for sale. We are interested in


companies that have proved an ability to compete in market and have some management that we


can add to our team. We are still actively seeking strategic partners, we are looking for one off


kinds of transactions, not auctions. Chicago remains a target rich environment. There are 250


banks in Chicago that make up 40% of this market and so we are not going to run out of acquisition


candidate, but again we are being very prudent, we’ve looked at a lot of transactions, we have


passed on a lot of transactions, we are in conversation with some folks that we think might add


some value to our organization and we will obviously keep everyone posted at those discussions


potentially bear fruit in the future. With that, let me turn this over to Jay to talk about the good


things he has going on in our company.


Jay Fritz, President and Chief Operating Officer


Thank you Jim. While the conversion has been a dominant team over the past three months, we


have remained focused from our teamwork and enhancing the sales culture throughout our


company.


Normally, discussion of our sales meeting might seem rather routine, but when you see the


opportunities for cross selling, I get very enthusiast talking about these kinds of things. We have


regularly brought together our corporate bankers, our branch managers, our wealth advisories in a


room together to bake bread. We have branch managers, who bank the principles of a company


but have no corporate relationship there. We have corporate banking relationships with the


deferred comp plan that’s being serviced elsewhere and these get together have really produced


good result. You know, I have been a C&I lender of most my background without a lot of