corrected transcript


Midwest Banc Holdings, Inc.
 
MBHI
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 28, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning, and welcome to the Midwest Banc Holdings, Inc. Third Quarter 2009


Conference Call. Our speakers today are Roberto Herencia, President and CEO, and JoAnn Lilek,


EVP and CFO. All participants will be in listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions]. Please note this


event is being recorded.


This call contains forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from the results


suggested by these forward-looking statements for a number of reasons. These forward-looking


statements are within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 as amended, and


Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as amended, and should be reviewed in


conjunction with the company’s annual reports on Forms 10-K, and other publicly available


information regarding the company, copies of which are available from the company upon request


and on the company’s website at www.midwestbanc.com. Such publicly available information sets


forth certain risks and uncertainties related to the company’s business, which should be considered


in evaluating forward-looking statements.


I would now like to turn the call over to Roberto Herencia, President and CEO. Please go ahead,


sir.


Roberto R. Herencia, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you. Good morning to all, and thank you for joining us this morning. It has only been a few


months since I joined Midwest Banc on May 15, knowing full well how challenging yet worthwhile


the road ahead was going to be. The challenges, the opportunities and the interesting and exciting


work associated with this turnaround situation have not disappointed. We understood well that the


way forward to building a new foundation was to get in front of issues, to stop talking and weaving,


and to act urgently.


With the full support of our Board of Directors, we launched in mid-May our 100-day plan with the


objective of preserving, restructuring and restoring capital. Since then, we have been successful at


preserving capital, cutting costs, improving our balance sheet with respect to liquidity, higher loan


loss reserves and transparency, and coming to grips with realistic loan-loss estimates, all of this, all


of it while making communications with employees, customers, regulators and other stakeholders a


top priority.


During the first 100 days, we also finalized a comprehensive Capital Plan and we unveiled its


components to you on July 28 – July 29. We have provided to you and the public at large over the


course of the last 48 hours with a great deal of disclosure, I’m sure you would agree, about losses,


credit quality, capital ratios, and a progress report on our Capital Plan. There is no need for me to


repeat what you can read, but let me hit on a few key highlights.


First, in operating results and secondly on the Capital Plan. With respect to operating results that


JoAnn will tell you more about the numbers, but I would like to point out an important piece of work


that we completed this quarter and that we shared with you that we would do was estimating loan


losses and doing work around cumulative loan losses during this economic cycle. We engaged two


different parties to do two bonds of analysis. In one of them, we covered close to 58% of the


portfolio, and the other one close to 70% of the portfolio, loan by loan.


This, again, was a very important piece of work to us. It has anchored our thinking, and has


provided to us a great road map of what is possible to expect over the course of this economic


cycle. We have not been surprised by the results that we’re seeing in terms of our increasing non-


performing assets and net charges.
corrected transcript


Midwest Banc Holdings, Inc.
 
MBHI
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 28, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Again, the work that we have done has provided us with great insight into what it is that we can


expect going forward. We have responded to those findings by adding dedicated resources to our


workout group. We basically started with a two-man workout group. We are now into double-digit


figures, but more importantly, we have established the right process and the right framework to be


able to address higher level of non-performing assets.


I am very pleased to also announce today that Steve Eastwood, a banking veteran and particularly


in the area of risk management and workout, has accepted to join Midwest Banc as Chief Risk


Officer. And Steve has been working together with us since late May in the capacity of a consultant


and has become very, very familiar with our loan portfolio and the work that we have ahead.


With respect to the Capital Plan, I am very pleased to be in a position to move forward with the


execution of that Capital Plan. As you know, the Capital Plan has two basic components. One is to


restructure capital with existing stakeholders, and the other component is the new equity


component. With respect to the restructure component of the Capital Plan, the key piece that we


were able to achieve this quarter was the forbearance agreement with our senior lender. We have


provided to you with the full disclosure on the terms of that agreement. The important piece for us


there is that it signals to us and to the marketplace that we have a strong working relationship with


our senior lender. And we are basically in a standstill mode now. We have a period of six months,


which we believe is more than ample time for us to complete the execution of our Capital Plan.


That forbearance agreement was a key component of us being able to move forward with our re-


filing of the S-4 Registration Statement and Proxy. The key component of that S-4 Registration


Statement is the proposed public exchange offer for our preferred – convertible preferred


shareholders or the Series A shareholders.


We are also very pleased to have been in direct contact and conversations with the U.S. Treasury.


Those conversations are in line with the CAP application, the CAP application that we shared with


you at the end of the last quarter. As you know, the intent of that application is to convert the TARP


preferred equity investment into common equity for us.


While we have been working on the capital restructure, on a parallel basis, we have also been


entertaining due diligence from new equity investors during this timeframe. We are, as I said,


pleased with respect to where we are at this point on our Capital Plan execution.


I will now pass it on to JoAnn to give you a bit more color on the operating results.


JoAnn Sannasardo Lilek, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thanks, Roberto, and good morning to everyone on the phone. As you read in our press release,


we had a net loss available to common stockholders of 42.6 million for the quarter. This result was


an improvement over our second quarter’s net loss of 77.8 million when we recorded a $59.7


million reserve against our deferred tax assets.


This also was an improvement over the third quarter of 2008 when we reported a loss available to


common of 159.8 million driven by significant impairments and losses on the preferred stock of


Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, along with goodwill impairment charges and a 42.2 million provision


for loan loss.


However, our income before tax was 23.5 million lower than the second quarter this year and that


was mostly because of provisions for credit losses. And also, as we’ve known and talked to you


about in the second quarter call, the net interest margin has decreased due to our capital


preservation tactics begun in the second quarter.