raw transcript


Midway Games Inc.
 
MWY
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 9, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Welcome to the Midway Games First Quarter Results Conference Call. During the


presentation, all participants will be in a listen-only mode. Afterwards, we will conduct a question-


and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]. As a reminder, this conference is being recorded on


Monday, May 9, 2005. I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Miguel Iribarren, Vice


President of Corporate Communications and Strategic Planning. Please go ahead, sir.


Miguel Iribarren, Vice President of Corporate Communications and Strategic Planning


Thank you, operator. Good afternoon, everyone. With us on the call today are Midway President


and CEO David F. Zucker, our Chief Financial Officer, Tom Powell and our Senior Vice President of


Product Development, Matt Booty. I will begin today's call with the customary legal disclosures,


after which Tom will discuss our financial performance for the first quarter; David will then provide


his comments and thoughts regarding our strategy and direction going forward, including outlining


and discussing financial guidance. After David's remarks, we'll open up the line for question.


With that, I'll read a Safe Harbor statement and then turn the call over to Tom. Ladies and


gentlemen, the following presentation and responses to questions may contain certain forward-


looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Securities Laws concerning future business


concerning future business conditions and the outlook for Midway Games Inc. based on currently


available information that involves risks and uncertainties. The company's results could differ


materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of these risks and


uncertainties, including, without limitation, the financial strength of the interactive entertainment


industry, dependence on new product introductions and the ability to maintain the scheduling of


such introductions, the upcoming console platform transition and other technological changes,


dependence on major platform manufacturers and other risks more fully described under Item 1,


business risk factors in the company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December


31, 2004 and in the more recent filings made by the Company with the Securities & Exchange


Commission. Tom?


Thomas Powell, Executive Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer


Good afternoon. Thanks, Miguel. During the quarter in North America, we released one frontline


title, Mortal Kombat Deception for the GameCube and one value priced title NARC, the PlayStation


2 and Xbox Systems. Revenues for the quarter were $13.8 million and were in line with our


guidance provided on February 28th. Revenue mix by platform was 46% for the PlayStation 2, 20%


for the Xbox, 19% for the GameCube, 13% from licensed royalties and 2% on all Other.


During the quarter, new releases contributed approximately 44% of the total revenues and


reorders, catalog and license royalties made up the rest. Our international business contributed


approximately 22% of the first quarter revenues.


Net loss for the quarter was $15.9 million, which is slightly better than our previously provided


guidance of a net loss of $18 million. The net loss applicable to common stock was $16 million.


Looking at the balance sheet, at quarter's end, our cash balance stood at $93.4 million. For the


quarter, cash used in operations was $22.3 million. During the quarter we continued to increase our


level investment in product development initiatives as cash invested in next-generation


technologies and product development projects totaled approximately $27 million. This represents


a 65% increase in spending over the year-ago levels. At the end of the quarter, the balance of
raw transcript


Midway Games Inc.
 
MWY
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 9, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


capitalized product development costs stood at approximately $43.7 million, and of the $43.7


million of capitalized cost, $2.2 million or 5% relates to products already in the marketplace at the


end of the quarter and the remaining $41.5 million relates to products that we expect to introduce in


subsequent quarters. None of the capitalized costs currently relate to next generation titles, as


those costs are flown through the income statement as period expenses.


Gross receivables at March 31st were $12.1million, reserves for price concessions, returns and


uncollectible accounts were $5.1 million or approximately 42% of the growth receivable. For the


quarter average days sales outstanding were 46 days. And in terms of share count for the first


quarter, assume basic and diluted shares of $85.6 million. For the full year, assume an estimate for


basic and diluted shares of $87 million. This concludes the financial update. David?


David Zucker, Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Tom. Our first quarter results were essentially in line with our earlier guidance. Our release


schedule for the quarter was light as we released only one front-line title, Mortal Kombat Deception


for the GameCube and one budget title 'NARC', for PlayStation 2 and Xbox in North America.


Despite a light release schedule, the first quarter did produce several important successes for


Midway.


During the first quarter, we finalized several transactions that will add to our product pipeline and


help grow our future revenues. Some of these developments included signing multiple publishing


arrangements, agreements with Warner Brothers Interactive Entertainment, to license cartoon


network properties for video games, based on several other top-rated programs including Ed Edd n


Eddy. Grim Adventures of Billy and Mandy and Adult Swim. We are very pleased, with our new


relationship with Cartoon Network as they continue to produce successful content and they improve


their audience in scare metrics. Cartoon Network is currently the most popular kids' network in


terms of the search results according to Yahoo Buzz. Cartoon Network is also the number one


ranked network for boys and kids ages 6 to 11 in terms of the average number of hours spent


watching the network during the month of March.


During the quarter, we also signed a publishing agreement with Warner Brothers Interactive


Entertainment to develop video games based on 'Happy Feet', an animated comedy venture film


written and directed by George Miller and scheduled for release in November of 2006. This is the


first of two animated CGI films at Midway executed during the quarter. Details of the second film


and video game will be released at a later date. We believe the contents secure to these licensing


agreements with Warner Brothers provide a solid foundation to extend our top-quality game


production into the market for kids' video games.


Also during the first quarter, we opened a new sales and marketing office in Munich, Germany. We


expect the new German office to increase our direct to retailer distribution capabilities in Europe


and leverage our growing line of products with international sales potential, particularly our


expanding portfolio of PC products. We also signed a new, non-exclusive licensing agreement


during the quarter with the NBA to continue developing published sequels to our highly successful


NBA Ballers title on an every other year basis. The agreement giving Midway the right to use NBA


teams and current and retired NBA players in our game. The NBA will also work closely with


Midway to heavily promote the NBA Ballers sequels and marketing and global branding through the


league's various assets, including NBA TV and NBA.com. These accomplishments in the first


quarter are evidence that we are squarely focused in executing our goal of growing our revenues to


the size and scale necessary to generate significant long-term profits. Consistent with the strategy,


we are also focusing on adding the internal product development capacity to execute these plans.


We believe strongly that the most successful companies in our industry have and will have the


industry's most effective and talented Product Development organizations.