raw transcript


Midway Games, Inc.
 
MWY
 
Q3 2006 Earnings Call
 
Nov 02, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
6 4 6. 44 2 .0 2 70 •
 
Co p yr i g h t © 2 0 01- 2 00 6 C a l l Str e et


(ed i te d)
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day ladies and gentleman and welcome to the Third Quarter 2006 Midway Games


Earnings Conference Call. My name is Amanda [ph]. I will be coordinator for today. [operator


instructions]. At this time I would like to turn the call over to your host for today’s call Mr. Geoffrey


Mogilner, Director of Investor Relations. Please proceed sir


Geoffrey Mogilner, Director of Investor Relations


Thank you. Good afternoon every one. With us on the call today are Midway President and CEO,


David F. Zucker, our Chief Financial Officer Tom Powell our Senior Vice President of Product


Development Matthew Booty and our Vice President of Publishing Miguel Iribarren. I’ll begin


today’s call with the customary and legal disclosures, after which Tom will discuss our financial


performance for the third quarter. David will then provide his comments and thoughts regarding our


strategy and direction going forward, including our financial guidance. After David's remarks, we will


open the line for questions. With that I will read our Safe Harbor Statement and then turn the call


over to Tom


Ladies and gentlemen, the following presentation and responses to questions may contain forward-


looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995


concerning future business conditions and the outlook for Midway Games Inc. based on currently


available information. Midway's actual results could differ materially from those described in the


forward-looking statements as a result of the number of risks and uncertainties, including, without


limitation, the performance of the interactive entertainment industry, dependence on new product


introductions and the ability to maintain the scheduling of such introductions, the current console


platform transition and other technological changes, dependence on major platform manufacturers,


and other risks more fully described under "Item 1A. Risk Factors" in the company's Annual Report


on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31st, 2005, and in other filings made by the company


with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Each forward-looking statements, including, without


limitation, financial guidance, speaks only as of the date on which it is made, and company


undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or


circumstances after the date on which it is made or to reflect the occurrence of anticipated or


unanticipated events or circumstances except as required by law. Tom?


Thomas E. Powell, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thanks Geoff and good afternoon. During the third quarter, Midway launched NBA Ballers for the


PlayStation 2, GameCube, GameBoy Advance and PC and SpyHunter Nowhere to Run for the


PlayStation 2 and Xbox and Grim Adventures of Billy & Mandy, for PlayStation 2 and GameCube.


Revenues for the quarter totaled 27.4 million favorable to our guidance of 24 million. Revenue mix


by platform was of 57% on a PlayStation2, 8% on the Xbox, 15% on GameCube, 8% on GameBoy


Advance, 3% on PlayStation Portable, 6% on PC and 4% on other and royalties. Our international


business contributed approximately 22%of the total revenues, and for the quarter the net loss was


$0.24 per share or 22.2 million also favorable to our guidance of a loss of 23 million. Included in the


quarter result for charges of approximately 1 million associated with the expensing of stock options.


At September 30th our cash balance stood at 91.5 million, and Q3 cash used in operations was


35.2 million. During the quarter cash invested in next generation technologies and other product


development projects totaled approximately 27.2 million and the overhead cost were in the range of


8 million.
raw transcript


Midway Games, Inc.
 
MWY
 
Q3 2006 Earnings Call
 
Nov 02, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 6 C a ll S tr ee t ( e d it ed )
2


At the end of the quarter the balance of capitalized product development costs totaled


approximately 48.8 million an increase of 8.5 million from the previous quarter ended June 30th. Of


the total capitalize cost 1.6 million or 3% of total relates to the products already in market place as


of the end of the quarter. 18.6 million or 38% relates to product we expected to introduce in fourth


quarter of 2006 and remaining balance of 28.6 million or 59% relates to products we expect to


introduce in 2007. Gross receivables at September 30th were 21.4 million, reserves or price


concession returns and uncollectable accounts were 9.5 million or approximately 44% of gross


receivable. For the quarter average days sales outstanding were 40 days.


At the end of the third quarter the basic and the diluted shares were 90.8 million shares for that


quarter, and 90.6 million shares for 9 months then ended. Our projected fourth quarter shares,


outstanding puts basic at 91.1 million and diluted at 92.6 million shares. Our projection for 12


months ended December 31st shares outstanding put basic and diluted share at 90.7 million, this


concludes the financial update. David?


David F. Zucker, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you Tom. Last quarter we launched a number of titles including Ant Bully, the Mortal


platform, SpyHunter: Nowhere to Run, PlayStation 2 and Xbox and The Grim Adventures of Billy &


Mandy for PlayStation 2 and GameCube. In light of the relatively limited success of the Ant Bully


movie at box office the game perform to our expectations at Bettle.[ph] During fourth quarter we are


schedule to release the Ant Bully game further launch in Nintendo Wii in conjunction with the


movies DVD release. Billy & Mandy are frenetic and fun multiplayer battle game in the vein of


Nintendo's popular Super Smash Bros. is based on one of the most successful cartoon network


shows. Like Ed, Edd n' Eddy, which we launched last year we expect Billy & Mandy to strong


holiday performer, in consistent catalogue anchor title with the ability to continue to sell well through


next year. In addition we are excited to releasing this title as one of our four launch titles for


Nintendo Wii scheduled for this holiday season.


During the quarter we also continue to make progress in our European sales and marketing


initiatives. Our real-time strategy PC title launched in June 2006 Rise and Fall: Civilizations at War


which topped the PC charts in the UK recently won the prestigious Best Strategy Game of the Year


Award from the British Academy of Film and Television Art or BAFTA. At the European Industry


Trade Show in late week in August Midway’s upcoming next generation title Stranglehold was


named the Best PS3 Game at the show by leading European industry publication PSM3 Magazine.


On the retail front the European sales team worked to secure one of the largest initial orders for a


Midway title, for the upcoming Happy Feet game.


For the quarter ending December 31, 2006, Midway expects net revenues of approximately $86


million with a positive net income of approximately $2 million. For the full year we continue to


expect net revenues of $155 million and are revising slightly our net loss projection from


approximately 70 million to approximately 73 million, which includes about $3.5 million of stock


option expense, primarily due to decreasing margins and current generation titles. And I will talk


about in more details in 2007 we expect to have a full slate of next generation front-line titles and


we expect significant revenue growth in 2007 over 2006 as our investment in next generation


projects in more ambitious games comes to fruition. We look forward to announcing our lineup of


2007 titles early next year.


We anticipate that the rate of increase of our PD spending will slow significantly in 2007.


Additionally we expect margins will improve reflecting more ambitious titles with bigger sales


potential and higher average per unit pricing as the majority of our 2007 releases are for next


generation platforms allowing us to better leverage our cost structure. We expect enterprise in the


same number of front line titles next year as we did this about seven frontline titles which is in


accourdance with our next generation strategy of fewer bigger and better titles.