corrected transcript


Midwest Banc Holdings, Inc.
 
MBHI
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 28, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Hello and welcome to the Midwest Banc Holdings, Incorporated Fourth Quarter Earnings


Conference Call. All participants will be in listen-only mode. There will be an opportunity for you to


ask questions at the end of today’s presentation. [Operator Instructions].


This call contains forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from the results


suggested by these forward-looking statements for a number of reasons. These forward-looking


statements are within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and


Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and should be reviewed in


conjunction with the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K and other publicly available


information regarding the Company, copies of which are available from the Company upon request


and on the Company’s website at www.midwestbank.com.


Such publicly available information sets forth certain risks and uncertainties related to the


Company’s business, which should be considered in evaluating forward-looking statements.


[Operator Instructions]. Please note, this conference is being recorded.


Now I would like to turn the conference over to James Giancola, CEO of Midwest Banc Holdings.


Mr. Giancola?


Jim Giancola, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Amy , and thank you everyone for participating this morning. I’m going to start the call in


much the same way that our peers have started the call and that is we are very happy to put 2008


into the rearview mirror. In my 35 years in the banking business, these are about the most


challenging times that we and everyone in our industry has ever experienced. In these kinds of


economic times, priorities change. Earnings will always be important, but in this environment,


liquidity, capital management, and credit quality are really in the forefront. I want to take a second


and talk about each of those before I turn it over to other members of our management team.


On the liquidity front, the market really bottomed end of September, at the beginning of October as


the financial markets essentially became paralyzed. Funds were not flowing between banks, and it


was just about as difficult a liquidity period as we have ever experienced. During that period of time,


I am happy to report that we were able to fund the bank. We were able to meet the customer needs


on the loan side from our borrowers. As a result of that liquidity, we have spent and redoubled our


efforts on the core deposit front to try and fund the bank more and more on the core deposit side


and less from the very volatile secondary markets.


We actually went through year-end in a net fed funds position. We felt very good about that. We


have new management in the investment area. Tom Bell; we talk about him briefly in the press


release. Tom has done a gob of managing our collateral position and making sure we are


maximizing availability of funds at our different funding sources.


On the capital side, I think you all know we received $85 million investment from the federal


government in TARP funds in December, late in the quarter. These funds allow us to achieve our


2009 budget without raising additional capital. Again, as you know, the capital markets are in


disarray and raising capital in these markets is really not the appropriate strategy for our


shareholders. So there is adequate capital at the holding company level to continue to downstream


to the bank to fund our growth plans for 2009.


Credit quality, number of initiatives going on there. First, we have, as many institutions have, made


a concerted effort to review loan policy and tighten lending standards. We’re getting more equity in
corrected transcript


Midwest Banc Holdings, Inc.
 
MBHI
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 28, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


our transactions, we’re getting more collateral on our transactions, we’re getting better pricing on


those transactions.


But prior decisions, some a year or two ago, are starting to really protect this organization going


forward. We have not put a residential mortgage on our books in over two years. We exited the


credit card business about a year ago. Both of those are experiencing significant distress, and we


have avoided those problems.


Beginning about two years ago, we made a concerted effort to reduce our concentration in the real


estate business. Construction lending has been – curtailed is too strong a word, but more narrowly


focused, each deal more carefully considered. Our concentration in the construction area has been


significantly reduced. Our concentration in the real estate area has been redeployed from –


redeployed to owner-occupied buildings and away from straight commercial real estate


transactions. We booked a $14 million tax benefit in the fourth quarter.


Now the calculation of loan loss reserves is more art than it is science and we made the decision in


this environment to use much – many of those dollars to build loan loss reserves and to very


aggressively mark problem credits to what we believe to be realized value. At this point in the cycle,


our loan loss reserves are up about 100% from the levels that we had in the middle of 2008. We’re


going into 2009 with reserves at 1.77, the highest level our organization has had in the past. It’s the


highest level we’ve had in a very long period of time, and I think appropriate for where we are in the


economic cycle. The marks that we’ve taken, that Tom Caravello will talk about in a moment, again


I think prepare us to go into 2009 with no surprises.


That said, no one can forecast where this economy is going. We will continue to see challenges.


The economy continues to deteriorate. We hope that doesn’t happen. Lot of effort has gone into


preparing our organization for what we think would be a challenging 2009, and again the other


members of the management team are going to talk about other specific plans that are going on in


that area.


With that, I’m going to turn to Jay for some comments. Jay, as you know, runs majority of our


revenue producing areas. He and his team has done a really good job of positioning us for 2009.


With that, let me turn it over to Jay.


J. J. Fritz, Executive Vice President and President of Midwest Bank and Trust Company


Thanks, Jim. Our principal strategy at Midwest Banc is to build upon the relationship we have


nurtured as an organization over the past 50 years. And of course we want to exploit whatever new


opportunities are offered to us. Those opportunities should include a reasonable return to our


shareholders. We want to attract low-cost core deposits before using things like customer CDs and


wholesale sources at a higher cost. Second, we want to get fairly compensated for our credit risk.


Third, we want to identify changes in the credit risk early and deal proactively with these changes.


And finally, we want to exploit what we believe is a target rich market given relationship disruptions


at our large competitors and weaker institutions.


As Jim pointed out, the fourth quarter was a difficult one, but it clearly displayed the loyalty and


support from our portfolio of Chicago area customers. During the quarter we noted a fair amount of


fear throughout the financial sector. There was negative news about our country’s oldest and most


prominent financial institutions. This negative press did not overlook Midwest Banc. But thanks to


the strong relationships built over the years, we found with very rare exception, that our customers


remained loyal to our company and loyal to our people.


Loans during the quarter were essentially flat. CDARS rose from $33 million to a peak in November


of 58.9, almost $60 million, before settling to 41.6 million at year end. At Midwest all CDARS