raw transcript


Midway Games, Inc.
 
MWY
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 7, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the Midway Games


third quarter results conference call. During the presentation all participants will be in a listen-only


mode. Afterwards we will conduct the question and answer session. At that time if you have a


question, please press the 1 followed by the 4 on your telephone. As a reminder this conference is


being recorded Monday, November 7, 2005. I will now like to turn the conference over to Geoffrey


Mogilner, Director of Investor Relations, please go ahead, sir.


Geoffrey Mogilner, Director, Investor Relations


Thank you, and good afternoon everyone. With us on the call today are Midway President and


CEO, David Zucker. Our Chief Financial Officer, Tom Powell. Our Senior Vice President of


Worldwide Studios, Matthew Booty. And our VP of Publishing, Miguel Iribarren. I will begin today's


call with the customary legal disclosures after which Tom will discuss our financial performance for


the first quarter. David will then provide his comments and thoughts regarding our strategy and


directions going forward, including our financial guidance. After David's remarks, we will open the


line for questions. With that I'll read our Safe Harbor Statement and then turn the call over to Tom.


Ladies and gentlemen, the following presentation and responses to question may contain forward-


looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995,


concerning future business conditions and the outlook for Midway Games Inc. Based in currently


available information that involve risks and uncertainty. Our actual results could differ materially


from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of these risks and


uncertainties. Including without limitation the financial strength of the interactive entertainment


industry, dependence on new product introductions, and the ability to maintain scheduling in such


introductions. The console platform transition and other technological changes dependence on


major platform manufacturers and other risks more fully described under Item 1. Business – Risk


Factors, in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, and in the


more recent filings made by Midway with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Each forward-


looking statement, including, without limitation, financial guidance, speaks only as of the date on


which it is made, and Midway undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to


reflect events or circumstances after the date on which it is made or to reflect the occurrence of


anticipated or unanticipated events or circumstances. Tom.


Thomas Powell, Executive Vice President and CFO


Thanks, Jeff, and good afternoon. I'll provide an update on the third quarter results. During the


quarter we released two new front line titles, Mortal Kombat Shaolin Monks was released both in


North America and in Europe on both the Play Station 2, and XBOX platforms. The Suffering: Ties


That Bind was released in North America on the Play Station 2, XBOX and PC platforms.


Additionally, we released one value title, Midway Arcade Treasures 3 in North America on both the


Play Station 2 and XBOX platforms.


Revenues for the quarter total $29.5 million. Largely in line with our expectations. Revenue mix by


platform was 59% of the Play Station 2. 37% on the XBOX. 2% for license royalties, and 2% on all


other. During the quarter, new releases contributed approximately 88% of the total revenues.


Reorders, catalog, and licensed royalties made up the remaining 12%. Our international business


contributed approximately 17% of the total revenues. For the quarter, the net loss was 28.9 million,


and the loss applicable to common stock was $29.1 million, which was approximately $10 million


unfavorable to our expectations. The unfavorable net loss was largely driven by the amortization for
raw transcript


Midway Games, Inc.
 
MWY
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 7, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


write-off of a greater amount of capitalized product development cost during the third quarter that


had previously been anticipated. The increased level of amortization or write-off was the result of


downward revisions to future revenue expectations for several titles. They are already in the


marketplace or planned for release during the fourth quarter.


In addition, for several titles we established higher-level reserves for future price markdowns that


had previously been anticipated. In order to show our working capital and define continuing


development, in September, we issued 75 million of senior unsecured notes, which net the


company about 72.5 million. Also during the quarter the holders of our redeemable converted


Series D converted all of the 30% outstanding shares. The remaining 30 shares were then


converted during October to approximately 75,000 shares of Midway common stock. At the end of


the quarter our cash balance stood at $105.2 million. For the quarter cash used in operations were


$30.2 million with cash invested in next generation technologies and cost development projects


totaling approximately 28.5 million.


At the end of the quarter, the balance of capitalized product development cost stood at


approximately $41.5 million and of that capitalized cost $4.4 million or approximately 11% relates to


products already in the marketplace as of the end of the quarter. 19.6 million or about 47% relates


to products we expect to ship in the fourth quarter and the remaining relates to products we


anticipate to ship during 2006. Gross receivables at September 30th, were $38.8 million. Reserves,


price concessions, returns and uncollectible accounts were $12.4 million or approximately 32% of


the gross receivable. For the quarter average Day Sales Outstanding were 82 days and while this


DSO figure is higher than what we typically see, we do not foresee this to be indicative of systemic


collection issue, rather the jump in DSO figure is due to the fact that majority of our revenues were


recorded in the last two weeks of the quarter and as a result the associated collections do not due


until the forth quarter. For the third quarter, basic and diluted share count was 87.1 million shares.


For the full year 2005, I would assume a basic and diluted share count of 87.5 million, and for the


fourth quarter, assume 89.8 million shares.


And this concludes the financial update. David?


David Zucker, President and CEO


Thank you, Tom. As Tom indicated during the third quarter, we released two front line titles and one


value title, while continuing to advance our strategy for positioning ourselves for success in the next


console cycle. Midway Arcade Treasures 3 is the selection of some of our popular classic arcade


intellectual property and it is representative of our approach to realize the value of our library of hit


games. Our first Arcade Treasures released in 2003 has sold over 1.2 million units. And the third


iteration is centered on our classic racing franchisees such as San Francisco Rush, Super Off


Road, and Hydro Thunder.


Mortal Kombat: Shaolin Monks brings to fruition our strategy to annualize the Mortal Kombat


franchise and integrate the Los Angeles, Paradox studio that we acquired last year. We believe that


bringing the Mortal Kombat characters, environments, and mythology into an action-adventure


world provides a differentiated gameplay experience from the traditional arena-based Mortal


Kombat fighting experience and expands the audience base for the franchise. The MK franchise


has been a leading performer in the fighting genre for over 13 years, and the release of Shaolin


Monks is consistent with our goal of leveraging our strongest IT.


To date the title has performed well in both North America and Europe. Gamerankings.com puts


the title above 80% on average and according to MPD FunWorld [ph], MK Shaolin Monks was the


top ten selling title in the US on both the Play Station 2 and Xbox for the month of September.


Shaolin Monks also spent several weeks in the top ten spot in the UK, according to Startrek, and it