raw transcript


Midway Games, Inc.
 
MWY
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 4, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentleman, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Midway Games


Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call. During the presentation, all participants will be in a


listen-only mode. Afterwards, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator


Instructions]. As a reminder this conference is being recorded today, Thursday, August 4. I will now


like to turn the conference over to Geoffrey Mogilner, Director of Investor Relations. Please go


ahead sir.


Geoffrey Mogilner Director of Investor Relations


Thank you. Good afternoon everyone. With us on the call today are Midway, President and CEO,


David F. Zucker; our Chief Financial Officer, Tom Powell; our Senior Vice President of Worldwide


Studios Van Woody [ph] and our Vice President of Publishing, Miguel Iribarren. I will begin today's


call with customer and legal disclosures after which Tom will discuss our discuss our financial


performance for the first quarter. David will then provide this comments and thoughts regarding our


strategy and direction going forward including outlining and discussing our financial guidance. After


David's remarks we will open the line for questions.


With that, I'll read our Safe Harbor statement and then turn the call over to Tom. Ladies and


gentlemen, the following presentation and responses to questions may contain forward-looking


statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws concerning future business conditions


and the outlook for Midway Games, Inc. based on currently available information that involves risks


and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-


looking statements as a result of these risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, the


financial strength of the interactive entertainment industry, dependence on new product


introductions and the ability to maintain the scheduling of such introductions, the up-coming


console platform transition and other technological changes, dependence on major platform


manufacturers, adequacy of capital resources and other risks more fully described under item one,


business risk factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004


and in the more recent filings made by Midway with the Securities & Exchange Commission. Tom?


Thomas Powell, Chief Financial Officer


Thanks, Geoff. During the quarter, we released two new front line titles in North America, Area 51


for the PlayStation 2, Xbox and PC and Unreal Championship 2 for the Xbox. Revenues for the


quarter were $36.9 million. The revenue mix by platform was 37% on a PlayStation 2, 49% on the


Xbox, 6% for PC, 7% from licensed royalties and 1% from all other. During the quarter, new


releases contributed approximately 83% of the total revenues. The orders catalog and license


royalties made up the remaining 17%. International business contributed approximately 33% of


revenues. For the quarter both the net loss and a net loss applicable to common stock was 29.9


million.


Looking at the balance sheet, at quarter's end cash balanced to $59.2 million. Cash used in the


operations was 31.7 million. During the quarter we continued our increased level of investment and


product development initiatives and cash invested in next generation technologies and product


development projects totaled approximately 26.7 million. This spending represents a 38%


increased over year-ago levels. At end of the quarter, the balance of the capitalized product


development costs stood at approximately $42 million. Of the 42 million of capitalized costs, 1.5


million or 4% relates to products already in the marketplace as of the end of the quarter. And the


remaining 41 million relates to products that we expect to introduce in subsequent quarters.
raw transcript


Midway Games, Inc.
 
MWY
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 4, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


None of the capitalized development costs relates to the next generation titles as those costs are


currently flowing through the income statement as period expenses. Gross receivables at June 30


were 23.9 million, reserves price concessions returns and uncollectible accounts were 10.7 million


or approximately 45% of the gross receivable. For the quarter, the average days sales outstanding


were 33 days. The second quarter, assume basic and diluted share count of 85.9 million for the full


year 2005 assume basic and diluted share count of 87 million. David?


David Zucker, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks Tom. As Tom indicated during the second quarter, Midway released two titles Area 51 and


Unreal Championship 2, both of which received critical [ph]. Area 51 a hit brand from arcade days


and part of Midway's expensive library of game properties was launched mid quarter on home


game consoles in the PC. According to NPD, Area 51 rank in the U.S. as a top five selling Xbox


game and a number six selling came overall for the month of May. Area 51 is well received in the


United Kingdom stand in a top 10 for all formats during four consecutive weeks according to Chart


Track. Area 51 was also Midway's first internally developed premium PC title and we are


encouraged by the result of our first effort in this platform.


We also launched Unreal Championship 2 for Xbox into a highly competitive environment for first


[indiscernible]. Unreal Championship 2 got an impressive review scores averaging over 87%


according to gamerankings.com. After expanding Midway's recent track record and policing some


of the highest quality front line games in the industry. [Indiscernible] series is historically done well


when launched in tandem with it's parent title and Real Tournament for the PC. But this year was a


launched without a help of the Unreal Tournament and we believe it's suffered as a result. We


continue to be very bullish on the unreal franchise and early excitement around next years release


of Unreal Tournament 2007 for the PC which we unveiled in Q3 is very encouraging. Our alliance


with Epic Games remains strong and we are continuing to integrate the Unreal Engine 3 across all


of our studios for next generation development. In the critical component of our next generation


strategy and Sony recently validated the potential of the Unreal Engine as a next generation


development platform when they highlighted it at the PS3 announcement event 83.


We believe this technology will be a great value for Midway for the next generation titles we have in


development. At the E3 trade show this year, we had a strong marketing presence and showed off


a number of our upcoming titles. The response coming out show is very positive and we received


nominations for Game Critics Awards for several of our second half titles. Including Best Fighting


Game for Mortal Kombat Shaolin Monks and best Blitz game for Blitz, The League both titles have


subsequently received significant exposure in both industry and mass market media venues.


Turning to guidance, partially due to short fall from the second quarter results and also from


decision to move the release of our next premium PC title rise and fall Civilizations Of War into the


first quarter of 2006, we're revising our full year revenue guidance to approximately 200 million


down from previous estimate of 225 million, an increase in our net loss to approximately 60 million


from our previous estimate of 47 million. With the expectation that Microsoft realtime titles Age of


Empires 3 strategy will now release in the fall 2005, we believe it is prudent to shift our competing


PC title Rise and Fall into the 2006 to benefit from a less crowded realtime strategy release


window.


Rise and Fall created by industry battery and equipment will be our second premium PC title and


highlights a quarter Midway initiative to expand and diversify our product portfolio during the


console transition. This title is coming together well. We have high expectations for it and I believe


that it can benefit from a less competitive release window in Q1. Because of a PC game and the


older audiences we do not believe the holiday period is critical for success of this product.