raw transcript


Midwest Banc Holdings Inc
 
MBHI
 
Q4 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 26, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Greetings, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to Midwest Banc Holdings Inc. Fourth


Quarter 2005 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A


brief question and answer session will follow the formal presentation. If anyone should require


operator assistance during the conference, please press "star" "zero" on your telephone keypad.


As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.


It’s now my pleasure to introduce your host Mr. Jim Giancola, President and CEO. Thank you. Mr.


Jim Giancola, you may now begin.


James J. Giancola, President & Chief Executive Officer


Thank you and good morning everyone. I am going to provide some thoughts on the quarter and


the year that has just ended and then Dan is going to provide some color commentary, and then I


will close. Before we begin, we’ll have the necessary disclaimers.


This call will be available for replay through April 26th on our website and by phone through


February 2nd. Details on how to dial-in for replay are in our press release that we issued this


morning. This release is available on our website in case you have not received the copy yet.


Second, some comments we make on this call might have some forward-looking Statements"


within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of


the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such statements reflect our thoughts as of this


time that are made, but we cannot predict the future. So, some of those expectations may not


come to path. Unless required by law, we assume no duty to update any statements made on this


call. Please review our Safe Harbor statements and our 10-K and other filed documents for full


discussion of forward-looking statements.


Third, in the call today, we will be referring to results from continuing operations and the core


operations performance essentially result from Midwest Banc Holding with the repositioning


charges stripped out as well as the other growth rates, write-offs, and life insurance benefit


received. You can get the full GAAP numbers in the release and in our filed documents, but we will


talk today about the most comparable number on this call.


All right. So, the highlights. Loans increased 6% from the September 30 level, up 23% from the


year ago, closing out 2005 at about 1.4 billion. Our loan to deposit ratio has increased 289% year-


end from 73% just a year ago.


An important clarification here, all of the loan growth is generated by our officers from our


customers in the Chicago land area. There are no syndications, no participation, no interact.


Everything that we are generating is face to face from the marketplace here in the Chicago land


area.


The second point I would like to make is that our margins expanded to 3.57% in the fourth quarter


from 3.53 in the third quarter and 3.17 a year ago. For the full year, our net interest margin is up 49


basis points from 2.82 in 2004.


And as all of you know, our reading earnings statements, that sort of margin expansion is pretty


typical of what we are seeing in the marketplace. I also to be clear, we believe that unless we get


some sort of shifts in the yield curve that the period of margin expansion for us is probably is just


about over. As we look forward, what we will see is net interest income continuing to increase as


we continue to grow our loan portfolio; the actual level of margins is not going to experience
raw transcript


Midwest Banc Holdings Inc
 
MBHI
 
Q4 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 26, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


dramatic expansion unless the said changes its course. So, the net interest margin rate should be


flattish, the net interest income number will continue to go up, continue to drive up.


For our core ROA is up to 1.18 in the fourth quarter, it’s 0.79 for the year; obviously 0.79 doesn’t


make us real happy. But at 1.18 we are making and there is evidence of significant progress. That


number is probably above the peer numbers, but it’s still not where we wanted to be.


The key value of our balance sheet is substantially stronger now than it was a year ago. The risk


profile of the company has been dramatically reduced and we have also been able to grow


earnings through that reduction of risk. I think equivalent important we are gaining traction on some


of the internal initiatives the things don’t – things that don’t appear on the financial statements yet.


We have added substantially to our management team in the past year both to accelerate growth


and to increase the strength of our internal controls. We set benchmarks for each manager and


pass those benchmarks to his compensation.


Overall, our people are making the transition from a drift sort of cost cutting mentality to a super


community bank growth mentality. We are close to fully fast incentive programs that are in place,


we are feeling pretty good about the direction of the company.


I pointed out one additional thing when we talk about deposits and that is as we get some material


increase in the absolute level of rates, we are seeing a big increase in our $100,000 and over CD,


that is for the most part coming from our customers as we monitor those sales, they are people


actually migrating for money market accounts, savings accounts, as there is now economic


incentive for them to stop parking the money and having it work for them little more aggressively.


Dan, why don’t you go through some of the numbers for the fourth quarter and for the year?


Daniel R. Kadolph, Chief Financial Officer


Thanks, Jim. I would like to review just two numbers with you this morning. As you’ve read in the


release, our EPS increased to 92 cents in 2005 from 55 cents in 2004, remember this is core


earnings we are discussing. But fourth quarter earnings grows to 30 cents from 16 cents a year


ago. Both numbers are core net income per diluted share from continuing operations, which is the


most comparable number across the period.


Now, let’s look at our loan portfolio. We closed the year at $1.4 billion of loan, up 23% from year


ago. Just quickly our mixes; commercial loan – CI 15%, construction 26, commercial real estate


37%, consumer loans including key-lock 9%, residential mortgages 13%. Our loan quality remains


strong, non accruing loans total just over half percentage of total loan and our allowance for loan


losses year-end with 225% of probably non-reoccurring non accrual loan.


The deposits continue to be a challenge, non-interest bearing deposits declined 2.6% from a year


ago, but we did still more than 2.4% from September 30th 2005. Interest bearing deposits were up


1.9% on a year-over-year declined 1% through September 30th 2005. And total deposits increased


1.5% for the year reaching 1.5 billion at year-end. Total deposits were actually down less than 1%


versus September 30th 05. Our securities portfolio is materially different from a year ago. We’ve


invested in securities that provide cash flow for a loan growth. We have increased our average


yield to 4.81% from 4.33 a year ago and decreased our duration. For the fourth quarter of 2000,


securities were flat as we considered to build up our unique portfolio as part of our tax funding


strategy. Securities will decline through 2006; cash growth will fund loan growth.


Finally, our Core Efficiency Ratio improved substantially to 58% for the full year from 63% in 2004


and improved to 51% in the fourth quarter. The improvement reflects profitability mainly in our net


interest income, which more than accounted for additions debt another expenses level for the year.