raw transcript


Midwest Banc Holdings Inc
 
MBHI
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 27, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Greetings ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Midwest Banc Holdings,


Incorporated Third Quarter 2005 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] It is now my


pleasure to introduce your host, Mr. Daniel Kadolph, Chief Financial Officer.


Daniel R. Kadolph, Senior VP and CFO


Thank you. Good morning. Thank you for joining us today. This call will be available for replay via


telephone through November 3rd and our website for the next 90 days. Our news release is also


available on our website. Jim Giancola and I will make some comments, then we'll open up the call


for your questions. Before we do, though, I must mention that certain statements made by Jim or


me on this call may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the


Securities Act of 1933 as amended in Section 21e of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 as


amended. These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties. Other factors that


may cause actual results to materially differ from those expressed or implied in today's forward-


looking statements. Please review our full Safe Harbor statement in our 10-K, which is available on


our website, for a more detailed discussion. Also, except as required by law, we assume no


responsibility in the future to adjust or update any statement made on this call. With that, I'll turn


the call over to Jim.


James J. Giancola, President and CEO


Thank you, Dan. And good morning, everybody. This is the first of what will be a series of


quarterly updates that we'll be providing to all of you and reflects our desire for a clear and


transparent communication at a higher level than we have conducted in the past. As Dan said,


both of us will make some brief comments and then we'll open the floor up for questions and get


you on with the rest of your day.


As you can see from the press release, we continue to make significant progress from both a year


ago and from previous quarters. Core net income reached 29 cents a share from continuing


operations, versus a loss in the third quarter of '04. And, again, all of you have heard me say on a


number of occasions one of my objectives here is to get core income and net income to be the


same number. We're not quite there yet, but at least the adjustments this quarter are positive.


Loan growth continues to be very strong with increased diversity in the book of business. Loans


are up 16% so far this year and 22% on an annualized basis. Net interest margin is expanding.


We posted 353 in the third quarter, up from 272 a year ago, and on balance we are slightly asset


intangible. The core efficiency ratio has declined to 56% from 72% a year ago and beginning to get


into the neighborhood we're a little more comfortable with. Both loan and asset quality numbers are


strong and we are continuing to be optimistic that they will improve through the rest of the year.


Deposits continue to be a challenge for everyone in the Chicago marketplace. I'm happy to report


that we had our best account opening month in September on the retail side and, again, appear to


be getting a little bit of traction in a very difficult market in that area.


Dan will provide some more detail, but I'd like to review some of our longer-term issues here and


some of the progress that we've made. As part of our 2005 corporate plan, the company has


adopted a number of short- and long-term strategies. Again, most of you heard this on the road


show but I want to reiterate it for you because I think it's important. We said we'd go out and recruit


some seasoned commercial lenders, credit analysts, risk and operation managers. We have done
raw transcript


Midwest Banc Holdings Inc
 
MBHI
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 27, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


that. In the past 12 months, we've added or changed 7 executives at the Senior Vice President or


higher level and have added about a dozen Vice President-level people to the organization.


If you see back in the details, we've only added 10 people max to the organization, but the salary


expense is up significantly more than that. What is happening is we are reducing clerical and some


teller staff, replacing them with higher-priced people, so the change in headcount doesn't really


reflect the change totally that we've made in the management structure of the company. We have


strengthened our management team, including adding people in the assets quality area. We've


added dramatically to our branch network. We've added new loan officers. You will recall again


that when I joined the organization a year ago, we had 8 branch managers operating 17 branches.


We're now up to 15 branch managers and all of that is beginning to have a positive impact on the


effectiveness of our branch system.


We'd said we'd strengthen asset quality, especially the loan book because there's no such thing as


a good bank with bad loans. We've done that. We've added to the allowance. We've accelerated


our work out problem loans. We are down to 2 OREOs left on the books. Both have been written


down aggressively. We are cautiously optimistic that there'll be some movement in that number as


we go forward. The loan approval process and the monitoring process to control credit quality has


been totally overhauled and been reviewed by the regulators. We're seeing passing grades. We


completed the securities portfolio repositioning to reduce volatility and risk. In total, we've taken


charges of more than $30 million as part of this effort. But that work is now behind us and


beginning to bear some fruit for us.


We strengthened the balance sheet with our recent public offering of common shares, raising over


$68 million. In addition, it strengthened our capital base. The offering also improved the liquidity in


our stock. Again, a year ago we were trading about 29,000 shares a day, and according to


NASDAQ over the last 50 days, we've been trading just under 100,000 shares a day. We said we'd


try and reduce earnings volatility in our securities portfolio. Third quarter yield is up to 4.92%,


compared to 4.2% a year ago, and duration has dropped from 5 years to 3.4 years. That portfolio


is weighted somewhat to hybrid ARMs, which throw of $12 to 15 million a month in cash flow to


fund our robot blingo [ph]. It's still difficult to look at our trends over the past 4 quarters due to the


large number of special charges, but we have taken some comfort in the fact that we have


achieved that objective. The portfolio is safer, has a lower risk profile and is serving our needs


better than it did a year ago. I think that will be increasingly clear to you as we go into 2006.


We said that we would build the loan engine as the impetus for our growth, and we have done that,


and that's probably the most positive thing in our numbers. As I mentioned, loans are up 16% so


far this year. They're up 27% since the time I started here a year ago. I'm very proud of those


numbers. The quality is very good. And that is positive to margin, positive to earnings. During that


same 1-year period, our loan to deposit ratio has moved from 68% to 83% and we are targeting a


number in the mid-90s as where we would like to be.


We said we needed to focus on retail banking activities, including traditional and non-deposit


investment services, place greater emphasis on transactional deposit growth. We've deepened the


leadership of our retail area, including the change in the senior person in our retail bank, and, as I


said earlier, we're getting some traction there. We're starting to see some trends that we think are


positive. We said we wanted to focus on the Chicago market place, and, as you know, we've done


just that with the recent sale of our Western Illinois bank. Proceeds of that sale and our recent


public offering put us in a good position to expand in the Chicago land area, both through new


branches and the acquisition of smaller community banks. It's safe to say that we're looking at both


of these options right now.


And, finally, we've exited from the regulatory oversight and review process that has limited our


ability to expand in the past. We did this in a relatively short period of time. 18 months may be