corrected transcript


Midwest Banc Holdings, Inc.
 
MBHI
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 29, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Hello and welcome to the Midwest Banc Holdings Second Quarter 2009 Earnings


Conference Call. All participants will be in a listen-only mode. There will be an opportunity for you to


ask questions at the end of today’s presentation. [Operator Instructions]


This call contains forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from the results


suggested by these forward-looking statements. For a number of reasons these forward-looking


statements are within the meaning of Section 27-A of the Securities Act of 1933 as amended and


Section 21-E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 as amended and should be reviewed in


conjunction with the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K and other publicly available


information regarding the Company’s copies which are available from the Company upon request


and on the Company’s website at www. Midwestbanc.com. Such publicly available information set


forth certain risks and uncertainties related to the Company’s business which should be considered


in evaluating forward-looking statements.


[Operator Instructions] Please note this conference is being recorded. Now, I would like to turn the


conference over to Roberto Herencia, CEO of Midwest Banc Holdings. Sir, please begin.


Roberto R. Herencia, President and Chief Executive Officer


Good morning. I am very pleased to talk to you for the first time as CEO of Midwest Banc today. In


fact, this is day number 75 on the job, and I trust you will agree with me that we have been very


busy and responsive to the challenges.


I am not going to rehash the numbers on the release. I will let JoAnn Lilek, our CFO, give you some


more insights into those numbers, but I’d like to step back, give you a little bit of the background so


that you can understand some of our actions in the last two months and also would like to give you


some insights into our capital plan.


I accepted the CEO position knowing full well and anticipating full well the challenges that we face,


yet confident that a turnaround is doable. Between the time of my first interview with the Board of


Directors in late March and my final interview at the end of April, I was able to vet with the Board of


Directors a 100-day plan that allowed me to hit the ground running on May 15 and waste absolutely


no time.


My fundamental approach and I think this is important for all of us to understand, to challenges is to


get them in front of us rather than duck and weave, to borrow from a boxing term. Duck and weave


has been a most too common and ordinary approach that I think we all have seen by entrenched


management and boards and this is time of extraordinary challenge and it requires change.


In addition to the state of the economy, which I think we all understand well, the acceleration of the


economic decline in the Chicago economy, which I think we also understand well; those of us who


live here. We have to come to terms with the two legacy issues; we have a 80 million-plus loss that


we took during the course of 2008 related to write-downs in Fannie and Freddie preferred shares


that were sitting in our investment portfolio. And the other legacy issue is the holding company that


has quite a bit of debt and quasi-capital securities in it, tier one regulatory capital for sure, but not


the old fashioned first line of defense, common tangible equity.


The execution of our 100-day plan has set in motion steps that I believe are required to preserve,


restructure and restore capital, and we’re doing that from a position of relative strength. And what I


mean by that is doing it from a position of having the bank in a well capitalized situation.
corrected transcript


Midwest Banc Holdings, Inc.
 
MBHI
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 29, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


The 100-day plan has five key components and I’ll go over them very briefly. The first one is


communication. We recognize the value of having open, timely and two-way communication with all


of our stake holders, none more important, however, than our employees and our customers. And


we have been very, very active in the last 75 days making sure that we are talking to our


employees, making sure that our employees understand what the situation is, making sure that


they understand what is it that they can do to help us with our plan.


I have done about eight employee town hall meetings while I’ve been here, introducing myself,


sharing our plans, sharing our vision as well as answering questions and concerns of our


employees. We have also done a couple of employee focus groups in the month of June and also


in July to find out more about their views and recognition, their views about communication and


how they can best contribute to Midwest.


We have also launched in the intranet a forum where our employees can share ideas on how to


help us achieve some of the goals that we have set in front of them. This may sound corny to some


of you, but this is not the job of one man or one woman, this is the job of all of our employees, and I


know of no better way than to do a good job with engaging our employees from day number one.


We have also begun to do a series of customer town halls, and where I’ve been having the


opportunity to address key business customers, also sharing with them our situation and some of


our plans and aspirations for the future. So communication has been an integral part of this 100-


day plan and we plan to continue with a extremely open and transparent communication.


Number two component has been preserving capital, augmenting liquidity and optimizing the use of


our balance sheet. I’m not going to delve to a lot of those details; JoAnn will cover quite a bit of that.


I will touch on a couple of them. On May 6, just minutes after we announced my appointment as


CEO, we announced the suspension of our TARP and preferred equity dividends, as well as the


interest on the trusts. These were actions within the contractual rights of those securities and in my


opinion a key step to preserve liquidity and capital at the holding company level.


We have also taken some important steps in optimizing the balance sheet by rebalancing our


investment portfolio, selling our bank-owned life insurance investments and JoAnn will give you a


much more detail on those actions. An important part of the preserving capital component has been


a disciplined – a very disciplined business approach. We are very focused on our existing


customers and pursuing new core deposit customers. Lending through new customers, and I want


to be clear about this, it is a not a priority at this time. We will entertain lending to our existing


customers of course, under redefined target market criteria and risk acceptance criteria that we


have published internally.


During the months of May and June we reduced loans by a net of $33 million that included a $12


million in loan participations at par versus net loan growth of $82 million in the first four months of


the year. This is not – I’m sure you would agree an easy feat given the environment and the lack of


liquidity.


The third component of the 100-day plan has to do with improving our pre tax pre provision


revenues by right sizing the organization and taking an aggressive approach to expense reduction.


We need to help ourselves first and set the example before we can go out to restructure capital and


restore capital. JoAnn will go into some of those measures; I will just say that we yesterday went


through the very painful process of informing about 80% of our employees that they would no


longer be working with us. This was an important reduction for us, about 17% reduction from our


June 30 full time equivalent head count and combined with the reduction that we did earlier during


the year and attrition, we are talking about a 23% reduction in FTEs between December 31 of ‘08


and September 30 of 2009.