corrected transcript


Midwest Banc Holdings, Inc.
 
MBHI
 
Q1 2008 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 30, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Hello and welcome to the Midwest Banc Holdings, Incorporated First Quarter


Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] Now, I would like to turn the conference over to Mr. John


Pelling. Mr. Pelling?


John B. Pelling, III, Vice President, Investor Relations


Good morning. Thank you for participating in our first quarter earnings conference call.


This call may contain forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from the


results suggested by these forward-looking statements for a number of reasons. These forward-


looking statements are within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as


amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Act of 1934, as amended, and should be reviewed in


conjunction with the company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K and other publicly available


information regarding the company, copies of which are available from the company upon request


on the company’s website at www.midwestbanc.com. Such publicly available information sets forth


certain risks and uncertainties related to the company’s business which should be considered in


evaluating forward-looking statements.


I’d like to now turn the call over to Jim Giancola, CEO of Midwest Banc Holdings.


James J. Giancola, President, and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, John and good morning everyone. Thank you for participating.


First quarter press release as you have seen is pretty complicated and I’m pleased to have our new


Chief Financial Officer, JoAnn Lilek here to help explain some of these numbers. As you know, we


previously reported a non-cash impairment charge of $0.40 which caused the 22% – $0.22 in the


first quarter. We produced economic value of $0.17 a share for our shareholders. But as we stated


that that $0.17 is not really comparable to the $0.14 after merger charges of $0.17 before merger


charges are number that we’ve recorded in the fourth quarter.


This morning I am going to address three of the most important drivers of our income. That is, asset


quality, interest rate spreads and the actual composition of our loan portfolio. JoAnn will then walk


through the impact of a variety of significant transactions designed to improve earnings going


forward and J. Fritz will comment market condition, and then we’ll take some questions.


Let’s talk about credit first. The best news in this first quarter report concerns credit quality. As we


and I am sure you review the credit trend of the Chicago Bank, the fact that we are mired in the


housing and banking recession – banking sector, recession is pretty clear.


We are not immune from these trends. We feel like the trends in our organization are going in the


right direction. Let me comment first on the LPC, Large Problem Credit, a term I should have


protected when we first started using it two years ago, it is now repeated in almost in every press


release that we see.


We took the charge-off of $10.8 million, which represents a majority of what we had specifically


reserved for this credit. We took the charge in the first quarter for three reasons. The first is the


finalization of settlement negotiations on the receivable portion of this credit. The second is we


have bankruptcy court approval of the sale of two pieces of our collateral approval. And the third is


we’ve had two successful court rulings on challenges by the debtor.
corrected transcript


Midwest Banc Holdings, Inc.
 
MBHI
 
Q1 2008 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 30, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


These facts gave us additional clarity on the credit and confirmed our valuation estimate. Our effort


here is to get this credit behind us. We have approximately $18 million on the books now and


expect to receive a portion of our proceeds from the settlement collateral sales in the amount of $5


million to $8 million in the second quarter, which will further reduce the balances on this credit. Our


plan is that when this credit gets below $10 million, we will stop reporting on it separately.


Charge-off excluding the Large Problem Credit were 17 basis points or just over $1 million.


Additions to the loan loss reserve through the provision were $5.4 million. What this means is the


loan loss reserve allocated to all credits in the bank except the LPC, increased $4.4 million.


However, due to the charge-off on those Large Problem Credits, the absolute level of the reserve


declined to 82 basis points of [inaudible].


NPAs to loans continued to slowly decline from 199 to 190 in the second quarter. The charge-off on


the Large Problem Credit reduced NPAs by $10.8 million, which was partially offset by an increase


in new non-accruals of $7.5 million.


We are at the point in the cycle in our organization when the majority of our NPA projects are


complete and we’ll be seeing pay downs as units are sold and liquidation proceedings come to


fruition. While we’re still watching a number of significant credits very carefully, we are cautiously


optimistic that the modest downward trend in NPAs will continue in the coming quarters.


Let’s talk about margin for a second. Prime rate – the average prime rate for the first quarter


declined 132 basis points. Two primary factors negatively impacted us in the first quarter. We have


$700 million in retail CDs and this portfolio lags rate adjustments on the way down.


We only had $30 million of CD maturities in March, so we didn’t get much relief there. However, we


had just over $100 million in maturities in April and have a $150 million in maturities in May. The


cost of these deposits will be reduced by over 200 basis points as the CDs reprice.


The other area is in the restructuring of our 130 – or restructuring of a $130 million of our Federal


Home Loan Advance, which we did at the very end of the first quarter. This will also reduce our cost


of funds and a portion of this category by over 200 basis points. The LPC impact was $0.05 a share


for the quarter, with much of that being sales in the margins, which is the pay downs on this and


other nonperforming credits should also be margin-friendly going forward.


For our internal planning purposes, we are assuming one additional 25 point rate reduction for the


remainder of the year and actually looking at rates starting to tick up as we get towards the end of


the year.


The last thing I want to comment on is how our portfolio has structurally changed. I know this is a


quarterly release, but on page two, we put numbers in there to give you some historical


perspective. At the end of 2004, we had about 25% of our loans in construction and land


development. Today, that number is down under 18%, about a 30% concentration reduction.


We early – we identified very early that this was a sector that was going to be a problem, it had


been reigning in activity in that section. Now, you see the number has increased significantly to 270


to 435 by virtue of acquisitions. But as a percentage of our total loan portfolio, that is shrinking.


About 22% of our construction loans are residential real estate, about 50% of our nonperforming


loans are related to residential real estate developers.


So again, you can see the significance in our strategy of reducing our concentration in that area


early on and that has helped to stop some of these [inaudible]


With that, I’d like to now turn the presentation over to our new Chief Financial Officer, and for her


analysis after a meaningful six weeks on the job. JoAnn, why don’t you take over?