Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Spyros P. Gianniotis — Chief Financial Officer, Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.
E. Nikolas Tavlarios — President, Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.
Douglas Mavrinac — Analyst, Jefferies LLC
Benjamin J. Nolan — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning and welcome to the Aegean Marine Petroleum Network Inc. Fourth Quarter 2016 Conference Call and Presentation. I would like to advise everyone that there will be a slide presentation accompanying today's conference call. That presentation can be obtained from Aegean's website at www.ampni.com.

I also want to inform everyone that today's conference is being recorded and is now being webcast at the company's website www.ampni.com. We will conduct a question-and-answer session after the opening remarks and instructions will follow at that time. A replay of the conference will be accessible through the next two weeks by dialing 888-203-1112 for U.S. callers; and 719-457-0820 for those outside the U.S. To access the replay, please enter the pass code 1920480.

At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to the company. Please go ahead.

Good morning and welcome to Aegean Marine's fourth quarter 2016 conference call. On the call today is Aegean's Chairman, Peter Georgiopoulos; Aegean's President, Nik Tavlarios; and myself the Financial Officer, Spyros Gianniotis.

Before we begin our presentation, I would like to note that this conference call will contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as expects, anticipates, intends, estimates, or similar expressions are intended to identify these forward-looking statements. These statements are based on Aegean Marine Petroleum Network Inc.'s current plans and expectations, and they involve risks and uncertainties that could cause future activities and the results of operations to be materially different from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.

Important factors that could cause actual results to differ include our future operating or financial results, our ability to manage growth, adverse conditions in the marine fuel supply industries and increased levels of competition. For further information, please refer to Aegean Marine Petroleum Network Inc.'s reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

I would now like to turn the call over to Nik Tavlarios, Aegean's President to discuss highlights from the quarter.

Thank you for joining us to discuss our results for the fourth quarter and full year 2016. I'll begin by providing an overview of our strategy and our continued successful execution. I will then discuss the macroeconomic and industry trends impacting our sector before reviewing high-level results from the quarter. Spyros Gianniotis, Aegean's Chief Financial Officer will then provide further details on our strong financial results for the quarter and year.

Before getting started, I want to remind you that on Wednesday, March 8, we will hold an investor day to celebrate our success over the last 10 years of public company. I will be there along with Spyros and other senior managers to discuss our business and plans to drive shareholder value in near and long-term. For more information, please visit the Investor Relations section of our website at www.ampni.com.

As reflected on the last 10 years as a public company, we are proud of our track record of growth and solid financial results. Since our IPO, Aegean has grown from a local regional supplier into a sophisticated global enterprise with delivery logistics, integrated supply and trading, a growing retail sales channel and diversified revenue streams, including bulk storage and vessel revenues that leverage our built-in infrastructure.

Aegean's continued success in a turbulent environment is a testament to the dedication and hard work of all its employees and I want to thank them personally for their contribution.

Now turning to our financial and operational results, the fourth quarter marked conclusion of another successful year for Aegean, supported by unique platform, our team continues to operate effectively as we've done in a variety of markets and conditions over the last 10 years.

We achieve EBITDA for the quarter $32.5 million and adjusted EBITDA for the full year of $135.2 million. Net income and EPS for the quarter were $60 million and $0.41, respectively.

To ensure we continue to enhance efficiency, we regularly evaluate the profitability and viability of all of our markets and assets. As we said before, we will enter and exit markets as appropriate to drive value for shareholders.

In early January, we announced the launch of a new market in Rostock, Germany with the integration of the OBAST Bunkering & Trading team, a physical bunker supplier and cargo oil trader. This launch has strengthened our operations in Germany, as the office liaises with our Hamburg office serving the German Baltic seaports and Southern Scandinavian ports. The Rostock launch has also bolstered our presence as a global marine fuel platform.

During the quarter, we wound down operations in Montréal and Barcelona, as we continue to optimize our network and deploy assets in areas of highest return. To meet the evolving needs of our global customer base, we now have operations in over 30 ports worldwide. We will continue to rationalize expenses and monitor and measure progress within markets to ensure appropriate cost rationalization.

Our sales volume for the quarter were 3,954,700 metric tons of which 512,000 tons were retail sales trading volume. This is down slightly from the previous quarter as we continue to seek the most profitable sales. This supports our strategy of allocating our resources effectively in order to deliver the greatest value to our shareholders.

During the fourth quarter, we recorded EBITDA per ton of $8.21, in line with the prior year period. As we mentioned over the past several quarters, we believe EBITDA per ton metric is a more appropriate way to understand the complexity of our platform and the business model. During the quarter, gross spread per ton increased to $21.1 from $20.5 from the prior-year period.

Now turning to the macroeconomic environment, the global bunkering industry continues to face significant competition in a market saturated with back-to-back trading entities. Aegean's unique platform, which includes physical supply trading and retail operations has distinguished itself from its peers and has served as a strong market catalyst for our customers, enabling the company to increase market share and secure significant new term business in several locations.

During the fourth quarter fuel oil prices rose sharply, up 22%, while crude prices rose only 7%. Generally, when OPEC cuts get implemented, heavier sour crudes are the first that are cut. This generally means less global fuel supply leading to stronger values.

Through February the values remains around the same levels as they were at year-end. The forward curve does not currently have any significant structure. Fuel oil, similar to crude, has a flat structure indicating a fairly well-balanced market.

Last quarter, we discussed the upcoming global sulfur cap, which will become effective on January 1, 2020. We expect that many companies will need to adapt to comply with the regulations and are revisiting and reviewing their strategies. We expect Aegean will begin purchasing low sulfur fuels and distillates to ensure compliance.

We continue to support the implementation and believe the regulation could have a positive impact on our business. Our modern tonnage and flexible physical infrastructure is easily adaptable. We have and will continue to take proactive steps to ensure Aegean continues to succeed in evolving markets.

With that, I will turn the call over to Spyros to provide additional detail on our financial results for the quarter and full year. Spyros?

Thank you, Nik. For the fourth quarter gross profit was $90.8 million, representing a 2.7% increase from the prior quarter. For the full year, gross profit was $353.5 million. Operating income for the quarter was $24.4 million, representing a 1% increase from the prior-year as we continue to strategically position assets to more profitable areas.

Selling and distribution was higher due to higher charges payments for third-party barges, port related expenses due to higher activity in certain ports. Salaries, December bonus and a bad debt of $1.3 million related to Aegean Oil Terminal region from two clients in its early commencement stage, where we're aggressively seeking clients. Of note, this is still under litigation.

General and administrative was also higher for one-time items, like legal fees and travel expenses. Our interest expense was lower due to positive mark-to-market of our $225 million five-year interest rate swaps [ph] is (09:33) negatively affected by the repurchase of the converts.

Net income for the quarter was $16 million, a 32.1% increase from $12.1 million from the prior year period. Earnings per share for the quarter was $0.41 per basic diluted share. For the full year, adjusted net income was $61.4 million or $1.35 basic and diluted earnings per share.

During the quarter, Aegean used cash flow in operating activities of $32.8 million due to price increases in fuel and gas oil. As of December 31, 2016, cash and cash equivalent was $93.8 million and our working capital position was $413.6 million.

While the company continues to evolve, our expanding business, including new geographic markets and our retail sales business command a higher working capital level that we have experienced in prior quarters.

As always, we continue to monitor our liquidity requirements to maintain sufficient cash and working capital to operate efficiently and fund further growth. As evidenced by our repurchase of approximately 22% of the outstanding sales in the third quarter, we remain committed to returning capital to shareholders. The repurchase underscores the board's confidence in Aegean's prospects and provides meaningful and immediate earnings accretion for all Aegean shareholders as our fourth quarter results show.

Now I will turn the call back over to Nik.

Thank you, Spyros. During the fourth quarter of 2016, we continued our efforts to deploy our resources in the most effective and profitable markets. While the industry still faces some uncertainty, we are committed to evaluating our assets and markets to generate the greatest value for our shareholders.

As we look over the past year, we are proud of our solid results and our ability to execute our strategy. We continue to optimize our geographic mix by opening in three locations, Brazil, South Africa and Rostock, Germany, while also remaining nimble, suspended operations in two locations.

We bolstered our retail sales group by adding experienced personnel in key locations around the world. This is reflected by the volume growth of this segment of our business. We continue to optimize our delivery fleet by selling two older non-core assets and we successfully renewed our global credit facilities with improved terms, providing the backbone of liquidity that drives our business.

We successfully completed $100 million strategic share repurchase, which will return value to our shareholders over long-term and we accomplished all this while delivering record results in net income, EBITDA and sales volume. We look forward to 2017 and the challenges it brings.

With that, I'll like to open the call for questions. Operator?

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And we will take our first question from Doug Mavrinac with Jefferies.

Thank you, operator. Good morning, Nik and Spyros, and congrats – first off congratulations on a great quarter, I mean, this is the third consecutive quarter of really good result, so just wanted to start off with a little bit of kudos on that front.

Nik, a few follow-ups for you. First, looking at the fourth quarter, it could have been even better. I mean, you put up a big number and your sales volumes as you mentioned were down a bit from 3Q levels. So my question is, what about, you know, some of the sales during the quarter [ph] dipped (13:39) like. And, is it possible for some of those sales to come back during 1Q or 2Q such that you know, you could be seeing an even better quarter going forward from what you just put up?

Well, as we sort of analyzed as our business, Doug, you're seeing our retail sales trading is starting to grow...

Right.

And we expect some strong growth. I'll certainly be talking about this more or our team will be talking about this more on our Investor Day, next week, but there's certainly a long runway for that business. It's in its pretty early days and it's already starting to become reflective about our strong results here.

As it relates to the physical sales volume, again, what we do is, we make sure we pursue the most profitable sales, where they are and whatever they are and we're in a position to make sure we procure the most – let's just say well-priced supply and take care of our customers – again pursues good, effective transactions. So we're taking what the lady gives us and we're doing it in a most efficient and effective way possible and producing the best – most profitable results.

Got you. Very helpful, Nik. Thank you. And then, you know, as a follow-up to that, obviously, you know during the quarter the spread was better than 3Q. And, you know, we're generally in a strengthening commodity price environment just overall, not just in bunkers and oil, but other commodities as well.

My question for you is, kind of given that backdrop in that landscape, you know, is there a sweet spot for you guys in terms of crude and/or bunker prices to where you know, it applies pressure to some of your smaller competitors from a working capital standpoint. But then also it allows you to kind of you know, layer on a decent spread on top of you know, may be a stronger underlying fuel price. So how do you think about kind of the sweet spot for you guys?

I think that sweet spot's a little higher than what you see that today. I think if crude oil price which of course would affect the bunker fuel prices were to rise, it would have an adverse impact on our competitors, again, affecting their liquidity it would then translates to a better opportunity for us.

Got you, got you. And just final question before turning it over, you mentioned some of the new service centers that you guys have entered, you know, South Africa, South America, [ph] then you went (16:09) to Germany.

So my question is basically, how are those guys being integrated into your overall platform, I mean, are they ramping up according to our expectations, just kind of how are each of those – I know the Germany one is very new, but how are some of the more recent ones kind of ramping up?

Yes. Pretty good. I don't want to give really too much commercial insight into...

Right...

any one of our particular locations. But, yeah, they're doing pretty well. I would say ones are doing very well and the other two are doing pretty good. So, overall, I'd say pretty good you know.

Okay. Great. That's helpful. And once again congrats, I mean, it's been a lot of effort over the years and over the quarters. So it's nice to see it paying off the way that it is, so congrats.

Thank you very much.

And we will now hear from Ben Nolan with Stifel.

Great. Yeah. So, I actually have a handful of questions. Hopefully that's okay. My first one actually sort of follows on to Doug's last question about the start-up of the new facilities, and then sort of pairing that with – you know – closed Barcelona, you closed Montréal. And Barcelona in particular has been a relatively newer area. It seems like some of these work really well. And then some of them don't.

Is that – is this a way – I mean, do you just have to kind of go in a little bit blind and see if it works or is there a way to sort of high grade your target list in terms of expansion or how do you think about going back – about doing that?

We definitely don't go in blind, you know, you don't just sort of potluck...

Sure...

Yeah. You're absolutely going to look at what your opportunity is for procuring supply, your – the pricing or the model for your whole logistic infrastructure. And then certainly what the retail complexion looks like of a particular market. And then, you'll look to move forward with that.

What can happen is, things can change, either new competition come into play or some other – something else that might affect the trading pattern could have the supply get affected, all those things, they're all – you know, there's a lot of moving parts in the execution of our business, so some things can change over time.

And having said that, we don't really – we don't bailout on a market just on basis of what might happen one quarter. We actually look at things and try and spend some time with that cycle. It's something – if there's better opportunities for resources that's what we're going to do. We're going to pull out and deploy them elsewhere. And so, what I'd like to say is, we may suspend activity in certain instances, in other times we may shut down. Hope that answers your question?

Yeah. No, that's helpful. And, I think that it has translated into the bottom-line. I mean, clearly you're more profitable with a smaller asset-base. Another area was – and Spyros you mentioned some of the costs coming up in the quarter and there was the bad debt expense and the new charter expense that you had. How should we think about that on a on a go-forward basis? You know, what should you suggest on a quarterly basis we look out for the G&A and the selling and distributing expense?

Ben, it's difficult to answer, because it depends on the activity on certain ports. Sometimes, you can deliver the same volume with less trips, other times you have to do more trips. So I think always on Q4, we have some slight increase in expenses. It's mainly to changes of crews, traveling, things like that. I would say one-third of what you saw of the increase between the 2Qs, I will assume for the quarters coming forward.

Okay. And then obviously things like bad debt and so forth, you wouldn't expect to be replicated hopefully, but you back that out as well. But, along those lines, so the chartering and vessels that's something that is I assume a little bit more sticky though?

No, Ben. I would tell you that you'll see it again in Q1 with respect to what our Q2 strategy is. It's not something that – I can't really answer you just yet, what we'll do in Q2 on that. But, generally speak, we try to use the asset platform we have in place.

Okay. No, that's helpful. All right, and I got couple more just because I had a lot. So, since the first of the year, there's been this new regulation in Singapore for the mass flow meters. Has that begun to have any material impact on that market? Is it starting to see an increased level of profitability? Is that an area that you could put more resources towards?

No. Well, the mass flow meter regulation was announced really two years ago. And, certainly, I think that market was prepared to take on its burden. There is – one might have thought there would be a significantly improving, you know, let's say profitability structure there. That's not the case. It's a pretty – it's a highly served market. That's the best way to describe it.

Okay.

Yes.

Okay. And then – and then lastly, and I appreciate you guys be patient with me. On Jamaica, I know that – I had talked to Greg and there had been some noise about actually developing that as a storage terminal and there were some moving parts in that [ph] front (22:11). I mean, could you maybe just update me on sort of how you're thinking about perhaps growing that business?

That's something we examine, again, we have a really good asset there with a very good piece of land which you could build a terminal at. It certainly could play well into the 2020 regulation on low sulfur. But we're not really prepared – we're not in a position to discuss any plans yet on that. So, very, very early in...

Okay. Got you. All right. Well, all right. Again, that does it for me and good luck, really nice quarter again. So congratulations on that.

Thank you.

Thank you.

At this time, there are no more questions. This concludes the Aegean Marine Petroleum Network Inc. conference call. Thank you and have a nice day.