Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Spyros P. Gianniotis — Chief Financial Officer, Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.
E. Nikolas Tavlarios — President, Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.
Peter C. Georgiopoulos — Chairman, Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.
Douglas Mavrinac — Analyst, Jefferies LLC
Benjamin J. Nolan — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, and welcome to the Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc. First Quarter 2017 Conference Call and Presentation. I would like to advise everyone that there will be a slide presentation accompanying today's conference call. That presentation can be obtained from Aegean's website at www.ampni.com. I also want to inform everyone that today's conference is being recorded and is now being webcast at the company's website, www.ampni.com.

We will conduct a question-and-answer session after the opening remarks, and instructions will follow at that time. A replay of the conference will be accessible through the next two weeks by dialing 888-203-1112 for U.S. callers, and 719-457-0820 for those outside the U.S. To access the replay, please enter the passcode, 9327926.

At this time, I'd like to turn the conference over to the company. Please go ahead.

Good morning, and welcome to Aegean Marine's first quarter 2017 conference call. On the call with me today are Aegean's Chairman, Peter Georgiopoulos; Aegean President, Nik Tavlarios. And I'm Aegean Chief Financial Officer, Spyros Gianniotis.

Before we begin our presentation, I would like to note that this conference call will contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as expects, anticipates, intends, estimates, or similar expressions are intended to identify these forward-looking statements. These statements are based on Aegean Marine Petroleum Network Inc.'s current plans and expectations, and they involve risks and uncertainties that could cause future activities and the results of operations to be materially different from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.

Important factors that could cause actual results to differ include our future operating or financial results, our ability to manage growth, adverse conditions in the marine fuel supply industries and increased levels of competition. For further information, please refer to Aegean Marine Petroleum Network Inc.'s reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

I would now like to turn the call over to Nik Tavlarios, Aegean's President, to discuss the quarter.

Thank you for joining us to discuss our results for the first quarter of 2017. I will provide an overview of our performance during the quarter and then review developments within our specific businesses, as well as the broader industry. I will then discuss the actions we are taking to position Aegean for success in both the near term and long term. Spyros Gianniotis, Aegean's Chief Financial Officer, will provide further details on our financial results from the quarter.

Turning now to our financial and operational results, our results for the quarter were below our expectations due to competitive pressures and challenging market dynamics. While we are disappointed in our results, our business remained strong and we are confident in our ability to continue delivering value to the shareholders. While our gross spread of $16.30 per ton was similar to our Q1 2016 gross spread of $17.60, our results this year were impacted by higher operating costs and expenses.

A strong increase in sales volume was unable to offset the increased costs and expenses summarized as follows: spread compression resulted in approximately $6 million impact on our net income; higher operating costs for bunker fuel costs and new offices, representing an approximately $3.5 million impact; and higher interest and financing costs which impact our results by nearly $3 million.

EBITDA for the quarter was $21.9 million, a decrease of 19.2% from the prior year. Adjusted net income and EPS for the quarter were $1.4 million and $0.03 respectively.

Our sales volume for the quarter were 4,450,263, of which 460,590 tons was retail sales trading volume. Total sales volume increased 495,563 tons from the previous quarter. We recorded EBITDA per ton of $4.93 per metric ton, a decrease of 23.5% year-over-year. During the quarter, gross spread per ton decreased to $16.30 from $17.60 year-over-year.

Results were adversely affected by the continued challenging operating environment for both shipping and oil trading. In shipping, global conditions have not improved from prior quarters and have worsened in some segments. Container trade continues to experience overcapacity and consolidation, which drives an elevated credit risk profile. During the quarter, tanker rates were lower versus the prior year, and dry bulk continues to slump and trade below the cash breakeven point.

On the oil margin side, we experienced steady performance in several markets, offset by declines in gross margin in certain key markets driven by increased competition. As we have said in the last few quarters, the global bunker industry faces significant competition in a market saturated with back-to-back trading entities. These challenges were more prevalent during the last quarter, and it appears that these conditions will continue.

In addition to pressure from back-to-back competition, physical supplier competition has reached very high levels in the Asian and Middle East markets. Limited non-marine trading opportunities and a flat curve structure [ph] put pressured (6:07) bunker margins in some of our physical ports during the quarter. While the results for the quarter did not meet our expectations, we are focused on moving ahead and executing on our strategic initiatives to drive profitability and growth. We are not satisfied with this performance and are taking decisive action to ensure we continue to succeed even at changing global market with increased competition.

To achieve this, we are implementing a plan to reduce annual operating expenses by $20 million by June 1, 2018, the majority of which we expect to achieve in the second half of 2017. Our plan is focused on marketing several vessels for sale and/or charter, reducing other operating expenses, and evaluating our portfolio and reducing exposure to underperforming markets as appropriate.

Aegean has a strong track record of implementing cost management initiatives, and we are confident in our ability to achieve our objectives. For example, in 2011, we owned 51 vessels with an operating costs of $71 million annually. Since that time, we have taken actions to strategically reposition our fleet. Today, we own 10 less vessels and have cut $21.4 million of vessel operating costs while growing our sales volume, 65%.

We see opportunities in several markets to significantly decrease expenses by leasing assets while we divest to redeploy our own assets. We are currently marketing several vessels for sale and/or for charter. And we are also evaluating the redeployment of vessel to the most effective and profitable markets. We will significantly reduce our expenses as a result of this shift, but we'll maintain the flexibility to respond quickly to capitalize on increased demand and any improvement in these markets.

To ensure we are allocating resources effectively across our portfolio, we are taking a strategic view of our markets to ensure we continue to optimize our network and deploy assets in areas with the highest return. We have realized significant benefits through active portfolio management, and our focus has only intensified.

As we've said before, we consistently focus on rationalizing expenses and monitoring progress within the markets to ensure appropriate structure. We have identified areas where we can ramp up cost reduction initiatives to ensure we have the most efficient operations while continuing to meet the demand of our customers.

We're also evaluating new lines of business to improve the contribution from our storage facility to our overall profitability, as the fuel oil storage market has been under considerable pressure. We have a clear plan to reduce expenses and enhance profitability and are confident that these initiatives will yield visible results. Of course, this market is cyclical. And while we cannot predict macroeconomic forces, we are focused on the factors that we can control and reducing cost as appropriate.

We have and we will continue to take proactive steps to ensure Aegean continues to succeed in evolving markets. Our business model, modern tonnage, and flexible physical infrastructure will continue to enable us to operate efficiently in a variety of market types and conditions, just as we've done over the last 10 years.

With that, I will turn the call over to Spyros to provide additional detail on our financial results for the quarter.

Thank you. For the first quarter of 2017, gross profit was $80.3 million, representing a similar level to the prior-year period. Quarter-over-quarter, gross profit was down 11.5%, driven by increased competitive pressure that resulted in depressed gross spread. Operating income for the quarter was $13.9 million, representing a 24.2% decrease from the prior year.

Interest expense for the quarter were $12.2 million, representing an increase of 29.8% over the previous year, primarily due to the recently completed convertible bond offering. Income tax for the quarter was $0.7 million, or $3.3 million higher than the previous year's benefit. As a result, net income for the quarter was $1.4 million, an 88.5% decrease from the prior-year period.

Adjusted earnings per share for the quarter were $0.03 per share, representing an 85.6% decrease from the prior-year period. EBITDA was $21.9 million, compared with $27.1 million from the prior-year period.

Moving to the balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents were $60.4 million as of March 31, 2017. And our working capital position was $432.4 million as of March 31, 2017. During the quarter, we used $66.7 million in cash in our operations, which reflect an increase in receivables of $110 million due to increased sales volume.

In June of 2016, we engaged PricewaterhouseCoopers as new independent auditor for the company. The Board of Directors Audit Committee had recommended this change as a prudent diligence matter. While the onboarding of our new auditor took some time, we filed our 20-F last week, and we are pleased that PwC verified the strength of our financial and accounting controls and processes without any changes from the prior filings.

Now, I will turn the call back over to Nik.

Thank you, Spyros. While we are disappointed with our results for the first quarter of 2017, we are taking action to shift our strategy to a more profitable asset-light model, while deploying resources into the most effective and profitable markets. With the support of our dedicated employees, we are focused on executing on our long-term growth strategy, maintaining our financial strength and continuing to drive shareholder value. We are optimistic heading into the second half of 2017 and with significant opportunities ahead.

With that, I would like to turn the call over for questions. Operator? [Operator Instructions]

And we'll take our first question from Doug Mavrinac. Please go ahead.

Great. Thank you, operator. Good morning, Nik. Nik, I just had a handful of questions for you as a follow-up. The first kind of focusing on the first quarter, and this is kind of getting a better grasp for kind of the spread and the compression, and just kind of maybe zeroing in on kind of what transpired. And before I drill down, just real quick, do you think there are some seasonality in that 1Q spread? Because as you pointed out, 1Q 2016 spread was like $17, that was the weakest spread of the year. This year, the $16, had changed. So, can we eliminate seasonality, or do you think seasonality also contributed to some of the compression?

I don't really feel confident concluding that there's seasonality, Doug, but there's definitely a similarity, okay, so – to Q1. And that's why I drew the comparison in my comments earlier. But I can't really say that there's seasonality there. There absolutely is a fair degree of competition out there, which has had an effect on spread which is, again, harder for us to control.

Right. Yeah, and I'm just kind of curious and just kind of wanted to set that aside, so...

And Doug, this is Peter. In some markets, and especially the big ones, the lower oil prices have brought in more competition. It's easier for people to buy and sell oil at these lower prices. There's much less working capital needed for them. And this sort of small mom-and-pops that we've been talking about for years seems to survive on that, and it just seems more have been entering the business.

Yeah, I see. And Peter, that's where I was kind of going to go and draw another comparison that, I can't remember, it's four or five years ago, whenever we saw volatility in crude and crude was weakening, you saw the mom-and-pops just flooding the market with product, and that was the only other time where we saw like real pressure on the spread. And so, kind of given that correlation and given kind of what you just said, is it fair to assume that – especially towards the end of the quarter where you started seeing spread coming under pressure, volatility in crude and crude getting cheaper, I would have to imagine that contributed to some of the weakness as well.

That's a fair comment, Doug, yes. And it definitely contributed to some of the weakness.

Yeah.

Okay. Got you. And then, last thing on the post-mortem on 1Q, when you look at kind of the spread compression, would you say it was overall throughout some of your geographies, or was there particular type like some of the major trading hubs versus some of the more niche markets? And then, also, was there any particular type of end-use customer? Was it the tanker guys or the dry bulk guys, or others that were really competitive on pricing of bunker fuel?

Look, I don't want to – primarily, you focus on one segment of the client base, I don't think that that's really something you can pinpoint here. But I would say that you experience that greater pressure in the bigger markets, and that's why I made the remark earlier that we're going to look to reduce some of our exposure in some of those markets and that we'll continue to evaluate that.

Yeah. But... [indiscernible]

(16:33).

More importantly, what we can control here is expenses, and that's really what our greatest focus is. So, we've set out a very substantive figure out there of $20 million of expense reduction on an annualized basis to be done over the next 12-month period.

Right. So, with that in mind and kind of thinking about kind of the go-forward and even for modeling purposes, Nik, it sounds like you guys have already identified particular assets that you may want to dispose of, redeploy, et cetera. So, is it just a matter now, not really kind of investigating an initiative, but kind of implementing an initiative to where you kind of know what you want to do? And then, as a follow-up to that, just kind of – you mentioned the $20 million implemented by June 1, 2018, the majority in the second half. So, from a modeling standpoint, how much of the $20 million should we assume on a quarterly basis like in 3Q, 4Q or the second half of the year? Or at least some ideas for us kind of how we should model that.

Well, again, let's break down what you said there. So, yes, we are passed the investigative stage. Okay? Yeah. We're focusing on implementation stage. So, this is not something that we have to all of a sudden start researching.

Right.

And to tell you how to model it, again, from my remarks earlier, we think we can get a good deal there earlier on. But I really don't want to answer that question for you. I don't...

Yeah. That's fine.

I can't really tell you exactly what was it.

I mean, the problem is as – let's just see as we have updates, you'll see the progress, and hopefully, we'll get a better picture of how's all playing out.

Yeah. Perfect. But you, guys, don't you want to do – it's going to be done within the next 12 months, [indiscernible] (18:20) most of it will be done in the next six months, it sounds like.

Right.

All right. Perfect. And then, just final, final question. As it pertains to 2Q looking forward, Nik, I ask this question often, but can you give us an update as far as kind of what the actual sales volumes have been quarter-to-date? Because 1Q, that was a bright spot, very big number, 4.5 million tons. Can you give us an update on kind of how the quarter has materialized from a sales standpoint?

Yeah. So, the April volume was – roughly [indiscernible] (18:51) 1.4 million metric ton level, which I guess translates around 4.2 million tons run rate, and I would say, even through half of May, we're at the same level. But I would suggest that if you're going to watch us reduce some exposure on certain markets, you could see the volumes be more conservative in the future.

Okay. And then, should we assume the same proportion of retail that we saw in 1Q as applicable to 2Q?

Yes, maybe slightly higher on the retail.

Okay.

Yeah. Slightly higher on the retail, yeah.

All right. Great. Well, I've taken up enough of your time. Thanks for the time and the answers.

And we'll take our next question from Ben Nolan. Please go ahead.

Hey, guys. So, I had a couple of questions, and I wanted to follow up a little bit on the cost savings initiatives that you talked about and that Doug asked on. So, the $20 million of cost savings that you talked about, is that relative to a 1Q run rate, or is that relative to, say, what you were spending last year?

Look, most of those expenses are going to come out of the selling and distribution piece and the G&A side of the equation. There was a new office that was certainly introduced in Q1. So, there is some uptick there. But again, if I were to tell you where the expenses are going to be reduced from, it's exactly that.

Right.

Okay. So, if I look at last year, the expenses were really, say, 15% less than where they were in the first quarter. So, I'm just trying to figure out what the basis is for the $20-million delta.

The difference in expenses, Ben, comes from higher bunker consumption cost by $1.5 million, and other $1.5 million is the new company incorporated in Q1 2017, that's it mainly.

Okay. Well, that's...

And the new company, Ben, just to explain to you which one we're talking about here, it's our business in Rostock, Germany. And the company that we acquired there, OBAST, okay. That's the one we're speaking of.

Okay. All right. That's helpful. And sort of along those lines, I was hoping maybe on the selling and distribution expense, just curious when you do sort of – when margins are tighter as they have been, is there a natural feedthrough into sort of a reduced level of selling cost, in other words – or the salesmen compensated on the basis of value of risk return on investment, or is it just – it's more of a fixed cost?

It's a fixed cost model, Ben, yeah. And again, you have fixed cost each month when you own vessels, right?

Right.

And you're covering and accumulating gross spread. So, yeah, that's the structure on how the business works.

Okay. Well, I have two other quick ones. First of all, has there been any change in the income contribution from the Fujairah storage facility at all, or is that sort of basically the same that it has been?

No, it's been a little lower. I think the beginning part of the year, you watched the market structure change on the forward curve of what fuel looks like, and you've watched some of those trading houses, that typically come and rent storage base from you, move on and wait for their next opportunity. So, rates have come off a bit. And also, the third-party leasing components come down a bit, so the contribution dropped.

So, again, as I said in the call, what we'll look to do is either essentially explore different types of opportunities for that storage space. And there are some out there that we are looking at right now, I don't want to reveal what that is exactly on this call for those that – competitors that might be listening. But essentially, we do have some opportunities.

Okay, that's helpful. And then, lastly for me, the interest expense was up a bit. I assume that you're wearing a little bit more working capital here, and that's the component of probably the primary contributor there. How should I think about that going forward? Certainly, into 2Q, I mean, should we be kind of modeling similar levels to what we saw in Q1, or is it a little bit more anomalous to the first quarter?

Ben, our run rate on interest expense is close to $12 million after we did the convertible bond. Last quarter, we had a very big mark-to-market gain on interest rates swaps, that was $6 million. That's why you saw a very low figure in Q4 2016.

So, Q1 doesn't have that.

Q1 doesn't have that, Ben.

Okay. All right. So, $12 million is the run rate. Perfect. All right. Thanks a lot, guys.

Thank you.

At this time, there are no more questions. This concludes the Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc. conference call. Thank you and have a nice day.