Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Spyros P. Gianniotis — Chief Financial Officer, Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.
E. Nikolas Tavlarios — President, Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.
Peter C. Georgiopoulos — Chairman, Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.
Douglas J. Mavrinac — Analyst, Jefferies LLC
Ben J. Nolan — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.
William W. Horner — Analyst, BB&T Capital Markets

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Please standby, we're about to begin. Good morning, and welcome to the Aegean Marine Petroleum Network Incorporated Second Quarter 2014 Conference Call and Presentation. I would like to advise everyone that there will be a slide presentation accompanying today's conference call. That presentation can be obtained from the Aegean's website at www.ampni.com. I also want to inform everyone that today's conference is being recorded and will now be webcast at the company's website at www.ampni.com.

We will conduct a question-and-answer session after the opening remarks. Instructions will follow at that time. A replay of the conference will be accessible through the next two weeks by dialing 888-203-1112 for U.S. callers and 719-457-0820 for those outside the U.S. To access the replay, please enter the passcode, 7807271.

At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to the company. Please go ahead.

Thank you, and welcome to Aegean Marine's Second Quarter 2014 Conference Call. On the call today is Peter Georgiopoulos, Chairman of Aegean, as well as Nick Tavlarios, President of Aegean.

Before we begin our presentation, I would like to note that this conference call will contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as expects, anticipates, intends, estimates, or similar expressions are intended to identify these forward-looking statements. These statements are based on Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.'s current plans and expectations and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause future activities and the results of operations to be materially different from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.

Important factors that could cause actual results to differ include our future operating or financial results, our ability to manage growth, adverse conditions in the marine fuel supply industries and increased levels of competition. For further information, please refer to Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.'s reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

I would now like to turn the call over to Nick Tavlarios, President of Aegean, to discuss highlights from the quarter.

Thank you, Spyros, and thank you all for joining this morning. I'd like to begin with an overview of our achievements during the second quarter, drivers of our operational and financial results and how recent and upcoming achievements demonstrate the continued strength of our business model and our successful execution. After that, I will then turn the call over to Spyros to discuss our financial results for the quarter. Following Spyros' remarks, I'll discuss our thoughts on the macro environment.

Throughout the second quarter, we continued to expand our recent track record of profitability and growth. And while industry headwinds persisted, we overcame market-wide challenges as we continued to benefit from our streamline operations and the stable growth drivers we have put in place. Notably, this quarter marks our 14th consecutive quarter of profitability, and we achieved this goal in 29 quarters of 30 quarters since becoming a public company. This is significant accomplishment, especially in light of the protracted recession in our industry and I'd like thank all of our employees for their hard work.

The key components of our success and strong results include our vigilant focus on opportunistically streamlining expenses, our market leading ability to leverage our assets and our continuing efforts to expand our global market share, all of which support our unique and dynamic business model. This model has allowed Aegean to opportunistically capture additional revenue opportunities and drive profitability, while simultaneously operating in challenging market environment.

Moving forward, and if the markets begin to normalize, we'll be well positioned to respond to increased market demand and expand into new markets where appropriate. While the maritime industry has faced tremendous headwinds for more than five years, Aegean has continued to thrive. We have established sustainable internal growth drivers including our new East Coast bunkering business, which we acquired from Hess at the end of 2013, and our soon to be launched Fujairah storage facility. We are confident that even if the market challenges persist, we are well positioned to continue creating value for our shareholders. That said, should we see strong market improvement, we'll likely see benefits in our financial results.

Throughout the second quarter, we continued to refine our operating infrastructure to enhance our ability to respond to current and future market demand. Part of this strategy includes the ongoing opportunistic sales of non-core vessels, which brought in cash proceeds and reduced our expense structure during the quarter. To-date in 2014, we have sold four non-core vessels, reducing operating expenses by approximately $8 million per annum, and are in the mix of identifying a few additional sales opportunities. These actions are targeted to streamline our expense structure and improve the agility of our infrastructure. The sale of older non-core vessels allows us to over time increase the utilization of our remaining fleet and reduce maintenance CapEx.

We expect that rationalizing our expenses by selling older non-core vessels will remain a key part of our operating strategy for the foreseeable future. By the end of August, we'll also sell our floating storage vessel, Fujairah, which is replaced by our onshore storage capacity in that region.

In the second quarter, we continue to identify opportunities to increase efficiencies and drive profitability as capacity came out of the market. Despite the competitive landscape, this strategy has continued to deliver strong results. Similar to quarters past, we capitalized on significant built-in fleet capacity and took advantage of economies of scale, successfully leveraging our fixed cost to drive improvement on the bottom line. We believe we have built a strong foundation for profitable growth, and expect to continue on a positive trajectory.

Our goal is to further expand our geographic diversification and our revenue streams. As part of this strategy, we are considering a number of target opportunities to geographically expand on integrated marine fuel logistics chain. In our efforts to pursue profitable revenue growth, we remain focused on expanding only into geographies that we believe will yield the greatest returns, while simultaneously closing any ports that have not yielded profitable results.

In Fujairah, we are excited to capitalize on the emerging opportunities in the region, as we commence commercial operations at our storage facility in the near future. This, of course, assumes that we achieve all necessary approvals and complete successful testing of all the systems. We also believe that we have created an organic growth stream with our new facility in Barcelona and our operation at the Port of Algeciras Bay, both of which allow us to participate in the compelling Mediterranean market.

In our U.S. operations, we are experiencing benefits from U.S. East Coast bunkering business. Now fully integrated into our business, this asset is profitable and we believe it will be a growth driver for the long term. Overall, we are pleased with the performance of our assets and are confident they will continue to drive significant growth and profitability.

Marine fuel sales volume for the second quarter were 2,659,620 metric tons. In the month of July, we recorded sales of 945,000 metric tons. Throughout the second quarter, we continue to build volume and market share in our lubricants business, continue to diversify our revenue stream. For the second quarter, we announced lubricant volumes of 8,500 metric tons. This is smaller, lower volume business for Aegean, but it continues to yield higher operating margins. We remain focused on expanding our volumes in the lubricants business, as a means to drive additional revenue diversification going forward.

Moving on to our capital allocation priorities, we are proud of our ability to generate significant levels of free cash flow. In the past, we have reinvested this capital back into our business to enhance operations and create strong platforms for long-term sustainable growth. As our business continues to grow free cash flow, the board and management team will, as always, continue to assess our capital allocation priorities. Our focus remains on deploying our cash to drive the most significant stockholder returns. As such, we will consider all options to achieve this objective, including ongoing reinvestment, share repurchases and dividend increases, as well as other opportunities to deliver shareholder value.

With that, I'll turn the call back over to Spyros to provide details about our financial results for the quarter.

Thank you, Nick. As you may know, since market conditions fluctuate at ports around the world, we'll provide sequential comparisons in our discussion of quarterly financial results, comparing results from the second quarter of 2014 to the first quarter of 2014.

For the second quarter of 2014, our sales volumes remained in line with Q1 levels, while the gross spread per metric ton of marine fuel sold increased to $29. Total gross profit for the second quarter increased by 1.9% sequentially to $84.5 million. Net income for the second quarter was approximately $9.3 million or $0.20 per basic and diluted share. EBITDA for the second quarter was $26.7 million. During the second quarter, sales volumes continued to be affected by challenging macroeconomic and marine industry conditions. And it is important to note that under normalized market conditions, volumes would have been significantly higher. Additionally, while Aegean has the ability to capture more volume, we choose to pursue only the most reliable business streams.

Slide nine illustrates our company-wide utilization, which is measured as volumes delivered per vessel per day, excluding both scheduled and non-scheduled non-operating or off-hire days. In the second quarter, utilization was 488 metric tons per vessel per day compared to 475 metric tons per vessel per day in the first quarter of 2014. Utilization increased in the second quarter as the overall size of our fleet decreased. As a reminder, our utilization does not include Aegean North-West and Europe, which operates a spot-based business model focused on providing same-day sales and delivery services, and our U.S. East Coast business where we do not own delivery assets.

Our decision to reduce volumes in specific markets is aligned with our strategy to drive profitable volume growth. In other words, our policy is not to sacrifice healthy margins to grow volumes in order to expand our top-line. Our corporate objective is to achieve the best possible combination of gross spread and sales volume while generating profits. With 29 quarters of profitability, we have a strong track record of doing just that.

We generated voyage revenues of $6.5 million in the second quarter, a 25% decrease over the previous quarter. Looking ahead, we expect voyage revenues to remain consistent as we continue to leverage our built-in idle fleet capacity and charter excess tonnage. We expect storage levels to remain consistent for the current quarter and increase thereafter as our Fujairah facility comes on line in the second half 2014 and we lease storage capacity to third parties.

On slide 10, we present our historical gross profit and EBITDA margin trends. Our EBITDA margin which is calculated as adjusted EBITDA divided by gross profit was 31.7% in Q2, a slight decrease from the previous quarter. The good level of EBITDA margin was largely driven by our ability to drive down expenses and improve gross spread per metric ton. During the quarter, Aegean reported net cash used in operating activities of $34.3 million, which is primarily a timing issue that is reflecting the variance in payment terms and inventory levels across our network.

As of June 30, 2014, our cash position was $106.9 million and our working capital position totaled $223.3 million. I want to highlight that in conjunction with our non-core asset details, we have now established a higher level of current assets, one that we believe provides us with more than adequate financial flexibility and liquidity for our current business model.

We are pleased with our significant financial flexibility, which continues to be a key differentiator for Aegean. We have $476 million undrawn under our total revolving bank borrowing credit capacity through our global multi-currency credit facility and our ABN AMRO Capital New York facility. This support from various banking institutions underscores the belief that Aegean is poised for significant growth and expansion. We look forward to taking advantage of this credit to expand the Aegean brand as identified means for profitable growth.

In reviewing our balance sheet trends on slide 12, it is important to note that while trade finance debt at the end of Q2 totaled $692.1 million due to the intensive working capital requirements inherent in the global marine fuel supply industry, this debt figure has a rapid turnover of between 30 days to 45 days. In addition, our trade finance debt could be paid in full, along with our entire trade payables as well as majority of our vessel debt based solely on the liquidation value of our current assets. The remaining debt on our books approximately $143.5 million, which is secured by 39 young vessels or $3.7 million of debt per vessel. As a result, we ended up with unencumbered debt-free assets that include 14 owned bunkering vessels, three floating storage facilities and two existing onshore storage facilities.

As of June 30, 2014, our fixed asset debt-to-adjusted EBITDA multiple was approximately 2.6 times, significantly lower than many peers who have persistently over-levered in this difficult market. As Nick mentioned, our substantial financial liquidity, including over $1.1 billion in working capital credit facilities, including supplier credit, provides Aegean with a distinct competitive advantage as we seek to further expand our global market share and strengthen our industry leadership for the benefit of the company and the shareholders. We are in compliance with all loan covenants and have a strong debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio.

Now I will turn the call back over to Nick. Nick?

Thank you, Spyros. Our second quarter results and financial position demonstrate how Aegean is driving growth and creating shareholder value, despite persistent industry headwinds. I would like now to provide some thoughts on emerging macro trends in our industry and why we believe we are very well-positioned to continue to successfully navigate challenges and benefit from potential positive shifts in the market landscape.

We remain hopeful about market dynamics. They are beginning to show promise and fully expect to see fundamentals of the maritime industry gradually improve over time. If this plays out, we'd expect to see our financial results gradually accelerate.

Again, regardless of an improvement to our operating environment, we are executing the strategy that will allow Aegean to be successful and deliver strong financial results to our shareholders with or without market improvements.

The upcoming January 1, 2015 reduction of sulfur limits in marine fuel from 1% to 0.1% will create additional challenges across the maritime industry. These new regulations could be disruptive to customers as they seek lower cost strategies. Aegean has taken the necessary steps to provide its customers with the best options. We believe Aegean's global cost scope and financial flexibility will be increasingly important differentiators as the fuel landscape continues to change and that we're real well positioned to drive under these new regulations.

We are confident that we will continue to generate growth and profitability, and there are several milestones on the horizon that will be able to demonstrate our continued progress. These include the opening of our Fujairah storage facility, our ongoing program to streamline expenses, and the possibility of opening new ports that can increase the utilization of our assets.

Moving forward, we remain focused on streamlining our expense structure, increasing asset utilization, continuing to generate sustainable results. With a strong strategy in place and the proven ability to successfully execute, we are well positioned to counter market headwinds and build significant shareholder value. We are confident that we have built a resilient platform that can continue to deliver strong results over the longer term.

With that, I would like to turn the call over for questions. Operator?

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Doug Mavrinac with Jefferies.

Thank you, operator. Good afternoon, guys, and congratulations on a very good quarter. I mean, I think this is your strongest quarter since early 2010, so great job. My first question pertains to the quarter itself. And one of the things that jumped out at me was how strong the gross spread was at over $29 a ton, also the highest since 2010. So my question is, what went on during the quarter that enabled you guys to realize such a strong gross spread? Was there something specific, was there a geography, more just the strategy playing out, just what was behind the strength in that spread during the quarter?

Well, Doug, couple of different things. One, there were certain geographies that performed nicely and they recorded good gross spreads. And other than that, I would say we're improving on our sourcing of cargos and we're definitely seeing a marked improvement there that comes with better practice and knowhow that have come; part of what Peter pointed out in earlier quarters about some of the improvements that we'd expect from our acquisition of the Hess business and you're seeing some of the effects of that reach the balance of the company. So that has pushed the spread to a very strong level in that quarter. I can't say that we'll always do that but, again, we're always after the best combination of spread and volume and achieving the most profitable results and whatever that means.

Got you. Got you. Thanks, Nick. And then, when you talked about the Hess acquisition, the integration of that. So in addition to just being the U.S. East Coast business, there were some synergies or are some synergies that you guys continue to realize of, with that market intelligence, that that business brings?

Well, certainly there's intelligence, market intelligence. As a company, we're a bigger platform now, buying fuel. We're probably engaging and blending more than we ever did before and that, again, also helps with our profitability. So some of that knowhow has translated to the balance of the company and, again, our practices, as you might say, and that, again, will lead to either a higher spread or just better performance.

Got you. Fantastic. Thank you. And then as it pertains to the third quarter, I just wanted to confirm, during your comments, Nick, for July, did you mention that sales volumes for the month were 945,000 tons?

That's correct, Doug. It was 945,000 tons for July.

Got you. And August, halfway through the month, seemingly consistent with what we saw in July or any changes since July that you've been able to observe?

Thus far it looks like we're pretty much at that same rate.

Yeah, okay. Got you. Got you. Got you. And so then for the balance of this year, you guys finished construction at Fujairah. It's about to begin operations. Can you walk through some of the logistics behind what goes into bringing that thing online and then how you expect the contribution to ramp up, whether it's for the balance of this year or the next 12 months, just how you expect to ramp to play out?

Yeah. Essentially, look, the construction was completed officially on April 30 of 2014. We've been in a commissioning process, which involves testing all the equipment and getting certain safety certificates in the operation itself. That testing's been going on and those certificates are being obtained. Our expectation is within the next month, maybe month-and-a-half, that that will all be done. We're taking a shipment of oil right now, of our own oil there, again, engaging in the testing process. That will be done within the coming weeks. And then after that we'll begin to do our own operation there and go through a whole vetting process to begin to receive customer oil in there. We expect this to be 2014 active and open for customers.

Got you, got you. That's all fantastic. And once again, congrats on all your progress. I mean it's really fantastic. Thank you for the time.

Thank you, Doug, yeah.

And we'll take our next question from Ben Nolan from Stifel.

Thanks. Yeah. I had a sort of question as it relates to the margin question that I was asking a bit earlier. Have you seen any, I guess, broad-based improvement in margins across the industry away from you guys? Or would you say that the increases that you've experienced here as of late are exclusively due to kind of your own strategy and smarter buying of fuel, and locating in higher margin regions. So I guess the question is, is there any industry-wide push or is this entirely you guys?

Well, a couple different things there. Again Ben, we are obviously doing our best to procure the best and most efficient way of getting our fuel, reducing our cost of goods. We compete in the market just like the rest of our competitors. And after that, yeah, we're in some markets that are better than others. Sure, there is absolutely strong competition in these markets and we see those pressures. But our strategy is to pursue the most profitable transactions, and not just to sell volume for the sake of selling it.

Now we had good volume in July, and as I answered to Doug earlier, part of August. And there is nothing to say it will be disrupted in the rest of the quarter. So that's good. But I don't – if you say that, what our competitors do and I can't really speak for them. What I can tell you is, from January 1 of 2015, there is a pretty strong change to the product mix. And we're moving away from selling low sulfur fuel oil to selling some other 0.1% product, which will again change our product mix. And I think it will have a favorable impact on what we do, particularly in the North American ECA or Emission Control Area, that area of the business will be affected positively.

Okay. That's helpful. My next question goes a little bit to the Fujairah facility. The color that you gave there is very helpful. Is it fair to assume – I noticed there was some more CapEx in the quarter, CapEx is effectively down on that. Is that correct? And then along with that, it seems like the cost has been a little bit higher than what you'd originally thought. Have your return assumptions changed at all?

And then lastly on Fujairah, I know historically you guys had kicked around the idea of maybe selling an interest in that business or somehow or another thinking of a different capital positions that relates to that. Is it still on the table or are you comfortable holding your position as it is?

Well, that's a lot of questions. So let me tackle those one at a time here. Okay. With respect to our Fujairah facility, I think others have undertaken projects in the region, we're no different than they are. They watch their projects get delayed and in some cases the costs go higher than they first expected and we were not immune to doing work in that region. So it is what it is and we are here today, we do see a great opportunity for us, particularly as you watch January 1, 2015 coming into play and how that will affect even other parts of the world.

So that'll be a very good platform for us to engage in our business and support the balance of, let's just say, our Eastern business there. We would certainly – when it comes to you how we deploy that capital, what we do with that asset, we always are after doing the best possible thing. We look at all aspects of our business that way, that's why we didn't move along some of our older non-core vessels and we are streamlining some of our expenses.

So, yeah, if the appropriate suitor came along, they wanted to invest in that with us, we will be able to. Having said that, storage is very, very important to our business in the region and we intend to – right now we're operating with a small Panamax vessel there and we turn it probably close to twice a month and that to some degree restricts what we're able to do there.

The operating expenses on the Panamax are equivalent to the operating expense of the shore side storage facility. So that will go away, but at the same time, you will have 455,000 cubic meters storage capacity of which you can lease an enormous amount out to a third-party and that is just new income for you, and you're basically in for the same operating expense.

So there's no change to our expense structure because of having that and our earning power is significantly higher. So we're happy to be involved in that business. Does that answer your question?

Yeah. Yeah. No, that's helpful. And I guess with respect to return assumption, it's just one of those situations where you just have to wait and see, although the one little add-on I would have there is, have you begun the process of discussing with potential customers about leasing it out? I mean, should we expect to hear something about lease storage or is that just going to be a all short-term type business?

I think you'll see – the answer is, yes. We've been marketing with customers quite a bit. There could be some contract business and the balance would be short-term contract.

Okay. Helpful.

That's definitely where we see that going.

And then lastly, as it relates to the capital structure of the firm, I mean obviously you guys at this point have finished the majority of the capital spending and are even thinning out the asset base a little bit; should be very cash flow positive. And I know in the past you've talked about different things ranging from buying back shares to raising dividends to reducing debt. How close would you say – or what's the current thinking? Has there been any change at all with respect to, now you've hit that critical inflection point where you're going to be generating a lot of cash flow. What's the plan? I mean, is there anything specific that you can point to as a direction for the firm with respect to its capital?

Peter, do you want to?

I don't think we have anything specific, but you can imagine that everything is on the table. So in good times in other companies I've been involved with, we've historically liked to return cash to shareholders through different methods, whether it's dividends or share buybacks. And so, if this company gets to the point where we're cash flowing a lot of money and, like I said, if we don't have any big capital expenditures on the horizon, I think we would investigate all of those things.

Okay, great. Thanks a lot. That's very helpful, guys. I appreciate it. [Operator Instructions]

And we'll take our next question from Kevin Sterling from BB&T Capital Markets.

Good morning, guys. It's actually William Horner on for Kevin.

Good morning.

Morning, William.

Morning. Nick and Spyros, I know you continue to be conservative on the risk profile and you noted you've been pursuing reliable business and turning away some volumes. So is there any way to quantify, maybe, how much business you're turning away in terms of volumes and when that comes back what do you think's going to come first, either demand is going to pick up or credit becomes a little bit stronger? I guess they'd come hand-in-hand with the improving market overall.

The ratio, William, is roughly 4 to 1; 4 inquiries to the 1 filled, so to speak. And I think that there's an indication right now that there's some improvement on the horizon. Having said that, every time you see some improvement there's something bad that happens. But again, the more important thing for us is, we pursue profitable business, right. And so, if we're recording a good combination of spread and volume and – in other words, a trend expense structure – it's translating into higher profits. You're finally seeing this number go up to a higher level than it was in the past. And that's our objective here, is to translate it to profits.

Yeah. I get that, and that's evident, obviously, in your spreads and like you said, your improved mix in other products. Thanks for that color, Nick. And one more question; on streamlining cost structure, I know is a common theme. I think initially you had targeted to sell three vessels this year. It looks like you're up to four. How many more, maybe, are on the table? I know that's something you tend to look at continuously, but maybe one or two vessels expected to be shed this year. Is that reasonable to think?

Yeah. So we mentioned before that we're about to sell our floating storage vessel at Fujairah and that will – obviously the expenses of the shore-side storage facility, we'll swap out with that one. So that one's neutral to the OpEx structure of the company, but we will pull cash in from selling that. And so that's slated to occur within, I'd say, by the end of this month. There's two other vessels that are being contemplated right now. I would say one of those is – they're both probably around that greater than that 50% mark probability. So at that point I think we're really reaching a very good level where we're comfortable with.

Okay. Great. That's all I had guys. Thanks again and congrats on a good quarter.

Thank you very much.

At this time, there are no more questions. This concludes the Aegean Marine Petroleum Network Inc. Conference Call. Thank you and have a nice day.