Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Spyros P. Gianniotis — Chief Financial Officer, Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.
E. Nikolas Tavlarios — President, CEO & Head-Investor Relations, Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.
Peter C. Georgiopoulos — Chairman, Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.
Douglas J. Mavrinac — Analyst, Jefferies & Co., Inc.
Ben J. Nolan — Director, Knight Capital Americas LLC
Kevin W. Sterling — Analyst, BB&T Capital Markets
Chris Snyder — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC
Peter Christopher Mahon — Analyst, Dougherty & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Please stand by, we're about to begin. Good morning and welcome to the Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc. Third Quarter 2012 Conference Call and Presentation. I would like to advise everyone that there will be a slide presentation accompanying today's conference call.

That presentation can be obtained from Aegean's website at www.ampni.com. I also want to inform everyone that today's conference is being recorded and is now being webcast at the company's website, www.ampni.com. We will conduct a question-and-answer session after the opening remarks. Instructions will follow at that time. A replay of the conference will be accessible through the next two weeks by dialing 888-203-1112 for U.S. callers and 719-457-0820 for those outside the U.S. To access the reply, please enter the pass code 847-6067.

At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to the company. Please go ahead.

Thank you and welcome everyone to Aegean Marine's third quarter 2012 conference call. My name is Spyros Gianniotis, Aegean's Chief Financial Officer. With me today, is Peter Georgiopoulos, Chairman of Aegean, as well as Nick Tavlarios, Aegean's President.

Before we begin our presentation, I would like to note that this conference call will contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as expects, anticipates, intends, estimates or similar expressions are intended to identify these forward-looking statements. These statements are based on Aegean Marine Petroleum Network Inc.'s current plans and expectations and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause future activities and the results of operations to be materially different from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.

Important factors that could cause actual results to differ include our future operating or financial results, our ability to manage growth, adverse conditions in the marine fuel supply industries and increased levels of competition. For further information, please refer to Aegean Marine Petroleum Network Inc.'s reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

As outlined on page four of the presentation, Nick will provide our recent highlights. I will then review our financial results, and Nick will then review our company strategy. After that, we will open the floor to questions.

I will now turn the call over to Nick.

Thank you, Spyros. And good morning, everyone.

During the third quarter, management continued to achieve steady progress enhancing the company's profitability in a difficult macro environment, as net income on an adjusted basis has increased each quarter-to-date in 2012.

Consistent with our goal to strengthen Aegean's integrated marine fuel logistics chain, we launched physical supply operations and commenced onshore storage operations in Hong Kong and Tanager Med respectively. We also increased fleet utilization and reduced operating expenses for the second consecutive quarter.

While overall market conditions remain challenging, we believe our vast and scalable network for the global supply of marine fuel, combined with the strong financial platform, bodes well for Aegean to continue to capitalize on the positive demand for its comprehensive services and drive future earnings growth.

I will now begin my discussion on slide six of the presentation. During the three months ended September 30, 2012, sales volumes increased slightly to 2,716,388 metric tons. Spyros will provide more details regarding our financial results. I would like to note that based on ongoing implementation of our strategy aimed at enhancing profitability, gross profit increased to $74.4 million in Q3.

For the three months ended September 30, 2012, we reported operating income of $15.1 million, and EBITDA of $24.6 million. Year-to-date EBITDA has increased 36.5% to $68.1 million, as compared to $49.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2011.

Net income for the quarter was $8 million or $0.17 basic and diluted earnings per share. This compares to adjusted net income of $5.3 million or $0.11 basic and diluted earnings per share for the third quarter of 2011, representing an increase of more than 50%. We're pleased by the notable improvement in our financial results despite a challenging market environment and remain focused on strengthening Aegean's leading industry brand and leveraging the company's global marine fuel platform.

During the third quarter, we commenced physical supply operations in Hong Kong, one of the largest container ports in the world that serves as an economic gateway to Mainland China. We also announced expansion plans in Barcelona, which will increase our global presence in 21 markets, covering approximately 60 ports, as compared to five service centers at this time of our IPO in December 2006.

In terms of the performance of our markets in the third quarter, sales volumes increased on a sequential basis due to strong overall ship traffic, which is partially attributable to the summer crew season. As a reminder, we've not been affected by the turmoil in Greece, which represents approximately 5% of our total sales volume, nor do we have any exposure to the Greek financial markets.

Gibraltar also registered a positive growth rate during the third quarter, as did West Africa and Panama. In Tanger Med, third quarter sales volumes were essentially flat as compared to the previous quarter. We commenced utilization of the new onshore storage facility totaling 218,000 cubic meters during the third quarter and expect this new facility, where we maintain exclusive storage and bunkering rights, to support future growth in this attractive market.

Sales volume in the United Arab Emirates remained steady in Q3. With our new 465,000 cubic meter onshore storage facility, which is expected to be open in mid 2013, combined with the completion of the Abu Dhabi pipeline that will increase traffic in the area, we remain well positioned to increase our market share in this broad region.

In Jamaica and Trinidad, sales volumes declined on a sequential basis due to decrease in overall ship traffic and demand remains relatively stable in these markets. In Singapore, third quarter sales volumes were consistent with the previous quarter, as we maintain our focus on executing more profitable transactions with top counterparties. Sales volumes in North America, the UK, and Canary Islands were also relatively stable in Q3.

Aegean North-West Europe or Aegean NWE, formerly Verbeke, performed in line with our expectations in Q3. With an expansive full-service platform that clearly differentiates Aegean with the industry, we remain well positioned for future growth. During the month of October 2012, we generated sales volumes of approximately 883,000 metric tons.

I will like to turn the call back over to Spyros.

Thank you, Nick. I will begin my discussion with slide eight. Since Nick highlighted our consolidated year-over-year results, I'll provide sequential results for the third quarter of 2012.

Since market conditions change frequently at each port around the world, we track our business quarter-over-quarter. As such, the remainder of our financial presentation will compare results for the third quarter of 2012 to the second quarter of 2012.

In summary, sales volumes were essentially flat, while gross profit decreased 7%. Adjusted EBITDA declined slightly. The net income for the third quarter increased 15.7% on an adjusted basis, primarily as a result of reduced operating expenses, lower income taxes, and realized foreign exchange gains. Depreciation totaled $5.6 million in both Q3 and Q2 2012. We continue to maintain a cautious outlook as overall market conditions remain challenging in light of the ongoing softness in international maritime shipping industry.

On slide nine we illustrate our sales volumes and gross spread. During the three months ended September 30, 2012, the gross spread per metric ton of marine fuel sold declined to $23.2 per metric ton, compared to $26.1 per metric ton in Q2 2012, primarily due to the geographical sales mix of our current portfolio.

On slide 10 we provide our company-wide utilization, which is measured as volumes delivered per vessel per day. Gross utilization increased to 533 metric tons, compared to 489.6 tons per vessel per day in Q2, 2012.

Adjusted utilization, which excludes both scheduled and unscheduled non-operating or off-hire days also increased to 543.8 metric tons in Q3, compared to 526.8 tons for the previous quarter. As a reminder, our utilization does not include Aegean North-Western Europe, which operates a spot-based business model, focused on providing same-day sales and delivery services.

We believe our significant built-in fleet capacity positions Aegean well to further scale the business. As we continue to enter new attractive markets, including Barcelona, we expect to enhance our ability to further increase utilization, especially as market conditions improve.

During the third quarter, we recorded a total of 69 non-bunkering days, which we define as scheduled and unscheduled off-hire days for our bunkering fleet, plus days associated with the strategic repositioning of vessels. This compares to 118 non-bunkering days in Q2. For the quarter – for the current fourth quarter, we anticipate approximately 180 non-bunkering days, as a number of our vessels is due for special survey and dry dockings. Of note, chartering days are not included in this estimate.

We also generated voyage revenues of $6.4 million in the third quarter, versus $6.3 million in the previous quarter, as we maintain our focus on achieving a level of consistency in our results by chartering out selected bunkering tankers on short-term contracts.

Turning now to slide 11, we illustrate the fixed cost structure associated with our sales volume. Bunkering vessel operating expenses per metric ton sold, including and excluding the consumption of marine fuel, decreased in Q3 compared to the previous quarter. In addition, general and administrative expenses, excluding share-based compensation, as well as storage cost sdeclined quarter-on-quarter. While we are pleased with the important strides we have achieved in enhancing operating efficiencies, our operating income per metric ton sold in Q3 decreased due to a lower gross spread per metric ton.

On slide 12 we depict the historical trend in gross profit and EBITDA. Gross profit, which is calculated as total revenues, less total cost of sales, have posted a cumulative annual growth rate of approximately 26.1% since the fourth quarter of 2006.

Our EBITDA margin, which is calculated as EBITDA divided by gross profit, increased quarter-on-quarter to 33% in Q3, despite a lower gross spread.

We believe Aegean's integrated supply model creates the opportunity to generate significant operating leverage, as gross margins and sales volumes improve relative to our stable fixed cost operating structure. Based on management's current projections, we intend to expand annual EBITDA by approximately 20% to 25% over the next year.

Turning to slide 13, we detail our working capital position. During Q3, our days payable outstanding and days receivable outstanding, both increased quarter-on-quarter, while our days inventory outstanding decreased. The net effect was a decrease in our cash conversion cycle to 22.5 days.

Furthermore, Aegean reported net cash provided by operating activities of $22.2 million for the third quarter and generated free cash flow of approximately $10.4 million for the quarter ending September 30, 2012.

On slide 14, we highlight our strong balance sheet, a core differentiator for our company. As of September 30, 2012, our cash position was $77.1 million and our working capital position totaled $74.5 million.

As a reminder, in reviewing our balance sheet strength, it is important to note that while trade finance debt at the end of Q3 totaled $449 million to fund working capital, this debt figure has a rapid turnover between 30 days and 45 days.

In addition, our trade finance debt could be paid in full along with our entire trade payables, corporate debt, as well as the majority of our vessel debt, based solely on the liquidation of our current assets. The only debt then remaining in our books would be approximately $117.6 million, which is secured by 33 vessels or $3.6 million of debt per vessel. As a result, we have debt-free assets that include 27 owned bunkering vessels, four floating storage facilities, and four existing onshore storage facilities with operations in 20 countries worldwide. As of September 30, 2012, our fixed-asset debt-to-adjusted EBITDA multiple was only approximately 2.3 times.

Currently, Aegean has more than $954 million in total working capital credit facilities or $1.4 billion, including supplier credit, which positions our company well to continue to manage volatile marine fuel prices and procure large quantities of supply at a discount, relative to our competitors.

The discussions with our lending group to replace our various existing facilities with one new credit facility in the amount of approximately $1 billion continued to progress. The new facility, which would include the participation of nearly all of our current banks is expected to be finalized by the end of January 2013.

We believe our substantial financial liquidity provides Aegean with a distinct competitive advantage as we further expand our integrated marine fuel logistics chain and strengthen our industry leadership for the benefit of the company and its shareholders.

I will now turn the call over to Nick.

Thanks, Spyros.

I'll provide a brief overview of our company's strategy beginning on slide 16, which illustrates a significant growth in Aegean's global marine fuel platform.

As mentioned earlier, we expanded our strategic presence in the Far East by launching operations in Hong Kong. Port Hong Kong is a major transportation hub, serving critical, global, and Intra-Asia shipping routes, as well as passenger ferries. The port generates a total of approximately 5 million metric tons in annual marine fuel sales volume, enhances our ability to meet the needs of our customers that operate on a worldwide basis and further scale our business. We also intend to achieve important operating synergies with our existing service center in Singapore. In furthering our objective to increase Aegean's global market share, we announced plans to commence physical operations in Barcelona, Spain by the end of the first quarter of 2013.

The Port of Barcelona is ideally located in the vast Mediterranean along major seaborne trade routes and benefits from extensive cruise passenger travel, totaling approximately 10,000 transits per year and generating more than 1 million metric tons of annual marine fuel sales volume.

We intend to capitalize on the port's current modernization and expansion plan, which is expected to increase capacity upon completion in 2014, to drive future growth in this attractive market.

Complementing our physical supply operations, we secured two onshore storage facilities on an exclusive basis over the long term in the Port of Barcelona, with an option for a third.

On slide 17 we detail the significant growth in our storage capacity. The two onshore storage facilities in Barcelona totaled approximately 50,000 cubic meters in capacity. The exclusive use of these facilities augment our onshore storage expected to be commissioned in the near future in the U.A.E., as well as our existing in-land storage facilities located in the United Kingdom, Las Palmas and Panama and Tanager Med.

Upon completion of our owned and operated onshore storage facilities, combined with our onshore storage in Barcelona, we expect to have a total of approximately 1.6 million cubic meters in capacity, providing our company with important strategic benefits, which are, first, it enhances our purchasing power of marine fuel, providing the ability to reduce cost of goods and improve gross spread.

Second, it supports our core physical supply operations by ensuring that the availability of product in key markets, enabling Aegean to increase its global market share while maintaining a conservative commodity risk approach. Third, it enables Aegean to leverage its onsite blending facilities and sell all grades of fuels and distillates for the benefit of our customers. And finally, it diversifies our business mix by providing the opportunity to generate substantial income from leasing space to third parties, effectively offsetting the cost of storage.

Turning to slide 18, we highlight our bunkering fleet growth. Our large and modern delivery fleet, which currently totals 66 vessels, provides Aegean with significant commercial advantage as the demand for modern tonnage remains strong. With one of the largest double-hull bunkering delivery fleets in the world, combined with our expanding global presence, we expect to increase utilization and strengthen our company's future earnings power.

As we maintain our focus on leveraging Aegean's high quality logistics infrastructure, we remain committed to further enhancing our operational performance through the opportunistic sale of non-core assets. Since 2010, we have sold a total of eight vessels, representing total cost savings of approximately $60 million on an annual basis. In addition, the cash proceeds from these transactions further increased our financial liquidity.

While recording a non-cash book loss on the average sale of these eight vessels, I'd like to note that the value of our current modern bunkering fleet of 66 vessels remains well above book value as a whole.

On slide 19 we provide a breakdown by sector. Management's conservative approach in extending credits to high-quality customers, encompassing all major shipping sectors, as well as leading cruise lines, continues to serve Aegean well during the current downturn in the shipping industry. By actively mitigating our exposure to any one particular customer segment, combined with our sophisticated credit management systems, we remain well positioned to effectively manage counterparty risk.

Based on our strong track record in this critical area, all of our customer payments remain current. As we have in the past, we will maintain our focus on executing transactions with top counterparties at the risk of sacrificing sales volumes.

On slide 20 we provide an update on marine lubricant business. For the third quarter 2012, the volume of marine lubricants sold was approximately 7,600 metric tons, which is more than double compared to the year earlier period. Year-to-date, we already have sold 21,475 metric tons of marine lubricants. We remain committed to expanding our global presence as an independent physical supplier of branded marine lubricants. By marketing and distributing quality lubricants to more than 550 ports in over 40 countries, we intend to strengthen Aegean's leading reputation as a provider of value-added services and expand the company's long-term earnings potential.

That concludes our opening remarks. I'd like to open the floor for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Doug Mavrinac at Jefferies and Company.

Thank you, operator. Good morning, guys. I just had a few follow-up questions for you. First, looking at 3Q, your sales volumes obviously came in very strong, 2.7 million tons, the gross spread ticked down a bit, though, relative to what has been in the last handful of quarters. And you talked about the geographic sales mix changing. My question is, was there any particular market where you saw maybe a downtick in the spread and because we read about and heard about in Fujairah where you had maybe some competitors dumping product into the market. A, is there any particular market where you saw maybe a downtick in the spread? And then second, is that the type of event that would cause a downtick in spread in a particular market, as someone dumping product?

Sure. Yes, it is. I mean, we saw it happen exactly what you said in Fujairah, and I mean just to answer the last part of your question, we see that as a one-time event. You had a lot of Iranian crude come in and dumped that market and whether that was as a result of some more people trying to get that, or the Iranians trying to get that oil out before increased pressure, I'm not sure, but that we saw come into the market and they really dumped the market. So, we wouldn't take it as a trend.

Right.

We take it as sort of a one-time event. I mean, Nick, did you want to add anything?

Yeah. But it just certainly upset the pricing. There is no question about it when that comes into the market. We think that there is certainly pressure to make sure that stops.

Right.

And [ph] we've been anticipating (22:23) that kind of – we don't engage in selling that oil, so that's not important.

Yeah. No, it totally makes sense, and just the order of magnitude, it was just a tick down, so I figured it was like a one-off market like that. So, that totally makes sense. Second question, in our prepared comments, you talked about how you have reduced operating cost during the third quarter. And looking at your past couple of quarters, you've done it more than just in 3Q. 1Q, you were at $48 million; 2Q, you are at $45 million and 3Q you are at $43 million. And my question is how have you guys been successful? What you've been kind of working on to be able to basically take down your OpEx so successfully over the last couple of quarters?

Well, there's no question that the success of what our sale of the non-core assets has obviously had some traction here and it's reflected by those reducing expenses. That's sustainable trend, so to speak, and we've definitely have a few more that we're looking to move out too and you could see how important they are to making our company that much more efficient and that much more profitable. It really puts us in a good position for the future. When things do improve in this marketplace, we'll have that much more profitability.

You know, when you think about the older ships, right, you're depreciating them over a shorter period of time, so your depreciation is far higher and then your operating cost and your repairs and maintenance are far higher on older ships. So, once you get rid of those, you have gotten – not only your depreciation decreases, but also repairs and maintenance and operating cost decrease and so that's what we've been successful doing. So, it's not as if these are one-time things, these are things that we've done that we'll continue to hold through the coming quarters.

Right. Now once again it totally makes sense. And then thinking about 3Q OpEx and thinking about kind of what you guys have been doing as well, kind of from a startup standpoint, you mentioned Hong Kong got ramped up in 3Q. Are there also any one-off kind of startup expenses that you may have incurred that would be kind of diminishing as we go forward as well, as you get kind of off the ground and running?

Yeah, there is no question in commencing operations in Hong Kong. We definitely had more expenses than usual. It's actually a pretty sizable figure.

Right. [ph]

Coming to about $1 million (24:32). So, yeah, that actually is something we would see normally profitable and not just showing up as an expense, but much – it would definitely have a greater impact on our figures.

Yeah, got you. So, net-net, sales volumes remaining very strong, maybe the spread ticked down a little bit from a one-off event, but obviously that's just one-off event and your OpEx has continued to go down as you're starting to – or continuing to kind of take out older assets and these one-off startup expenses continue to diminish, I mean that's basically the gist, am I right?

Yeah. And we feel...

Got you.

...confident that this trend will continue.

Got you. Perfect. And then just final question, this is just a reiteration question. Nick, whenever you're talking about October sales volumes, the number is 883,000 metric tons sales for October?

That's correct.

Okay. Perfect. That's all I had guys. Thank you.

Thank you.

We'll go next to Ben Nolan with Knight Capital.

Hey, guys. Nice quarter.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Yeah. Good to see it ticking up sequentially, it seems like for quite a few quarters now. But...

It's been seven quarters now, we're very proud of that. Since we had the debacle couple of years ago, it's been seven quarters of meeting the Street and ticking up.

Yeah. It's definitely the right direction. I had a couple of questions that – I guess, first, where do you – maybe you give me an idea where do you stand with respect to the facility in Fujairah specifically. How much is left to spend? Where is the bank debt that is associated, has that been consummated or how much – how large the loan should we think of in that respect?

Let me just open with a comment on Fujairah. We've spent a little over $70 million to date from our operating revenue or operating cash, let's say, and that project is due to be completed in mid 2013. I'm going to just turn this over to Spyros now. He can talk to you about the two facilities, one being the Fujairah facility, the second being the...

Talking about the bank facility?

Bank facility, yes.

Yeah, so talk about Fujairah first, then the bank facility.

Okay. One of the question goes how much we have spent. As Nick has said, a little bit over $70 million. We estimate, should we say...

About another $35 million to $40 million we've got left to spend.

Exactly.

On that and...

We have already one bank facility.

Which we should have done at the end of January.

No, that's the global facility. Even before that we expect to finalize, we are pretty close to the signing of the documentation that we fund 70% of the cost of the project.

Okay. So, you'll actually be getting – might back out of that and I would assume that...

That's correct. Yeah, yeah.

Okay. And that – you said by the end of the year or maybe shortly after?

Yeah, we would say by the end of the year, yeah.

Okay. Perfect. Now, that's good. The other question I had is with respect to your accounts receivable. I noticed that they did tick up a little bit in the quarter, even though fuel prices were down some quarter-over-quarter and subsequently your days – your turn slowed a bit. I was just curious as – what was the cause behind that? Is that just maybe not factoring as many of your receivables or – I mean just what was buying there?

Yeah, that's correct. The factoring – I mean we have sold to this facility that you know, less than $50 million in this, but that was not the main effect. I think also the prices, if you take – it's not a static – it's not a static thing. So I mean it depends. I mean, maybe you're invoicing some more things towards the end of the month, so the receivables pick up. So it's half of – let's say, one-third is because we factor less and the two-thirds because of timing effect.

Okay.

Also our payables were higher.

Right, right. Okay. Now, that makes – that's what I thought, but...

Yeah.

And then a question sort of related to – you had mentioned that you charter out a number of your – a number of your vessels. Should we expect that to change, as you've opened Hong Kong, you will be opening the Port in Spain soon. Will the number of chartered out vessels decrease as they are moved over to new locations or how should we think about modeling going forward?

Yes, that's correct. As we open up new stations, as we scrap the older ships, as those ships come off charter and as they're needed, they will be put into service.

Okay. But the number is still eight, nine at the moment, something like that of vessels that are chartered out?

Vessels chartered out.

Eight, nine.

No, no, no, it's just like – it's five vessels, yes.

Oh, is it? Okay. Okay, perfect. All right. And then last question for me, and, obviously, I know that you can't comment on this too much, but OSG filed yesterday and I don't expect you to speak specifically to whether or not you have any exposure there, but just in general, how do you think about – credit risk is a big issue for you guys. It doesn't seem as though the market's getting better in most segments. When you do have sort of things hit the wall, like they have in this case, how do you go about handling sales to those guys or anybody in that situation? I mean, what's the – what do you do to sort of minimize your risk of loss?

First of all, the freight market – the tanker market ticked up yesterday, funnily enough.

Yeah.

And the dry cargo market's been picking up. So, those two markets, the last couple of weeks have been picking up a little bit. That's just a global thing. Secondly, look at our track record. We have managed for years now and had a very – de minimis bad accounts. But secondly, we – the third thing is, when a company goes into bankruptcy, you're protected by the courts. That being said, and I don't talk about OSG specifically, we are just very cautious and I think we've had a cautious approach and sometimes been criticized for it, but in situations where other people have gotten hurt, we haven't had those surprises. So people can criticize us all they want for being conservative. We think in markets like we've been dealing with for the last four years, I mean, look at our track record, it's been – in terms of getting paid and we get paid. So, I think we do our homework, we're just on top of every situation.

Okay, got you. So, even in the case of OSG, you might – would still sell to them just because...

Yeah.

They're protected by bankruptcy, okay.

Right.

All right. Now, that's very helpful. Again, a nice quarter.

Thank you.

Thanks for my questions. Yeah. [Operator Instructions]

We'll go next to Kevin Sterling at BB&T Capital Markets.

Thank you. Good morning, Peter, Nick and Spyros.

Hi, good morning.

Good morning.

Hey. Let me follow up with kind of that bankruptcy question. And I know you talked about your gross spread falling sequentially because of mix, but maybe, is part of it, too a function of you guys focusing more on Tier 1 customers, top customers, given the weakness in the shipping markets?

Well, the big – I mean that's – yeah, look, definitely we focus on the top customers and the top credits, but in this last quarter it was definitely as a result of Fujairah. That was the main reason that we got – we lost spread in this last quarter.

Okay. Thank you. Nick, you talked about the nice bump in lubricants. What's going on there and how should we think about that going forward?

It's the continued efforts of the marketing and your brand gets known around the world and our team has done a good job and you could see we're really eclipsing last year's numbers already. Through the third quarter, we beat out the full year. So, just good traction and we provide a good service and it comes down to marketing.

Yeah, so is it cross-selling opportunities with what you do in your core bunkering business and should we think about – as we look to next year, should we think about this type of growth?

Well, here's the deal. It becomes – our objective always was to try to capture 5% of that market and it takes its time to get known out there and to establish your brand value. We've been working on that for a long time and it's now becoming more and more recognized. This is not where we want to stop by any means. No, we want it to grow. Again, it's probably gone slower than we wanted to, but I'm very happy about where we are. I think it will go higher. I can't give you – our expectation, Kevin, is probably to double this number in the next couple of years, but to tell you for sure that that is going to happen is a little bit tough to say, but that's what we hope for and that's – our target is higher than that.

Right, right, right. And so you say you want to capture 5% of the market. Where are you today, I assume it's [indiscernible] (34:45).

Well, I'd say we're probably around 2.5% of the market right now.

Okay. All right. And, Nick, I think you said you guys have sold eight non-core vessels and I think you want to continue selling more, how many more would you like to sell?

I could see us – we have probably two bunkering tankers, older ones that we're going to look to move along and possibly a floating storage vessel. And we'll re-evaluate it after that, but certainly there has been a tremendous amount of efficiency that's been introduced in the company I'd say by lowering our expense structure here and you could see it. We've done well, really puts us in a good position. We got more than enough assets to deal with our expansion, right? And knowing that we – there is probably two more we can move on and we'd still do what we want to do. It doesn't change things. So, yeah, we can definitely move some of these ships out and obviously it really helps the bottom line.

Right. And I guess the strategy here is you move out these older vessels, you lower your operating expenses and then when the shipping markets do come back, you just have that much more leverage in your model, is that the right way to think about it?

Yeah, absolutely right. We could sell more with each of the ships we have and we can do more with each of the ships we have and we don't need these couple of older ones here. So, you move them on. And the same goes true for that one floating storage vessel. We move that along also, it will be extremely accretive.

Right. Okay, great. And you talked about the value of your fleet being well above kind of your book value. If I could dig into that a little bit further, maybe what would it cost to buy a new bunkering vessel today, maybe you can kind of give arms around some numbers?

It's depending upon the size of the ship, Kevin. That's really one of the questions. And a fully equipped vessel, coming out of the yard with loads of equipment is probably $11 million on a bigger ship and probably around $9 million or so on the smaller ones, $9.5 million is my guess. And again that would be for a fully-equipped ship.

Okay.

And, Kevin, you will note, these vessels are chartered out at $6,500 to $7,500 per day, so you can figure out what's the price of these vessels.

Right, right. Okay. Thank you. That's all I had today. Gentlemen, congratulations on a solid quarter in a challenging environment.

Thanks, Kevin.

Thank you.

We'll move next to Chris Snyder at Sidoti and Company.

Good morning, gentlemen.

Good morning, Chris.

So, I had a kind of question on volumes. You guys were able to – we saw an increase in 3Q compared to 2Q in total volumes, despite a worse shipping environment and it doesn't seem like Hong Kong had too big of an impact this quarter. So, I was kind of – was wondering what do you guys attribute this to, the increased volume?

Look, again, we view it as slightly increasing or slightly higher than last quarter, kind of very similar to it. We did pretty well in – just across the board in all our ports. Panama, it was a full quarter's run. So, that's probably the greatest change in what you see going on there and otherwise it's generally similar, but good service and basically, as we analyze our client base, it's a large percentage of the repeat clients and that's something that we do in here, it's our key performance indicators on how we look at our company too.

Okay, yeah. My next question is about Hurricane Sandy. I know just had a positive, albeit probably short term, but a positive impact on particularly the product tankers in the shipping industry. Have you guys noticed any increase in maybe order size in that region as vessels are really in a rush to come over to the Atlantic Coast?

No, I don't think so. I mean that probably affects [indiscernible] (38:37) business more than it does us and maybe in the U.S. Gulf, which we are really not serving. So, we really haven't seen that. But on a separate note, there has been an uptick in the tanker market, as I believe Peter had pointed out earlier.

Yeah.

Yeah. I can't say that's correlated to Hurricane Sandy, no.

Okay. And my next question is about Barcelona. How – what kind of – is this a market that will have strong spreads or lower spreads than the spreads you guys are currently earning?

We think we'll have strong spreads. We think when you look at our range of markets, this should be at the higher end.

Okay. Well, that does it for me. Thanks a lot, guys.

Thanks.

Thanks, Chris.

We'll take our next question from Peter Mahon at Dougherty.

Good morning, guys. Just had a couple of follow-up questions. You mentioned that you have sold a number of vessels over the past year and I thought I heard $16 million in annual savings, is that correct?

Yes, it is.

Okay, great. And then if that has led to operating leverage throughout the year and despite that we've got a couple of ports coming online here in the back half of the year and I imagine that a lot of the costs that you incur for Barcelona will happen in Q4. Do you still expect operating expense leverage, even with those expenses being incurred into Q4? Do you have enough dry powder...

No, no, no. No, that's what you said they were going to be done in Q4. That's your assumption. Actually, a lot of those expenses were in Q3. We told you we had $1 million for Hong Kong and we had other expenses for Barcelona.

Okay. Well, what do you expect the startup costs to be for Barcelona?

Significantly lower.

Yeah, significantly lower, because we will use the storage. So the payments will come. As we use it, we will pay it. And the vessels we already have, yeah, I mean it's minimal.

Yeah. Plus just the complexities associated with Hong Kong as a market.

Some working capital deployed. Some interest expense for working capital.

Yeah, but I wouldn't – the big Hong Kong number was in the third quarter, which was $1 million and I don't have a guess for the fourth quarter for Barcelona, but...

Yeah, de minimis.

De minimis.

Okay. So assuming this is the operating leverage, the cost controls that you're putting in place should win out over...

Absolutely.

...any of these extra costs, okay.

Yes, that's what we believe.

Okay. And if you look at the kind of the trend in volume from July through the end of the quarter, if memory serves me correct, you said that you delivered 922,000 metric tons in July. Can you kind of give us kind of how the quarter played out and why that happened?

I mean, the quarter played out 922,000 metric tons to probably some of the high 8s, somewhere there.

It's sort of flat...

Yeah.

Do you think that there was – you guys kind of reigning back in Fujairah because of the pressure there or was it something else?

Sure, I mean – again, everything was sort of flat. We're not talking about material differences here. So – but again, some are between the high 8s and the 9s, and sure, Fujairah definitely was something we saw some changes on, but the volumes weren't so far off. We just were – we saw other impacts in Fujairah.

Sure, okay. And then – so if you guys were to look at kind of how this disruption in Fujairah has played out, do you think we've moved past the bottom of it, now we should see things getting back to more normalized state or where do we stand from, maybe, say, a month ago?

Too early to tell, for one. Two, more of this kind of stuff has reached the media as it has, I think the more you see normalcy restore. So – and believe me it was in the media, so.

Right. Do you envision – I mean, obviously, this is a unique situation with the sanctions and we've experienced similar things to this in other markets, namely Singapore. What gives you confidence that this type of thing, this type of disruption isn't going to incur – be incurred in other markets, especially with the demand for bunker fuel globally being more muted than it might have been a few years back?

Yeah, but on an absolute basis, the demand for bunker fuel today is still higher than it was a few years back. There's more ships on sea. There is no doubt about it. Yeah, and we're talking about robust numbers with less players out there selling it. So, it's still on an absolute basis a very good level.

Okay, great. Well, thanks a lot, guys.

Thank you.

Thank you.

At this time, there are no more questions. This concludes the Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc. conference call. Thank you and have a nice day.