Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Spyros P. Gianniotis — Chief Financial Officer, Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.
E. Nikolas Tavlarios — President, Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.
Peter C. Georgiopoulos — Chairman, Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.
Douglas J. Mavrinac — Analyst, Jefferies LLC
Ben J. Nolan — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.
Kevin W. Sterling — Analyst, BB&T Capital Markets

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Please standby, we're about to begin. Good morning, and welcome to the Aegean Marine Petroleum Network Inc., Fourth Quarter 2014 Conference Call and Presentation. I would like to advise everyone that there will be a slide presentation accompanying today's conference call. That presentation can be obtained from Aegean's website at www.ampni.com. I would like to inform everyone that today's conference is being recorded and is now being webcast at the company's website www.ampni.com.

We will conduct a question-and-answer session after opening remarks. Instructions will follow at that time. A replay of the conference will be accessible through the next two weeks by dialing 888-203-1112 for U.S. callers and 719-457-0820 for those outside the U.S. To access the replay, please enter pass code, 9791775.

At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to the company. Please go ahead.

Thank you, and welcome to Aegean Marine's fourth quarter and full year 2014 conference call. On the call today are Peter Georgiopoulos, Chairman of Aegean; as well as Nick Tavlarios, President of Aegean.

Before we begin our presentation, I would like to note that this conference call will contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

Words such as expects, anticipates, intends, estimates, or similar expressions are intended to identify these forward-looking statements. These statements are based on Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.'s current plans and expectations and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause future activities and the results of operations to be materially different from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.

Important factors that could cause actual results to differ include our future operating or financial results, our ability to manage growth, adverse conditions in the marine fuel supply industries and increased level of competition. For further information, please refer to Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.'s reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

I would now like to turn the call over to Nick Tavlarios, President of Aegean, to discuss highlights from the quarter.

Thank you, Spyros and thank you all for joining us this morning. I'd like to begin with an overview of our performance during the fourth quarter and full year 2014. I will then review developments within our specific business as well as the broader industry that have been drivers in our operation and financial results. Once I'll walk through our high-level performance, I'll then turn the call over to Spyros to provide the details of our financial results for the fourth quarter and full year. I'll conclude the call by discussing the macro trends within the shipping industry and some of the positive trends that will help us grow our company and our bottom line in 2015.

Throughout the fourth quarter and full year, we continue to extend our track record of profitability and growth. Our performance continues to differentiate us from our peers and a significant accomplishment given the current market conditions. For the fourth quarter and full year 2014, we delivered strong results and achieved sales volume of 3 million metric tons for the fourth quarter and 11.3 million metric tons for the full year, gross profit of $85.2 million for the fourth quarter, up approximately 13.6% year-over-year and $335.2 million for the full year, up approximately 17.2% compared with 2013.

Adjusted operating income of $21.3 million for the fourth quarter, up approximately 50% year-over-year and $78.1 million for the full year, up approximately 47% compared with 2013. Adjusted net income of $10.4 million or $0.22 per basic and diluted earnings per share for the fourth quarter, up approximately 31% year-over-year. Adjusted net income for the full year of 2014 of $37.8 million or $0.79 per basic and diluted earnings per share, up approximately 20.5% year-over-year.

Adjusted EBITDA of $25.8 million for the fourth quarter, up approximately 12.6% year-over-year and a $102.2 million for the full year, up approximately 22.6% compared with 2013.

Foundation of our success to date, has been our unique and dynamic business model which is focused on leveraging our worldwide logistics network and maintaining sustainable growth drivers, all while capitalizing on opportunities and continually working to expand our global market share. In addition to these key areas of focus, we continue to monitor and optimize our balance sheet to ensure that we have the necessary liquidates to support our growth plan and our core operations.

Over the year, we pursued several avenues to drive sustainable profitability and growth and our ability to execute, despite conditions is a testament to our proven strategy and the people that work hard every day to put into action. The successful execution of our strategy led to key developments that have created tremendous [indiscernible] (5:15) for Aegean, as we enter 2015.

First, we have ramped up our Fujairah facility and commenced commercial leasing efforts. Second, we have integrated our U.S. East Coast operation. Third, we've expanded our operations to U.S. Gulf Coast, Port of Los Angeles and Long Beach and Hamburg, Germany. Fourth, we opened an office in St. Petersburg, Russia, for the sale and marketing of marine petroleum products across Russian ports. And fifth, we have strengthened our balance sheet to ensure we have the financial flexibility we need. These meaningful accomplishments and others have allowed Aegean to continue to thrive even while the maritime industry has faced headwinds. We expect that as the market begins to normalize, we'll be in even better position to opportunistically enter to new markets and respond to increase global market demand by further leveraging our global capacity.

All of these efforts should allow us to continue to generate returns for our shareholders. Turning to fourth quarter specifics, as I highlighted, we commenced commercial operations at our Fujairah storage facility in the fourth quarter and are pleased with our progress. Nearly 60% of the storage facility is now in use, of which Aegean represents roughly 25%.

We've a strong marketing strategy and are on track to achieve our stated goal of a 100% lease rate by the end of 2015. We expect the facility to begin to immediately contribute to our EBITDA over the next few quarters. We remain pleased to our U.S. East Coast bunker business and its performance through 2014.

During the fourth quarter, we completed the integration of our U.S. Gulf Coast and Port of Los Angeles operations. These operations include one ocean going bunkering tank with offshore operations in the Gulf and a storage facility of the Vopak Terminal in Los Angeles, which has become the cornerstone of our U.S. West Coast operation.

We also expect to complete the integration of Hamburg, Germany and St. Petersburg, Russia operations within the first quarter of this year. These outposts, handle marketing operations in Russia and physical supply and marketing operations in Germany.

As we have discussed previously, these opportunistic expansions came on the heels of the OW Bunker bankruptcy and required no invested capital, aligned with our strategy to diversify our operations and expand our global footprint in a risk-averse manner. By maintaining our financial flexibility and remaining nimble and opportunistic, we have been able to move quickly to realize accretive growth opportunities and profitability in the business.

In the fourth quarter and through 2014, we continue to refine our operating infrastructure and streamline expenses to better line with current market demand and position us to meet future demand. We pursued the opportunistic sale of non-core vessels, particularly older vessels that would require considerable maintenance. As a result, we broaden cash proceeds and reduced our expense structure.

Over the course of 2014, we sold seven non-core vessels for a total $16.5 million. The sale of older and non-core vessels has allowed us to improve utilization of our remaining fleet and reduce maintenance CapEx.

Turning to our capital allocation strategy, during the year, we maintained our commitment to returning meaningful value to shareholders. In the third quarter, we initiated new $20 million repurchase program. While we're not active in the market in the fourth quarter, we will continue to evaluate market conditions, capital allocation alternatives and other factors to determine when best to buy back shares.

As a reminder, in the third quarter, our Board approved a 100% increase to our quarterly dividend. The authorization of new $20 million share repurchase program along with increased dividend underscore the confidence of our Board and management having our strategy and our ability to continue to drive profitability while returning significant capital to shareholders.

Based upon our success and building our global footprint in [indiscernible] (9:11) in 2014, we have entered 2015 with momentum. There are several new drivers that we expect will allow us to further improve our financial performance including the Fujairah facility, our expanded global operations, lower interest expense expectations given commodity pricing and our ability to capitalize new regulatory requirements for lower sulfur fuels.

Based upon this, we believe that in 2015, we will be able to deliver earnings that are meaningfully higher than our 2014 results.

With that, I will turn the call back over to Spyros to provide additional detail on our financial results for the quarter, and then I'll wrap up with thoughts on the macro environment for the year. Spyros?

Thank you, Nick. As you may know, since market conditions fluctuate at ports around the world, we'll provide sequential comparisons in our discussion of quarterly financial results, comparing results for the fourth quarter of 2014 to the third quarter of 2014.

For the fourth quarter of 2014, our sales volumes increased to 1.7% to approximately 3 million metric tons on a sequential basis. During the fourth quarter, the gross spread per metric ton of marine fuel sold was $25.7, an increase of 4% over Q3 levels. Total gross profit for the fourth quarter increased by 3.1% sequentially to $85.2 million. Net income for the fourth quarter was $7.5 million or $0.16 per basic and diluted share. Adjusted for the write-off of bad debt expense related to the OW bankruptcy, at a non-cash gain on sale of non-core assets, net income grows $10.4 million or $0.22 per basic diluted share. EBITDA for the fourth quarter grows $22.9 million or $25.8 million adjusted for the write-off of bad debt expense and sale of non-core vessels.

Slide 10 illustrates our company-wide utilization, which is measured as volumes delivered per vessel per day excluding both scheduled and non-scheduled non-operating or off-hire days. In the fourth quarter, utilization was 523 metric tons per day compared to 511 metric tons per day in the third quarter of 2014.

As a reminder, our utilization does not include the Aegean Northwestern Europe, which operates a support-based business model focused on providing same day sales and delivery services, and our U.S. East Coast business where we do not own delivery assets. We generated voyage revenues of $7.4 million in the fourth quarter. Looking ahead, we expect voyage revenues to increase slightly. We expect storage levels to increase as our Fujairah facility comes online and thus we lease greater storage capacity to third parties.

On slide 11, we present our historical gross profit and EBITDA margin trends. Our EBITDA margin, which is calculated as adjusted EBITDA divided by gross profit, was 30.2% in Q4, an increase of 10% over the previous quarter. During the quarter, Aegean reported net cash from operating activities of $194.3 million.

Now, I will turn to the full year 2014 results. Our sales volumes for the year increased by 14% to approximately 11.3 million metric tons on a sequential basis. Total gross profit for the full year increased by 17.2% sequentially to $335.2 million. Net income for the full year was $17.6 million on a GAAP basis and $37.8 million when adjusted for the sale of non-core assets and the write-off of bad debt expense. EBITDA for the full year was $82 million or $102.2 million adjusted for the sale of non-core vessels.

During the full year, Aegean reported net cash from operating activities of $182 million. Our total debt of $754 million can be analyzed as follows; our fixed asset base of $636 million is financed by $231 million in debt which implies a leverage of 36.4%. Of our $523 million in working capital debt, $190 million is long term and $332 million is short term, both of which combine finance current assets of $750 million resolving in a leverage of approximately 69.7%. As you know, our current assets are very liquid, as our inventories are turned around every 12 days and our receivables in 29 days.

Our debt can be further analyzed as follows; our fixed asset debt of $231 million is secured by 36 vessels, all built after 2007. This means that we have only $6.4 million of debt per vessel with an average vessel age of 6.1 years. We own an additional 50 vessels that are debt free. All financing is committed at attractive rates. We have a $59 million term loan financing of our storage in Fujairah with book value of over $200 million. All term debt is also committed. We continue to enhance our considerable finance and flexibility, which contributes to be a key differentiator for Aegean.

In terms of short-term debt, we have the $1 billion facility provided by 30 international banks, and we have $115 million remaining on our total revolving bank borrowing credit capacity. The $1 billion is broken down as follows; $115 million two-year committed, $150 million one-year committed and the balance uncommitted. We also have a convertible and secured bond of $71.7 million. In addition, we have $71.7 million of receivables facility with Deutsche Bank without recourse to us.

As of December 31, 2014, our fixed asset base – fixed asset debt-to-adjusted EBITDA multiple was approximately 2.3 times. Our financial liquidity, which includes more than $1.8 billion in working capital credit facilities including supplier credit is lower than previous quarters as a result of the OW Bunker claims of the acquired assets. Therefore, to fund our continued expansion into existing and new markets, we recently announced that we have upsized and priced the previously announced registered public offering of additional 4% convertible senior notes. The size of the offering was increased from $40 million in an aggregate principal amount of the new notes to $42 million and that was priced 111%, plus accrued interest, from November 1, 2014.

We're in compliance with our loan covenants and have a strong fixed debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio.

Now I'll turn the call back over to Nick.

Our fourth quarter and full year results reflect Aegean strong ability to execute on proven strategy and drive substantial growth despite challenging market conditions.

Before we conclude, I'd like to provide further thoughts on macro trends in the industry that will impact our results through 2015. I'll also outline why we are confident, we are well positioned to continue overcome market challenges, while benefiting from growth opportunities and potential shifts in the landscape.

We remain hopeful about market dynamics as the shipping environments begin to stabilize. While the dry bulk space remains challenge, we're already seeing improvement in the tanker space and are hopeful that moving to 2015, overall fundamentals in the maritime industry will gradually improve as well. As the broader industry begins to recover, we would expect our financial results to also accelerate. Importantly, even without further improvement in our operating environment, Aegean remains well positioned to continue to excel from both financial and operational perspective. First, as I mentioned, we expect the results for 2015 to significantly succeed those of 2014, particularly given our strong drivers.

With the addition of a now fully operational storage facility in Fujairah, the extension of our global footprint with the launch of operation in Russia, the U.S. Gulf Coast, the U.S. West Coast and Germany, the favorable changes in the industry-wide regulation such as the 0.1% sulfur regulation, as well as the lower interest expense due to the commodity pricing being lower in 2015 than in 2014. We are excited that the integration of our Hamburg and St. Petersburg operations are nearly complete. And with recent volatility in our sector, we expect there to be even greater opportunities to enter new markets. With an expanded global footprint and greater overall market share, we believe we're well positioned to continue to generate significant value. In 2015, we will execute on our growth strategy to ensure we're prepared to meet market demand as the industry recovers.

Aegean is uniquely positioned to capitalize on the new EU's regulations regarding changes in fuel and [indiscernible] (18:15) requirements. Many companies in our industry lacking infrastructure support the new sulfur grade requirements, which we believe, will be disruptive to their operations, as these regulations come into effect. Aegean, however has strong cash flow, limited debt and vessels that can support multiple fuel grades. Therefore, we expect to be able to capitalize on these regulations to gain profitable market share.

In addition, the current commodity price environment could add additional benefits. Lower oil price, reduced overall capital requirements in our business, positively impacting interest expense, while also lowering our own fuel consumption expense. Lower price has also encouraged our customers to buy larger quantities of marine fuel, which enhances utilization and volumes. In addition, commodity players maybe incentivized to buy in bulk, meaning they will need adequate storage, benefiting Aegean's U.S. East Coast bunkering business and our Fujairah storage facility.

Overall, the commodity environment will allow us to potentially increase our sales volume and reduce operating expenditures in the fuel business. We've a strong strategy in place for 2015 and the ability to successfully execute. We've demonstrated a track record of profitable growth, operational excellence and financial strength. As a result, we're confident that we're well positioned to continue to build shareholder value.

We'll continue to focus on streamlining our expense structure, reduce overall costs of the business and expand into new markets. Returning capital to shareholders will remain a priority for us. And we will continue to take prudent actions to position our company for growth in 2015 and beyond.

With that, I'd like to open the call for questions. Operator?

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Doug Mavrinac with Jefferies. Please go ahead.

A very strong quarter. My first question is whenever I look at your fourth quarter results, the thing that comes out of me first is just how huge the sales volumes were for 4Q. My question is have you guys looked at or can you breakout for us, you know, how much of the increase was based on year-over-year increases at your existing locations versus maybe, the addition or integration of new locations or whether some combination of both?

Doug, a very, very small amount came from the LA operation and the Gulf of Mexico or U.S. Gulf Coast business because those came in the mid-December. So....

Right.

So, it was principally our core operations.

Got it. And Nick – I'm sorry, go ahead.

Yeah, it was basically same-store sales.

Got it. That's what I was kind of trying to infer or get out because basically that kind of demonstrates some of the positives of lower oil prices, I mean, you guys are already seeing that. I mean would you kind of say that that's a fair assessment?

Yeah. That's right. It's the first time we've also grown over three million tons in the quarter. So, it was quite strong.

Right. Got you. That's right. And then whenever we look at the first quarter and how we're trying to get, I mean, obviously the winter is always challenging just to the logistical reasons. But do you have any updates for us as far as what January and/or February sales lines are looking like?

Doug, if I'd look at the entire quarter, since we do have January-February volumes right now, I'd say, we're looking at the similar seasonality that you get from having weather days...

Right.

...in the first quarter. So, it's going to be a little lower than it was in Q4, otherwise everything seems pretty good.

Right.

And what it means technically, I'm talking about the spread side of the equation. But that's not unexpected. This is something that we anticipated and it's, again in line with what we think, yeah.

Right. I mean that always happens during the winter, I mean, it's just hard to kind of tie up and load and all those sorts of things, correct?

Sure, and ports shutdown. I think we had something like 20 weather days across our ports. It might be even a little bit higher like 24 weather days.

Right, got you. Now, you mentioned that, the start up of the West Coast operations, just, can you share with us maybe a little bit of color, kind of the logistical kind of startups of the West Coast, the U.S. Gulf Coast, how that integration is performing or going and then how is it contributing? It sounds like it's already starting to contribute, but kind of can you maybe relay with us some of the benefits of those moves that you made late last year?

Sure. Very well, starting with LA. The – basically it had come to a complete halt, zero operations, though they rebuilt – they are in the process of [indiscernible] (23:13). Our team there is rebuilding the business, and it's going quite well, right according to plan. I would say, the integration process is probably 90% there.

Got you.

Same holds true for the Gulf of Mexico, again, with complete halt, back at it, probably 90% there, maybe 85% on that one, okay.

Right, got you.

And then Hamburg Germany is probably at around the 50% mark in terms of its expectations right now. So, again, but I think, at the end of this, for the next few weeks, early next quarter, they'll be probably in the 90% mark.

Got it, perfect. And then just finally Fujairah, you mentioned in your comments, that thing is getting up and running. How, I guess – how do you expect the ramp up to devolve or play out this year? Is this kind of maybe backend weighted towards 3Q and 4Q, or do you see it just kind of starting to ramp up as we speak and then just kind of slowly contribute during 1Q and 2Q even?

Well, there's going to be contribution in 1Q for sure and then 2Qs, we think will be even larger than 1Qs. We are – we have customers already in our facility right now, particularly on the clean side of the capacity, and we're looking to fill up the clean capacity and also give – lease out some of the -- call it the dirty product capacity...

Right.

And that will be done over the next say – two quarters to three quarters.

That is perfect, great job, and thanks for the time.

Thank you, Doug.

Thank you. Our next question will come from Ben Nolan with Stifel. Please go ahead.

Thanks. And actually I have a couple. So, my first has to do with the list of regulations that came into effect in January. It would seem as though, and you guys have indicated that, that should have a positive impact on your business, but we're 2.5 months into the year, is there anything anecdotally that maybe you could share as to whether or not you are now seeing those impacts working through into the business and how is that coming through? I mean is it, are you able to capture more market share or are you able to generate better margins on that type of fuel, are you able to blend, what sort of things are happening as a function of the low sulfur?

So this affects, North America and sort of the Northwest Europe area, Ben, which I would say together represents roughly 20% of our business, okay, as you look at it, anything that you sold before that was 1.0% sulfur product. Today, in those areas you are selling the 0.1% sulfur product. And yes, we're definitely seeing that those products are carrying a higher profit margin than the 1% sulfur, so it is visible, it exists in those markets, and that is a portion of our total product mix, and yes it will – it is definitely something we're seeing in those areas.

Okay. That's helpful. And then, along with that and there is a lot of new moving parts here, so I am trying to get a handle on them. With respect to the West Coast operations, the Gulf Coast operations, Hamburg and then also St, Petersburg, can you maybe give me a sense of, in terms of volume, how much I should think about on a, call it a run rate basis those should be additive to your volume, I mean, how big of the incremental impact should I think about those having?

Well, again, since we don't have our own history and we only know what went on there in the past, and we haven't been through any business cycles with these units, let's just say that we think that – we would think that the LA business can do somewhere around 50,000 tons a month, we think. And the Gulf of Mexico is probably around 30,000 tons a month. And Hamburg, Germany could be somewhere in that neighborhood too, maybe a hair more, but right around there.

Okay.

So, does that, I hope that's helpful, but we'll [indiscernible] (27:46)

Yeah.

Yeah.

Yeah. For sure, that is very helpful. And then, I was also going to ask. So, with respect to Fujairah, and I know you said you had 60% chartered, and I assume that 25% of the total is to you guys rather than 25% of the 60%. But, how should I think about the revenue that you guys generate as a function of that leasing? I mean, is it done on a per cubic meter basis or how is that? And is it a long-term contract or sort of a spot-based business, how does that hit the P&L, I guess?

Well, there is a variety of contract types there, Ben. I mean, I would say the shortest one is six months with options. People typically pay a fixed rate per cubic meter of storage. And then they pay incremental fees for the amount of moments they get and any other services that they require that involve pumping. So it can – there is heat, there is all kinds of things that can get added into that number. So, it's kind of hard for me to give you that answer in a specific way.

Okay.

Everything is basically at market, and again, we – the primary focus initially has been on the clean storage.

Yeah. Yeah, okay. I don't want to monopolize, but on interest rates, you said that – and obviously, the debt balance was down quite a bit in the quarter, although the interest expense went up a bit. Is it fair to assume that the better part of that balance was repaid – was repaid closer to the end of the quarter, so sort of on a forward-looking basis, the interest expense should be less than what it was in the fourth quarter?

Yeah. This is right. I mean, we had the drop in the price of oil...

Oil is down 20%, 25%.

Right.

So, the commodity value is down alone. So, just on that basis, you're going to have the lower interest expense.

Sure.

And that's one-for-one, so to speak. Yeah.

And also on the interest expense, don't forget we include also its commissions and payments for DLCs and stuff.

Yeah, that's right [indiscernible] (30:09). Some of them like cargo. Yeah.

Oh, got you. Okay. Okay. And then I guess just sort of the last one, Nick, sort of in your commentary there, you talked about looking to open new facilities, and I guess, correct me if I'm wrong, but my sense was that it seemed like you guys are a little bit more – and maybe the commentary was a little bit more focused on growth opportunities than it has been in the past, is that – is it – first of all is that correct? Secondly, is that maybe a function of disruption of OW not being in the market and that sort of is creating some disconnect and some opportunities to expand where maybe they didn't exist in the past?

Look, as a general matter, we analyze each and every location's performance on an ongoing basis, okay. And we also examine other markets that have an effect on us to see if there is opportunities for us to do something better, more effective. And we've done this successfully and very methodically over the past, almost nine years now. We'll continue to do that. Now, we have certain things that we are looking at, at all times. I don't think if we can open a new location, we're going to go sit there and invest CapEx. No, this is going to be something greenfield that we do, much like when we brought on the new OW locations, right? We did not put in invested capital in there, all right? Those were done just, again, we acquired those without having to put any capital to work or CapEx to work. We basically got them by signing contracts over. And I think if we introduce something new, it would be along that same line.

Okay. That's helpful. All right that does for me. I appreciate that. Nice quarter, guys.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you. And our next question comes from Kevin Sterling with BB&T Capital Markets. Please go ahead.

Thank you. Good morning, gentlemen.

Good morning.

Hey. Nick and guys congratulations on another solid quarter. When I look at your spreads, they were up this quarter on a sequential basis. Is this indicative of more rational pricing you're seeing in the market?

Yeah. I don't know how to answer Kevin exactly. I think it's...

Hope.

We hope, yeah. Yeah. Look, just in general, there's a lot of things that are just developing within our business, okay, and when I say our business, I mean, our company, all right? We are looking at for every opportunity to have a reduced cost of goods sold by blending, by sourcing cargos further upstream whenever possible, and again, that all just affects spread. So, it's not just the retail side. It's also the sourcing side. And you put those two components together, you get a better spread. And again, so it's trying to capture blender's margin whenever possible, and then in 2015, as I pointed out, there'll be other things that add to that too. So, that's probably why you're seeing a more stable and higher spread than you have in the past.

Okay. So, I know, in general, you guys are doing a great job on your side, but if you had to kind of look at the market today versus maybe say, a year ago, would you say the general marketplace is a little bit more rational today, in terms of pricing than say a year ago?

Yes, because we're not competing against one big competitor that was playing in a lot of games. And we had one competitor that would enter markets, undercut us on price, to try and build up their volumes for various reasons. Now that that competitor is gone, good riddance, we're seeing much more rational pricing.

Got you. Thanks, Peter. And Nick, you talked about your earnings for 2015 being materially higher than 2014. Without getting into too much detail, could you kind of talk to us about the drivers of this growth, and more in particular kind of how we should think about the growth? It most of the growth in 2015, will that be coming from Fujairah or is it your core business? I'm sure it's a combination of both, but is there any way to kind of break it down like, okay, guys, you should think about the majority of our 2015 growth coming from Fujairah, and also some improvement in core operations and maybe just a little bit more color, how we should think about that growth in 2015 versus 2014?

Look, I think there are a couple of things that we've already said on this call, that if you put them together, will get you there. Number one as Nick said, in terms of the margins, we should see stable margins as we move more towards blending in certain markets, and not just sort of buying retail, selling retail. That's number one.

Number two, we should have increased volumes as we've entered a series of new markets, LA, U.S. Gulf, Hamburg, St. Petersburg, and now we've had the U.S. East Coast for a year, so, this will be their second year. So, you should see increased volumes for that. And then, I think what we've been very good at over the last few years, is cutting costs and there are a number of initiatives that we've undertaken, that we can see another round of cost cutting without losing any volume or any revenues. So, we're just really looking at underperforming assets and saying, you know what, time to get rid of them. So, I think those are the places where you see increased earnings for the company. I don't know – Nick, do you have anything to add?

Yeah, then you have the regulation on the 0.1% sulfur out there. And potentially lower interest expenses are based on the commodity being cheaper. You put all those things together, and you have a materially bigger 2015 than 2014.

All right, think about it. Oil half of what it was. So, when we're buying and holding, which we need to do in some places, our working capital, it's a serious benefit.

Yeah. I got you. So, if I had – without putting words in your mouth, if I had to break it out to think about 2015, it's a pretty healthy combination of improvement in your core business, but also really the ramp in the Fujairah. Is that right?

Right. I didn't even touch on Fujairah. Yeah, I mean think about it. There we had an asset where we had couple of hundred million bucks sunk in and zero earnings from it and most of that money, and there was equity money from the company and now we're starting to see the benefits of that.

Yeah, no thank you. And then, Peter, you briefly touched on I guess selling non-core assets, and you have an asset that is underperforming, you are looking to get rid of it, how should we think about that for 2015, do you have any more non-core asset you are looking to sell here in the near-term?

There are couple of older ships and the couple of other things, but nothing that we've announced yet and nothing that we're prepared to announce.

Okay. And last thing I want to touch on, you briefly touched on this Peter, is your free cash flow driven by the lower commodity price, you're able to sell more fuel, and if I look at Q4, your free cash flow was really, really strong in Q4. I assume most of that was driven by lower bunker prices, were there any other factors at work that really helped free cash flow in the quarter?

I think everything else that we've doing throughout the year, right, if you cut your expenses, you're going to make more cash. If you sell more product, you make more cash, and if you increase your margin you make more cash.

And we're done with CapEx too.

Yeah, we are done – exactly, Nick just chimed in, we're done with CapEx, and we don't see any CapEx in the near future.

Yeah, so I guess kind of, then as we look to the next couple of years, so that backdrop in mind with minimal CapEx outlay for the next couple of years, you're done with Fujairah, it looks like you don't need to really add any more vessels, I mean, is it safe to assume, we look at free cash flow, you guys are going to have tremendous free cash flow generation particularly if oil prices stay low, because it lowers your working capital. I want to guess is that a fair assumption? And two, what are your plans with that free cash flow if you don't plough it back into the business, you're looking to return more capital to shareholders either in form of an increased dividend or a ramp up stock buyback?

So, if you look, I think the first thing we're going to do is just use it to shore up the balance sheet to keep an amount of cash that we need to keep on the balance sheet to fund our working capital facilities. I think that's the first order of business with free cash flow just to keep an amount there that we need to satisfy our working capital facilities. After that, I mean, look we've, I know it doesn't sound like a lot, we increased the dividend from a penny to two pennies, but the 100% increase. So, I think, as we feel more comfortable that these initiatives are taking hold, that these new places that we've opened up are actually generating the kind of volumes we believe that Fujairah was actually generating, the kind of EBITDA we believe. Sure, then I believe that we would probably increase the dividend again at some point in the future.

Got it. All right. That's all I had. Thanks so much for your time this morning. Congratulations on the solid quarter.

Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And we have a follow-up question from Ben Nolan with Stifel. Please go head.

Hey guys, I usually don't ask follow-ups, so this is an overcoat, as long as I have a chance. I was going to ask...

You've hit your limit.

I was going to ask and Peter actually this might be right up your alley, but the tanker market has obviously been a lot better. Are you guys now in part of the long term sort of return to the [indiscernible] (41:22), has been as the markets normalize, people will sort of go back to more traditional buying patterns and buying in larger bulk. I guess my question is, are you seeing that now with tanker owners or people buying more at one single time and just buying less frequently, is that happening so far?

In the tanker space, we're definitely seeing that.

Yeah.

The tankers customers stems as the technical term we use for it, have increased in size, yes.

Okay.

There definitely [indiscernible] (42:02) there, so that creates a really a much better scenario for us. Think about it, it takes the same amount of time to go do a 200-ton or 300-ton delivery, on a say, say very minimal difference, several hours to do a 200-ton or 300-ton delivery versus a 1,000-ton or 2,000-ton delivery. So, it's far more efficient for us. It really makes better use of that vessel and better use of whole company platform for that matter. So, we may – yeah, we're more profitable when that happens.

Okay. Well, that does it all. I'll just do my one little add-on and not press my luck.

Thank you. At this time, there are no more questions. This concludes the Aegean Marine Petroleum Network Inc. conference call. Thank you and have a nice day.