Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Spyros P. Gianniotis — Chief Financial Officer, Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.
E. Nikolas Tavlarios — President, Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.
Peter C. Georgiopoulos — Chairman, Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.
Douglas J. Mavrinac — Analyst, Jefferies LLC
Ben J. Nolan — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.
Kevin W. Sterling — Analyst, BB&T Capital Markets

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Please standby, we're about to begin. Good morning, and welcome to the Aegean Marine Petroleum Network Incorporated Third Quarter 2014 Conference Call and Presentation. I would like to advise everyone that there will be a slide presentation accompanying today's conference call. That presentation can be obtained from Aegean's website at www.ampni.com. I also want to inform everyone that today's conference is being recorded and is now being webcast at the company's website at www.ampni.com.

We will conduct a question-and-answer session after the opening remarks. Instructions will follow at that time. A replay of the conference will be accessible through the next two weeks by dialing 888-203-1112 for U.S. callers and 719-457-0820 for those outside the U.S. To access the replay, please enter the pass code, 6995289.

At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to the company. Please go ahead.

Thank you, and welcome to Aegean Marine's Third Quarter 2014 Conference Call. On the call today are Peter Georgiopoulos, Chairman of Aegean; as well as Nick Tavlarios, President of Aegean.

Before we begin our presentation, I would like to note that this conference call will contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

Words such as expects, anticipates, intends, estimates, or similar expressions are intended to identify these forward-looking statements. These statements are based on Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.'s current plans and expectations and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause future activities and the results of operations to be materially different from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.

Important factors that could cause actual results to differ include our future operating or financial results, our ability to manage growth, adverse conditions in the marine fuel supply industries and increased levels of competition. For further information, please refer to Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.'s reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

I would now like to turn the call over to Nick Tavlarios, President of Aegean, to discuss highlights from the quarter.

Thank you Spyros, and thank you all for joining us this morning. I'd like to begin with an overview of our performance during the third quarter, then highlight some recent Aegean's specific and general industry developments that will be key drivers of our operational and financial results. Once I've walked through our high level performance, I'll then turn the call over to Spyros to provide the details of our financial results for the quarter.

Following Spyros' remarks, I'll discuss the shipping environment, macro trends and why Aegean is positioned to continue in its long-standing record of profitability. Before I begin discussing our quarter, I would like to touch briefly on the recent events in the marine field space. As you may know, one of our competitors OW Bunker has recently faced a series of challenges that ultimately led to a bankruptcy filling and liquidation of its assets. While we are not here this morning to discuss another company's financial situation, but we feel it is important to address some of the questions and concerns that have risen as a result of the recent events.

First and foremost, I want to point out that Aegean has an industry-leading set of policies and protocols that are specifically designed to mitigate industry and market risk and we will continue to hear these procedures and look for ways to continue to improve. Aegean has been a public company for eight years, with a track record that speaks for itself. We continue to conduct quarterly reviews to examine our procedures and ensure that we have the appropriate practices to manage risk appropriately.

Over the last three years, OW Bunker was able to grow sales volume at a rate of 20% per year, by offering aggressive pricing and supporting their volume through oil trading operations. I would like to make it clear that this is not what Aegean does. We act as a physical supplier and we do not carry unnecessary risk or take speculative positions. We only hedge our purchased inventory and we will transact with creditworthy customers.

We believe this industry development will create the opportunity for Aegean to capture market share, increase our base as risk-aversed owners move away from resellers and toward physical suppliers like Aegean, and potentially bolster our world-class sales force by adding new talented professionals.

There has been some mention of exposure to OW Bunker. It is important to note that our exposure is approximately $7.8 million, which we expect to recover in full. We are confident in our ability to collect these outstanding amounts, as OW Bunker did not hold title to or maintain any separate rights to any marine fuel delivered by Aegean, and all fuel was delivered under Aegean's terms and conditions. We are taking all steps necessary to protect our liability to the fullest extent possible.

On a GAAP basis, we must reserve for this liability, so you'll see a non-cash charge to our GAAP earnings in the fourth quarter. That said, there'll be no impact on our cash flow generation. Through this – though this is an unfortunate event as a dynamic time in our industry, our performance demonstrates the strategic advantages of our unique business model has supported us and will continue position us for success.

I will now move into our performance for the quarter. Throughout the third quarter, we again overcame industry headwinds to achieve strong profitability and growth. This quarter represents our 15th consecutive quarter profitability, and we now have achieved profitability in 30 of 31 quarters since becoming a public company.

Last quarter, we drove growth by once again pursuing the most profitable business streams. This quarter we experienced considerable uptick in volume, despite the ongoing challenges presented by the industry landscape. These winds underscore our ability to leverage assets and mitigate risk to achieve profitability in spite of market conditions. Our model provides Aegean with the flexibility to stay in long-term profitability regardless of the operating environment we are in.

Turning to the business specifics from the quarter, we are happy to announce that we have commenced commercial operations at our Fujairah storage facility. Our marketing strategy for Fujairah is in place and we're already conducting conversations with potential Fujairah customers. We expect the facility begin to contribute to our EBITDA storage fees and volumes beginning in the first quarter of 2015. Throughout the third quarter, we continue to streamline expenses and refine our operating structure to maximize growth in the current shipping environment. The sale of our non-core vessels, particularly older vessels, that require considerable maintenance, is critical to this effort.

During the quarter, we sold several old non-core vessels including our floating storage vessel in Fujairah, which is replaced by our onshore storage capacity in that region. The sale of these vessels aligns with our operating strategy in that it reduces both capital and operating expenditure, allow us to further utilize our core modern double-hull built fleet and generate cash.

Turning to our capital allocation strategy. During the quarter, we initiated $20 million repurchase program to be executed over the next few years. In addition, I'm pleased to announce our board approved a 100% increase to our quarterly dividend effective this quarter. This underscores our board and management teams' confidence and our ability to continue driving long-term profitability and reaffirms our commitment to return meaningful value to our shareholders.

Before turning the call back to Spyros, it is worth noting that our results for the quarter also include a $3.3 million unrealized FX loss, which when added back yields an adjusted EBITDA of $26 million or a $102.2 million over the trailing 12 months. For the month of October, we sold approximately 933,000 metric tons of marine fuel.

And with that, I will turn the call back over to Spyros to provide additional detail on our financial results for the quarter. Spyros?

Thank you Nick. As you may know, since market conditions fluctuate at ports around the world, we'll provide sequential comparisons in our discussion of quarterly financial results, comparing results for the third quarter of 2014 to the second quarter of 2014.

For the third quarter of 2014, our sales volumes increased by 11.3% to approximately 3 million metric tons on a sequential basis. During the third quarter, the gross spread per metric ton of marine fuel sold was $24.7 million, a decrease of 15.1% over Q2 levels. Total gross profit for the third quarter decreased by 2.2% sequentially to $82.6 million. Net loss for the third quarter was $4.3 million or $0.09 per basic and diluted share. When adjusted for the sale of non-core vessels, net income was $9.4 million or $0.20 per basic and diluted share. EBITDA for the third quarter was $8.9 million or $22.7 million adjusted for the sale of non-core vessels.

Slide 9 illustrates our company-wide utilization, which is measured as volumes delivered per vessel per day, excluding both scheduled and non-scheduled non-operating or off-hire days. In the third quarter, utilization was 511 metric tons per day compared to 488 metric tons per vessel per day in the second quarter.

Utilization increased sequentially in the third quarter, as volumes delivered increase across the network. As a reminder, our utilization does not include the Aegean Northwestern Europe, which operates a support-based business model, focused on providing same day sales and delivery services, also our U.S. East Coast business where we do not own delivery assets.

We generated voyage revenues of $7.7 million in the third quarter, an 18.5% increase over the previous quarter. Looking ahead, we expect voyage revenues to remain consistent as we continue to leverage our built-in idle fleet capacity and charter excess tonnage. We expect storage levels to remain consistent for the current quarter and increase thereafter as our Fujairah facility comes on line and we lease storage capacity to third parties.

On slide 10, we present our historical gross profit and EBITDA margin trends. Our EBITDA margin, which is calculated as adjusted EBITDA divided by gross profit, was 27.5% in Q3, a decrease of 15.1% over the previous quarter. As mentioned by Nick, our EBITDA was effected by a $3.2 million unrealized FX loss. During the quarter, Aegean reported net cash from operating activities of $54.5 million. As of September 30, 2014, our cash position was $117.6 million and our working capital position was $226.6 million.

We continue to enhance our considerable financial flexibility, which continues to be a key differentiator for Aegean. We have $572 million remaining on our total revolving bank borrowing credit capacity through our global multi-currency credit facility and our ABN AMRO Capital New York facility, which gives us the flexibility to support volume growth and weather the potential industry headwinds. Our total debt of $893 million can be analyzed as follows. Our fixed asset base of $613.5 million is financed by $241.4 million in debt, $38.5 million of which is classified as current, which implies a leverage of 39%. Of our $651.6 million working capital debt, $899.8 million is long term and $461.8 million is short-term both of which combined finance current assets of $976 million resulting in a leverage of approximately 70%. As you know, our current assets are very liquid, as our inventories are turned around every 12 days and our receivables in 28 days.

Our fixed assets of $178.6 million is secured by 36-owned vessels with an average age of six years. This translates to approximately $5 million of debt per vessel. We own a further 16 vessels that are completely unencumbered. All financing is committed at an attractive rate. We have $63.5 million term loan financing our storage facility in Fujairah with book value of over $190 million. Over term debt is also committed. In terms of shorter debt, we have $1 billion facility provided by 30 international banks. The $1 billion is broken down as $115 million with a two-year commitment, $165 million one-year commitment and $730 million uncommitted. We also have a convertible and secured bond of $86.3 million. In addition, we have $71.7 million sales of receivables facility with a major international bank without recourse to us.

As of September 30, 2014, our fixed asset debt-to-adjusted EBITDA multiple was approximately 2.4 times, significantly lower than many peers who have consistently over-levered in this difficult market. Our substantial financial liquidity, including more than $1.8 billion in working capital credit facilities, when we include supplier credit, provides Aegean with a distinct competitive advantage as we seek to further expand our global market share, and strengthen our industry leadership for the benefit of the company and shareholders. We are in compliance with all loan covenants and have a strong fixed debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio.

Now, I will turn the call back over to Nik. Nik?

Thank you Spyros. Our third quarter results illustrate that Aegean is executing the right operating model to drive profitability and shareholder value, despite considerable industry headwinds. I would like to provide further thoughts on the trends and discuss our outlook for the fourth quarter and how we will carry our positive momentum into 2015.

Aegean remains well-positioned to expand its global footprint by strategically expanding into new markets to meet increased demand. As the shipping environment begins to stabilize, I'm confident that we're well-positioned to follow through with our plan.

In fact, we're already seeing opportunities expand into new markets, given the recent volatility in our sector. We are evaluating several new markets and we believe that's prime opportunities for us to take advantage of for our built-in fleet capacity and incomparable economic scale, I would expect to enter two markets for the next several months.

As we continue successfully executing our growth strategy, we'll do so while diligently maintaining our strictly risk adverse approach to growing our business. As I mentioned earlier, the marine fuel industry may experience additional changes as a result of the recent bankruptcy. With the absence of a major reseller, customers may need to or want to establish more direct contacts with physical suppliers such as Aegean. We believe that Aegean is uniquely positioned to benefit from these potential trends and we continue to manage our risk while growing profitable volume.

In regards to the current oil pricing environment, it is important to note that while our profitability is not tied directly to the oil price, we do believe that lower overall prices are a positive for our customers, who will see lower operating costs and potentially buy larger quantities of fuel, improving our utilization. Lower commodity prices also translate to reduced working capital requirements as well as operating an interest expense for Aegean's core operations while simultaneously creating a potentially favorable storage environment where players purchase and store fuel, hoping to capture higher future prices.

In addition to the current oil market, we remain optimistic about a positive shift in the macro shipping dynamics. We are continuing to execute a strategy that protects us from industry headwinds, but still allows us to fully capture the upside from a turn in the market. Low sulfur regulations also enhance the growth potential of our global bunkering business and the positive impact will be even more pronounced in 2015, as we see Fujairah becoming to – beginning to contribute to our bottom-line. We are confident that we'll continue to perform despite current market pressures and believe that 2015 could be a landmark year for Aegean. We will continue to execute our strategy of streamlining our expenses and reducing cost to maximize performance. We will also maintain our focus on returning value to shareholders and protecting the investment through executing our clearly articulated strategy to grow our business and our global presence in shipping.

With that, I would like to open the call for questions. Operator?

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Doug Mavrinac with Jefferies.

Thank you operator. Good morning guys, and congratulations – not just on a great quarter, but on reaching all these milestones at Fujairah, dividend increases, et cetera. I think it really validates what you guys have been doing. I just had a handful of follow-up questions. With the first being looking at the third quarter, best quarter that you've had or matched the best quarter that you've had in four years. And when we look at kind of what was behind it, at least from our standpoint, we noticed a significant uptick in sales volumes during the quarter despite as Nick mentioned, a very challenging environment.

So my question is, was there a specific geography or what was specifically behind the uptick in sales volumes during the quarter that resulted in such a good bottom line number?

I think for starters Doug, the drop in oil prices that you see there really puts the ship owner – changes the buying habits of the ship owner to buy a little bit more fuel. So this is a good dynamic out there. And as you know, we really go after the best blend of both profit margin and volume, and we'll take what makes most sense for the company.

Credit quality.

And yeah, credit quality too, as Peter just pointed out. So it was a combination of those things.

Got you, got you, got you. Thank you, very helpful.

If you remember Doug, on a couple of calls ago, we discussed the utilization and we went through the – with a tight shipping market and high bunker prices, the owners weren't taking full stems. And so our ships still had to go out and it sort of takes same amount of time to deliver couple of hundred tons or couple of thousand tons of fuel, I mean ballpark same amount of time. What we're finding is at the lower prices, people are taking more fuel and we're getting better utilization of our equipment.

Yeah, and that makes total sense, Peter. So to see kind of the cost and effect of this lower fuel price environment. And actually that's a great segue to my second question and is reflective of questions that I have been getting is that, four years ago whenever we saw oil prices falling, it had a negative effect on your spread, whereas this time, it didn't. And so, my question is for you guys to maybe explain to the audience, what was different between four years ago when there was only quarterly loss that you put up versus now? Was it just how fast oil prices fell back then versus this a gradual decline, because as you correctly said or at least we agree with, that in the lower commodity price environment, that should be good for you guys. So can you explain the difference between, what we're seeing now and why you put up your best quarterly result in four years versus four years ago, whenever that collapse in prices had a negative effect?

So, it's a different company, Doug, than it was four years ago. I mean this is far more sophisticated. We continue to evolve and we have better practices, our risk management's very, very – conservative strategy here to make sure that we're not taking unnecessary risks. You saw the falls in the price of oil, but yet it did not impact us as you said. So we're very – again, it's a far more developed company than it was in the past and we make sure that our inventory is fully hedged. So that's the main difference on what – yeah.

Right and long sort of short...

And that was a big difference between now and four years ago, the hedging of the inventory.

Right, right, right. And long sort of short. This cheaper commodity price environment is good for you guys?

Yes. Both good for the shipping business, which is good for us.

Right [indiscernible] (00:21:26).

Yeah. And also it reduces our cash requirements, our working capital requirements, our interest expense, the consumption of our own fleet, all those benefits.

Yep. Perfect, perfect. That's awesome. And then just a couple more follow ups before I turn it over to everyone else. Nick you mentioned the top – the OW bankruptcy, have you guys seen any concrete kind of effects in the market or any of the markets that you operate within just yet and if so, kind of how is that playing out or maybe you haven't?

There is a lot going on out there. There's some small suppliers that did business with OW that certainly got hit by the shrapnel and they're no longer in business. I mean they had to shut down too. So it creates a pretty big power vacuum when a big competitor like OW all of a sudden is not there and just creates the opportunity to go fill that void and they need to sell more volume and they need to capture some pricing power.

Now, eventually that will find equilibrium but that – there is definitely some opportunity that's been generated by that. And for us, we're also looking at some of the markets and maybe – and some of the people too.

Right. Right. Got you. And then just final question, Fujairah completed, you began in commercial operations. Can you just share with us how that's proceeding relative to your expectations and then just kind of the logistical steps between now and whenever it starts to contribute financially next quarter?

So right now and here's where we stand. We completed our work, we've had oil delivered, we're starting to use that oil for ourselves. We have a commercial marketing plan in place, we're talking to customers and we're hopeful that in the early part of Q1, we will have some customers coming into our capacity there.

Perfect. That's all I have. And once again great job on the quarter and on the dividend increase, the share repurchase, I mean obviously you guys are doing all the right things. So great job.

Thank you.

We'll take our next question from Ben Nolan with Stifel.

All right. Thank you. Yeah, so I wanted to follow up on Doug's question with respect to OW and I appreciate that you guys are really don't want to talk about that. So I won't direct OW type question, but what I'm curious about is really two things, number one what is changing in the landscape in terms of how you're viewing maybe your operations in places like Singapore, where the market was really tight? Are you thinking about maybe reentering some of those more or being more present in some of those really competitive markets as a function of this, that power vacuums sort of open up some of those larger markets again for you? And then secondly does it change the credit environment, I mean do you think that banks are going to treat fuel providers differently, as a result of this whole thing playing out the way they have.

I'll take, this is Peter. I'll take the second one first. No, I don't think the banks are going to treat us, specifically, any different, whether they look at – again, we're a physical supplier, we take physical title of the oil and then deliver it. These guys were sort of in the middle and we're middlemen, basically, glorified brokers. So when you look at a bank's exposure, it's one thing to have title of the asset. It's another thing to just sit in the middle. And therein lie the issue that OW had. One of the things that we think is that or that we've seen in the last – and again, this is all sort of real time and very new, is we've seen a lot of ship owners come directly to Aegean and not want to deal with a reseller or someone like OW in the middle, which we think is positive for the physical suppliers, because I think for the last few years, we've been beaten back competitively by people like OW who had been very aggressive at quoting in markets and we could never understand how they made it work, now I guess we sort of see how they made it work. And so hopefully, the pendulum will swing back towards the physical suppliers. And then, Nick, you take the first question.

Yeah, we respect to going to new market spend. Everything you've seen us do over, say, the past five years where we've acquired a company or actually the whole of past eight years for that matter, buying companies, entering new markets. We do things very methodically and very deliberately. And I think we're going to continue to take that same approach here.

Having said that, I think the change in the oil price is something that really puts us in a better position to extend credit. Again, it's a lower price. So company can buy more against their credit value or ship owner that is. So that's, I think, the best driver there. And as far as looking at specific market, happy to call out Singapore, it could be any market for that matter. We have a very strong presence in every market that we operate in, and we'll watch the dynamics of how those markets behave and make our decisions accordingly on whether sales make sense and depending upon what the competitive dynamics look like. With the change in the current landscape, I think the dynamics are better. And, yes, there could be some improvements. So – and again, I think, in time, that'll find its equilibrium. But there's definitely an improved presence right now.

Okay. That's very helpful. And then also following on Doug's question about fuel prices and the move in prices. I mean, obviously, you guys did have a pretty solid growth spread, it was off a little bit from the previous quarter. So I guess sort of a two-part question. What you attribute this little bit lower spread to and also have you seen any forced liquidation in terms of fuel prices, like we'd seen in the last cycle?

So the gross spread being lower than it was in the prior quarter, is again just a reflection of us capturing the best combination of volume and gross spread and then – so when it's higher and lower again, we're just trying to drive profitability. So it comes down to both those. Our inventories hedge, so that doesn't influence it. So that's really what you're looking at there, Ben. So it's not one particular thing. It has to do with what markets it came from, what products we sold and putting that altogether and getting a total. It's around where we tend to perform and the volumes are quite good. I think in the – what was the other part of your question, Ben? I'm sorry.

Forced liquidation?

Well, No. I haven't seen any forced liquidation.

Okay. That's helpful and then I guess the last question, I could have more but I'll cut it off here. The new sulfur regulations, low-sulfur regulations take effect here in a month or so. Have you guys seen any – have you yet seen any changes in sort of buying patterns, enquiry from customers? Is there anything that is sort of giving you any indication as to how exactly this – the impact of the low sulfur regulations might begin to play out?

Yeah the demand for 1% sulfur is going away in the United States markets, so there's certainly North America and Northwest Europe. That demand appears to be de minimis, the 0.1% demand for those two regions of the world will go up increasingly and we're seeing that reflected in the marketplace.

Okay. And I know I said that was the last question, but one real quick one. You guys sold a few vessels – few of the older ones, are you done with that or are there a few more to go?

Again, that's sort of an ongoing thing. You always have to keep an eye on what your asset base looks like and not lose sight of it and make sure that you're getting. You have a spare capacity, but you're also optimizing its size. There could be one and we're at a point right now we're just watching it carefully and that's about it. But we've had tremendous success as you know from doing that. We've sold a number of vessels, we probably reduced our operating expense run rate by $8 million to $10 million this year alone by doing that. So it's been extremely successful. We also reduced our capital requirements going forward from a maintenance CapEx perspective on having these ships. So again, very, very successful program and we'll keep an eye in as we go forward.

Okay. Perfect. And that does it from me, but – would also like to say it was a nice quarter and, obviously, coupled with more importantly it's a very exciting time to be in your shoes, I would imagine, so.

Well, thank you. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

We'll go next to Kevin Sterling with BB&T Capital Markets.

Thank you. Good morning gentlemen.

Good morning.

I think you guys earlier talked about a little bit some of the irrational pricing that had been out there and you couldn't understand it and now we could see it kind of what happens when a competitor does that. And I think, you've touched a little bit like they have nice spreads. We did see little compression on a sequential basis. Was some of that compression possibly a function of some of that irrational pricing and now that this competitors is kind of out of the way, imagine prices going to return to a more normal level?

I would think so. It could – well, I definitely see pricing return to more normal level. And so far as why it went down, sure, I think if there's – when you see a company have to cover derivative position that they might be in trouble, they'll have to sell physical to offset it. So there might be some flood of commodity coming in to the market that could affect pricing. So, yeah, that's probably true.

Thanks, Nick. And then also with the lower oil prices we're seeing a lot of talk about that, the benefit. Now, that you've got your storage facility up and running in Fujairah, are you having customers reach out to you now looking to lock in some capacity to maybe take advantage of these lower oil prices in places like Fujairah?

Yes. Yes.

Yeah. That's right, Kevin. We're in the middle of it right now.

Okay. I imagined. It's a good time to have that up and running now. And Nick, I think, you talked too, given some of the dislocation in the market, you talked about entering two new markets in the next several months. Will you need new bunkering vessels to do that or could you just simply move some of your capacity around?

So we can move capacity around. We've got excess capacity that we can move around. We don't see having to buy vessels for a long time.

And getting back to Fujairah for a second, you've sort of hit on something. There is a $200 million asset that we've been carrying on our books for a couple of years now that hasn't generated any money. Starting January 1, that's going to start generating money which falls right to the bottom line, because we've been carrying it. And the operating costs are no more, they're actually probably a little bit less than the ship we had there for floating storage. So I think you're going to see in 2015, an increase in our earnings just from that.

Right. Yeah. Thank you, Peter, definitely makes sense. And lastly, just kind of – if I can tie it all together, a big picture here. When we look at the current operating environment, we're seeing tanker rate significantly improve, we talked a lot about the lower bunker fuel prices. If I step back, this look to have the makings of a very nice environment for you guys to grow your volumes and to grow your earnings. Am I thinking about the current market the right way? Is there anything that might hold you back?

Let's just leave it at face value. The current environment has a – there's a lot of good things pointing there. Our own business has a lot of really good drivers. There's a good legal environment out there for us, that being the 0.1% sulfur regulation. So you put those things together, yes, it's a very good cover in mind. Look, we will continue and we've done it for eight years, to be diligent, to be judicious, to manage our risk appropriately, and to just steer a good ship as we have been doing. And that's how we want to continue with our plan, we don't make acquisitions just for the sake of them, we've always made things that make good sense for our company, and we won't keep – we won't stay in a market if it doesn't make sense and we'll go into markets that do make sense. That's how we try to operate our company.

Okay, great. Nick and Peter, thanks so much for your time and your thoughtful answers. I appreciate it.

Thank you. Thank you, Kevin.

And at this time, I'd like to turn the conference back over to the company for any additional or closing remarks.

No. Thank you very much and we look forward to updating you soon as to the company's progress.

At this time, there are no more questions. This concludes the Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc. Conference Call. Thank you and have a nice day.