Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
E. Nikolas Tavlarios — President, Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.
Peter C. Georgiopoulos — Chairman, Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.
Spyros P. Gianniotis — Chief Financial Officer, Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.
Douglas J. Mavrinac — Analyst, Jefferies LLC
William W. Horner — Analyst, BB&T Capital Markets
Ben J. Nolan — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.
Chris Snyder — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC
Peter Christopher Mahon — Analyst, Dougherty & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Please standby, we're about to begin. Good morning, everyone. Welcome to the Aegean Marine Petroleum Network Incorporated Second Quarter 2013 Conference Call and Presentation. I would like to advise everyone that there will be a slide presentation accompanying today's conference call. That presentation can be obtained from the website at www.ampni.com.

I also want to inform everyone that today's conference will be recorded and is now web – being webcast at the company's website, ampni.com. We will conduct a question-and-answer session after the opening remarks, and instructions will follow at that time. A replay of the conference will be accessible through the next two weeks by dialing 888-203-1112 for U.S. callers and 719-457-0820 for those outside the U.S. To access the replay, please enter the passcode of 8677165.

And now, at this time, I'd like to turn the conference over to the company. Please go ahead.

Thank you, and welcome to Aegean Marine Petroleum Network's second quarter 2013 conference call. With me on the line today are Peter Georgiopoulos, Chairman of Aegean, as well as Spyros Gianniotis, Aegean's CFO.

Before we begin our presentation, I would like to note that this conference call will contain forward-looking statements with the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as expects, anticipates, intends, estimates, or similar expressions are intended to modify – identify these forward-looking statements. These statements are based on Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.'s current plans and expectation and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause future activities and the results of operations to be materially different from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.

Important factors that could cause actual results to differ include our future operating or financial results, our ability to manage growth, adverse conditions in the marine field supply industries, and increased levels of competition. For further information, please refer to Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.'s report and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

I'd like to begin with an overview of the second quarter, drivers of our operational and financial results and how recent and upcoming achievements underscore the progress we're making as we achieve our goals. I will then discuss our strong and consistent financial progress. Finally, I'll provide some concluding thoughts on the macro environment, drivers for the remainder of 2013 and upcoming milestones.

During the second quarter, Aegean achieved its tenth consecutive quarter of profitability, an accomplishment we have achieved 25 out of 26 quarters since we became a public company. We're excited about the opportunities in front of us and expect to build on positive momentum that our team has worked so hard to create. Despite challenging market dynamics, we have continued to leverage our increased asset base and infrastructure to capture additional voyage and storage revenue opportunities and drive operating income.

We achieved major milestones during the quarter, including the commencement of operations in Barcelona, expansion through Algeciras Bay, and signing of a cooperation agreement with SK Lubricants, both of which I'll discuss a bit later.

Turning to slide number four. During the second quarter, our sales volumes were flat year-over-year at approximately 2.7 million metric tons. On a sequential basis, sales volumes increased by approximately 13.8% or 326,000 metric tons compared to the first quarter. Sales volumes continue to be affected by the challenging macroeconomic and marine industry landscapes. And it is important to note that under normalized market condition volumes, it would have been significantly higher.

As things stand, our clients are facing challenges in their end markets, which in turn impacts our sales volume and tonnage pricing. Our team is focused on continuing to achieve profitable volume growth in the long-term, while managing and optimizing our strategy to capture all efficiencies possible.

As we navigate today's market, we will continue to optimize Aegean's size and make improvements where necessary. We have already seen the benefits resulted from our continued efforts to streamline our expense structure and leverage our model, which have driven growth on bottom line and we believe delivered value to our shareholders. For the month of July, we generated sales volume of approximately 900,000 metric tons.

Gross spreads in Q2 continue to reflect a highly competitive market. We continue to successfully execute our strategy to actively identify opportunities to increase efficiencies and drive profitability as capacity comes out of the market, and initiatives that are delivering results.

During the second quarter, we capitalized on our significant built-in fleet capacity in order to take advantage of our unique economies of scale. Importantly, Q2 marked our fifth consecutive quarter of reducing operating expenses. We're successfully leveraging our fixed cost to drive improvement on the bottom line. Aegean remains well-positioned to continue leveraging our scale and reducing our cost structure.

During the second quarter, gross profit decreased slightly by 1.8% sequentially. Net income for the second quarter was approximately $6.1 million on an adjusted basis, a slight decrease compared to the first quarter. EBITDA for the second quarter was $19.7 million or $20.2 million adjusted for the sale of a non-core vessel.

We continue to drive our operating expense structure while strengthening our integrated marine fuel logistics chain through targeted expansion and the disposition of an older non-core vessel. The sales of older non-core vessels allow us to, over time, increase utilization of our remaining fleet and reduce maintenance CapEx. And importantly, rationalizing our expenses by selling older non-core vessels will remain a part of our operating strategy for the foreseeable future.

These strategic actions directly impacted Aegean's bottom line for the quarter and are expected to continue to enhance value for our shareholders. We've also taken other decisive actions to increase our earnings potential by diversifying our geographic presence and expanding our revenue base.

First, we expect to commence the commercial operational of our Fujairah storage facility in the first quarter of 2014. Second, in April, we launched physical supply in our Barcelona facility, a new and attractive market that provides Aegean with compelling growth opportunities. Prior to the launch of our Barcelona, this market was being served by only one player. We believe our onshore capabilities; our service not previously offered in this region give Aegean a strong competitive advantage. We're confident that our operations in Barcelona to create substantial new volume and contribute to a larger profitable revenue base.

Third, in July, we announced our expansion to the Port of Algeciras Bay, one of Spain's largest ports and one of the busiest trans-shipment and container ports in the world. Algeciras is a compelling opportunity for Aegean as we continue to expand to our presence in the Western Mediterranean. We're now making our first deliveries in this market.

Over the past several years, we've successfully executed our strategy opportunistically entering and exiting markets to strengthen our competitive positioning, and this development is perfectly aligned with this operating philosophy. These new and attractive markets provide Aegean with compelling growth opportunities that are allowing the company to leverage its built-in capacity and enhance utilization.

Turning to slide seven, we continue to expand lubricant volumes during the second quarter, which were up 37% to 10,900 metric tons sold as compared with 8,000 metric tons for the same period in 2012. Although this is a smaller lower volume business for Aegean, it continues to yield high operating margin and is a profitable revenue stream for the company. As we continue to successfully capture market share in lubricants, we're well-positioned to achieve and execute goal of additional revenue diversification.

With that high level look at Q2, let me now provide you with more details about our financial results. As you may know, since market conditions fluctuate at ports around the world, we provide sequential comparisons in our discussion of quarterly financial results, comparing the results for the second quarter of 2013 to the first quarter of 2013.

On slide eight, we present our volumes and gross spread. During the second quarter, the gross spread per metric ton of marine fuel decreased approximately 12% to $23.10 per metric ton compared to $26.20 in Q1 2013.

Slide nine illustrates our company-wide utilization in the quarter, which is measured as volumes delivered per vessel per day, excluding both scheduled and non-scheduled non-operating or off-hire days. In Q2, utilization was 573 metric tons per day compared to 459.6 metric tons per vessel per day in the first quarter.

Utilization increased in the second quarter due to an overall reduction in our fleet size and the strategic decision to charter out excess tonnage on shore-term contracts. As a reminder, our utilization does not include Aegean North-West in Europe, which operates on a spot-based model focused on providing same day sales and delivery services.

During the second quarter of 2013, we recorded a total of 155 non-bunkering days which we define as scheduled and unscheduled off-hire days for our bunkering fleet plus days associated with the strategic repositioning of vessels. This number compares to 123 non-bunkering days in the prior quarter. For the current third quarter, we approximately – we estimate approximately 160 scheduled non-bunkering days.

We've generated voyage revenues of $5.1 million in the second quarter, which is in line with the previous quarter. Looking ahead, we expect voyage revenues to increase as we continue to leverage our built-in idle fleet capacity and charter out excess tonnage. We're well-positioned to benefit from these short-term chartering opportunities. And in fact, we recently renewed an annual transportation contract in Greece that will support the strategy.

Gross profit during the second quarter, which is calculated as total revenue less cost of sales, was $69.5 million. Since the fourth quarter of 2006, gross profit has increased at an annual rate of approximately 20%.

On slide 10, we present our historical gross profit and EBITDA margin trends. Our EBITDA margin, which is calculated as adjusted EBITDA divided by gross profit, was 29.1% in Q2, which was slightly higher compared to our adjusted EBITDA margin in the previous quarter.

Turning to our working capital slide on slide 11. During Q2, our days payable, days inventory and days receivable outstanding, all decreased slightly quarter over quarter. The net effect was a small overall decrease in our cash conversion cycle to 22.4 days from 22.5 days.

Moving to our balance sheet on slide 12, Aegean reported net cash used in operating activities of $66.4 million for the second quarter, due primarily to timing issues. Our free cash flow of the quarter led to the variability in our business pertaining to recorded items. At the end of Q2, we bought several cargoes on near-term credit, which was then sold in Q3. Although this was recorded in Q2, we're already seeing the benefit of these items in our cash flow for third quarter.

In addition, we use the operating capital to continue funding the construction and pre-commission of our Port Fujairah facility. The capital commitments for the funding of this construction are winding down and we do not expect to see the impact in the future quarters. Our strong balance sheet continues to be a key differentiator for our company. As of June 30, 2013, our cash position was $62.9 million and our working capital position totaled $36.1 million.

Importantly, regarding our global facility, we have attained subscriptions from 10 banks for a total of approximately $1 billion. The facility will be used for the financing of working capital needs in connection with the purchase transportation, storage and sale of fuel and gas oil. We're pleased that we have attained the subscriptions and believe that this demonstrates our lender's confidence in our strategy and ability to deliver profitable results.

These facilities will support Aegean's growth and expansion into the future. We expect to begin drawing down of the facilities in September. In addition, we have executed documentation $73.5 million senior secured term loan to fund construction of our 465,000 cubic meter oil storage facility in Port Fujairah. This new secured loan will fund the remaining construction costs with the balance being used to reduce short-term borrowings, enhancing our working capital position. We plan to begin drawing on this facility shortly.

With this commitment along with our global credit facility, we've significantly enhanced our financial flexibility. We appreciate the continued support from our lenders and their continued confidence in our ability to successfully execute our strategy.

Following the drawdown in utilization of these two facilities, just discussed, we expect to generate an additional $170 million in working capital. And our total amount of working capital is expected to exceed $200 million resulting in a current ratio of approximately 1.33 times. These facilities will further strengthen the company's balance sheet and provide the foundation to further expand our profitable operations.

In reviewing our balance sheet strength on slide 12, it is important to note that while trade finance debt at the end of Q2 totaled $490 million due to the intensive working capital requirements inherent in the gold marine fuel supply industry; this debt figure has a rapid turnover of between 30 and 45 days.

The remaining debt in our book will be approximately $114.3 million, which is secured by 36 young vessels or $3.2 million of debt per vessel. As a result, we end up with unencumbered debt free assets that include 23 owned bunkering vessels, three floating storage facilities and three existing onshore storage facilities.

As of June 30, 2013, our fixed asset debt to adjusted EBITDA multiple was approximately 2.3 times. Our substantial financial liquidity, including approximately $900 million in working capital credit facilities or $1.2 billion including supplier credit provides Aegean with a distinct competitive advantage as we seek to further expand our global market share and strengthen our industry leadership for the benefit of the company and its shareholders.

As our progress indicates, we're controlling factors within our reach by executing on our strategy to strengthen our global brand, increasing earnings potential and successfully navigate the challenges of the macroeconomic environment. We have strategically expanded our global footprint to 21 markets, covering approximately 60 ports to increase our global market share, drive business revenues and streamline trade efficiencies.

As we mentioned last quarter, we're focused on expanding service centers in a cost-effective way around the world. The strategy has allowed us to generate sustained strong results and we're excited about our path forward and opportunities to build significant shareholder value.

Looking ahead, there are a number of key milestones on the horizon that will showcase our progress. Let me highlight a few. First, in addition to Algeciras facility, we continue to explore opportunities to open additional port in 2013 or early 2014. Secondly, we expect to begin utilization of our new global – $1 billion global credit facility further enhancing the company's strong balance sheet and providing additional financial flexibility.

Third, with the upcoming completion of the Fujairah onshore storage terminal, we'll commence the sales process to monetize our floating facility in this location. Our goal is to continue to utilize our onshore storage capacity significantly as we work toward further reducing our floating storage capacity worldwide.

The elimination of floating storage facilities has become a growing trend around the world. In Fujairah, we expect this policy to increase demand for onshore storage capacity and enhance the value of our new facility there. We expect to complete the facility before the end of 2013, commence utilization in early 2014. We're excited to capitalize on the emerging opportunities in the region. Finally, we'll continue to examine opportunities to increase our efficiencies to additional sales of older vessels and other non-core assets.

Before we take your questions, I would like to walk you through trends that we noticed in the first half of 2013 and we expect for the second half of the year. Market headwinds and competition persist in our industry. To combat them, we will continue to act on opportunities to smooth out volatility by expanding our distribution and further diversifying our geographic mix.

We anticipate headwinds in the macroeconomic environment to impact our volumes and spread over the next few quarters. This is nothing new for our company. We have been dealing with this environment for the last two years and have been successfully navigating these headwinds and driving solid performance and generating profitability.

As we strategically enter and exit markets to maintain our leading competitive positioning, we remain focused on our operating philosophy and dedicating our resources to those revenue opportunities that will not drive just volume growth, but will increase profitable volume growth for the long-term. As older tonnage continues to exit the market, the delivery of new build vessels slows and global demand improves, the supply and demand balance in the overall shipping sector will improve.

In the meantime, Aegean's focus on higher quality customers will serve us well as we gradually begin to see these clients start buying larger amounts of fuel. In the midst of a challenging environment, we reported 10 consecutive quarters of profitability. We will not stop there. We have a solid global foundation and are confident that Aegean will continue to achieve profitable growth as the market emerges from the current shipping cycle.

With that, I would like to open the floor for questions. Operator?

Thank you, sir. [Operator Instructions] And first, we'll go to Doug Mavrinac with Jefferies.

Great. Thank you, operator. Good morning, guys. I just had a few follow-up questions for you all this morning. First, looking at the quarter, sales volumes are very strong during the quarter. Nik, as you mentioned, OpEx had declined once again. The only real kind of negative, if you want to call it or at least kind of negative surprise, was the gross spread coming in a little bit below $25. My question is was there a specific circumstance or region that caused that overall spread to decline from 1Q? And then I guess as a follow-on to that, whatever the answer is, is that something that is manageable going forward from your perspective?

So Doug, I mean if you look at our 2012 results, we had two quarters below $25 and two quarters above $25.

Right.

And we kind of finished the year out averaging $25, and sort of the same thing has happened here. This year we had one quarter above and one below it. That's kind of where we've seen the norm over time. Sure, I mean there is definitely some increased competition. What goes on when we use that term is, ship owners are out in the market buying smaller quantities and more frequently. So they are increasing the pressure from a competitive standpoint in some of the markets. And yeah, we've seen this trend occur more so in Q2. It tends to correct itself.

Yeah.

And we do expect it to restore, yes.

So maybe if we just think about $25 being the mean, 1Q is a little bit above, 2Q is a little bit below, but throughout the year $25 is probably the right number from your perspective?

Yeah. Again, we don't really get into guidance and such, but...

Yeah.

...I am just looking more at historical performance.

That's right.

And there are drivers that certainly suggest that that is the case.

Got you, got you. Perfect, great, that's very helpful. And then second, you also mentioned how your quarterly OpEx continued to decline. I mean I think that's five quarters in a row. My question is for that one similar to the first question, was there something specific during the quarter that enabled you to reduce it further or is it just kind of part of the broader strategy that you guys have employed over the last year or so to bring OpEx down?

It's all about that strategy. I mean that program was specifically there to really put us in a much better position. Again, the company I think is in a better position this quarter; meaning Q2's results here, than it was a quarter before. We reduced expenses. And when this market turns around, it creates that much more leverage in our business for greater profitability down the road.

Got you, got you. And then just kind of as a slight follow-up to that, how much lower can we go? I mean – or is it just a matter of just dealing with the market that presents itself? Because at some point – the scale of your business is getting very large and you guys are becoming very, very efficient. Does it reach a point where you can't go any lower or are you always looking for opportunities to continue to remain as efficient as possible?

Well, as I said in my remarks earlier, we're definitely looking to offload one of our floating storage facilities when the Fujairah onshore storage facility comes online and we do have our eye on one to two bunkering tankers perhaps over time and again that would really create some significant savings for the company and obviously go right to the bottom line. Having said that, we do have capacity within our current fleet to take on these additional ports that we've spoken about. And as volumes ramp up, there is again significant capacity there to meet that demand.

Got you, got you. And just a couple more before I turn it over...

So what Nik is saying – Doug, what Nik is saying there is that our utilization can increase dramatically, with the existing fleet that we have.

Got you, and which is all upside and all flows down to the bottom line, I would imagine, Peter. Is that accurate?

No, virtually no incremental cost for that, I mean after the cost of the fuel.

Right. Just turning on the switch and then letting it flow through.

It's like a pipeline, just push it through.

Yeah, got you, got you. And then just final question before turning it over, Nik, you mentioned sales volumes for July. Just confirming, 900,000 tons, that's the – that was the number for July, so about – a little bit better if not in line with 2Q?

Yeah. It's actually 902,000 tons. I was conservative saying 900,000 tons.

That's excellent. I thank you for the time.

Thank you.

Okay. Thank you. Next we'll go to Kevin Sterling with BB&T Capital Markets.

Hey, guys. This is actually William Horner on for Kevin.

Good morning, William.

Nik, if you could help me out here, I know you're obviously ramping up your exposure in the Western Mediterranean. You've been in Gibraltar, you're now in Barcelona, in Algeciras. What's the competitive landscape looking like? You mentioned that there is only one other – when you entered Barcelona, one other competitor there and are you seeing other players enter those markets, and if so, are the players being rational?

Barcelona has us and another player as you pointed out. Algeciras has about four players, not an overly populated market per se. You know we're in Gibraltar, and we've been there for a long, long time. And there is four major players there and a couple of other minor players. So the Western Med Basin, let's call it, is a pretty substantial market and it's because it's such a strategic shipping area around the world. So, yeah, again, it finds its rationale. If it does get irrational at times and it had when people first entered Algeciras ahead of us, it tends to find its equilibrium and that's what we see now.

Okay, that's helpful. Thanks, Nik. And with Fujairah, I know you're excited about the onshore storage you've got coming on in the end of 2013 and 2014. And just out of curiosity, what's the level of interest you're receiving from potential customers in terms of either targeted lease capacity or potential spot business? And just how things are progressing there?

Yeah. We're actually beginning to approach the market right now to speak to long-term users along with ourselves. By the way, we will be one of the significant users in the storage facility. So there is that locked-in kind of capacity, if you will, right on that plan. But it's definitely there. There is particularly a demand for fuel oil in the area. So we're excited about the opportunities.

Okay, thanks. And one quick housekeeping issue. I know you mentioned it on the call, but can you go back over some of the timing issues you said you noted with your operating cash flow this quarter?

Sure. We purchased some cargoes in, without naming the markets, I can name them, but I'd rather [ph] not (25:59) get into the details. But we purchased about four cargoes right at the end of the quarter there on near-term credit requirements. So they were paid for right at the end and they began getting sold in – right at the start of Q3. So that caused that use of cash per se. But again, now if you look at the balance sheet right now, that situation's reversed.

Okay. Okay. And one more, Spyros, if you're on, I know you had a slight tax benefit this quarter and just how should we think about that for modeling purposes going forward?

Spyros may have been cut off, so what I'll do is I'll – he's going to be joining in a second. What I – I can answer for you on that. In one of our operating subsidiaries they had a sale of an asset and that caused, again, an overpayment of taxes. So that's what that reflects.

Okay. All right. I'll follow-up offline then. Thanks, Nik.

No problem. [Operator Instructions]

Next we'll go to Ben Nolan with Stifel.

All right, great. Good morning, guys. I just had a question about the credit facility. And if Spyros is off maybe, Nik, you can help me. It sounds like it's pretty close to being signed, sealed and delivered and you guys are going to be able to draw on it. But it has kind of taken a while. Could you maybe walk us through the timing of when you expect to have it absolutely completed and what has been the process here that's sort of taken this much time?

Well, again, just going back to last quarter, I think in our prior quarter's remarks, we said that we had completed our first stage of subscribers. We were at the $800 million level and we were – had just launched a process to expand it to what we thought would be close to $1 billion to additional subscribers, and I think there were seven banks at the time.

We went to a broader array of banks. That level now is at 10 banks and the level again is around the $1 billion mark as we thought it would be. And we have – terms are all being negotiated. Everyone's signed on and committed; and now we've circulated to all banks the final – I shouldn't say final, but the documents themselves for commentary. And when you're working with that many parties, it takes some time.

The – this process has started now well over a week ago. So we're well into the comments stage. The whole multiple conference calls per week, going though the comments with attorneys and such. And the expectation right now is that in September – and I'd like to say early, but just giving myself a little bit of room, but in September we will have this executed and [indiscernible] (29:17) will be there.

I've got to hop in. I actually don't think – I mean I think for $1 billion credit line in this environment, I don't think it's taken a long time. I think it's taken – I mean we're surprised how smoothly the process has gone.

Okay, good. And could you maybe – you guys had, what, $375 million of liquidity or so at the end of the quarter. When its finalized, what is that number, what would that number move to? I mean what's the incremental level of capacity?

Well...

Nik, can I answer?

Of course.

Hello? Yes. We – I mean, at the moment we had – with the Deutsche Bank facility, we had $950 million availability. So now we will increase this liquidity or if you like available credit for trade finance to $1 billion, $100 million, something in that area. So the availability will increase a little bit above $100 million.

Okay, okay. So closing in on – based on the end of Q2, you're closing in on about $0.5 billion of available liquidity for trade finance, that sort of thing, right, or a little short of $0.5 billion I guess. So that's good. Okay, and that's helpful. And I think really everything else has sort of been addressed. I think the key issue is probably the gross margins, and Nik, you spoke to that. And I guess the take away is that we should sort of look for – or you guys are targeting kind of a $25 per ton run rate. That's fair, right?

Well, again, we'll work on what we can control. Again, everything suggests that that's attainable. We'll keep working at it. And we're not going to confirm your figure, but...

Of course.

...we're doing – we have seen that in the past. And again, the drivers are there for us to continue to strive towards those figures.

Right. Well, that's great. And...

As we've – sorry for interrupting. But as we've been saying for seven years, we can control our costs and we can control the volumes. The market is the market.

Right.

I think we're doing a very good job obviously controlling our costs at pumping out our volumes and increasing those over time. And even given the difficult shipping market, I think, we're doing a good job on capturing the best spread we can right now, but again some of that's out of our control. That being said, we're pleased with where we've come out this quarter.

Yeah. Well – and I think certainly from a cost perspective any time you can consistently remove as much costs as you guys have out of your system, it's pretty impressive. So certainly with respect to the things you can control, I think it's well done.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Next we'll go to Chris Snyder with Sidoti & Company.

Hi, guys. I know you guys have kind of already talked about gross spread, but I had kind of a follow-up question because I mean – obviously that came in low, but I think it kind of overshadowed an otherwise solid quarter in terms of [ph] utilization and obviously (32:49) cost reduction. So was the gross spread – was that just due to the allocation of sales among different markets or is that more – or you guys kind of see a decline in – across all markets compared to the first quarter?

No. Well, it's not across all markets. It's been sort of a couple of markets that we had tough quarters in; I think the lion's share of the markets exceeded our expectations. Nik, would you say?

Yeah, that's correct. And it's largely driven by competition in those markets. Look, we're letting the gross spread overshadow, something Peter pointed out here. We really believe that we executed very, very well here. The company is really in a great position here to really catapult itself coming out of this quarter.

Yeah. I agree. I – and my next question is after Fujairah is completed you guys I don't think have any capital expenditures planned for something major, which leads to probably some pretty significant cash flow. Have you guys decided or leaning towards what you're going to do with that?

Not yet. I mean the Board has to discuss various options as you can imagine, but there's nothing we feel comfortable talking about. But we really do believe, again, Fujairah facility will be finished. There are no more ships to order. We still have plenty of capacity on that side. So we think that the company is going to be building up substantial amounts of cash. And it's been an ongoing discussion at the Board level, and we'll continue to discuss it.

Okay. My last question is about Barcelona. Could you kind of give us an update on how that market has done? Was it operating at full capacity throughout this quarter or do you expect kind of more of a ramp-up as we head into third quarter?

I would say in Q2 we were probably – at the end of Q2, we're at about 80% capacity. We were not at it throughout the whole quarter. We were probably at 25% capacity in the early part of the quarter, and then I would say we were about 75% to 80% right there at the end. So yeah, I would expect to be at full capacity going into this quarter.

Okay. Thank you for taking my questions.

Thank you.

You're welcome.

Okay. And next we'll go to Peter Mahon with Dougherty & Co.

Good morning, guys. Just had a couple of follow-up questions. You mentioned that you renewed a transportation contract in Greece. Could you detail exactly how many vessels in that market will be impacted by this renewal and how that might impact the P&L? I believe that runs through the voyage revenue line, but is that correct? And what kind of revenue can you kind of expect from that contract, and how might that impact that revenue line?

So the transportation contract in Greece is a contract that existed before that we just renewed. So that element of it will remain neutral; it's two vessels. There is an additional transportation contract that we picked up at the end of the tail part of Q2 that goes into Q3 that will give us some additional revenue. Again, we'll see what that number translates to. But it's – Spyros, do you want to offer any commentary on that?

No, like you said. I mean, [ph] it's going to grow at (36:21) slightly better rates. So we will see some impact in the bottom line.

Okay, perfect. And then could you talk about the other revenue line? What is running through that revenue line and why did we see a decline of about $1 million from Q1 to Q2? And that also impacted the profitability of that revenue line. And so, I was just wondering if you could detail what happened and what that might look like going forward?

On this other revenue line, it's – we put there commissions [indiscernible] (37:09) and we have where we charter a vessel and the vessel delays to unload the [ph] customer, (37:18) things like that. And we do have – at this moment I cannot recall what was this – the decrease and [indiscernible] how can I pass this to you (37:33)?

Yeah.

Yeah. Are you there? Go ahead. Also the storage revenue wasn't in there that we had from Panama, that's no longer there. Again that will get replaced later when the Fujairah revenue comes on board.

Okay, got it. So that all kind of worked its way out of the [indiscernible] (38:01).

The Panama revenue was the lion share of that.

Okay. All right. Thanks a lot guys.

Okay. At this time, there are no more questions. This concludes the Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc. conference call. Thank you, and you have a nice day.