Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Spyros P. Gianniotis — Chief Financial Officer, Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.
E. Nikolas Tavlarios — President, Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.
Peter C. Georgiopoulos — Chairman, Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.
Douglas J. Mavrinac — Analyst, Jefferies LLC
Kevin W. Sterling — Analyst, BB&T Capital Markets
Chris Snyder — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC
Peter Christopher Mahon — Analyst, Dougherty & Co. LLC
Benjamin Nolan — Director, Stifel Financial Corp.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, and welcome to the Aegean Marine Petroleum Network Incorporated First Quarter 2013 Conference Call and Presentation. I would like to advise everyone that there will be a slide presentation accompanying today's conference call. That presentation can be obtained by Aegean's website at www.ampni.com.

I also want to inform everyone that today's conference is being recorded and is now being webcast at the company's website, www.ampni.com. We will conduct a question-and-answer session after the opening remarks. A replay of the conference will be accessible through the next two weeks by dialing 888-203-1112 for the U.S. callers and 1-719-457-0820 for those outside U.S. To access the replay, please enter the pass-code 2955268.

At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to the company. Please go ahead.

Thank you, and welcome to Aegean Marine's first quarter 2013 conference call. With me today is Peter Georgiopoulos, Chairman of Aegean as well as Nik Tavlarios, President of Aegean.

Before we begin our presentation, I would like to note that this conference call will contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as expects, anticipates, intends, estimates, or similar expressions are intended to identify these forward-looking statements.

These statements are based on Aegean Marine Petroleum Network Inc.'s current plans and expectations and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause future activities and the results of operations to be materially different from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.

Important factors that could cause actual results to differ include our future operating or financial results, our ability to manage growth, adverse conditions in the marine fuel supply industries and increased levels of competition. For further information, please refer to Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.'s reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

I would now like to turn the call over to Nik Tavlarios, President of Aegean to discuss highlights for the quarter.

Thank you, Spyros. And thanks to all of you for joining us today. I'd like to begin by briefly discussing some of the key highlights for the first quarter and the drivers of our operational and financial results. Then I'll turn the call back over to Spyros who will discuss our financial progress. Finally, I will conclude with our thoughts on the macro environment, drivers for 2013 and upcoming milestones.

I'll begin my discussion on slide three of the presentation. During the first quarter, Aegean achieved its ninth consecutive quarter profitability and accomplishment, we have achieved 24 out of 25 quarters since we became a public company. Despite challenging market dynamics, we were able to leverage our increased assets and infrastructure to capture additional voyage and storage revenue opportunities and drive operating income.

Turning to slide four, during the first quarter, our volumes decreased slightly by approximately 4% year-over-year to approximately 2.37 million metric tons. As expected, volumes were impacted by typical seasonality we face in the beginning of each year. In addition, our volumes continued to be affected by our decision to strategically reduce our presence in the West African market. While this decision has had a short term effect on our results, we are committed to our operating strategy that is focused not only on volume growth but on building profitable volume growth over the long term.

For the month of April, we generated sales volumes of approximately 875,000 metric tons. Gross spread in Q1 continued to reflect a highly competitive market but we achieved a sequential increase fostered by improved geographic mix that resulted in a lower level of exposure to the most competitive markets. Our ongoing efforts to actively identify opportunities to increase efficiencies and drive profitability while capacity continues to come out of the market is delivering results.

One important and ongoing initiative is our ability to capitalize on our significant built-in fleet capacity. Aegean is well-positioned to continue making progress in increasing economies of scale and reducing the company's cost structure. And Q1 marked our fourth consecutive quarter of reduced operating expenses. We are successfully leveraging our fixed costs that drive the bottom line.

During the first quarter, gross profit decreased slightly by 1.6% sequentially. Net income of approximate $6.3 million on an adjusted basis increased slightly compared to the prior year period. EBITDA for the first quarter was $21 million or $20.1 million adjusted for the sale of non-core assets. We achieved adjusted net income of $7.2 million or $0.15 basic and diluted earnings per share during the quarter.

We continued to drive down our operating expense structure during Q1. At the same time, we strengthened our integrated marine fuel logistics chain through targeted expansion and disposition of two older non-core vessels. The dispositions should have a positive impact on our expense structure and should drive approximately $4 million in annualized cost savings. The sale of these non-core vessels allows us to over time increase our utilization of the remaining fleet and to reduce maintenance CapEx. Both of these actions directly impact Aegean's bottom line. Rationalizing our expenses by selling additional non-core and older vessels will remain in part of our core strategy for the foreseeable future.

Regarding expansion, in April, we commenced physical supply operations in our Barcelona facility. This new and attractive market provides Aegean with compelling growth opportunities and we seek to increase the utilization of our larger modern delivery fleet. Barcelona is a key market and we believe there are significant opportunities for Aegean. Prior to the launch of our facility, this market was being served by only one player. We are confident that we have a strong competitive advantage in this market because we offer onshore capabilities and offshore capabilities, a service that is not currently offered in this region. Additionally, we believe that our operations in Barcelona will create substantial new volume and contribute to larger profitable revenue base.

Turning to slide seven, we see that – we have continued to expand lubricant volumes, which are up 25% to 7,366 metric tons sold during the first quarter compared to 5,885 metric tons for the same period in 2012. Although this is a smaller, lower volume business for Aegean, it continues to yield higher operating margins and is a highly profitable revenue steam for the company. As we continue to successfully capture market share in lubricants, we are well-positioned to achieve and execute our goal of additional revenue diversification.

With that high-level look at Q1, I will turn the call back over to Spyros to provide more detail on our financial results. Spyros?

Thank you, Nik. As you may know, since market conditions fluctuate at ports around the world, we provide sequential comparisons in our discussion of quarterly financial results, comparing results for the first quarter of 2013 to the fourth quarter of 2012.

On slide eight of the presentation, we present our sales volumes and gross spread. During the first quarter, the gross spread per metric ton of marine fuel increased approximately 12% to $26.2 per metric ton compared to $23.4 per metric ton in Q4 2012.

On slide nine of the presentation, we break out our company-wide utilization for the quarter which is measured as volumes delivered per vessel per day, excluding both scheduled and non-scheduled non-operating or off-hire days. In Q1, utilization was 499.9 metric tons per day compared to 472.3 metric tons per vessel per day in the fourth quarter.

Utilization declined in the first quarter due to typical seasonality, weather and lower contributions from West Africa. As a reminder, our utilization does not include Aegean Northwestern Europe, which operates a spot-based business model focused on providing same-day sales and delivery services.

During the first quarter, we recorded a total of 123 non-bunkering days which we define as scheduled and unscheduled off-hire days for our bunkering fleet plus days associated with a strategic repositioning of vessels. This number compared to 199 non-bunkering days in the prior quarter.

For the current second quarter, we anticipate approximately 122 scheduled non-bunkering days. We also generated voyage revenues of $5.1 million in the first quarter versus $4.1 million in the previous quarter. Looking ahead, we expect voyage revenues to increase as we continue to leverage our built-in idle fleet capacity and charter out excess tonnage.

We are well-positioned to benefit from this short-term chartering opportunities and, in fact, we instantly renewed an annual transportation contract in Greece that will support this effort. Our storage revenues were approximately $400,000 higher than the prior quarter. Gross profit during the first quarter which is calculated as total revenues less costs of sales was $70.7 million. Since the fourth quarter of 2006, gross profit has grown by an annual rate of approximately 20.8%.

On slide 10, we present our historical gross profit and EBITDA margin trend. Our EBITDA margin which is calculated as adjusted EBITDA divided by gross profit was 28.5% in Q1 which was slightly higher compared to our adjusted EBITDA margin in the previous quarter due to the success of our ongoing efforts to reduce expenses and improve our gross spread per metric ton.

Turning to our working capital on slide 11, during Q1, our days payable outstanding increased slightly quarter-over-quarter along with days inventory. For the first quarter, days receivable outstanding increased as well. The net effect was a small overall decrease in our cash conversion cycle to 22.5 days from 32.7 days.

Aegean reported net cash provided by operating activities of $42.1 million for the first quarter. Additionally, we generated free cash flow of $39.2 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2013 compared to $14.7 million in the prior quarter. Our strong balance sheet continues to be a key differentiator for our company. As of March 31, 2013, our cash position was $61.7 million and our working capital position totaled $50.5 million.

Importantly, regarding our global facility, we have as book-runners [indiscernible] (11:20) ABN Amro and BNP Paribas and we already have subscriptions from [indiscernible] (11:28) for $800 million and we are about to launch a broader syndication that may increase the number of banks in the facility as well as its size.

The facilities will be used for the financing of working capital needs in connection with the purchase transportation start-ups and sale of fuel and gas oil. In addition, we have signed documentation for $73.5 million senior secured term loan related to the construction of our 465,000 cubic meter oil storage facility in the port of Fujairah. This new secured loan will fund the remaining construction cost with the balance being used to reduce short term borrowings enhancing our working capital position.

With this commitment, we have significantly enhanced our financial flexibility and we believe our even-stronger financial position is a key competitive advantage. We appreciate the continued support from our lenders and their continued confidence in our ability to successfully execute our strategy.

Following the draw-down and utilization of these two facilities just discussed, we expect to generate an additional $170 million in working capital and based on Q1 balance sheet figures, the working capital is expected to exceed $220 million. The facilities will provide the foundation to further expand our profitable operations.

In reviewing our balance sheet strength on slide 12, it is important to note that while trade finance debt at the end of Q1 totaled $396 million due to the intensive working capital requirements inherent in the global marine fuel supply industry, this debt figure has a rapid turnover of between 30 to 45 days.

In addition, our trade finance debt could be paid in full along with our entire trade payables, corporate debt, as well as majority of our vessel debt based solely on the liquidation of our current assets. The remaining debt in our books will be approximately $105 million, which is secured by 36 [ph] young (13:46) vessels or $2.9 million debt per vessel.

As a result, we end up with an unencumbered debt free assets that include 24 owned bunkering vessels, three floating storage facilities distributed across 20 countries and 60 ports worldwide. As of March 31, 2013, our fixed asset debt to adjusted EBITDA multiple was approximately 2.2 times.

Our substantial financial liquidity, including approximately $900 million in working capital trade facilities or $1.4 billion including supplier credit provides Aegean with a distinct competitive advantage as we seek to further expand our global market share and strengthen our industry leadership for the benefit of the company and its shareholders.

I will now turn the call back over to Nik.

Thank you, Spyros. In spite of the ongoing challenges in our macro-economic environment, as our progress indicates, we are controlling factors within our reach by executing our strategy to strengthen our global brand and increase earnings potential. We have strategically expanded our global footprint to 20 markets covering approximately 60 ports to increase our global market share, drive business revenues and streamline trade efficiencies.

As we mentioned last quarter, we are focused on expanding service centers in a cost-effective way around the world. This strategy has allowed us to generate sustained and strong results and we are excited about our path forward and opportunities to build significant shareholder value. Looking ahead, there are a number of key milestones on the horizon that will showcase our progress. Let me highlight a few.

First, in addition to our Barcelona facility which we opened in April, we expect to expand further and open at least one additional port in 2013. Second, with the upcoming completion of our Fujairah onshore terminal, we will commence the sales process to monetize our floating facility at Fujairah. Our goal is to continue to grow onshore storage capacity significantly as we work toward further reducing our floating storage capacity worldwide.

Third, we will continue to examine the opportunities to increase our efficiency through additional saleable vessels and other non-core assets. The elimination of floating storage facilities has become a growing trend around the world. At Fujairah, we expect this policy to increase demand for onshore storage capacity and enhance the value of our new facility there. We expect to complete that facility before the end of 2013. We're excited to capitalize on the emerging opportunities in this region.

Before we take your questions, I would like to walk you through the trends that we continue to see now that we are one quarter into 2013. Market headwinds and competition persist in our industry. To combat them, we will continue to identify opportunities to smooth out volatility by expanding our distribution and improving our geographic mix which we believe will allow us to achieve our highest market-leading profit margins and significant volume growth.

That said, we anticipate headwinds in the macroeconomic environment, our volumes and spread over the next few quarters. This is nothing new for our company. We have been dealing with this environment for the last two years and have been successfully navigating these headwinds. We made strategic reductions in various markets and we will continue to methodically enter new, more attractive ones.

As we enter and exit markets to maintain our leading competitive positioning, we will be ever-mindful for our operating philosophy by focusing on those revenue opportunities that will drive profits and not just top-line growth. In the midst of a challenging environment, we have reported nine consecutive quarters of profitability and created a global foundation that will allow Aegean to benefit as the macroeconomic environment improves.

As older tonnage exits the market and global demand improves, supply-demand balance in the overall shipping sector should improve. Our focus on higher quality customers will serve us well as we gradually begin to see these clients start to buy larger amounts of fuel. This will boost our profitability. Macroeconomic environment notwithstanding, we see some anecdotal evidence that trends are improving. For example, we're seeing stronger demand. The continued expansion of world seaborne trade and global fleet is driving demand for all grades of marine fuel. We are confident that we are well-positioned to benefit when the market emerges from the current shipping cycle and we thank you for your continued support.

With that I would like to open the floor for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Doug Mavrinac with Jefferies.

Thank you, operator. Good morning, guys, and very nice quarter. My first question pertains to the gross spread. It was the thing that jumped out on the page at me most. It was your highest spread in about a year. Can you highlight some of the specific reasons why the gross spread improved to such a high level during the quarter?

Doug, I think you heard us talk about in Q3 and Q4 that we have seen some, let's say, not-so-normal trend in some of our markets, and I think that we had named Fujairah particularly and I think we saw that return to more normalcy and that obviously had an impact on our spread.

Got you, got you.

In addition to that, our sales in Panama began to grow. So...

Yeah. Okay. And that's kind of what I am looking at, Nik, is looking at over the last handful of quarters the gross spread is the strongest it has been in the year; you look at your operating expenses, they've been decreasing over the last few quarters. And so, kind of, I guess, what I'm getting at is looking at sales volumes, obviously they were weak during the first quarter due to seasonal factors. But when you announce – when you said that you were doing 875,000 tons of sales in April that sounds like as soon as the sales volumes get back on track then things are going to be pretty good. Is that the way that you guys are seeing things?

Yeah. I mean the run rate – well, if you were to sort of work it out to a run rate, we were running at about 785,000 tons a month in Q1. And that's about 90,000 tons higher, and again, if you had a couple of hundred thousand more tons in that prior quarter with that same spread, you would have significantly different profitability results.

Right. And I guess the final question that I have is, is it as easy to think of it, say, okay, you do 200,000 tons of fuel sales more during the quarter. 200,000 times $25 on the spread is, whatever, $5 million. Is that – given kind of a stable spread and stable OpEx that sort of upside potential is how we should think about the bottom line?

Yeah. I mean it basically moves right to the bottom line. So, yeah, you would have had $5 million more net income in the quarter, just roughly.

Right. Got you, got you. Okay, and then – I said that was the final question but just final question. When you talk about seasonal factors and why April is so much better than, say, 1Q, can you describe those types of events that cause sales volumes to decrease during the first quarter from a seasonal perspective?

From a seasonal perspective you see bad weather impact in the North Atlantic or any Atlantic sort of affecting ports and the traffic. There was times where ports actually shut down due to weather.

Right.

You see a little less traffic in Greece even though that's a small amount of what we do. But usually it's inclement weather and we've seen it every year. We have in some cases 10 or 15 days where we just actually can't make deliveries during those times. [indiscernible]

(21:26) physically just too rough to partner up with the ship that you're refueling.

Yeah. I mean at the end of the day what we are doing is a pretty complicated process. We're pulling alongside another ship and we are transferring fuel over the side to another ship. If you've got bad weather going on, that operation is just not safe to do.

Got you, got you. All right. That's actually all I had. Thank you.

Thank you.

And we'll take our next question from Kevin Sterling with BB&T Capital Markets.

Thank you. Good morning, gentlemen.

Good morning.

Good morning.

Good morning, gentlemen. Nik, let me follow-up on Doug's gross spread question as well, but maybe I can ask it a different way. You are winding down your operations in Ghana, and if I recall, Ghana tended to have a higher overall spread. So you know the spread you reported this quarter without much help from Ghana really was it driven by Panama? I know you highlighted that.

No. I think it was more – I would say it was more about Fujairah returning to its normal levels as opposed to – because we felt it was significantly lower in prior quarters. And as we had said, we expected that to return to normalcy and we saw that situation, in fact, to do that. And as that returned to normalcy, our average came up.

Got you. So – but am I thinking...

...really re-emphasis on Panama, no.

Okay. But am I thinking about that right, you've got this higher spread without much help from Ghana as you exit that business?

Right, that's correct.

Yes. That's correct. Sure.

Okay, great, great. And then on the volume question too. I know you talked about seasonality; you are seeing an improvement in April. But maybe in that first quarter, in addition to some seasonal weakness, was there anything that could have impacted volumes in the quarter, any supply shocks or anything like that?

If we had – well for one, we didn't have Ghana's contribution on volume. That wasn't there. No. We feel that's...

Okay.

... taking place in other ports. So that's – you see that already on the run rate that we've demonstrated for April. The other thing – we saw a couple of seasonal – some interruptions – I won't call seasonal but some interruptions in one of our ports where there wasn't some commodity available. But we're talking about a 10-day window and those – so we held back on that. So...

Got you. And...

Peter wants to add a point here.

Yes.

At the same time, some of the people we sell fuel to had some credit issues. So we held back in some instances.

Right. [indiscernible]

(24:05) sell 3 million tons in the quarter, we could have but we are concerned to take – if you look at our credit history, it's spotless. So one of our concerns is extending too much credit to people in this kind of environment. Could we sell 3 million tons? Easily, we could sell 3 million tons.

Right, okay. It makes sense. And Nik, can you...

I'm sorry to interrupt you again.

No, go ahead.

Just to throw a statistic at you, for 2012, right, the company received 130,000 inquiries, we filled 26,000 inquiries.

Okay. So you are walking away from over 100,000 inquiries just because of credit. And I guess going back to Doug's point...

For various reasons.

For various reasons.

Okay.

It's probably I'd say the biggest one right now. It's not that the business isn't there. It's just we are being conservative. And we've said it before and maybe it's important to say it again. Could we have done 3 million tons in the quarter? Yes, we could have. We've just decided to make sure that credit decisions and credit policies and we think that shows in the numbers. As the market gets better and as some of these shipping companies come out of their issues, I think it will be very easy for us to expand our tonnage. We've got the fleet to do it. And as Doug went through the math earlier, I mean, every penny of that falls to the bottom line. So we're just setting ourselves up, we're trying to be conservative, not wanting to lose money from bad credit and setting ourselves up for an improvement in the market which we think is coming in the latter half of this year, next year, in the near future.

Got you. Okay, Peter, that makes sense. Thank you for that explanation. I think it's some good color. And going back to maybe some supply issues, you guys, you're building out your storage facilities, particularly in places like Fujairah. I mean, is the real intent there to kind of help mitigate supply shocks and that will help you to always have supply? Is that the right way to think about it?

Yes. And also in Fujairah, we believe that they're going to eventually get rid of floating storage. So there will be – when you get rid of all the floating storage, there will be a shortage of online storage. So we want to be prepared for that.

Okay. And then last question here. Did I hear in your prepared comments that you think you can actually increase your global credit facility even further?

Yes.

Okay. And so, Peter, maybe going back to what we were talking about earlier, you guys are getting all these inquiries. As you get more comfortable with the shipping markets, the shipping markets improve, your customers' balance sheet improves, if you could expand your global facility, that will just give you more working capital, liquidity, access to capital to really grow your volumes as the shipping markets improve. Is that the right way to think about it?

That's correct. I mean, right now the only limit on us selling more fuel is us, it's the management being conservative on credit. If you look at our ships and the volumes and utilization, we could probably double it on a per ship basis. We could double the amount of fuel that we pump through those ships and deliver. If you look at our new credit facilities, there is plenty of room there. So this is what we want the market to understand. We are only being held back by ourselves by being conservative on credit. There is no limitation on our working capital, on our credit facilities. As you can see we've got this global facility in good shape. There is no limitation on our ships, it's just, again we've said this before but let's make it very clear now, it's just us being conservative. And we would hope that the market would appreciate that.

Yeah. Got you, that's very clear. Thank you so much for your time this morning. That's all I had.

Thanks.

And we'll go next to Chris Snyder with Sidoti & Company.

Hi. Good morning, guys.

Good morning.

Good morning.

My first question is on the Barcelona market. Can you give us some insight on, kind of, the size of the market? Maybe how it relates to the current market you're in, just so we can get a feel for that.

Yes. It's around 1.2 million tons and they're projecting to go about 1.5 million tons as they extend their port.

And there's one other competitor.

Yeah. There's another competitor we've seen in some other ports too.

And my second question is you guys were making good progress on the global credit facility. And is there, like, a number that you guys have in mind that you want to get it to or is it not that precise?

Look, I think if you were to say what do we need, where we stand right now, it puts us, as Spyros said, in a really good position. I mean it gives us more than $170 million of additional working capital for us to go and do our business. The company has what we consider a bright runway and by expanding it, it will make that even better.

But we're happy where it is. But if we're going to expand it, we'll expand it.

And my final question is, I know some people I am talking to have had concerns about eco-ships and how it relates to fuel consumption. But it almost seems like you guys are getting so much increase that if the eco-ships are going to make these companies more profitable and better suitable counterparties could actually almost provide a benefit to you guys, and you could take on more demand there.

Yeah. I think the eco story, I mean, it's such a small part of the business right now. There are so few eco ships out there and they're a bear market. They're the kind of ships that are great in a bear market. Once you had a bull market, you got to go as fast as possible in those – when ships are going fast, they burn a lot more fuel. So we think right now at least, it's a small part of the market and we haven't seen it affect us at all. But like you said, we have plenty of inquiry. That's not the issue.

Okay. That does it for me. Thanks for taking the call, guys.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

We'll take our next question from Peter Mahon with Dougherty.

Good morning, guys. Just wanted to talk through a couple of things. First, you talked about selling an additional two ships, the Tulip and the Aeolos, and you said that that would save $4 million annually. I believe when you couple that transaction with the transactions you've completed previously, the total savings from ship divestitures is about $18 million. When are we going to start to see the benefits of these transactions roll through the P&L? I mean, I know this has been a program that has been going on for several quarters, but it doesn't seem like we've made the progress on the P&L on the expense side that reconciles with these transactions. So can you guys give us some sense of when we are going to start to see these benefits roll through?

Well, if you take Q1 2012, right, and you look at the total OpEx that we had – we were at roughly $62 million for total OpEx on the company. And in this quarter, we are at $57 million. So that's $5 million difference on a Q-to-Q – year-to-year basis for that same given quarter. Now, that's reflective of our reduction of our vessel operating expenses. And it continues to work its way in. So I think we're talking about a run rate in 2013 that'll be significantly better than 2012. So I can't agree with you on that one, Peter. I think we're seeing very good traction on our program.

Well, I guess if you just look at the Q1, Q4, and Q3, we've – I'm looking at selling and distribution, those costs have been fairly flat over that timeframe.

But selling a ship is not going to affect your SG&A. It's going to affect your vessel operating expenses.

Right, which is part of selling and distribution.

No. It's a different expense.

We opened up new places. We have a new storages coming in in the picture, the Tanger Med storage, which had revenues on – by leasing out part of it. So you cannot compare that way. I mean just to give you some figures like Nik said on the – for the vessels only, we have over $5 million savings comparing Q1 2013 to Q1 2012.

Okay. And then moving on, you talked about renewing this transportation contract in Greece. Would you guys mind kind of elaborating on what exactly that is and what the benefits might be?

We have this – we do some transportation for local companies there. And we renewed that at better rates than it used to be in the past.

Okay, and then, Spyros...

Peter, just to wrap up on your last one, just so you are clear. On the vessel operating expenses, it's $5 million per quarter that we've reduced. I mean you have to look at the vessel operating number itself. So lump it in with SG&A and everything else, where you have other expenses, you have storage in there, increased storage expenses. When you look at the vessel operating expenses themselves, they've been reduced $5 million a quarter, which ties in with the $18 million that you've mentioned earlier in your question.

Okay, got it. Then, Spyros, sorry, I didn't catch it. Could you repeat the utilization number for the quarter?

One moment, yes. 472.3 metric tons per day compared to 499.9 metric tons – 500 metric tons per day the previous quarter.

Got it. Okay, great. And then my final question is this, you guys talked about having inquiries of roughly 130,000 in the quarter and you filled 20-some-thousand of those. Have you guys thought about how you might balance expanding the number of inquiries you accept and weighing the risks of those transactions? I mean maybe it's through higher spread for those customers that are maybe C-level customers or something like that. But it seems like there's opportunities to maybe expand volume and spread with the inquiries you are getting. And have you guys thought about maybe easing your, cutting your credit standards to get some of those clients and get some of that --- those additional dollars?

Well, first let me speak about volume. We – you saw our run rate for Q1, right, and we've talked about our April volumes, we think the seasonality is over. We expect to see volumes come back to a higher level and then continue to grow. You will see the contribution from Barcelona, you will see the contribution come in play from an additional port that we intend to open as I said in our script earlier. And then as you see the markets restore and come back, you will watch the volumes grow further.

Now with respect to our credit policy, the one thing I think we need to be recognized for is, we haven't had any news or earth-shattering loss. This company has a stellar record on collecting on its receivables. And we intend to keep that going. So you mentioned a number of ways to change your credit policy, but we like our discipline there. We've done a very, very good job on collecting on our money and not having any liquidity problems as a result of that. So I don't think we are going to change our discipline and our strategy but we do expect volumes to grow nonetheless.

Okay, great. Thanks a lot guys.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Then we'll go next to Ben Nolan with Stifel Nicolaus.

Hey guys. I have a few questions. The first one relates to something that I guess I probably need to be sensitive about, but there's a lot of noise out there that O.W. Bunker is for sale, comparably pretty close to size as you are. And I'm not asking you to comment with respect to your interest one way or the other or anything else. Really what I am curious about is how you see the global macro environment for M&A and consolidation, and the building of economies of scale. And maybe if you could paint a picture for what the next year or two years looks like from your perspective as to how the market will develop and where you see major players stepping in and that sort of thing as it relates to the sale of this major competitor.

It's hard for us to comment if we are interested in it or not. But we do believe that there is – there are lot of consolidation opportunities in the industry and we think we've consolidated a lot of the smaller players. And that's something we will continue to do. In terms of bigger consolidation, I think, it's hard for us to talk about, but obviously it is going on.

And you would imagine that – I don't know, do you expect the rate of consolidation to accelerate or are deals more challenging?

Well, I don't think [indiscernible] (38:06), sorry to interrupt, but I just don't think there are that many big players...

Yeah.

...sort of Chemoil, which is owned by Glencore. I don't think – I mean, they are potentially a consolidator. You have O.W. as you've mentioned which is owned by a private equity firm, obviously, that's up for sale. So they wouldn't be a consolidator, they will be consolidated. And then you have us. And then someone else who may or may not come in the picture, we haven't seen anyone else come in the picture. So not sure where it all leads. So I believe a lot of the smaller players, the trend is towards the bigger players while the smaller players will be consolidated.

Okay. So you envision still a lot of the small single location operators that sort of thing still being absorbed into larger operations? That's still the trend?

Yes, exactly.

It's largely due to the availability. You just don't hear about companies getting credit facilities like the one we did here. I mean it's just not done.

Yeah.

I mean, so it's really – and it's needed in this business and only the bigger players are able to do that.

Right, okay. That actually gets to my second question, maybe this is for Spyros. But with respect to the credit facility, obviously, you guys have a number of existing facilities in place, which I assume would be sort of wrapped up into this larger global facility. But my question relates to sort of pricing. How should we think about the cost of your existing credit facilities versus sort of where to expect the new global facility to come in? Would you think from a LIBOR perspective they are comparable?

Ben, two things. First of all, we have already new banks, three new banks coming in the picture. Number two, the new facility will be cheaper because the current ones we have are bilateral so in other words you deal with a specific bank and the new facility will be yes, cheaper by almost 50 basis points.

Okay. Now that's pretty meaningful, I guess, on a – given the scale.

Yes.

Okay. Well, good, now that's helpful. Then my last question is relates to something that you guys announced I guess about a year ago or something and haven't really heard much on since. There was some sort of an alliance with some Chinese companies to pursue business activities in a cooperative manner going forward. Any update on where that stands or how that is impacting your business currently or how you expect it to play in maybe over the course of the year, next year or so?

We do have a fair amount of work together but I would say – it's still sort of slow. That's the best way to describe.

Okay. And it's just kind of going to be a gradual process then? No imminent step-ups or anything like that that you would foresee?

Correct.

Okay. All right, now that's it for me. Thanks again for the answers to the questions.

Thanks.

Thank you.

At this time, there are no more questions. This concludes the Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc. Conference Call. Thank you and have a nice day.