Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Jonathan Mcilroy — President, Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.
Spyros P. Gianniotis — Chief Financial Officer, Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.
Justin B. Yagerman — Senior Vice President- Investor Relations, Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.
Randy Giveans — Analyst, Jefferies LLC
Benjamin Joel Nolan — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.
John Carlo Gandolfo — Analyst, Clarkson Capital Markets LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, and welcome to the Aegean Marine Petroleum Network Inc. Third Quarter and Nine Months 2017 Financial Result Conference Call and Presentation. I would like to advise everyone that there will be a slide presentation accompanying today's conference call, and we will refer to it during the conference call. Presentation can be obtained from Aegean's website at www.ampni.com in the Investor Relations section. There will be archives of both the conference call and webcast after today's event, and the press release includes information on how to access them.

I also want to inform everyone that today's conference call is being recorded and is now being webcast at the company's website, www.ampni.com. Please refer to the press release for information how to access the archives of the conference call and webcast.

Before we begin, I would like to note that this conference call and presentation will contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Please take a moment to read slide 2 of the presentation with the cautionary statement. Words such as expects, anticipates, intends, estimates, or similar expressions are intended to identify these forward-looking statements. These statements are based on Aegean Marine Petroleum Network Inc.'s current plans and expectations, and they involve risks and uncertainties that could cause future activities and the results of operations to be materially different from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.

Important factors that could cause actual results to differ include the company's future operating or financial results, its ability to manage growth, adverse conditions in the marine fuel supply industries and increased levels of competition. For further information, please refer to Aegean Marine Petroleum Network Inc.'s reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Hosting the call today is Jonathan Mcilroy, President of Aegean Marine Petroleum Network; Spyros Gianniotis, Chief Financial Officer; and Justin Yagerman, Senior Vice President.

I would now like to turn the floor over to Mr. Mcilroy.

Good morning, and thank you, operator. Before we start the presentation, I would like to welcome to our team Justin Yagerman, our Senior Vice President of Investor Relations and Business Strategy. I am sure many of you know Justin. He has a long and distinguished career in the industry and brings to our team extensive experience in research, corporate finance, strategy and investing. His insight in the broader maritime sector and his long tenure in the investment community will be greatly beneficial to Aegean as we are repositioning our global footprint. We are delighted to have him on board.

Let's start our presentation with slide number 4, which provides a snapshot of financial results for the quarter. As you can tell gross profit fell significantly in the quarter, due to both lower margins, as well as lower volumes. It's important to note that some of our lower volumes in the quarter were deliberate, as we thought to cull less profitable business from our network in places like Singapore and Fujairah. However, both volumes and profitability were also impacted by extraordinary items in the quarter and an overall competitive marketplace. The culmination of these factors in the third quarter resulted in a net loss, despite our successful efforts to reduce our cost base.

Let's turn to slide 5 to continue discussing the broader market conditions and developments, which should provide more context for our operating environment. During the third quarter of 2017, we continued to experience a very competitive market, which was compounded by a combination of extraordinary events, which impacted financial and operating results.

We continue to experience intense competition on a global level from both industry majors who operate worldwide, as well as smaller local operators that operate on a regional or even single port level. While the industry is going through consolidation, as some of the small operators leave the field, the pace is not yet strong enough to make a difference in the short term.

Looking at the specific example of Singapore, the withdrawal of licenses and bankruptcies of at least five major players in that market had no discernible impact on delivered margins and the volume vacated was almost immediately absorbed by the other suppliers in what is in effect a hyper saturated market.

New emissions regulations that will come into effect in 2020 should be a game changer, as they call for cleaner fuel and lower emissions, which will translate into the need for higher investment across the bunker supply chain. We believe the combination of today's tough operating environment and the need for more capital to compete in the market from 2020 onwards will ultimately benefit operators such as Aegean, which have access to capital and a large global footprint.

Turning to shipping markets, despite modest recovery in some segments, freight rates remain low and vessel operators are very cost conscious, focusing on minimizing their bunkering costs. While I briefly touched on this in the previous slide and we will go into it in more detail later in the presentation, during the past quarter, we had to deal with several localized events, which had a material impact on the business.

The refinery fire at the Salina Cruz facility in Mexico, three hurricanes in the Gulf, and tough weather conditions in other niche markets where we operate, combined not only to lower volumes in some of our more profitable markets, it also materially raised cost, which we purchase product. This manifested both in the open market where we procure cargoes, as well as in our hedging activities.

Let's turn to slide 6 to delve into more detail on these events, their impact and the performance [ph] regime (06:20). As mentioned, our sales volumes were impacted by our deliberate reductions in Singapore and Fujairah and by weather conditions in North America and other niche markets where we operate. As we have previously announced, we have downsized our presence in Fujairah to two barges from four. And we recently gave notice that we are withdrawing from the physical supply market in Singapore in Q1 2018.

Both of these markets are extraordinarily competitive and were a drag on Aegean's profitability. While we maintain a presence in both markets and continue to monitor industry trends and service our global customers, we made the strategic decision to decrease our presence there and deploy our assets in more profitable business. At the bottom of this slide, we have provided a bit more color on the various events which impacted the quarter.

Let's turn now to slide 7 which discusses our operational highlights. While we cannot completely control market and weather-driven factors, we have continued to improve the efficiency of our network through cost discipline and the implementation of our strategic vision for the company. Our cost reduction efforts are complemented by initiatives to optimize our assets through redeployment and upgrading our geographic mix of business. We continue to implement proactive initiatives that will have a positive transformational long-term impact on the company.

We had set a goal to achieve annualized cost savings of $20 million, and I am happy to report that with the initiatives we have implemented so far, we have already exceeded this goal. To date, we have achieved annualized cost savings of around $24 million. And we look forward to continuing our efforts to achieve a higher target of around $30 million. I will go into more details later on in our presentation.

However, the concrete steps taken include Fujairah, downsizing the operation to two barges from four; Singapore, the closure of the physical supply business; Los Angeles, we have reduced our storage – the new storage taken at lower pricing, and we will continue to target higher margin business; Gibraltar, we have optimized the fleet, replacing three small barges with two larger vessels. The overall fleet, we have recharted six of our eight expiring vessel charters, and they're in the market to charter out the remaining two.

New operations. We have commenced new operations in Savannah and St. Croix. We as a company will continue to be proactive in the face of an otherwise challenging environment. While we are not satisfied with our financial performance in the third quarter, we believe the network changes that we have implemented will begin to bear fruit and help bridge the company to the more profitable operating environment we see in the not too distant future.

I will now turn over the presentation to Spyros Gianniotis, our Chief Financial Officer.

Thank you, Jonathan. Let's turn to slide 9, which shows our Q3 2017 results. While we will compare results year-over-year, we feel it is important to compare to the previous quarter as it provides a more updated picture of the current market environment in which we operate. As you can see, we experienced a 7.5% decrease in sales volumes from Q2 to Q3 of this year.

As Jonathan mentioned in his presentation, our sales volume was impacted by our deliberate reductions in Singapore and Fujairah and by weather conditions in North America and other niche markets where we operate. Comparing Q3 2017 to Q2 2017, our gross profit decreased by 17.5% to $67.9 million, adjusted EBITDA decreased by 37.3% to $15.1 million, and we recorded a net loss of $3.8 million.

Let's now turn to slide number 10 to discuss the evolution of the drivers of our profitability. As I mentioned, comparing Q3 2017 to 2Q 2017, our sales volume decreased by 7.5%. Our gross spread per metric ton decreased by 13.1% from $16.8 to $14.6.

And adjusted EBITDA per metric ton decreased by 32.1% from $5.39 to $3.66. The reduction in gross spread is a function of several factors mainly the intense competition in the marketplace, the higher oil procurement costs we had to [indiscernible] (11:35) given the refinery outage as discussed [indiscernible] (11:40) volumes in certain niche markets due to weather-related effects.

Let's turn to slide 11, which provides more information on our operations and profitability. We will [indiscernible] (11:53) discuss the impact of the marketplace and the external factors on our profitability. The key issue to highlight on the slide is the fact that operating expenses decreased approximately $5 million quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year as cost cutting measures have been successfully implementing across the system.

Let's turn to slide 12, which provides information on our liquidity and capital structure, both of which are strong. Comparing Q3 2017 to Q2 2017, our cash position decreased slightly to $74.8 million from $82.5 million. At the same time, receivables and inventory increased quarter-on-quarter as oil prices moved upwards [indiscernible] (12:40) into the end of the quarter.

Total debt increased by $16 million to $876 million in total. Net debt decreased to $6 million from $25 million in the second quarter reflecting the increase in inventory and receivables values. $14.8 million of cash was used in operations as oil prices increased during the quarter. We are currently in the [ph] documentary (13:10) stage of our global facility renewal, and we expect will be completed by the end of this month. As we have previously said, it will be a three-year facility with improved terms over the expiring one.

With that, I would like to turn the call back over to Jonathan to conclude our presentation.

Thank you, Spyros. Let's turn to slide 14 to discuss our progress that we have achieved delivering on our core strategic initiative. We have outlined that our objectives have been to reduce cost, rationalize and optimize our presence in key operating hubs and maximize asset utilization. We have taken concrete steps during this quarter delivering tangible results. We believe that these changes to our network and cost structure will result in a more profitable and efficient operation long term.

As announced, we made the decision as of January 2018 to seize our physical supply operations in Singapore. Despite this decision, we will maintain a trading presence in the Singapore market, and it is important to note that all deliveries and contracts that we have booked as a physical supplier with clients vessels, cargo providers and barge contractors will be fulfilled. We have an extensive customer base in Asia, and we will continue to support them through our global physical supply network, as well as handling some back-to-back bunker trading and our lubricants business.

Our withdrawal from physical supply operations in Singapore has been a proactive step, which we believe will have a materially positive impact on the bottom line as we will show in the next slide. This will also enable us to utilize our resources more profitably in other markets. In Gibraltar, we rationalized barge operations substituting two smaller units for larger vessels and removing a third. We now have a reduced barge fleet of four vessels with reduced operating expense, but maintaining the same level of capacity with improved utilization.

In Los Angeles, we took the major step to downsize our storage facility. We will vacate our current facility and move to a new one, which is smaller and better corresponds to current utilization levels. This move will also have a materially positive impact on the bottom line as our reduced cost structure will allow us to focus on more profitable opportunities and not chase volume to cover storage utilization and other overheads.

On the fleet deployment side, we have been able to recharter six of the eight vessels whose charter parties expired, and we will continue to look at measures to optimize fleet deployment and monetize fleet value. Finally, in terms of new business developments as announced, we launched a new service center in Savannah, Georgia, which is the third largest container port in the United States and developed a new business center in St. Croix in the U.S. Virgin Islands, which significantly strengthens our existing presence in the Caribbean.

Let's now turn to slide 15. This slide shows the components of the various cost savings we have achieved. With the measures and initiatives implemented so far, we have exceeded the $20 million annual cost reduction initiative as we have achieved $24 million in annualized savings to date. As you can see, $7 million comes from fleet optimization, $9 million comes from the rationalization of our Los Angeles operation and $8 million from G&A measures. We believe that there is room for more savings and we will maintain our focus to realize them.

I will conclude my prepared remarks with slide number 16, which details our plans for the future. There are two main areas of focus. One, continued expense reduction, asset rationalization and optimization; two, new business development. As mentioned in the presentation, we believe there are specific areas where we can achieve additional savings. Thus having exceeded the original target of $20 million with savings so far of $24 million on an annualized basis, we will now target a total of $30 million in annualized savings. On the business development front, we are looking at new markets with higher margin opportunities. We are in advanced stages of at least one new market that we expect to launch within the first half of 2018.

In closing, let me reiterate that Aegean is the world leader in the physical supply and marketing of marine fuels and lubricants. We have established a global platform with a reputation for high quality customer service. We are not satisfied with the results for the third quarter, and we are actively working to leverage Aegean's infrastructure and global footprint with a leaner and more effective organization.

We are pursuing a growth strategy that does not require intensive capital expenditure and focuses where possible on higher margin niche markets. Looking at our industry, I would like to state our belief that the combination of consolidation and the regulatory changes coming in 2020 will ultimately benefit operators with a global footprint like Aegean.

We have now reached the end of our presentation. Thank you very much for joining us on today's conference call. Now, I would like to open the floor for Q&A. Operator, please proceed. [Operator Instructions]

Your first question comes from the line of Douglas Mavrinac from Jefferies. Please go ahead.

Thanks, operator. Hey, guys. This is Randy Giveans on for Doug. Just few quick questions. First, can you quantify the impact of the hurricanes and fire during the quarter? And then also how much in repositioning cost [indiscernible] (19:45) during 3Q and will likely [ph] occur (19:48) in 4Q?

Spyros, do you want to take that?

Okay. Let's answer first the second part of your question. The repositioning cost, it's $1 million so far. And as we have left the two vessels from Singapore down in Asia and the others are here in Greece. Regarding the impact of earthquakes and the hurricanes, I would say, it's $1.5 at least per ton for this quarter.

Okay. [indiscernible] (20:45) that spread is pretty similar to 2Q?

Yes.

All right. I guess another question for Spyros, status on renewing the working capital facility, as well as refinancing the balloon for the vessels in 2018?

Okay. The bank is thinking of either doing not only those two balloons, but the balloons that are coming up in late 2018, which are part of the same facility. So they will make a decision in January. No issue in extending the maturity under the same amortization, as we had up to this point on the vessels.

On the working capital, we are in [indiscernible] (21:37) stage. We are reviewing the facility agreement and by end of this month should be signed. The deal was oversubscribed, and we are working to close this by the end of the month.

Excellent. All right. That's great news there. And again lastly, sales volumes for the month of October, just trying to get a run rate for 4Q. Obviously, it's come down 2Q, 3Q, so just kind to try and see what it was for October and extrapolate that for the quarter.

Jonathan?

Sorry. Could you repeat the question? It broke up a little bit at the beginning.

Sure. Just trying to find out what were the sales volumes for the month of October, just to get a run rate for the quarter.

Well, I mean I think they were broadly in line with sort of kind of the averages that we've been seeing so far. So, I think that we're looking at about 1.45 million tons for October.

Okay. And you think that's a fair run rate going forward or will that continue to kind of decline with further repositioning?

Well, I think that most of the impact of the reduction, for example, with Fujairah and Savannah is already within – it's already there. So, I think that feels reasonable at this point in time.

Excellent.

And I think the other thing to keep in mind is really particularly from late October onwards we started to see normalization in some of those areas, which have been most impacted by weather pattern effects. And while clearly there is a major focus on the U.S. hurricane season, for example, we're also impacted by that in southern hemisphere operations, for example, South Africa, and apart from in the U.S. Gulf area, the Caribbean clearly had an impact from the hurricane season.

So the disruption which occurred [ph] in the height of those (23:46) weather effects did continue at the front end of October, and the normalization that we're starting to see in traditional trading patterns, really it's reestablishing itself now.

Excellent. Well, that's it for me, and congrats again Justin on the new position.

Thank you.

Just to confirm what Jonathan said, the actual volume in October was 1,539,000 tons.

Oh, wow! Okay, 1.5 million tons. Great. Thanks, again.

The next question comes from the line of Ben Nolan from Stifle. Please go ahead.

Yeah. Thanks. First, following up, Jonathan, on what you were mentioning there, the latter part of that last question about things beginning to normalize. Just trying to wrap my head around what normalized means. Is it possible to give a sense in aggregate perhaps where spreads are at the moment in terms of how maybe they have changed relative to the third quarter?

Well, I mean – clearly, I mean that's going into – that's quite a lot of color to go into that. But I think that what I have to emphasize and what we've mentioned in the presentation is that apart from stepping back deliberately on volume in areas, which were lower zero margin environments like Singapore and Fujairah, part of the reason that there was so much pressure in Q3 on the overall growth spread is because of the impact of volume that we lost due to natural events, weather patterns in niche markets. And so, like I say, we – still we're dealing with a number of those phenomenon in early October. Now, as you know, the niche ports, they generate healthier growth spreads than the more competitive mid-tier and hub ports.

So, as we start to see the volume there come back on stream, as we would expect it to be, then hopefully, that will feed through into a healthier bottom line. The other thing is, for example, if you're looking at the West Coast business, which is probably the area of the business that was most dramatically impacted by the outage of barrels that we were procuring from Mexico, the flow on those barrels is again only coming back into the market now. And so, again even in October, there was an exposure to having to be in the market procuring more expensive oil.

So, I think that that process that, let's say, we're calling it normalization, it's gathering pace now, but certainly, many of these effects were still at play to an extent through the course of October. But like I say, we would hope that as the normalization gathers momentum and we move forward, from a – particularly in line with the cost controls that we've taken and the changes to the platform that we have in some of these areas, that that also will feed through in a healthier growth spread for those key parts of the business.

Okay. And then, sort of stepping back from that even a little bit further, obviously, adjusting for weather, the market is substantially tighter than it was, say, a year ago at this time. And you highlighted competition and other, obviously, I think the broader oil and commodity markets have something to do with that. But in your view, is there any structural change in the business from where we were a year ago that is more permanent or persistent? Has the business itself altered from our broader sense or is this just part of the normal cyclical pattern as you would see it that at some point, you would see a natural reversion to the mean with respect to profitability?

Yeah. I mean I think that my observation on that would be that I wouldn't take it as – clearly, there are long-term and fundamental developments, which are shaping the market. These are strategic level shifts in certain key markets and then you have mid-term impacts, then you have sporadic or cyclical events.

Now, I think that there has been – I wouldn't say a year-on-year, but there has been a noticeable trend, which has been evident in those hub markets that we've discussed like Singapore, like Fujairah, and so on, which I would say is now structural to those markets. I think that those are effectively markets which are cargo driven in nature and where it becomes increasingly difficult unless you're a cargo level player for whom the delivered business is effectively a short to compete successfully in those markets.

I think that those factors definitely are there and then right through like I said to the kind of the shorter term, cyclical events and so on. There are a lot of things in the mix at the moment. For example in Singapore this year, one of the things that most people were anticipating was what was going to be the effective [ph] MSM (29:37) in the market, how was that going to play out. And I think the people got a clear picture of that as early as April, May, June onwards, and clearly, you can see what was happening in Singapore in third quarter of this year.

And there are other markets again where we can look at developments like that. I think that as well going forward, which is significant, we will see a number of factors kick into the market as we head towards 2020, because I think it was very interesting to see that OPEC recently generated a report where they identified that they thought that only 60% of the current physical suppliers in the business at the moment would be able to run a compliant business after 2020.

I think that you're going to see again a period in the next two years where some of the smaller less well capitalized, less well technically capable physical operations have an increasingly large question mark over their tenure in the market as we approach 2020. So, there are a whole range of factors at play at the moment, some of which have more impact on a specific market, some of which are generally applicable, and clearly, we're monitoring those at a global level and also on a station-by-station basis.

Okay. And then in conjunction with that, I know in the past, the company had sort of been making inroads into even being a cargo provider and certainly, doing more on the back-to-back side in bulk trading. How do you think through that? Is that something that you're also pulling back from a bit or is that still an area where you feel like your scale could give you a competitive advantage?

Yeah. I think that the – I mean, clearly, we're looking at these opportunities. And where we have storage and where we have blending operations, this is something that we look at as a part of the strategic mix of the business. And clearly, we are able to step in on certain transactions and move volume and make money on that. And clearly, the trading teams globally are looking up those opportunities and the companies interested in them.

Now what I would say and it kind of goes back to the previous question in a sense is that because the market is so competitive and because the market is so tough, the one of the constraints that we have with regards to developing that side of the business is how we view the risk of doing that business. And [indiscernible] (32:22) for example, areas where we could be using our bigger presence on the cargo side, on the blending side, on the storage side to be a cargo provider to smaller niche operators in that region, the issue is the risk associated with extending credit terms and so on to these smaller guys who are equally under pressure in the current structure of the market.

And I think that Singapore itself is a case in point and a very good example of this, if you look at what happened in Q3. And in Q3, you had five companies apart from Aegean, which has decided to voluntarily hand back the license. In Q3 and the beginning of Q4, you had five significant players in the Singapore market exit the market for various reasons. But at least one of them left behind enormous bad debts and those bad debts affected cargo providers, trading companies that were [indiscernible] (33:22) the volume and so on.

So I think that looking at that, be it in a market like Singapore or Fujairah or globally, we're very conscious that we have to be extraordinarily careful, acting as a cargo provider to make sure that we're doing secure transactions. So like I say, the opportunity is there, but within a very conservative approach to the credit environment.

Okay. And then lastly for me, sort of correlated to that. When looking through the balance sheet and liquidity of the company, obviously, there is an awful lot of working capital, and I know in previous conversations, we've talked about the ability to utilize that working capital or draw down, effectively shorten the cycle, the cash cycle in order to address cash needs such as the repayment of the convertible that's coming due next year.

Is that still how you're thinking about addressing that convertible? And then along the same lines, how easy is that to do in terms of simply shortening your exposure to the working capital, reducing inventories, in terms of – from a practical perspective and the impact that it would have on your ability to do business? Is it something that's pretty easily done do you think?

Ben, this is Spyros. Yes, it is. Like we have discussed in the past for many years, our working capital is very, very liquid. I mean it's [indiscernible] (35:02) receivables in 30 days, most of them, and inventories [indiscernible] (35:10) 17 days. So it's a very easy option.

Right. But obviously, you need those receivables and inventories to do business and that's a critical component of the value that you add. Is it actually easy and practical to do that I guess is my question.

Yeah. I mean we still have one more year for the repayment of the bond. Of course, we discuss alternatives and choices, and I think we will focus. By February, March 2018, we will see how the markets are doing. Whether these areas where we do business and require a lot of working capital, how profitable they are, we will evaluate then all the options and decide.

Okay. All right.

Yeah. Ben, that's just one of a few options on the table, all right?

Sure, of course. Yeah. All right. I will turn it over to somebody else. Thanks a lot.

Thank you.

One final comment I'd like to make on the discussion. [indiscernible] (36:25) the big difference – one big thing that changed between 2016 and 2017, of course, we should not forget is the tanker industry. The tanker market in 2017 is performing well below breakeven while in 2016, we had an excellent market.

The next question comes from the line of [indiscernible] (37:01). Please go ahead.

Hi, guys. [ph] Tunneling (37:06) up on that question given you're exiting some ports and downsizing some operations. [ph] I didn't know (37:13) if you could give some context to what we could see coming out of working capital in the near term from those activities. And then I have one follow-up.

Spyros, you want to take that on the working capital?

Yes [indiscernible] (37:30) Look, I mean we are not sitting everyday calculating that. I mean you saw the volumes in October is almost 200,000 tons above September's. Of course, there are reasons for that, and we don't want to disclose all the things we are doing to make money. But a big part of that is, for example, a transaction with a company which we cooperate for many years, so we sold the big size, volume size of fuel oil, which of course does not produce a gross spread of – the average gross spread you see that we are reporting, it's lower dollar amount, but it's still very profitable. It is secured by [indiscernible] (38:29). So we used the working capital as profitable as we can in this business.

So in other words, we have a decrease in working capital some ports, which we are leaving or which we are reducing volumes, but we are trying to do volumes in areas where we think it's really credit worthy and produces at no cost profits for the company. [indiscernible]

(38:59)

Not necessarily a reduction, but maybe a shift in location of where the working capital is being deployed [indiscernible] (39:07). [indiscernible]

(39:09) I mean I think it's like Spyros said, I mean, we are looking at the global network and the opportunities that we have within it and what we are doing is, we're trying to target liquidity where we get the biggest bang for the buck. We're not vacating a market to then sit and do nothing with the resources that we have. What we're trying to identify is, those areas where we are content with margin where we can build margin further and where if we think that we have the capacity to ramp up the operation, again like we mentioned within the context of a good credit environment and build volume in those areas. And I think, that's entirely consistent with the message that we've been putting to the market.

If we pull out of Singapore because we consider the market in Singapore not to be one in which we have a good possibility of making money, we can target those resources, other mid and niche tier areas that exist in the business or that we will develop in the business going into 2018 and beyond where the return on the capital employed is significantly more interesting.

Okay. That's great. And then my last question, it's on slide 15. The expense reduction achieved $24 million and the $20 million annual cost reduction. Is that a net number or are there any expenses that we should be thinking about that will be spent to get out of locations?

No. This is a net number.

Okay. [indiscernible]

(40:50) specific areas we mentioned.

Okay. All right. Thanks a lot, guys.

Thank you.

Thank you.

The next question comes from the line of John Gandolfo from Clarksons. Please go ahead.

Hi, guys. Thanks for taking my question. Most of them been pretty much answered. Just want to ask – drilling a little bit on the Fujairah onshore facility. You flagged previously, we've seen some competition come into the market with storage, floating storage alternatives. I was wondering if you maybe shed some color on the potential impact on the leasing utilization levels there and if there's been any maybe pressure on leasing rates?

I think I mean Spyros hit the nail on the head when he mentioned the condition of the tanker market and one of the things clearly apart from just how that makes the buyer work on the delivered bunker fuel that they're purchasing. It also clearly has a corresponding impact on the competitiveness excluding storages as an alternative to land-based storage. And there were a few headline deals that we sold through the course of third quarter and into October where we were seeing people utilizing floating storage at the equivalent of around $1.80 a cube to $1.90 a cube.

So that gives you an idea of just how incredibly competitive floating storage is as an option for those cargo players who want to use that option. That has a big impact. The other thing as well with regards to the Fujairah market is that the [ph] back gradation (42:25) in the market which was noticeable and prevalent in Q3 clearly diminishes appetite from a number of potential partners who would be interested in storage in an area like Fujairah and that had an impact in the course of the quarter.

Now, we – in Q3, we were very active in deep discussion with three potential partners to come in on a relatively long-term sort of one-year plus basis for some of the tanks in the facility in Fujairah. Those talks are continuing. And there is a degree of interest, but clearly, the interest is colored by the overall landscape of the oil market and the structure of the oil market, and regional developments in the GCC area because of the political fallout between Saudi, the UAE, Qatar and a number of other regions and other countries in the region, which has diminished demand quite significantly in the area in the last three to four months.

So, like I say, against that extremely challenging background, we are energetically looking at getting partner organizations and that we can work with on more of a partnership level into the storage and seeing how we can build that. [indiscernible] (43:47) I have to emphasize the landscape in that part of the world for the storage asset is challenging at the moment.

All right. Got it. So, in terms of any ballpark, I guess estimates on overall [indiscernible] (44:02) are you able to provide some color on that or...? [indiscernible]

(44:12) something that we've shared in the past.

Look I'm not sure if we want to – look, we have – on the dirty tanks, we're using the dirty tanks in support of our own business. And like I say, we have spot leases, short-term deals. We're looking at long-term agreements. Like I say, the levels are competitive. On the clean tanks, we have one strategic partner, who is in the tanks. We've got a relatively – let's say, a mid-term deal on 50% of the tanks on the gas oil side, and we have [indiscernible] (44:47) utilization of the remaining tanks in support of our own business.

So, it's something that we're looking at. Like I say, as we've mentioned earlier on, one of the aspects, which we have added into the business mix in Fujairah since July onwards is selling some cargos ex-worth. And again, we need the availability of the tanks particularly on the dirty side of the facility in order to support that side of the business. So, I think that gives you some insight.

Got it. Thanks. That's all for me.

Thank you. There are no further questions, and I hand the floor back to you, management.

Concluding today's conference call and presentation, I would like to reaffirm our commitment to lead the company through the current market conditions, leveraging and optimizing Aegean's global platform, network and branding.

Thank you again for everyone for joining us today. We look forward to having you with us at the start of our next quarterly earnings call. And now, we can all disconnect. Thank you.