Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Spyridon Panagiotis Fokas — Director, Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.
E. Nikolas Tavlarios — President, Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.
Spyros P. Gianniotis — Chief Financial Officer, Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.
Peter C. Georgiopoulos — Chairman, Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.
Douglas Mavrinac — Analyst, Jefferies LLC
Benjamin J. Nolan — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning and welcome to the Aegean Marine Petroleum Network Incorporated Third Quarter 2016 Conference Call and Presentation. I would now like to advise everyone that there will be a slide presentation accompanying today's conference call. That presentation can be obtained from the Aegean's website at www.ampni.com. I also want to inform everyone that today's conference is being recorded and is now being webcast at the company's website, www.ampni.com.

We will conduct a question-and-answer session after the opening remarks, instructions will follow at that time. A replay of the conference will be accessible through the next two weeks by dialing 888-203-1112 for U.S. callers, and 719-457-0820 for those outside the U.S. To access the replay, please enter the passcode, 1842325.

At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to the company. Please go ahead.

Good morning, and welcome to Aegean Marine's third quarter 2016 conference call. On the call today are Aegean Chairman, Peter Georgiopoulos; Aegean President, Niko Tavlarios; and Aegean Chief Financial Officer, Spyros Gianniotis.

Before beginning our presentation, I would like to note that this conference call will contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as expects, anticipates, intends, estimates or similar expressions are intended to identify these forward-looking statements. These statements are based on Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.'s current plans and expectations, and they involve risks and uncertainties that could cause future activities and the results of operations to be materially different from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.

Important factors that could cause actual results to differ include our future operating or financial results, our ability to manage growth, adverse conditions in the marine fuel supply industries and increased levels of competition. For further information, please refer to Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.'s reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

I would now like to turn the call over to Niko Tavlarios, Aegean's President, to discuss the highlights from the quarter.

Thank you for joining us to discuss our results for the third quarter of 2016. I'd like to begin by providing an overview of our strategy and business, which has continued to successfully grow and evolve. I will then discuss the macroeconomic and industry trends of our sector and review high-level results from the quarter. Spyros Gianniotis, Aegean's Chief Financial Officer, will provide further details on our financial results.

Next month, we will celebrate our 10th anniversary of being a public company. In our first year of operation as a listed company, Aegean had operations in five ports, sold 3.4 million metric tons of fuel and generated $36.1 million of EBITDA. Today, Aegean physically serves over 30 markets covering more than 60 ports worldwide, and over the last 12 months, has sold 16.6 million metric tons of fuel and generated $135.5 million in adjusted EBITDA.

Our business has continued to grow over time from physical bunkering operations to a sophisticated global enterprise with delivery logistics, integrated supply and growing retail sales channels, and diversified revenue streams, including bulk storage and vessel revenues have leveraged our built-in infrastructure.

We are proud of what we have created and our ability to serve our customers across our global footprint as a leader in the physical supply and marketing of marine fuel.

To support this growth, we have built a platform through both strategic acquisitions and prudent capital allocation. Our unique platform has enabled our team to operate effectively in a variety of markets and conditions over the last 10 years. We have and we will continue to evaluate all of our markets and assets, and we'll as appropriate ensure prudent and appropriate allocation of resources to drive value for our shareholders.

I'm proud of our team's hard work and look forward to continue to execute on our proven strategy to serve our customers and deliver value for our shareholders.

I would like now to turn to a brief overview of the macroeconomic environment. Oil and refined product price volatility continued through the third quarter with Brent crude trading between $41 and $52 per barrel. This volatility was largely driven by OPEC talks of agreements to reduce or cap production.

Bunker fuel prices moved with crude during the quarter, ending at approximately the same price levels at the end of the second quarter. Crude oil markets continued to be in a contango structure of roughly $0.50 per barrel per month, indicating a continued oversupply in crude markets is keeping [indiscernible] (05:36) prices depressed.

The structure of the fuel oil market, the primary component of bunker fuel, has flattened out with a contango of only $0.05 to $0.10 per barrel per month. This seems to indicate that the current oversupply in fuel oil is minimal as compared to crude.

While fuel oil prices were volatile during the third quarter, the net change quarter-to-quarter was a negligible 2% increase. Overall, prices remain low for our customers based on historical values.

Moving to the shipping sector, we have seen continued volatility and consolidation, as companies worked to manage the challenging marketplace.

The container sector, in particular, continues to experience a low-rate environment, driven by a lackluster global trade and vessel oversupply [ph] and have seen the merger (06:22) and departure in many key players. The recent bankruptcy filing of Hanjin has seriously impacted the industry and the merger of the container segments of NYK, Mitsui and K Line, who's lost a total sum of $1.5 billion since 2012, follows the combination of other larger players including Cosco with CSCL, CMA CGM with APL [indiscernible] (06:45) UAFC. These consolidations should generate scale and savings that should help these companies compete in a challenging marketplace.

For Aegean, while consolidation of the container industry could lend customers more buying power, it also strengthens their credit profiles and could offer opportunities to provide services to a global player. As always, we take our credit exposure seriously and monitor these conditions regularly.

Finally, as many of you have heard, on October 27, the International Maritime Organization or IMO announced the confirmation of a global sulfur cap of 0.5% on marine fuels, which will be effective January 1, 2020. The reduction of the global sulfur cap from 3.5% to 0.5% in 2020 will have winners and losers. We anticipate the capital benefit modern eco-friendly vessels and their owners that burn less fuel per mile versus older tonnage. It will benefit well-capitalized marine fuel suppliers, capable of segregating qualities and sourcing and blending component cargos to meet these strict requirements.

Scrubber manufacturers, investors that can install and run abatement technology, and diesel refiners as demand for diesel as a marine fuel blend stock will dramatically increase. We also expect the cap will be challenging for high sulfur residual fuel refiners who lack capital to upgrade, older tonnage and vessels that cannot be retrofit with abatement technology, and small suppliers who lack the liquidity to finance more expensed inventory.

While this cap does not go into effect until 2020, Aegean supports the implementation of the new regulation which will have a positive impact on our business. Our modern tonnage, flexible infrastructure, and team of global professionals ensure that Aegean will continue to successfully navigate the ever-changing marketplace.

During the third quarter, we also used $100 million of cash to repurchase approximately 22% of Aegean's outstanding shares owned by the company's founder. The repurchase underscores the board's confidence in Aegean's prospects and provides meaningful earnings accretion for all Aegean's shareholders.

Let's turn to our results for the quarter. I'm pleased to report that we'd achieved adjusted EBITDA of $37.7 million, an increase of 19.7% over the prior year. Volumes of 4,258,954 tons, an increase of 25.6% year-over-year, and net income and an EPS for the quarter when adjusted for the sales of non-core assets and the accelerated vesting of the shares of the founder, which Spyro will discuss in great detail later, were $17.7 million and $0.36 respectively.

Pro-forma adjusted EPS, assuming the repurchase of shares occurred at the beginning of the period, was $0.45. While the company continues to evolve, our expanding businesses include new geographic markets and our retail sales business commanding a higher overall working capital level than we have experienced in the recent past. As always, we continue to monitor our liquidity requirements to maintain sufficient cash and working capital to operate efficiently and fund further growth.

This quarter, we sold 4.2 million metric tons of marine fuel, of which 518,000 tons was retail sales trading volume. This is our fourth consecutive quarter of more than 4 million metric tons. Our EBITDA per ton decreased approximately 4.5% quarter-over-quarter to $8.84 per metric ton, as we increase sales in our retail sales business. As we mentioned in the last couple of quarters, we believe that EBITDA per metric ton better reflects the complexity of our platform in a diverse business models we now employ in various markets around the world. Gross spread per ton decreased to $18.6 from $20.9 from the prior quarter.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Spyros to provide additional financial results for the quarter.

Thank you. During the quarter, we sold two older non-core vessels, resulting in a book loss of $3.9 million. I will discuss the use of proceeds and the significant progress we have made on paying down debt later in the call. During the last three quarters, we have sold five older non-core vessels for $8.9 million. The sale of vessels is in line with our focus on evaluating our business to ensure we generate efficiency across our operations. For the third quarter, gross profit was $88.4 million, representing a 8.8% increase from the prior-year period.

Operating income, when adjusted for the sale of non-core assets and the accelerated sales was $29.6 million, representing a 28.8% increase from the prior year, as we continue to strategically position assets to more profitable areas.

During the quarter, interest expense decreased by $1.1 million year-on-year to $8.4 million, as our interest rate swaps are benefiting from the current increasing interest rates.

Net income adjusted for the sale of non-core assets and the accelerated sales was $17.7 million, a 45.9% increase from $12.1 million for the prior-year period. Adjusted earnings per share for the quarter was $0.36 per basic and diluted share, representing a 44% increase from $0.25 per basic and diluted share for the prior-year period. EBITDA adjusted for the sale of non-core assets and the accelerated sales was $37.7 million, compared with $31.5 million for the prior-year period.

Moving to the balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents were $58 million as of September 30, 2016, compared with $115.4 million in the prior-year period as we utilize cash to fund the share buyback.

While our total debt of $756 million was in line with the previous quarter, our net debt increased by $64.5 million as we used cash to buy back shares from our fund. While we continue to pay back our fixed asset debt, our total debt has remained at roughly the same level as price increases and our growing business has increased working capital requirements.

The vessel sales [indiscernible] (13:43) allowed us to make progress on our priority to strengthen our balance sheet by paying down a vessel debt and eliminate approximately $9.5 million in operating costs on an annual basis.

In September, we announced the renewal of our $1 billion secured global borrowing base, multi-currency revolving credit facility, and the $250 million secured U.S. borrowing base revolving credit facility.

Now, I will turn the call back over to Nik.

Thank you, Spyros. During the third quarter of 2016, we continued our efforts to deploy our resources and assets into the most effective and profitable markets. While the industry still faces headwinds into consolidation of volatile oil prices, we're committed to evaluating our markets and redeploying our capital, assets and resources and its opportunities that we believe will generate the greatest value for our shareholders.

As we celebrate 10 years of being a public company, we look back and appreciate the hard work and dedication of all those involved. It wasn't always easy, and the markets have been less than cooperative. But we have continued to grow and thrive because of the incredible team of professionals that are Aegean's backbone.

As we look forward to the next 10 years, we see a company setting out on a new journey, one that will be marked by change, and no doubt some challenges, and met with the same intelligence, dedication and professionalism that had brought us this far. We believe that the change and growth underway at Aegean will position the company for continued success, and we look forward to sharing our vision with you.

Thank you. Operator?

Thank you, sir. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Doug Mavrinac with Jefferies.

Thank you, operator. Good afternoon, guys. I just had a handful of follow-up questions for you all, with the first being, looking at your 3Q results, it's interesting because as you guys mentioned, you redeployed some assets during the quarter, you sold a couple of non-core assets, yet you were still able to grow your sales volumes. So, my question is, is there any one particular business segment or one particular geography that was responsible for an acceleration of sales volumes during the quarter or was it just kind of overall you've seen an uplift kind of everywhere?

Yes. Doug, so we've seen – we have a new market in there too, by the way, we've talked about the introduction of our South African market in Brazil. So, those are certainly contributing to the growth of the volume and the rest of the core business certainly had growth. But I would say, the other component that has had biggest growth is our retail sales component to which you referred to as a back-to-back business here, that's the other piece.

Got you. And actually, that was – kind of be my follow-up, is – in addition to the new geographies, kind of how is that business evolving? I mean how much is it contributing? And my question is going to be, is it going to be an area of growth? And it sounds like it already is. So, how do you see that particular aspect of your business evolving over the next two to four quarters?

No, it's an asset-light business, it's as we pick up new teams and people, we can build that business up. So, it's – it's like a brokerage business.

All right, right, right. Got you. Thanks, Peter. And then, kind of switching gears a bit from the overall, and then how you guys are strategically attacking it, from a cost standpoint, you guys laid out as an initiative, that you were going to be focusing on reducing costs and whatnot. And so, as part of that, obviously we're seeing some of the non-core assets being sold. So, my question on that is, are there any other kind of assets that you've identified in terms of maybe low-hanging fruit that you can dispose of? Or when it comes to costs and whatnot, should we think of 3Q as kind of the run rate going forward?

Well, Doug, I think the key here is to continue to monitor your business and things do change. So we're going to move to where things are doing best, and that's really it. So, I could tell you [indiscernible] (18:11) circumstances may exist today that are different six months from now. So again, we'll monitor all our markets and just make sure we're nimble and very much in tune with how things are performing. And if there is an underperforming element, we'll certainly look to adjust it or remove it. And if there is an area where we can over perform, we'll look to move toward that. And hence, you've seen a new wave of that existing within our business.

Got you. Very helpful, Nik. And then, two final questions, one is going to be quick. Sales volumes quarter-to-date, do you guys have an update as far as kind of how October look?

It's – October and November, I mean, we're on at the same rate with the Q2.

Okay.

So, $1.4 million, $1.5 million.

Yeah.

Perfect, perfect, thanks, Spyros. And then, final question, and I don't know how you're going to be able to answer this or even if you will, but I'm going to put out there anyhow, that when you look at your profitability, clearly it's accelerating, your cash flow is strong. But you guys, as you mentioned, have bought back a bunch of stock. Your net debt is down to like $74 million. So, when you think about your growing business, strong cash flow, how do you think about cash uses going forward, given that you've already done a lot on the buyback front and on the deleveraging front?

We'll always continue to look to delever. I mean [indiscernible] (19:37) our capital support to us. It's always useful when with – again, if you look to expand in the market, you have to have capital available, so you could buy cargos and have – be there and armed to execute your business. So, that's our priority number one. And by delevering, we're able to do that. So, I think we've already talked about a strategy that involves something else. We will certainly be vocal about it.

Okay. All right. Fantastic. That's all I have. Thanks for the time, guys. [Operator Instructions]

. Our next question comes from Ben Nolan with Stifel.

Great. Congrats on a good quarter, guys. I have a handful of questions as well. The first relates – well, actually, the first is really easy. What's the run rate share count at the moment? I mean, how should we model the outstanding shares going forward?

It's approximately $39 million.

Okay. And then – now onto the little bit more complicated ones. Your sales volume has grown 26%, and I appreciate a lot of that's from the retail side of the business. It looks like it's continuing to grow, given what you did in the last quarter. How should we think about that going – or how do you think about that going forward? I mean, is this just – is this a business where you guys could collectively get to 5 million tons a quarter at some point in 2017? Or is this you're shooting for 5% annual growth, 10% annual growth? I mean, what's the goal?

It's hard – it's a hard decision, as you've seen over the years to sit and say, okay, we're going to hit 5 million tons because it's being opportunistic and seeing, again, we're in a commodity market. So, it's where we can find the opportunities. But it's hard for us to put down a model and say, okay, we're going to grow 5% every quarter or something.

Yeah.

Okay. But is it fair to say that there are opportunities and the trajectory is still upward in terms of the volume?

Yeah. I think I want to go back to what I just said a few moments ago there, Ben, and is to be nimble, again, if there is a part of the business doing better than another, we're going to focus on that. And so, you might pull down on something else. And again, the circumstances changed so much, 10 years of doing this now. We see there is movements in this. Look, I think our most exciting thing is something that I just spoke about in my earlier remarks, about the upcoming – and I know, Ben, you had focused on this too, the 2020 regulation for low sulfur, that, I think is going to be – have a real positive impact to our business.

And we're really trying to prepare ourselves for that, trying to understand where we're going to source the cargo from, and just be prepared for that. I mean we know it's a ways off, but these things have a way of catching up to you.

Yeah.

And it's important being in touch with our customers and finding solutions for them. So, our platform, our retail piece, and the piece that we do in terms of lending our product, all that matters. And it's all going to play into giving our customers better solutions.

Right. And actually that leads to what I was going to ask next. It seems like this is going to be really big deal, I agree. And it does seem like they are going to need to be changes in things like infrastructure and that sort of thing in order for the market to respond. Are you guys considering adding maybe to your storage capacity or to your blending capacity, I mean is that an area that you feel like in order to really capitalize on the opportunities, you need to be investing in?

Yes. Absolutely.

Without giving away any further trade secrets.

Okay. Fair enough.

But sure enough, again, it's a really important thing in the bunkering industry.

Right, okay. And then, just lastly for me. Could – subsequent to your purchase of the founder stake, which obviously I think was a very good thing. How do you see that in relationship playing out going forward? I mean, obviously you still have some interplay with the Greek operation there that's on Bahamian, is that – would you imagine things gravitating increasingly more towards New York, or is it status quo? How should we think about how this is going to play out going forward?

No. When you look at the – the integrations are going on. We're in the middle of that right now. [indiscernible] (24:43) say the fact that probably 30% of the world's tonnages is in Greece. So, Greece will always have a play in our business, it's very, very important. We are a far filer, as you know. But [indiscernible] (24:58). I would just again get back to the issue that we will have a presence in Greece.

Okay. That's fine. That does it for me. I think that's – again, nice job this quarter, but I mean especially in cutting costs and anything else, it's pretty impressive.

Thank you. Thanks [indiscernible] (25:20).

At this time, there are no more questions. This concludes the Aegean Marine Petroleum Network Incorporated conference call. Thank you and have a nice day.