Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Spyros P. Gianniotis — Chief Financial Officer, Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.
E. Nikolas Tavlarios — President, Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.
Peter C. Georgiopoulos — Chairman, Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.
Douglas Mavrinac — Analyst, Jefferies LLC
William W. Horner — Analyst, BB&T Capital Markets
Ben J. Nolan — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.
Katja Jancic — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good afternoon and welcome to the Aegean Marine Petroleum Network's Third Quarter 2015 Conference Call and Presentation. I would like to advise everyone that there will be a slide presentation accompanying today's conference call. The presentation can be obtained from Aegean's website at www.ampni.com.

I also want to inform everyone that today's conference is being recorded and is now being webcast at the company's website at www.ampni.com. We will conduct a question-and-answer session after the opening remarks, and instructions will follow at that time. A replay of the conference will be accessible through the next two weeks by dialing 888-203-1112 for U.S. callers and 719-457-0820 for those outside the U.S. To access the replay, please enter the passcode 623974.

At this time, I'd like to turn the conference over to the company. Please go ahead.

Good afternoon, and welcome to Aegean Marine third quarter 2015 conference call. On the call today are Peter Georgiopoulos, Chairman of Aegean; as well as Nick Tavlarios, President of Aegean.

Before we begin our presentation, I would like to note that this conference call will contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as expects, anticipates, intends, estimates, or similar expressions are intended to identify these forward-looking statements. These statements are based on Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.'s current plans and expectations, and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause future activities and the results of operations to be materially different from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.

Important factors that could cause actual results to differ include our future operating or financial results, our ability to manage growth, adverse conditions in the marine fuel supply industries, and increased levels of competition. For further information, please refer to Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.'s report, filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

I would now like to turn the call over to Nick Tavlarios, President of Aegean, to discuss highlights from the quarter.

Thank you, Spyros, and thank you all for joining us this afternoon.

I'd like to begin with an overview of our performance during the third quarter. I will then review developments within our specific business, as well as the broader industry that have been drivers in our strong operational and financial results. Once I've walked through a high level overview of our performance, Spyros will provide details of our financial results for the third quarter. I will then conclude the call by discussing macro trends within the shipping industry and the positive trends that will help us continue to grow our company and our bottom line through the remainder of the year and into 2016.

During the quarter, we successfully executed on our strategy to diversify the business, leading to our strong financial and operational results. We continue to expand our revenue stream, finding new solutions and opportunities to drive the growth in the business. As a result, the company is well positioned with the industry in the near- and long term. Despite increased competition driven by market conditions, specifically low oil prices, our volumes and our performance continue to increase throughout our operation. This is a result of our diversified platform, which differentiates Aegean from its peers, by alleviating pressures created upon focusing on a single offering.

We continue to shift our mix of products toward more low sulfur fuels and pursuing – selling more blended finished products, which command a higher return. This represents approximately 10% of Aegean's product mix currently, and it has the potential to grow significantly.

Our continued efforts have positioned Aegean for sustained success, and we'll continue to look for new revenue streams to drive growth and financial performance and create value for shareholders. During the quarter, Aegean extended its track record of profitability, which marks our 19th consecutive quarter of profitability. We've now achieved this goal in 34 of 35 quarters since becoming a public company. We have achieved this sustained success and maintained our competitive advantage, as a result of our differentiated and diverse strategy, financial flexibility, and our strong balance sheet.

For the third quarter of 2015, we delivered strong results including sales volume of 3,386,511 metric tons; gross profit of $84.4 million, which is up approximately 2.2% over the same period in 2014; adjusted operating income of $23 million, up from adjusted operating income of $18.7 million in the quarter 2014; and an adjusted net income of $12.1 million or $0.25 per basic and diluted earnings per share for the quarter compared to an adjusted net income of $9.4 million or $0.20 per basic and diluted earnings per share the third quarter of 2014.

It's important to note that while the gross spread per metric ton of all revenue streams was $21.6 in Q3, gross spread per metric ton on our physical supply business was $23.0. It is in that context that I want to highlight a new metric we are introducing this quarter, EBITDA per ton. EBITDA per ton for the third quarter was $9.29. We believe this metric more accurately depicts Aegean's performance and the impact of our diversification, including our core physical supply business, storage and voyage revenues and back-to-back sales and cargo sales is having on the bottom line. Slide eight depicts our adjusted EBITDA per ton on a historical basis, compared with a gross spread per metric ton and illustrates Aegean's earnings consistency, despite a fluctuating commodity price and margin environment.

As Aegean's business has evolved, volume contribution has continued to expand through channels that have a [ph] different natural margin (06:12) than our legacy physical supply business. Our U.S. and Northwest European operations, our back-to-back sales business, our cargo trading, all operate at healthy margins, but do not capture the delivery premium, we typically receive through our own fleet, and as such, have a effect on the gross spread per metric ton while still being accretive to our bottom line.

Given this effect, and since gross spread per ton is only valuable on a historical comparison basis, we have determined the need to introduce EBITDA per metric ton which we expect in time will replace gross spread per metric ton. Aegean continues to evolve in order to maintain its strong position and this new metric is critical to understanding that progress.

I also want to point out that back-to-back cargo sales is a new service for Aegean that capitalize on our deep market expertise and ability to execute and which provides an additional low cost revenue stream. During the quarter, volumes in this area were 243,168 metric tons. As we stated in the second quarter, we began winding down our Portland terminal, and was officially closed during the third quarter, to increase efficiency in the region, which is now covered by our Northwest Europe office. This resulted in one-time non-cash impairment charge of $5.3 million. It is important to note however, that we will still have vessels in the region and will continue to service our customer's needs in the region.

Moving forward, we anticipate that these actions will result in about a $4 million annual cost savings. We continue to successfully execute our strategy, focused on successfully leveraging our global network and supporting growth drivers we established.

Aegean remains uniquely positioned in the market, with a strong global market presence in four regions: North America and the Caribbean, the Middle East and the Mediterranean, Northwest Europe and the Far East. This geographic diversification has allowed us to remain competitive in these large markets.

Earlier this month, we announced that the company successfully entered into a new $120 million credit facility for its Fujairah Oil Terminal, arranged by local United Arab Emirates banks. We are pleased with this agreement and support in the region which we believe it will help – drive our growth. Our storage facility at Fujairah continues to perform well, operating at strong efficiency levels, that is now at about 85% capacity. These results were driven by a strong marketing strategy, and we are pleased with our progress to-date.

As our business has continued to grow and evolve, we have regularly assessed our capital allocation priorities. We have continued to reinvest in our business to enhance operations and create a strong platform for long-term stable growth. Capital allocation strategy remains a large focus at Aegean, and we are committed to deploying cash to drive the greatest value for our shareholders. The board and management team consider all options to achieve this objective.

We also look forward to further strengthen our balance sheet and ensure that we can continue to support our growth plan. We are confident that with this financial strength, and by continuing to execute our proven strategy, we will continue to generate value for our shareholders and position our company for continued growth.

With that, I will turn the call to Spyros, to provide additional detail on our finance results for the quarter. Spyros?

Thank you, Nick.

For the third quarter of 2015, our sales volumes increased by 7.5% to approximately 3.4 million metric tons on a sequential basis. This number includes 243,168 tons of trading volume. Total gross profit for the third quarter increased by 7.6% sequentially to $84.4 million. Net income for the third quarter was $6.8 million or $0.14 per basic and diluted share. Net income adjusted for the impairment charge, related to the closure of our Portland, U.K. business was $12.1 million or $0.25 per basic and diluted share. EBITDA for the third quarter was $26.2 million or $31.5 million when adjusted for the write-off of the Portland intangible asset. Our year-to-date and trailing 12 months adjusted EBITDA is $83.4 million and $109.2 million, respectively.

Utilization of our physical supply fleet, which as a reminder, does not include Aegean Northwest Europe, the U.S. East Coast, West Coast, and Gulf operations, and our Hamburg business, was 564 metric tons per day compared to 545 metric tons per vessel per day in the second quarter of 2015. This number is measured as volumes delivered per vessel per day, excluding both scheduled and non-scheduled non-operating or off-hire days.

Voyage revenues, which recovered from last quarter, were $8.4 million in the third quarter. Looking ahead, we expect voyage revenues to decrease slightly, with a net bottom line effect of $700,000 for the full quarter. However, we are always working on new opportunities. We expect storage levels to increase, as we lease greater storage capacity to third parties at our Fujairah facility.

On slide 11, we present our historical gross profit and EBITDA margin trends. Our EBITDA margin, which is calculated as adjusted EBITDA, divided by gross profit, was 37.3% in Q3, an increase of 21.6% over the previous quarter. During the quarter, Aegean reported net cash of operating activities of $127.5 million. Due to the price of oil, consequently, marine fuel continued to decrease. As of September 30, 2015, our cash position was $115.4 million and our working capital position was $281.2 million.

On slide 12, you'll note that our cash conversion cycle shows an uptrend. This is the natural result of Aegean's strategy to move to our more land-based [ph] storage and have (12:45) higher overall inventory levels. Additionally, the movement in terms and receivables is impacted by price movements, if not by a change in the terms we offer our customers. As an example, [ph] running (13:01) the cash conversion vessel cycle with quarter-end number rather than averages would yield a cash conversion cycle of 36.33 days versus 40.83 days in our presentation.

On slide 13, you will note that our long term debt that finances our fixed assets is $202.1 million and our working capital debt is $489.3 million, of which $234.5 million is long term. We continue to enhance our considerable financial flexibility, which remains a key differentiator for Aegean. In terms of short term debt, we recently extended our global and U.S. credit facilities, with improvements in pricing. We have a strong balance sheet that can support continued growth over the long term, and we appreciate the continued support of these banks and their confidence in Aegean Marine's business model. As of September 30, 2015, our fixed asset debt to adjusted EBITDA multiple was approximately two times, significantly lower than many peers. Our overall available bank and trade lines total approximately $1.8 billion.

Before I turn over the call to Nick, I would like to also report that our sales volumes for the month of October were 1.2 million metric tons.

With that, I will hand the call over. Nick?

Thank you, Spyros.

Our third quarter results demonstrate our ability to deliver returns in a variety of market conditions, as a result of our strong global platform. We remain well positioned through our unique and dynamic business model. Before opening the call for questions, I want to discuss some of the continuing macro trends in our industry, and detail why we believe we are positioned to continue to successfully navigate industry challenges and capitalize on positive shifts in the market landscape. While the commodity price environment continues to have an impact on the industry in terms of competition, our diversified business model has allowed us to thrive, despite challenges that we continue to take steps to capitalize on the operating leverage in our model and our strong execution capabilities.

Additionally, we have started to see an improvement in the overall fundamentals in the maritime industry. We continue to be encouraged by this trend which had a positive impact on our third quarter results. We feel we are well positioned to capitalize the continued improvement in the maritime space that have also built the business to continue to produce and deliver value despite headwinds.

Aegean continues to make necessary improvements in our business, based on changing regulations in the industry, specifically in fuel content requirements. We remain focused on leveraging our diversified approach, to maintain a competitive advantage. With strong cash flow, we are well capitalized with limited debt and vessels that can support multiple fuel grades. As a result, we are not facing any issues under these regulations and are confident that we'll be able to gain profitable market share as our competitors exit the market.

Looking ahead, we continue to successfully evolve our business by adding new and innovative revenue streams. As the industry continues to improve, we are poised to benefit from our expanded global market operations and diversified business model.

During this quarter, we took actions to increase the stability of our business, which we believe is a significant competitive advantage. We remain committed to delivering value to our shareholders, enhancing our network by opportunistically expanding our global footprint and ensuring customers are better equipped to run their business around the world.

With that, I'd like to open the call for questions. Operator? [Operator Instructions]

. And we'll go first to Doug Mavrinac with Jefferies.

Thank you, operator. Good afternoon, guys. And congratulations on what looks to be like a record EBITDA quarter for you guys. First, and maybe second, looking at the third quarter a couple of things jump out at me. First, you guys grew sales volumes quite nicely during the quarter sequentially but your operating costs have come off at the same time. So can you walk through maybe what some of the things you were able to do, to make that happen? What were some of the biggest components in terms of cost savings while still allowing you to grow your sales the way that you did?

Well, for starters, when we called out – just in our remarks a moment ago, was Portland not being there, which is a big piece, $4 million a year – that's about $1 million a quarter. As you know, we've been reducing our ship count over the years and trying to efficiently use our fleet. You watched our utilization creep up as a result of that too. So again more efficiency of growing EBITDA margin. The cost of fuel went down. So the consumption of our own fleet came off. So all these things begin to add up, it's a collection of a lot of small pieces.

But if you remember, Doug, a couple of quarters ago, we said we were going to start on cost cutting. We had identified a few things, getting rid of some older ships, rationalizing some businesses. And I think you're seeing the fruits of that. The market likes instant gratification but sometimes takes a couple of quarters to get these things done.

Right. That's exactly right, Peter. And so Portland was part of it, but not all of it. It's like you said Peter, just kind of the fruits of your labor over the course of the last handful of quarters?

Correct.

Got you. And then in terms of – during the second quarter, there's a lot of kind of moving parts, and I think a lot in the market lost sight of the forest for the trees, and one of the things that had a negative impact on 2Q, was a couple of ships that were out of service.

My question is are those things back, and now, if they are, is this kind of – are you back to matching 1Q results in terms of EPS numbers, as 1Q and 3Q may be more representative of kind of where we should be? So are these things back, and is this kind of the go forward?

So yes, the voyage revenues were down in 2Q, and that definitely caught some people off-guard. But in 3Q, as we said they would come back, they did. And sure enough that number was right back. Now we see a different element in 4Q, it's about $240,000 a month impact, which is really not material, but we have very good visibility in what that voyage revenue line item looks like.

You did point out the EBITDA is a record number. And I just want to confirm that in fact it is. It's the highest EBITDA the company's ever recorded.

Right, exactly. And then looking at that topic of fourth quarter and where we're heading, I think Spyros said that you guys had 1.2 million tons, in the fourth quarter, obviously simple math will tell you that we are trending towards 3.6 million tons, which would be some nice growth over 3Q. So when we look at that, is there anything in the competitive landscape that is taking place in November, December that you guys can foresee maybe disrupting that? Or is it kind of steady as she goes?

Well, we gave an indication of what the volume is for October, certainly. And we have pretty good insight certainly on November, too. And it looks to be a pretty strong rate. And we are having good success out there.

Got you. Well, actually, that's all I had. And once again congrats on a great quarter and keep it up.

Thank you.

Thanks.

We will go next to Kevin Sterling with BB&T Capital Markets.

Good afternoon, gentlemen. It's actually William Horner on for Kevin.

Hey, William.

Hey, Nick. Congrats on a solid quarter. Nick, when we look at the current competitive landscape, you've obviously been very open about some of the pressures that have cropped up this year, as it relates to lower oil and sort of increased liquidity in the market. Yet your core resale volumes remain pretty strong, especially when you back out from that back-to-back business, which – so thanks for providing that color again.

So my question is, are you seeing maybe a return of customers who are maybe a little less willing to deal, some of these smaller players that have cropped up recently, or is it more of a function of just organic growth from some of your smaller, less competitive ports? Just trying to get a sense of where the bigger driver is and some of the levers you are pulling to keep growing your volumes and maintain your spreads?

So William, let's just sort of say that, again, as you look at our volume – at our performance of total volume and where it's coming from, we are primarily a physical supply business. And that spread is pretty consistent with where it was in the last quarter, it's at $23. And there is a strong trend for direct business with physical suppliers, particularly in the wake of what happened with OW.

Which I think answers the first part of your question, about people not wanting to go to brokers or smaller players.

Having said that, we've introduced our reselling business or our marketing business for our customers. We can take care of their needs in other markets where we don't have a physical presence. They know the company has a solid platform, and they know we are not... [indiscernible]

(23:08)

So I think we have a very powerful balance sheet and that's why they come to us. So we hope that will grow, and we know that it will actually, but we are going to remain conservative on how we speak about it.

And the other part of the businesses, we do some cargo sales, too. Again, we've been getting more sophisticated in other areas, too. And that includes instances where we can supply end users who require cargo, not so much just bunkers. We will actually take care of that requirement for them with our [ph] desk (23:41) that we have here. And so it's again using your infrastructure in other ways that aren't just traditional. Just to, again, gain more leverage off of our business model. And that's how we are doing well even at a difficult time.

Right. And that's what I was trying to get at. When you look at your business model, you're very – you've got very diverse operations, very advanced abilities procuring sales and that kind of answers my question of just how customers lean on you for best physical supply but also some of those ancillary services that you all provide, given some of the competitive headwinds, so that's fair.

As you look at Aegean out in the marketplace, we are a tremendous buyer of fuel products or of petroleum. We are a very powerful buyer. And our competitors don't have that strength. They are far, far smaller than we are. We can use that scale and that strength, and again, just drive our growth and our profitability.

Taking that point a step further, are you finding in your dealings with your suppliers and I know you can only give [ph] it sort of (24:57) granular, but are you finding that some of the suppliers are more eager to do business with you, given your balance sheet, and maybe translating to better buy rates and credit terms?

Without a doubt. The balance sheet is very powerful and it's probably stronger than it's ever been and it absolutely commands respect and that gives us some strength, yes.

Okay, that's fair. And appreciate the comments you have given on sort of the growth landscape, and I know you can only say but so much given some of the competitive dynamics. But in terms of maybe the order of which you are prioritizing in terms of – is it more right sizing your existing footprint, i.e., maybe another example of winding down a certain market? Are there more distressed players maybe looking for an exit strategy, additional greenfield startups you're looking at? I know you're constantly looking at all the above but I'm just trying to get a sense of maybe where your priorities are in terms of those different levers?

I think we have excellent infrastructure right now. The footprint is right but we never rest on that and I don't think you ever can. We always look to see, and we monitor what the efficiencies of our business and how we use it. And yeah, if there is an opportunity that just makes sense for us, and again our credo has been to try to do it in the – not requiring any CapEx as we enter markets. That's how we would do it. So yeah, we are looking at some potential opportunities and again without having to deploy any new CapEx.

Yeah, and that's great. You've had a good track record of that recently. So definitely try to keep it up. One last question, and I'll turn it over. With regards to Fujairah, I think you mentioned that it's still around 85% utilized. Are you still on track to get it to 100% by yearend? I know that you had a lot of interest. I'm just trying to get a sense of how well demand is holding up for you all in that region?

I think we're going to be somewhere in the 90s% and save the 100% – sometimes you get to that, functionally, we're full state. But we're at a point right now where we actually have to give up a tank ourselves to kind of fulfill a customer's requirement. We're sort of trading all those things off to see, what you use yourself versus what you are giving up to the customers. So we're in a really good spot right now and we're right where we plan to be.

Okay. Thanks. I appreciate the time, guys.

We'll go next to Ben Nolan with Stifel.

Thanks. So I have a couple of questions. The first relates to [ph] sort of why (27:52) you guys have introduced, I guess, this time, with respect to the back-to-back sales and the cargo sales, and obviously, that made a pretty meaningful impact on your volumes. I would assume that it's also pretty material with respect to the higher fourth quarter volumes. Just curious, where you see that potentially going to? Is this something that could double the size of your volumes ultimately, or how should we think of that in terms of where it sits within the structure and the strategy of the firm?

The marine petroleum market is a big market. It's about 200 million tons of dark oil and, I don't know, probably another 100 million tons of other products too. So we're over 300 million tons right there. In terms of what it can translate to, of course, it's going to grow, but we're not setting any expectations for it. And again, we're there to service our customer's needs. And it's growing nicely. And sure that number can change significantly.

Okay. And then, as it relates to the balance sheet, and the growth and volumes that you're using there, and obviously I think probably – I would assume, makes a – it's at least part of the reason that the cash conversion cycle is creeping up, because it takes storage to be able to do these kind of things. How should we think about where that sort of working capital requirement caps out, or at least, stops growing as much? At what point do you think you guys are going to get to the stage where rather than the cash that you're creating, going towards working capital, that ultimately is truly generating or becoming real powerful free cash flow?

Well, again, we are really pursuing more and more blended product, right, and using our tanks [ph] and our facility (30:07) to try to capture that blended margin. If you're buying inventory right now what happens to be in a state where oil itself is in a contango, it happens to be a good time. Having said that, we do hedge our inventory.

So it's not something that's concerning to us at all, at the present time. I think it's going to be the way we operate right now, particularly, as we go after more blended products than we have – don't forget Fujairah now. We have the Mediterranean Basin with Tanger Med. We have the tanks in Las Palmas, West Coast of the U.S., the East Coast of the U.S. So there's a fair amount of inventory out there. So I think you're looking probably at the standard right now for conversion cycle.

So this is sort of a steady state environment you would say, I guess?

Yeah, yeah.

Okay, good. That's helpful. And then I was going to follow up on something that I know we've talked about in the past, I am just curious where it's at. I believe there's some infrastructure going into place, in Fujairah, away from what you guys are doing, but just that should help the facility, the port itself increase the sales volumes that are potentially there. Wondering where that is and how incremental to your business, you think that ultimately could be?

We're looking at probably two more piers for loading, one in say, Ben, end of this year, it's looking like early 2016 and the other one later in the year in 2016, and that will complete the loading terminal. Now I will tell you. We're watching our Fujairah volumes start to return to normalcy. We're not quite there yet but we are higher than we were. And that's a better state of affairs than we were in the prior quarter.

Okay. And as these two new piers come online, would you anticipate those volumes going up further?

For sure. That will alleviate much of the operational congestion. We definitely expect our volumes to grow there substantially. [indiscernible] (32:41) is absolutely there.

Right. And then sort of correlated to that, and my last question is, there is a lot happening right now with respect to the Iranian sanctions, and I know that they in the past have been a player in the marine fuel business. How should we think about what impact that may have on the overall market, should in fact the sanctions be lifted as it looks like it will be?

It will have to a company like ours, will have a very positive impact. Not having the Iranian sanctions there, it would impact two elements of our business in the area. The one would be the bunkering business itself. It would probably bring stability to the profit margins that we experience there because, occasionally, we're competing against cheaper, what we call black market oil. So that would go away. And then everybody's oil would cost about the same. So that would be very positive for us.

The second thing would be, that the – it affects the storage business actually, too. We don't touch customers that require – that wish to store Iranian oil. So you put those two elements in there, all of a sudden your whole landscape there just got better. That should happen in the early part of 2016.

Okay. All right. Good. Really nice bump back up in the numbers. Good quarter, guys.

Thank you.

And we'll go next to Katja Jancic with Sidoti and Company.

Good afternoon. Nick, you mentioned that you are looking at further diversifying revenue. Can you provide any specific, any options that you're looking at?

Katja, what we have right now, is again a physical supply platform that touches a pretty good part of the globe. As I said, there are probably a couple of opportunities we might look to add at some point or another. So that would expand the physical supply platform.

We spoke about the cargo sales that we've done, which is something that whenever those opportunities come up, we will give that service. We spoke about the reselling business. We spoke about voyage revenues on vessels that were not necessarily meeting our physical supply business. We'll charter those out and capture that income, too. So those are areas. We will continue to look for other things too. But at least two of those weren't there a year ago.

About the cargo sales, and you said – it looks like this is not constant in a way you're going to only be dealing with this when in a way available or there's demand for it. So how could we look at it?

It's kind of hard for me to tell you what to model. We're constantly out there looking at it. And I don't want to give you a run rate on it, because it's hard to model. But the answer is yeah, we do have some regular customers.

Okay, that's all for me. Thank you.

Yeah.

Thank you.

And at this time, there are no more questions. This concludes the Aegean Marine Petroleum Network Conference Call. We thank you for your patience and participation. And have a nice day.