Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Spyros P. Gianniotis — Chief Financial Officer, Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.
E. Nikolas Tavlarios — President, Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.
Peter C. Georgiopoulos — Chairman, Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.
Douglas J. Mavrinac — Analyst, Jefferies & Co., Inc.
Kevin W. Sterling — Analyst, BB&T Capital Markets
Peter Christopher Mahon — Analyst, Dougherty & Co. LLC
Chris Snyder — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, and welcome to the Aegean Marine Petroleum Network Inc. Fourth Quarter 2012 Conference Call and Presentation. I would like to advise everyone that there will be a slide presentation accompanying today's conference call. That presentation can be obtained from Aegean's website at www.ampni.com.

I also want to inform everyone that today's conference is being recorded and is now being webcast at the company's website, www.ampni.com. We will conduct a question-and-answer session after the opening remarks and instructions will follow at that time. A replay of the conference will be accessible through the next two weeks by dialing 888-203-1112 for U.S. callers and 719-457-0820 for those outside the U.S. To access the replay, please enter the pass code 6428029.

At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to the company. Please go ahead.

Thank you, and welcome everyone to Aegean Marine's fourth quarter and full year 2012 conference call. With me today is Peter Georgiopoulos, Chairman of Aegean, as well as Nick Tavlarios President of Aegean.

Before we begin our presentation, I would like to note that this conference call will contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as expects, anticipates, intends, estimates, or similar expressions are intended to identify these forward-looking statements.

These statements are based on Aegean Marine Petroleum Network Inc.'s current plans and expectations and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause future activities and results of operations to be materially different from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.

Important factors that could cause actual results to differ include our future operating or financial results, our ability to manage growth, adverse conditions in the marine fuel supply industries and increased levels of competition. For further information, please refer to Aegean Marine Petroleum Network Inc.'s reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

I would now like to turn the call over to Nick Tavlarios, President of Aegean, to discuss highlights for the full quarter and full year.

Thank you, Spyros and thanks to all of you for joining us today. I'd like to begin by briefly discussing some of the highlights for the fourth quarter and full year 2012 and discuss the key drivers of the results. Then I'll turn the call over to Spyros, who will discuss our financial results for the quarter and year. Finally, I'll leave with our thoughts on the macro environment drivers for 2013 and upcoming milestones.

I'll begin my discussion on slide three of the presentation. During the fourth quarter, Aegean achieved its eighth consecutive quarter of profitability. Despite a challenging market, our fourth quarter ended with good momentum and year-over-year sales volume growth. For the full year, our results included substantial gross profit and EBITDA growth, demonstrating the value we are creating as we execute our strategy to diversify our revenue streams, building a streamlined operating structure and opportunistically entering new markets.

Turing to slide four, for the fourth quarter of 2012, sales volumes increased 6.2% year-over-year to nearly 2.7 million metric tons. EBITDA for the fourth quarter was $19.5 million or $21.3 million, adjusted for the sale of the Aegean Star. We achieved adjusted net income of $5.1 million, or $0.11 basic and diluted earnings per share in the quarter. On a sequential basis during the fourth quarter, our volumes and gross spread were relatively consistent compared with the third quarter. On our volumes, we saw an impact from our decision to strategically reduce our presence in West African market that no longer fit our core business model. While this decision had a short-term effect on our results, we are committed to our operating strategy that is focused not only on volume growth, but on building profitable volume growth over the long term.

We anticipate that this strategic location, which allowed us to sell one vessel – [ph] repurpose (4:37) another to a new location, and eliminate a chartered floating storage vessel, will contribute $7 million in annualized cost savings.

For the month of January, we generated sales volumes of approximately 812,000 metric tons. Gross spread in Q4 continued to reflect a highly competitive market. To combat this, we're actively identifying opportunities to increase profitability as capacity continues to come out of the market. One way we're working to increase profitability is to capitalize our significant built-in fleet capacity. Aegean is well-positioned to continue increasing economies of scale and reducing the company's cost structure.

During the quarter, we achieved our third consecutive quarter of reduced operating expenses as we continue to successfully streamline our cost structure. Our strategy is to continually successfully leverage our fixed cost to drive the bottom line. We also strengthened our integrated marine fuel logistics chain through targeted expansion and dispositions of older non-core assets. As we look ahead, we remain focused on prudently managing our expense structure to drive additional positive results.

For the full year of 2012, our business grew across all key areas. We increased gross profit and net income on an adjusted basis at 9.5% and 37.7% respectively. EBITDA for the full year was $93.6 million on an adjusted basis, excluding the loss on sale of vessels. We achieved adjusted net income of $26 million, or $0.56 basic and diluted earnings per share for the full year.

Throughout 2012, we successfully captured market share and continued to build volume in our lubricants business as we executed on our strategy to diversify our revenue stream. During the fourth quarter, the volume of marine lubricants was approximately 6,900 metric tons, compared to 7,600 metric tons in the third quarter.

Turning to slide seven, we see that the full year of 2012 we grew lubricant volumes a full 78% and reported a total of 28,394 metric tons of marine lubricants sold. Although this is a smaller low volume business for Aegean, they yield higher operating margins and is a highly profitable revenue stream for the company.

With that, I'll turn the call back over to Spyros to provide more detail on our financial results.

Thank you, Nick. As you may know, since market conditions fluctuate at ports around the world, we track our business quarter-over-quarter. As such we will use sequential comparisons in our discussion for quarterly financial results, comparing the results for the fourth quarter of 2012 to the third quarter of 2012.

On slide eight, of the presentation, we illustrate our sales volumes and gross spread. Including our sales volumes during the fourth quarter, Aegean has achieved a cumulative annual growth rate of approximately [indiscernible] (7:29) since going public.

During the fourth quarter, the gross spread per metric ton of marine fuel was essentially flat at $23.4 per metric ton compared to $23.2 per metric ton in Q3 2012.

On slide nine of the presentation, we breakout our company-wide gross utilization for the quarter, which is measured as volumes delivered per vessel per day and it was 472.3 metric tons per day compared to 533 metric tons per vessel per day in the third quarter.

Gross utilization declined in the fourth quarter due to sales to some of our vessels coming out of time charters. Adjusted utilization, which excludes both scheduled and unscheduled non-operating or off-hire days was 499.9 days in Q4 compared to 543.8 metric tons in the previous quarter. As a reminder, our utilization does not include Aegean North-West in Europe, which operates a spot-based business model focused on providing same-day sales and delivery services.

During the fourth quarter, we recorded a total of 199 non-bunkering days, which we define as scheduled and unscheduled off-hire days for our bunkering fleet plus days associated with strategically positioning of vessels. This number compares to 69 non-bunkering days in the prior quarter. For the full year of 2012, we recorded a total of 450 non-bunkering days. For the current first quarter, we anticipate approximately 100 scheduled non-bunkering days.

We also generated voyage revenues of $4.1 million in the fourth quarter versus $6.4 million in the previous quarter. Looking ahead, we expect voyage revenues to increase as one of our vessels is being chartered out. During the quarter we have allowed some of older vessels, the charters of those, to lapse, which is reflected in the reduction of voyage revenues and our plan is to sell three of these vessels that will reduce overall expense by $7 million over a year period.

Our storage revenues were approximately $1.4 million lower than the prior quarter. After joint venture interest and expenses this translated to 400,000 of net income. The decision has been taking to unwind the terminal activity in Panama, which will result in $9.5 million in new cash to the company and it will be reflected in the first quarter.

Furthermore, we have expanded our bunkering presence to three vessels. Gross profit, which are calculate this total revenues, less cost of sales have posted a cumulative annual growth rate of approximately 20.9% since the fourth quarter of 2006.

On slide 10, we present our historical gross profit and EBITDA margins trends. Our EBITDA margin, which is calculated as adjusted EBITDA divided by gross profit was 28.2% in Q4, which was lower compared to our adjusted EBITDA margin in the previous quarter due to lower voyage and other revenues.

For the full year 2012, our adjusted EBITDA margin was 29.3%, which was higher compared to last year's result of 27.8%. This has do with the expense reduction and improved gross spread per metric ton.

Turning to our working capital on slide 11, during Q4 our days payable outstanding increased slightly quarter-over-quarter while days inventory decreased slightly quarter-over-quarter. For the fourth quarter, days receivable outstandings increased. The net effect was a small overall increase in our cash conversion cycle to 22.7 days from 22.4 days.

Aegean reported net cash provided by operating activities of $42.5 million for the fourth quarter. Additionally, we generated free cash flow of $14.7 million for the quarter ended December 31, 2012, compared to $11.6 million in the prior quarter. For the full year, we achieved free cash flow of approximately $65.4 million.

Our strong balance sheet continues to be key differentiator for our company. As of December 31, 2012, our cash position was $77.2 million and our working capital position totaled $53 million.

Importantly, we have a commitment for $73.5 million term facility to finance the Fujairah land storage. As the company has already paid over $95 million from its own funds to finance this project, we expect the first drawdown to be $65 million and it will be applied to the reduction of our shorter debt. This will significantly increase the company's working capital.

The new term loan agreement is in documentation and should be ready for signing within the next two weeks. As we have discussed on previous calls, we are also working on a global trade finance facility that would replace the values by lateral facilities we currently have.

We are making strong progress in finalizing this facility, while in the interim we have strong financial liquidity to support the ongoing execution of our growth strategy due to the support provided by our existing bank that are also the ones that are involved in the global facilities.

Let me provide you with the key mix steps in this process. Since this is the first time Aegean we will have a facility of this [indiscernible] (13:58) in place, we are taking the necessary steps to ensure that we have negotiated the most favorable terms.

Today, we have appointed [indiscernible] (14:08), who have committed their participation and have agreed to terms that we will govern the loan facility. Next, we will approach all our current bankers as well as select group of other banks to engage in discussions about additional commitments for Aegean.

We expect to have all of the bank commitments necessary to fund the facility in place by the end of March. We expect to close the transaction within the month of April.

Again, I want to emphasize that the support from the company's existing banking group provides more than enough liquidity for Aegean to successfully continue to operate its trade finance business without disruption.

We appreciate the continued support from our banking group by extending our current facilities when they expire while we are in the process of completing the global facility. Many companies in our industry are currently facing liquidity problems and we believe our strong financial position is a good competitive advantage for us.

Following the drawdown and utilization of these two facilities discussed above, our working capital will exceed $200 million and our current ratio will be approximately 1.38 times. The two facilities will further strengthen the company's balance sheet as we provide the foundation to further expand out profitable operations.

In reviewing our balance sheet strength on slide 12, it is important to note that while trade finance debt at the end of Q4 totaled $440 million due to intensive working capital requirements inherent in the global marine fuel supply industry; this debt figure has a rapid turnover of between 30 days and 45 days.

In addition, our trade finance debt could be paid in full along with our entire trade payables, corporate debt, as well as a majority of our vessel debt based solely on the liquidation of our current assets. The remaining debt in our books will be approximately $108.4 million, which is be secured by 36 young vessels or $3 million debt per vessel.

As a result, we end up with unencumbered debt-free assets that include 26 owned bunkering vessels, three floating storage facilities, and three existing on-shore storage facilities. As of December 31, 2012, our fixed asset debt to adjusted EBITDA multiple was only approximately 2.3 times.

Our substantial financial liquidity including over $968 million in working capital credit facilities or $1.4 billion including supplier credit provides Aegean with a distinct competitive advantage as we seek to further expand our global market sale and strengthen our industrial leadership for the benefit of the company and shareholders.

I'll now turn the call back over to Nick.

Thank you Spyros. I'd like to use the rest of our time today to provide you with some thoughts on the macro environment drivers for 2013 and how recent and upcoming milestones underscore the progress we're making toward our long-term goals.

We know what needs to be done to create long-term value. We need to continue entering new markets, further diversify revenue and enhance flexibility and we're doing just that. In short, we are controlling what we can control.

First, we're taking decisive actions to diversify our revenue base and increase Aegean's global market share. We have strategically expanded our global footprint to 20 markets, covering approximately 60 ports to increase our global market share, drive business revenues and streamline trade efficiency.

We're expanding service centers around the world including our recent expansion in Barcelona, which is on track to commence physical supply operations by the end of the first quarter of 2013. Barcelona also improves our geographic mix and provides new volume.

We see significant opportunities in the Barcelona market, which is presently being served by only one player. Our competitive advantage in this market will be offering onshore capabilities, neither of which are currently offered in this region. We are confident that new substantial volume at a proper level in Barcelona will contribute to a larger revenue base.

Additionally, we recently launched the physical supply operations in Hong Kong and commenced onshore storage operations in Tanger-Med. These moves strengthened our integrated marine fuel logistics chain to drive profitability and further diversify our scope of operations.

Second, we are driving down our operating expense structure. To-date we have sold 10 older vessels, yielding approximately $20 million in annual operating savings. The sale of this non-core assets allow us to increase our utilization of the remaining fleet and reduce maintenance CapEx and both of these actions directly impact Aegean's bottom-line. As we continue to execute in 2013, we remain laser-focused on rationalizing expenses, but selling non-core and older vessels.

Over the three years – over the years rather, we have grown our land storage capacity significantly and we are working towards further reducing our floating storage capacity worldwide. In Fujairah, our strategy is to sell our current floating storage facility and move all storage ashore as our newly built facility comes online towards the end of 2013.

The elimination of floating storage facilities has become a growing trend around the world. For example, the United Arab Emirates has stated that it will be eliminating all floating storage. This policy once enacted enhances the value of Aegean's shore-side storage capacity and bolsters the company's competitive position in the key market.

Equally as important, this sale will eliminate future CapEx commitments to maintain this floating fuel storage ship. We are streamlining our expense structure and leveraging our model to drive growth on our bottom-line.

Before we begin to take your questions, I would like to walk you through what we are seeing for 2013 including industry trends and upcoming milestones.

The market remains highly competitive and 2013 will continue to be a difficult year for the shipping industry and more significantly some of our shipping clients. As we move ahead, we will continue to look for opportunities to increase both our profit margins and our volumes. We will also continue to approach markets opportunistically, entering and exiting markets as appropriate, to maintain competitive positioning and adhere to our operating philosophy.

Additionally, we anticipate headwinds in the macro environment to impact our volumes spread in the next few quarters. This is nothing new for our company. We have been dealing with this environment from last two years and have been successfully navigating these headwinds. We made strategic reduction in various markets while entering new more attractive ones.

We believe that we're at the bottom of the current shipping cycle and have seen many of our customers face the serious equity issues that have negatively impacted their purchasing patterns.

Looking ahead, as older tonnage continues to exit the market and global demand improves, the supply and demand balance in the overall shipping sector should improve. We will continue to compete for higher quality customers and expecting [indiscernible] (21:27) recovery as our clients begin to buy larger amounts of fuel, which will boost our profitability.

Although macro environment headwinds are expected, we see some anecdotal evidence that indicates improving trends. For example, we have seen stronger demand, recent demand across certain segments of the drybulk tanker and container markets. The continued expansion of world seaborne trade and global sea fleet is driving demand for all grades of marine fuel.

Furthermore, we are seeing stronger marine fuel sales and vessel calls in major ports. With the strong financial platform and growth strategy, we're confident that we are well-positioned to benefit from these trends and improvements in the macros as it occurs.

We have solid growth momentum as we entered New Year and we will continue to carefully control what's in our reach and successfully execute our strategy. We'll continue to be cautious and diligent of our competitive positioning by taking conservative steps and strategically modeling our business to achieve our goals.

In the midst of a challenging environment, we've reported eight consecutive quarters of profitability. We also created a global foundation that paves the way for Aegean to benefit from future macroeconomic environment improvements.

Before we open the call for questions, I want to highlight [indiscernible] (22:41) milestones for our company. As I mentioned earlier, our Barcelona center is expected to open by the end of the first quarter of 2013. We also expect to open at least an additional port in 2013. Additionally, we are excited about our Fujairah storage facility, which is on track to be commissioned in the fourth quarter of this year. With this solid growth platform together with the positive trends I discussed on the call today, we have significant opportunities ahead of fiscal 2013 and beyond.

With that I would like to open the call for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] we will take our first question from Doug Mavrinac.

Thank you, operator. Good afternoon, guys. I just had a hand handful of questions this morning with the first kind of looking at the fourth quarter, because I want to make sure I have a good handle on that before looking at 2013. So for 4Q, based on your results, you guys on your bunkering business, your sales volume exceeded 3Q, the growth spread exceeded 3Q, but net revenues are down a bit from 3Q. Is that primarily because of those two items that Spyros discussed, essentially the rechartering of vessels and the Panama storage situation?

That's right. If you look at – if you take the bunkering business, which is really our main business, we have better margins and better volumes. Just to reiterate what Spyros said, if you look at the Panama storage that contributed net income of about $400,000 and we've decided, for various reasons, to exit that market and Spyros said, I don't know, that there's going to be a ....

Exit the storage.

Exit the storage, not the bunkering – the bunkering has increased there.

Right, right.

$9.5 million cash injection to the company from that. So that sounds positive for the company. Additionally, we had some older vessels that were on charter; as opposed to rechartering them, which we could have in the quarter – you can't sell a ship with a charter, or it's very hard to, we decided to investigate getting rid of some of those older ships, which should contribute about $2.3 million – or should reduce expenses by about $2.3 million per ship, or about $7 million in total.

So if you look at it, we made a couple of strategic decisions. You see a little bit of revenue going away, but a lot of cash come in the company by those two strategic decisions.

Right. And it sounds like, Peter, if I did the math right, just the savings of $7 million in OpEx, that almost makes up for the entire net revenue decline that you saw during 4Q?

Right. And, that's every year.

Right. Right. Okay. I just wanted to make sure, because that's the way it seemed and that's the way that Spyros explained it, but just like I said, I wanted to make sure we had a good handle on it. So for 2013, we look at – obviously heading into the year from the bunkering tanker side of things, a lot of momentum in terms of sales volume, and I didn't quite catch the sales volume update that you guys typically provide. So how did January look, in terms of sales volumes on a monthly basis?

Yeah the January number is very similar to January 2011 year-on-year [indiscernible] (26:15) 812,000 tonnes.

Okay. Perfect. Perfect. Great. And then -

January is usually tough because of weather-related issues in a lot of parts of the world.

Right, right. Just inclement weather makes it difficult to refuel and stuff, correct?

Yeah,

Yeah. Got you. Okay. And then, as it relates to the credit environment, I mean I know there has been a lot of discussion in the market about some of your competitors taking a more prudent approach towards credit extension, like you guys have. Are you seeing that credit is becoming a little bit more restrictive in the industry, or kind of what are your thoughts on that topic?

I can't speak for other people. We've always had a conservative outlook on that, and that's reflected in our allowance for bad debts, which is negligible.

All right.

So...

We used to be criticized for this, and...

Exactly. We used to be criticized for being so conservative, and now everybody says it's the way to go. So, I can't really speak to our competitors, but we will continue to service the best clients as we do, and we will make sure to get our money in.

Right. And I guess it's safe to say that you guys are still getting significant more enquiries than you're actually accepting?

Correct.

Okay, perfect. And then just final question, it pertains to just I guess the longer term strategy and how you're going to be allocating cash and capital going forward. I mean new facility is going in place, you're going to have more available liquidity, your cash commitments aren't going to be as great, since the new building program is now done. I guess, can you share with us any updated thoughts [audio gap] (27:41-27:42) what's that?

Fujairah is going to be done. We have a big cash flood coming in from that too.

Right, right, right.

All these little things are adding up to a big cash balance.

Right, right. And so I guess can, you just give us an update, Peter, as far as how you're thinking about maybe – you have a lot of optionality. Just maybe any updated thoughts on how you expect to- things that you expect to pursue or just how you're thinking about managing that?

Well, I think, look, opening up new bunkering stations around the world doesn't cost a lot of money, because you get the license, we have the ships already. That's the thing. We've built this infrastructure for a much bigger business and we've been sort of hammered for it actually, if you think about it.

You know the last couple of years we've suffered while doing what we thought was the right thing for the future. Preparing all these ships, all the storage in the right places. And now, in this course of 2013, you are going to see the fruits of all that labor because our expenses are coming way down, new cash is coming into the company through various things, we've opened up a bunch of new stations and we're going to open some more. So we'll start building up a lot of cash. I mean I think at some point in the future, when the company builds up a huge amount of cash, well then – then I think it's up to the board to have discussions what to do with that cash.

Okay, all right, perfect. That's all I had. Thanks for the time.

Thanks.

We will take our next question from Kevin Sterling.

Thank you operator. Good afternoon, gentlemen.

Hi good morning, good morning. Oh good afternoon, good morning yeah.

Good morning to me, good afternoon to you.

Good morning for you. Yes.

So I think that you guys talked about selling some of these older non-core vessels, some more in 2013. Will most of that take place in the first quarter?

No, it will take over the course of the year.

Okay.

We did just complete the....

We did – one will be sold now, in this first quarter.

Floating storage ship, yeah, [indiscernible] (29:50).

Okay, okay. And so with that in mind, you touched on your operating expenses coming down. So should we see the run rate of expenses in Q1, in theory, be lower than what we saw in Q4, is that the right way to think about it?

Yes, yes Kevin. It will be lower – Q1 will be lower than Q4 and Q4 lower than Q3. And the run rate on the year will be certainly – well, at this point, based on what we know, lower than 2012.

Okay. And I know Doug asked you a question about January volumes, could – any way you can touch on what you're seeing in February?

February looks like it's a little better than what the January figure was, modestly better, yeah.

Okay. And Peter, I know that Doug also asked some question about your cash generation, you doing all these things and – for three quarters in a row now, you've generated positive free cash flow. For the year, you generated $65 million of free cash flow. You said as you build this war chest you're going to go back to the board and decide what to do with that cash. I mean, are some possibilities including maybe a increase in the dividend, you paying down debt, stock buyback. How should we think about priorities for that cash?

I think all of the above. I think what we'd like to do is get this global facility done next month. [indiscernible] (31:19) get that in place, get this cash in for Fujairah and then sit and look at it and make a decision. I mean again, if you look back at my history from Genmar and Genco, we love returning cash to shareholders at the appropriate time.

Right, right. Okay. And just touch base on those credit facilities, I think you guys touched have on it, but everything's in place and a go for those, within the next month, just got to dot all the i's and all cross the t's, is that right?

That's right.

Okay. And Nick, in Q4, it sounds like you guys had an unusually high level of non-bunkering days, I think you said 199. What drove this high number? Was it the issue with charting of the vessels, and should we see it moderate in Q1?

Yeah, Kevin, that is part of it. When we took those ships out of time charter, their charter business that they were doing and they came into the bunkering service, sometimes they weren't actually operating. So that adds to your non-bunkering days, that's what made this higher and we intend to address that.

Okay. And then does that – because – am I thinking about it right – does that add to your expenses, but you don't get any revenue associated with that, is that right?

Correct.

That's right. Exactly correct, yeah.

Okay. And then – and it...go ahead.

With that added [indiscernible] (32:39) Kevin, you'll notice that the quarter was lower on expenses.

Yeah. Okay. And then last question for me. I think you – just to clarify what you are doing at Panama. You're continuing with the bunkering operations, you're just selling your storage operations, is that right?

Well, we didn't...

We're unwinding our joint venture there.

You're unwinding your joint venture, okay. But you're going to get a cash infusion from that?

Yeah, yeah. There'll be cash coming to the company.

Okay. Well that's all I had today. Thanks for your time.

We'll take our next question from Peter Mahon.

Good morning, guys – well I guess it's good afternoon to you. Just a couple of things I wanted to dive deeper into. Really walk me through the Panama issue, what changed in a very short amount of time that led you to completely dissolve this joint venture?

Peter, first of all, our core business is bunkering and our focus is there, to really just focus on the bunkering business and to grow that, and it's been good and now we're introducing a third vessel – we've introduced a third vessel there, and hopefully that will make it even better. So, we've had terminal activities in Panama and we've seen them reduce and with the reduced activity, we feel it's just best to move along and not have that exposure. So that was really what drove this, so we decided to unwind it.

Okay. And why was terminal activity declining?

You know, a host of reasons, but that has a lot to do with the supply/demand economics there. But most importantly, the backquidated market and fuel oil matters, it gets into a lot of different issues, but it did decline and we thought that would be a burden to the company and for that reason, we unwinded.

Okay. Sounds good. And then, when you think about some of the decisions that you've have made over the past several years. Is the market so dynamic that things can change this quickly? For example, this Panama issue is one, unwinding operations in West Africa after just a couple years in operation. And then obviously taking this large – taking on this large project in Fujairah, are market conditions that just dynamic where some of these...

When we first started, we were in six ports around the world. We're in over 60 now, with 20 stations. You know what, you go into 60 ports, you're going to have one or two that don't work out. In Ghana, a big part of the problem was the piracy and the costs associated with that and also getting the right kind of products. The piracy originally had always been on the East Coast of Africa. Piracy then went to the West Coast of Africa and if you remember we had a ship taken by pirates last year and it's very important to us the safety of our crew and safety of our people, this company has been around a long time. The crew members have been in this company for a long time. So we start to see increased costs, reduced revenues, and a dangerous environment. And we just decided – you know what, saving $7 million minimum a year, I think that's the smart business move. So, was getting into wrong? No, but the market did change and now we'll save $7 million a year.

With the Panama situation, again, the market changed. The company is going to get $9.5 million in the company in the first quarter. Who doesn't want that? So, like I said, we started with six and when the company went public, we're in 60 ports today. You know what, if you have a couple that haven't worked out, that's life [indiscernible] (37:05). Panama, we're expanding our bunkering operation. So, it has worked.

In addition, we're going to Barcelona.

Yeah. So you know...

Yeah.

I mean [indiscernible] (37:19) – you know, I think we're proving to the market that we're flexible and we respond to regional dynamics.

Fair enough. And then are you still very confident in your Fujaraih project that you'll be able to utilize the facility effectively to meet the economic parameters that you set out from the beginning of the project?

Yes, absolutely.

Okay. And then you mentioned as well that you're selling...

Let me tell you, in a short period of time though, I'm not sure when, the floating storage will be banned in Fujaraih. And when that happens, if we didn't have this facility, we would be out of business there. And the guys who don't have access to facilities to like that will be out of business there. So, again, it's thinking for the future.

Sure. Okay. And then the next question I have, as you mentioned that you were going to sell the three older vessels that were previously on charter, if I heard correctly. And are those three vessels all stationed in Singapore or where are those vessels?

They're in Greece. They were on a transport contract here in Greece.

Okay. Great. Well, thanks a lot guys.

Thank you.

[Operator Instructions] .

There is another thing, all right, go ahead.

[Operator Instructions] We'll take our next question from Chris Snyder.

Good morning, guys.

Hi, Chris.

Hey. Sorry, I jumped on little late, sorry if any of this has been touched on, but so, I mean the gross spread, I know that you guys – some higher percent of sales were allocated to low spread region. But was still this affected by Fujaraih for similar reasons as for Q4?

Yes. I think in the call back in the third quarter, we talked about some of the unusual activity within the Fujaraih market and how that impacted our lower – what we thought was a lower spread, but we typically attained. We saw that translate into Q4, and yeah, that's definitely in those figures.

And do you – what's kind of your expectation for that going into 2013 in Q1. Do you think that – are spreads increasing in that region or is it trying to maintaining the same level?

No. We saw a couple of recent [indiscernible] (39:57) in the Fujaraih market and its better than what it was in Q4 and certainly better than what it was in Q3.

And it's a growing market, I mean, it continues grow. East Africa's continuing to grow, the bunkering, the shipping in East Africa is continuing to grow and the shipping out in the Middle East is continuing to grow. So we think that's the right place to be and we think once the floating storage situation goes away, we think it will really benefit us.

And also what's interesting about our business, Chris, is you know we're looking for opportunities like – places like Barcelona and other places, as Peter just mentioned, East Africa. There's other spots in the world that we have flexibility to go into these markets. So it's important to have a geographic mix that you are not reliant on one spot and that's what is nice about our business. We can get the benefits from a lot of different other places too when market down. It never stays that way for ever. It's not – they go [indiscernible] (40:58) little swings per se though.

Yeah, definitely. The next question is about the storage revenue, that was all just kind of a decrease quarter-over-quarter that was all just from, Panama?

Yes. We'd touched on that earlier in the call, it was reduced activity in the Panamanian market, yes.

And I know some people were saying that a lot of fuel from the gulf was diverted up to the North East, New York for Sandy. So it makes it seem like fuel supply would be harder to come by in the Gulf Coast. Do you think that has – played a negative effect on storage revenues in the area?

Extrapolated. I don't know Chris that will be a stretch I think.

Yeah. All right. Oh yes that's it from me. I appreciate you taking my call.

All right. Thank you.

At this time, there are no more questions. This concludes the Aegean Marine Petroleum Network Inc., conference call. Thank you and have nice day.