Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Spyros P. Gianniotis — Chief Financial Officer, Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.
E. Nikolas Tavlarios — President, Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.
Peter C. Georgiopoulos — Chairman, Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.
Douglas J. Mavrinac — Analyst, Jefferies LLC
Ben J. Nolan — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.
Kevin W. Sterling — Analyst, BB&T Capital Markets
Omar Nokta — Analyst, Clarkson Capital Markets

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, and welcome to the Aegean Marine Petroleum Network Incorporated First Quarter 2015 Conference Call and Presentation. I would like to advise everyone that there will be a slide presentation accompanying today's conference call. That presentation can be obtained from Aegean's website at www.ampni.com. I also want to inform everyone that today's conference is being recorded and is now being webcast at the company's website www.ampni.com.

We will conduct a question-and-answer session after the opening remarks. Instructions will follow at that time. A replay of the conference will be accessible the next two weeks by dialing 1-888-203-1112 for U.S. callers and 719-457-0820 for those outside the U.S. To access the replay, please enter the passcode, 3930857.

At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to the company. Please go ahead.

Thank you, and welcome to Aegean Marine's first quarter 2015 conference call. On the call today are Peter Georgiopoulos, Chairman of Aegean; as well as Nick Tavlarios, President of Aegean.

Before we begin our presentation, I would like to note that this conference call will contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

Words such as expects, anticipates, intends, estimates, or similar expressions are intended to identify these forward-looking statements. These statements are based on Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.'s current plans and expectations and involves risks and uncertainties that could cause future activities and the results of operations to be materially different from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.

Important factors that could cause actual results to differ include our future operating or financial results, our ability to manage growth, adverse conditions in the marine fuel supply industries and increased level of competition. For further information, please refer to Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.'s reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

I would now like to turn the call over to Nick Tavlarios, President of Aegean, to discuss highlights from the quarter.

Thank you, Spyros, and thank you, all for joining us this morning. I'd like to begin with an overview of our performance during the first quarter. I will then review developments within our specific business, as well as the broader industry that have been drivers in our operational and financial results. Once I walk through this high-level overview of our performance, I will turn the call to Spyros to provide details of our financial results for the first quarter. I'll then conclude the call by discussing macro trends within the shipping industry, and the positive trends that will help us to continue to grow our company and bottom line.

During the first quarter, we continued to extend our track record of profitability and growth. Our continued success is a testament to our proven strategy, and the hardworking and talented employees have put it into action. For the first quarter of 2015, we delivered strong results and achieved sales volume of 2,915,450 metric tons, gross profit of $80.6 million, adjusted operating income of $20.1 million and adjusted EBITDA of $27.9 million, the net income of $12.4 million or $0.25 basic and diluted earnings per share for the first quarter, up approximately 19% over the fourth quarter of 2014.

The key components of our solid results include our commitment to successfully leveraging our global network, and supporting sustainable growth drivers. During the quarter, we also continued to capitalize on new opportunities and expand our global footprint. All of these components make up our unique and dynamic business model, which help lead to several key developments in the back half of 2014, which continue to drive momentum in our business. These initiatives include the commencement of commercial leasing efforts at our Fujairah facility, the full integration of our U.S. East Coast operations, the expansion of our operations in the Gulf of Mexico, the Port of Los Angeles and Long Beach and Hamburg, Germany.

In Fujairah, our storage facility is now at nearly 85% capacity, of which Aegean represents roughly 25% to 30%. The facility began to contribute to our EBITDA over the quarter and will meaningfully contribute to our business going forward. We have a strong marketing strategy and are excited to capitalize on the emerging opportunities in the region. We also created a strong foundation for organic growth within our facility in Barcelona and operations at the Port of Algeciras Bay, both of which allow us to participate in compelling Mediterranean market. We're also pleased with the progress of our U.S. East Coast bunkering business, which continues to drive volume expansion.

With the full integration of our operations in the Gulf of Mexico, Los Angeles, we have built our strong U.S. West Coast operations as well. We're confident they will continue to drive steady growth and profitability through 2015 and beyond.

As a result of these initiatives and the market beginning to normalize, we'll be well positioned to respond to increased market demand by leveraging our global capacity and to expand opportunistically in these markets. Looking ahead, we will continue to evaluate additional bunkering opportunities to drive continued growth and value creation.

We also worked to further strengthen our balance sheet to ensure we have the necessary liquidity to support our growth plan and maintain our core operations. We're confident that with this financial strength and by continuing to execute on our proven strategy, we'll generate value for shareholders and position our company for continued growth.

Moving on to our capital allocation priorities, we're proud of our ability to generate significant levels of free cash flow and remain committed to returning value to shareholders. Our focus remains on deploying our cash to drive the most significant returns and exemplified not only by our diligent reinvestment in our core operations, but by having the share purchase program and dividend program in place. Going forward, we'll continue to evaluate market conditions, capital allocation alternatives and other factors to determine the best use of our cash.

With that, I will turn the call back to Spyros to provide additional detail on our financial results for the quarter. Spyros?

Thank you, Nick. As we know, since market conditions fluctuate at ports around the world, we provide sequential comparisons in our discussion of quarterly financial results, comparing results for the first quarter of 2015 to the fourth quarter of 2014.

For the first quarter of 2015, our sales volumes decreased slightly by 3.1% to approximately 2.9 million metric tons on a sequential basis. During the first quarter, the gross spread per metric ton of marine fuel sold was $24.1, a decrease of 9.4% over Q4 levels. Total gross profit for the first quarter was $80.6 million. Net income for the first quarter was $12.2 million or $0.25 per basic and diluted share.

Net income adjusted for the sale of non-core assets was $12.4 million or $0.25 per basic and diluted share. EBITDA for the first quarter was $27.8 million or $27.9 million adjusted for the sale of non-core asset.

Our utilization for the quarter, which is measured as volumes delivered per vessel per day was in line with Q4 levels. As previously noted, our utilization calculation excludes non-operating or off-hire days, Aegean Northwestern Europe, which operates a spot-based business model focused on providing same day sales and delivery services, and other markets where we do not own delivery assets. We generated voyage revenues of $8.4 million in the first quarter. Looking ahead, we expect voyage revenues to remain in this range. We expect storage revenues to increase as we lease greater storage capacity to third parties at our Fujairah facility.

On slide 10, we present our historical gross profit and EBITDA margin trends. Our EBITDA margin, which is calculated as adjusted EBITDA divided by gross profit, was 34.7% in Q1, an increase of 34% over the previous quarter. During the quarter, Aegean reported net cash used in operating activities of $23.8 million as we increased our inventory level.

As of March 31, 2015, our cash position was $91 million, and our working capital position was $263.1 million. Our cash conversion cycle shows an increase in Q1 2015 due to lower revenues as a result of lower oil prices early in the quarter, while receivables remained flat as commodity price increased through the end of March. We also increased our inventory position quarter-on-quarter. Going forward, we expect our cash conversion cycle to moderate back to previous levels.

Our total debt of $725.5 million can be analyzed as follows. Our fixed assets of $635.7 million, is financed by $221.3 million of long-term debt, $38.8 million of which is classified as current, and this implies a leverage of 34.8%. Of our $504.2 million in working capital debt, $232.6 million is long-term, and $271.6 million is short-term, both of which combined finance current assets of $734 million resulting in the leverage of approximately 68.7%.

As of March 31, our fixed asset debt to adjusted EBITDA multiple was approximately 2.2 times. We have more than $1.8 billion in working capital credit facilities, including supplier credit. We are in compliance with all loan covenants. Before turning the call back over to Nick, I will point out that our sale volumes for the month of April were just over 1 million metric tons.

Now, I will turn the call back over to Nick. Nick?

Thanks, Spyros. Our first quarter results demonstrated our ability to drive growth and create shareholder value in spite of industry headwinds by executing on our proven strategy and maintaining a strong balance sheet.

Before concluding, I want to outline some of the emerging macro trends in our industry and detail why we believe we are positioned to continue to successfully navigate and capitalize on positive shifts in the market landscape. Market dynamics in the shipping industry are beginning to stabilize. The dry bulk space remains challenged, we're already seeing improvement in the tanker space. Moving through 2015, we're confident that overall fundamentals in the maritime industry will gradually improve as well.

With respect to changes in regulations in our industry, specifically the changes in fuel content requirements, we continue to leverage our diversified approach to remain ahead of the pack. These new regulations have created slight market disruption particularly for the companies that are undercapitalized.

Since we are one of the few among our competitors that are well capitalized with strong flow, limited debt and vessels that can support multiple fuel grades, we are facing no issues under the new regulations and believe we'll be able to take advantage of the opportunities that open up as others exit the market. We're also benefiting from the commodity price environment through lower interest expense due to pricing and reduced operating expenditures. Given these macro-economic trends, along with our fully operational Fujairah storage facility and the launch of our operations in the Gulf of Mexico, the U.S. West Coast and Germany, we feel we're well positioned to continue to generate significant value.

Moving forward, our main focus on executing on our proven strategy, to streamline our expense structure, increase asset utilization and expand into new markets. We remain committed to building on a record of profitable growth, operational excellence and financial strength, while returning value to our shareholders.

With that, I'd like to open the floor for questions. Operator?

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And we'll go first to Doug Mavrinac from Jefferies.

Thank you, operator. Good morning, guys, and congratulations on another great quarter. My first question is, whenever I'm looking at your first quarter results, couple of things jump out. One, that it was your best quarter in five years; and two was that, you didn't get any help from the gross spread coming at below $25, the way we were viewing it is that, you guys aren't even hitting on all cylinders and you're still putting up the best numbers in five years. So, my question is, when you look at the gross spread and I know it might be a little bit early for the second quarter, but how has, if at all, the stabilization in crude and bunker fuel prices affected the spread in 2Q relative to 1Q?

Doug, there is a positive driver out there still on the 0.1% sulfur. We definitely feel a tailwind coming from that.

Okay.

That is something that's certainly present in the North American continent. It goes out to 200 nautical miles. So, that's become a greater concentration of our product mix and it's certainly beneficial in that respect. The other thing that's going on within our businesses and something we've been doing more, we've made this heavy investment in infrastructure by having these storage facilities. And our strategy has become one more so of taking advantage or using these facilities and blending whenever possible. And that of course reduces our cost of goods sold and is a positive tailwind for our gross spread. So, we see that trend – so that's something we want more or so on our strategy as we continue through 2015. So, I guess that's the best way to answer your question without pointing specifically to Q2, I just think you'll see that more in our company.

Got you. Got you. That makes sense. Thanks Nick. And then also just to make sure I heard things right, I remember Spyros was talking about the April sales volumes, you guys did over 1 million tons in April?

Yeah. We were just over 1 million tons in April. Yeah.

Got you, which is a big number. I just wanted to make sure that I heard that right. Okay. And then whenever we look at kind of the broader refueling industry, as an executive team, you guys and specifically, Peter was the first that I know of to call the rebound in the tanker market and obviously things have worked out exactly in that way. And I know that over the last handful of months you guys have kind of seen the general change in the trend of refueling habits and whatnot of some of the tanker owners. My question is, these rates are continuing to surge into 2Q, I mean last week in the [indiscernible] (15:27) north of 70,000 tons a day. So as that has evolved, have you changed any of your – kind of how has that changed your business I guess, have you kind of extended more credit to more companies, have you kind of looked at other guys' potential business opportunities and customers, I mean how has the continued surge in the market changed the way you're doing business?

Peter?

Well, the average delivery size has changed to the tanker-owner. That's the...

Yeah.

That's the first thing to start with. So, they need to go from one voyage, finish that voyage, get on to the next and not have time to stop for fuel. So, they're trying to take as much fuel as possible when we're doing what we call a [ph] SEM (16:08), okay and...

Right.

And then move on to their next piece of business. So, that we're definitely seeing that trend occur.

Right.

There is certainly more liquidity in the tanker space and that's a very, very positive thing for us. It's more efficient for us, see it takes us just about the same amount of time to go do a 200 ton delivery as it would to go do a 2,000 ton delivery.

Right.

So, certainly it's our benefit to go see a tanker owner who is looking to take a bigger quantity and make that delivery and let them get on with their business rather than do a smaller 200 ton delivery.

Right, right. I mean so whenever you look at some of the tanker guys reporting earnings and whatnot, I mean they're putting up pretty good numbers. I mean has it translated to you guys, turning guys back on in terms of in years past, whenever you were very prudent about who you'd extend credit to and clearly the market was more challenged four years or five years ago than it is today. But has it gotten to that point of maybe kind of doing business with more people as well, because I understand that time is money aspect and obviously that's huge, but I was just curious if there is any guys you're now doing business with or at least considering and not specifically, but in general that maybe you turned away two years or three years ago whenever the rates were $20,000 day or $30,000 a day. [indiscernible]

(17:22) but yeah, without a doubt, Doug yeah...

Yeah.

...there's definitely been a more – just a better climate per se..

Right. [indiscernible]

(17:35) it's a tanker-owner. No question about it.

Got you, got you. Thanks Nick. And then just final question Fujairah, I mean, obviously that thing is ramping up, you mentioned how it's proceeding in terms of according to plan. My question is just kind of, can you add a little bit more color to that in terms of kind of what's left to ramp up? And then, maybe how is starting to contribute financially to your bottom line?

Yeah. We only started there leasing from Jan 1. And we had some contribution in Q1, but Q2 has been considerably better, as you saw the number now, we're over 85% occupied in that storage facility, and we only have a small part of it. So, there is definitely demand there. And we've definitely seen an increased number of inquiries for storage. And this is going to I think at some point translate to a little bit of pricing power on storage rates. So, we're very optimistic about where we're – I'll just say we're happy where we are right now. We've done very well, again saying we're a new terminal in that region and considered a new operator amongst a region, and to be out there and see us occupied in terms of capacity as we are, is a testament certainly.

Perfect. Great. Thank you, congrats. Best quarter in five years. Great job.

Thank you.

And we'll go next to Ben Nolan from Stifel.

Thanks. Yeah. So, I have a few questions. My first is sort of getting back to the spread. Obviously, it was a little lower and Nick you talked about how things like blending and the low sulfur regulation should be having a positive impact on the spreads in general. And it wasn't bad, but we certainly didn't see positive momentum. Just curious if there were any specific contributors to the spread in the quarter, and ultimately, is it something that you think just sort of is normal part of the business and we should see probably a reversion to remain in the $25-ish range?

Yeah. Ben, we know we analyze each and every one of our markets, and we know certainly exactly what's going on as it relates to spread. We don't, of course, disclose our market performances because of commercial reasons, right. So, you know that.

Sure, sure.

And we try not to give that information, obviously your competitors would love to know what we do in each market. Anyway, yeah, there was certainly a market that wasn't quite up to par, and we understand why. And of course, that had some influence on why the spread is lower than it should. Having said that, and on a going-forward basis, and now that we've been operating for, I don't know, 32 quarters, 33 quarters or more, we – I assume like 36 quarters, 37 quarters, yeah, we certainly have seen this happen before and change.

You could have one quarter where it looks great and then that same market could be a little off the next quarter due to a competitive dynamic. And that's kind of what we're seeing now. It's not a red flag for us at all, but you could see we do have an efficient company. We don't have complete control on what the market does on spread, but what we do is, again, we talked about blending, that helps us lower our cost of goods sold. And that translates to a better gross spread. So, that's why I threw that in earlier, and there's your explanation.

Okay. That's helpful. And I know it's early, and I know you generally don't like to do this, but I'll try. Any inkling as to the direction of spreads thus far in the second quarter?

Yeah. It's a little too early to talk about again on where the spread is in the second quarter, but we are having certainly good experiences in North America and certain other parts of the world too, so again just a little too soon to speak of.

Sure. Well, away from spread, one of the other things that really jumped out to me was the cost, specifically the selling industry [ph] leading (22:10) costs were materially lower. And I know some of that is just due to lower bunker consumptions. But was curious to get your opinion as to sort of where we should think about that going forward? Is this still a function of sort of the rightsizing of the business or was there something specific in the quarter that helped the cost be a little bit lower that might not be repeatable?

Now remember, materially lower, what you're saying compared to Q4 of 2014, right?

Well – or Q1 of last year, I mean there was a big difference.

For the last year there is a big difference in the company's – between last year and this year in terms of everything that we've done in terms of rightsizing the company. In Q4 of 2014 we had taken a hit against our expenses I should say while we're in the process of collecting the money owed by OW. So from a GAAP perspective we had to reserve for that against our expense structure. So our expenses were a little higher in Q4 than they are in Q1 for that reason. So Q1 is more of a normal rate.

Okay. Well that's good. It's certainly a very positive move in the right direction.

Ben also, part of the cost has moved, because some of the vessels have been deployed doing voyage revenues, you see that the cost of voyage revenues has increased. So, part of that cost has been, yeah, going to another line.

I see, I see, that's helpful.

So if you take out OW in this $2 million – $2 million-plus...

$3.5 million.

$3.5 million, that's $5.5 million, so.

Of your delta, yeah.

I got you. Okay. That's helpful. And then next looking at sort of the process of the acquisition, it sounds like things are going pretty well, but I was just curious with respect to the volumes specifically, how much of a contribution did some of the West Coast and Gulf Coast and Hamburg acquisitions play a role in the overall volumes in the first quarter and how close to being fully ramped up are those now?

I would say, during Q1, the West Coast and the Gulf of Mexico were ramped up, okay.

Okay.

And so they did contribute to their volume. Hamburg was not, I think we had said that at the Q4 call that it was going through a licensing period and the commissioning period, so they really contributed very small amount in Q4 – in Q1 rather. I would say today they are almost entirely ramped up.

Okay. That's helpful. And then the last – well, maybe the last one for me is, on Fujairah, 85% is really good. Could you maybe remind me or let me know sort of where leasing rates are approximately over there? And I was curious what type of contribution Fujairah made in Q1 and sort of maybe extrapolate what that might mean into Q2?

Depending upon the product type that you have, right, in terms of storage, sort of close to $4 a cubic meter is the storage rate, but that would be your base fee, right. So the storage business once you charge a base fee and then depending upon what services are provided whether it be heating or blending or transfers or transfers beyond the one transfer per month that are allowed, you can gain more fees and that number would of course rise.

Okay. I got you. And that's $4 a month, right?

Yes. $4 a cubic meter a month, yeah.

Right. And then sort of, how – can you maybe give me some idea of how much it contributed in the first quarter in terms of actual revenue?

First quarter was small. It was not a big number.

Okay.

It was not very aggressive.

Yeah.

Okay.

$1.5 million.

$1.5 million or so.

Yeah.

$1.5 million. Okay, perfect. All right. Well, I said that was the last one. Here is the legitimate last one. So you talked about people being maybe in a position where they can't compete anymore because of the sulfur regulations and maybe strategically moving into other markets. How do you think of the landscape of the business as it is right now relative to sort of your opportunity set? Are you seeing a very active market in terms of acquisition opportunity? Obviously small bolt on things, but or is it a better – is it a better market for sort of niche Greenfield sort of expansions?

I think, there are both out there, but I think right now, what we're looking at is probably more towards the niche Greenfield. You know, we got very...

Got you.

– lucky with the OW situation because those are four businesses that we would have actually bought and paid a lot of money for, and did not pay anything for. So we think as they get ramped up, that will start adding more to the bottom-line and it's really, just in the first quarter, they're just starting to get ramped up. So, we think that – we don't know that we'll see any more situations like that, but we think there are some little things, but I think right now mainly towards the Greenfield.

Okay. That's perfect. Thanks, Peter. That's it from me. I appreciate it. Thanks, guys.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

And we'll go next to Kevin Sterling from BB&T Capital Markets.

Thank you. Good morning, gentlemen.

Good morning, Kevin.

Good morning.

Hey. Nick, you talked about your April sales volumes being over a 1 million tons, could you comment what you're seeing, since we're near the end of May, I know we're not at the end of May, but maybe could you comment what you're seeing in terms of sales trends in May so far?

Pretty much in line with what we saw in April.

Yeah.

Okay. Great.

Yeah.

Pretty much there.

Yeah. And looks like you guys sold another non-core asset in the first quarter after selling a few last year, any more left to sell of your non-core assets?

Kevin, we examine particularly on our older fleet, and there isn't much left there even though we have a very modern fleet. So, whatever older ships we have and as they come up closer to dry docks we examine what the cost is going to be and their values and such, and make a decision at that point.

But there are a couple...

Yeah.

– that we could get rid of this year.

Yeah. I think so.

Okay. Great. You know, just continuing to get more efficient there. And in Fujairah, gosh, you guys are 85% occupied now, that's a very quick ramp, how should we then think about you come – become fully utilized, do you think you can become a 100% occupied by the end of the year in Fujairah?

We'd like to think so. I mean, there's certainly a lot of demand over there right now.

Probably before the end of the year.

Yeah. Yeah. Before the end of the year.

We are...

We are getting a lot of inquires right now. So, it's just a question of does – the space we have available, is it a 100% functional for every user that's out there, but yeah, there is a lot of demand right now that there is no question about it.

I got you. Great. Yeah. Now, that's great. Can you explain a little bit since this is relatively new to us with the on-land storage facility, you got the general rate, that you're talking to Ben about the 4 cubic meters a month (sic) [$4 a cubic meter a month] (30:13), but then you said there's other stuff you can do for your customers that can help that rate. Exactly, what else are customers looking for in addition to storage there in Fujairah?

It's a question of how many moves they're going to make on in and out of the tank. So, when you charge that rate, it translates to one move in, one move out. And that's what they're entitled to. They're doing more than one move, and I'd say the average rate is about a move-and-a-half, that's what typical in the tank business, right. And then any transfers between tanks, there is additional fees associated with that.

Heating.

Heating is another one, and...

Hard to...

– so it's really hard to gauge, but that number almost always goes up. It's – it always goes up. It's not that base number. So – but it's hard for me to give you a budget figure, if that's what you're asking.

Yeah. No, I'm not asking for a figure, because I know it's hard. I just kind of want to help understand some of the other ancillary services that you guys can provide, so that was helpful, Nick. Thank you.

Welcome.

Yeah, and then that's great. And I would imagine too, just kind of following up on that, given how volatile the fuel markets are. If they are more volatile, does that increase kind of throughput in Fujairah, are you seeing more moves as well?

Well. This – and what's happened is, the fuel business is in contango at the moment. And that's why people are looking to put storage away. And, there is an increasing demand in that area also for clean product. So, we happen to serve both those markets.

Fujairah itself is also a big crude oil storage area, which we don't necessarily compete with. So, we handle the fuel oil business and a lot of the clean products. And, that's the way – there's a fair amount of business right now, and that's not an oversupplied area or segment of that business.

Okay, great. And, I guess along those lines. I saw your interest expense was little higher in the first quarter and was up both sequentially and year-over-year. What was the primary driver behind that increase, and should we expect to see it moderate as the year progresses. I'm thinking it might have been due to you guys building inventory in Fujairah, but I just want to double-check on that?

Yes, I mean. This partially has to do with that, and what Nick said before that, we will try to build-up inventories, do blending, and make sure that we bring down the cost of goods in line.

I got you. Now, that you've kind of built that up. Is it reasonable to assume or could we expect interest expense to moderate some, as the year progresses?

Yes, but it depends. If we find another opportunity, we can refill that, we can...

Yeah. I think, so Kevin, just to answer your question, I think, we're looking – we keep our eye on that cost item a lot, because it is such a big number, right. And, we think that there would be some initiatives there to try to reduce that, yes.

Okay. And then, I understand that...

So, I would keep it in line, that's what I would do.

That's fair. That's helpful. They can understand that's out of potential maybe terminal expansion opportunities or anything like that [indiscernible] (33:38) could go higher, which will be a good thing, but that was very helpful. Thank you. And I guess, lastly – go ahead.

Sorry, regarding interest expenses, part of that in the previous year was the interest that had to with the Fujairah storage financing were capitalized. Now, you see them as an interest expense. So, this explains.

So, on the fixed asset side rather than on the operating – working capital side.

Yes.

Yes.

I got you. Thank you. That's – that definitely explains it. Thank you very much. And a last question here. You guys obviously capitalize on disruption in the marketplace, OW acquiring some facilities, do you see anymore expansion opportunities out there that might be in the pipeline, that may be of interest, maybe some holes in the geographic map to fill in, are there other opportunities out there potentially you're looking at?

Yeah. We – I probably sort of just answered that. There are other things we're looking at. We think, they're more of the Greenfield nature than buying companies. So, it's more sort of a startup nature, but we're always looking at opportunities. And if you look at the world map, you can look at places where we are in and figure out what we're looking at.

I got you. All right. Thank you. That's all I had today. Thanks for your time this morning.

Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

We'll go next to Omar Nokta from Clarkson.

Hi, guys. Thank you. Solid quarter and actually most of my questions have been answered. I did have just a couple of follow-ups. One, just on the tanker market discussion, obviously it's been a very strong six months or so or even more. Could you just remind us what percentage of your business is derived from that market?

Look, it's a fluctuating figure, I'd say 25% to sometimes as high as 30%, and it's been as low as 20%, but right now, it's 25% to 30%.

Okay. And is that your – is that sort of the single biggest market exposure?

Yeah. I'd say...

Right now, tankers is the biggest. It's above 25%. It's probably closer to 35% right now.

Yeah. I think, containers is probably the second largest.

Yeah. It probably goes tankers, containers, bulkers, car carriers, and cruise ships, in that order.

Okay. Thanks. And then, just – so looking on your slides, on slide 11, just on the working capital, I'm noticing the cash conversion cycle is starting to get a little longer above 35 days, any concern there? And are you expecting that to revert back and to stay at that sub-30 range it had been at for the past few years?

Yes. We expect it to go back to 30 days. This quarter, we had a big cargo boat, so we had an increase in inventories. Then you had revenues going down because of the price of oil throughout the quarter. However, in March, you had the jump in price, so receivables stayed high, revenues down, inventory up, so that's where you see the jump.

Okay. So, that could be maybe – that can normalize this coming quarter or you think maybe back half?

Yeah. It depends what the price are going to do. I mean – but I mean last year, for example, the price [ph] of oil was around $100. (37:25) So, the line was relatively flat, the customer investment cycle. Now, we had these movements, these effects.

Yeah. Understood. And also, just maybe finally, on Hess, I know you probably can't give too much comments. Just noticed in the last couple of filings, is – you've commenced legal actions. And the claim is that $28 million and that seems to be kind of close to what you had actually paid for Hess, excluding the inventories. Is that – is it something that – is that sort of an inventory write-down that you're having to take, or is it more just the value of the enterprise just isn't what you thought it was?

No, I can't – look, we can't really comment on litigation, but the nature of the claim it's written there, it's in record and it talks about their understating expenses, and that's really the issue.

Okay. I see. And so, that – is that having any impact on the actual operations? I know you've talked pretty positively about it the past year?

Not at all.

Okay.

No, it's actually been a great acquisition, not just the team that we brought on and the ports that we brought on the East Coast, but the sort of the knowhow of that team and how they've helped us. I mean, they were instrumental in helping us in the West Coast, and in the U.S. Gulf, and globally. So, we think the team there is more than just the U.S. East Coast right now, what we bought.

Got you. Okay. So, that's helpful. Thanks a lot. That's it from me.

Thank you.

Thank you.

At this time, there are no more questions. This concludes the Aegean Marine Petroleum Network Incorporated conference call. Thank you and have a nice day.