Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Spyros P. Gianniotis — Chief Financial Officer, Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.
E. Nikolas Tavlarios — President, Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.
Ben Nolan — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.
Kevin Wallance Sterling — Analyst, BB&T Capital Markets

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, and welcome to the Aegean Marine Petroleum Network Inc. Fourth Quarter 2015 Conference Call and Presentation. I would like to advise everyone that there will be a slide presentation accompanying today's conference call. That presentation can be obtained from Aegean's website at ampni.com. I also want to inform everyone that today's conference is being recorded. It is now being webcast at the company's website at ampni.com.

We will conduct a question-and-answer session after the opening remarks. Instructions will follow at that time. A replay of the conference will be accessible through the next two weeks by dialing 888-203-1112 for U.S. callers and 719-457-0820 for those outside the U.S. To access the replay, please enter the pass code, 9274352.

At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to the company. Please go ahead.

Good morning, and welcome to Aegean Marine's fourth quarter and full year 2015 conference call. On the call today are Peter Georgiopoulos, Chairman of Aegean, as well as Nik Tavlarios, President of Aegean.

Before we begin our presentation, I do like to note that this conference call will contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as expects, anticipates, intends, estimates or similar expressions are intended to identify these forward-looking statements. These statements are based on Aegean Marine Petroleum Network Inc.'s current plans and expectation and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause future activities and the results of operations to be materially different from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.

Important factors that could cause actual results to differ include our future operating or financial results, our ability to manage growth, adverse conditions in the marine fuel supply industries and increased levels of competition. For further information, please refer to the Aegean Marine Petroleum Network Inc.'s report filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

I would now like to turn the call over to Nik Tavlarios, President of Aegean, to discuss highlights from the quarter.

Thank you, Spyros, and thank you all for joining us this morning. I'd like to begin with an overview of our performance during the fourth quarter and the full year 2015. I will then review our specific businesses, as well as developments in the broader industry that have been drivers in our operations and financial results.

Once I walk through a high-level operational performance, I will turn the call over to Spyros to provide details of our financial results for the fourth quarter and full year. I will conclude by discussing macro trends within the shipping industry and the steps that we're taking to continue to grow our company and deliver value in 2016 and beyond.

We are proud of our results in the fourth quarter and of the hard work our team has put in. Our financial flexibility, diversified platform and strategic expansion efforts have been key factors in our success to-date. As we move forward, our strong and consistent financial performance provides a solid foundation for continued growth and diversification with the marine petroleum market.

Throughout the fourth quarter and full year, we extend our track record of profitability and growth. Our solid performance and successful execution continues to differentiate us from our peers. Importantly, we are proud of what our team has achieved despite market conditions.

For the fourth quarter and full year 2015, we delivered strong results including sales volume of over 4 million metric tons for the fourth quarter and 13.5 million metric tons for the full year. Gross profit of $88.3 million for the fourth quarter, up approximately 1.4% quarter-over-quarter, and $331.8 million for the full year, down 1.6% for the same period last year.

Operating income for the quarter up $24.1 million. Net income, when adjusted for non-cash tax item, up $12.1 million or $0.25 per basic and diluted earnings per share for the fourth quarter compared with $10.4 million or $0.22 basic and diluted earnings per share for the adjusted prior year period.

Adjusted net income for the full year was $43.7 million or $0.89 basic and diluted earnings per share compared to $37.8 million or $0.79 per basic and diluted earnings per share for the full year of 2014. During the quarter, we achieved adjusted EBITDA of $32.8 million, up approximately 27% year-over-year. Adjusted EBITDA for the full year was $116.2 million, up approximately 13.7% compared with 2014.

Macroeconomic conditions, particularly increasing industry supply inventories impacted our results during the quarter by putting downward pressure on our gross margins. A lower commodity price environment also allows for increased competition, as well as less capitalized suppliers compete for incremental volume. Offsetting lower gross margins were lower commodity prices, also contribute to lower operating cost and lower interest expense.

2016 began with oil prices at their lowest starting point in 12 years, and while we have seen rising prices recently, we maintained the fundamentals that caused oil to fall by more than $60 per barrel, are still very much in play and we expect prices to remain low and volatile in the near-term.

Looking to our customer base market dynamics in shipping continue to vary greatly on a sector-by-sector basis with bulk and container shippers facing serious near-term headwinds creating a more cautious sales environment. We currently see tankers, car carriers and cruise operators with very positive near-term dynamics.

Despite these external factors, we have built a unique business model with a flexibility to control expenses, and adjust the market conditions accordingly due to our cross-segment diversification. Our strategy is conservative and flexible, which affords us the ability to adjust the changes in the broader economy. As markets continue to normalize, we're well positioned to respond quickly and effectively to increase demand.

In the wake of recent industry events, our strong relationships with customers and suppliers and hard-won reputation as a reliable counterparty have further strengthened our leadership. As a physical supplier with an integrated supply chain, we believe our service is more attractive to customers than that of our competitors who engage exclusively in back-to-back transaction and are exposed to a riskier tranche of counterparties.

Key element of our competitive advantage is our global geographic footprint, which stands across 32 markets and over 60 ports. We are continuously evaluating our current market portfolio and opportunities to enter new markets to leverage compelling market dynamics as they become visible. While focused on strategic expansion, we stay true to our promise of providing customers with faster, more efficient and affordable alternatives in regions that are currently underserved.

We have taken several important steps during the year to further diversify our geographic reach via strategic expansion. Most recently, we announced our entry into the South American market and the initiative is already underway. Our local team will operate out of our new office in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil and will manage an asset-light physical supply and back-to-back trading model in the region. Our foray into South America was made possible with minimal startup costs and strongly positions us for continued expansion of the region and beyond.

As we look ahead, we believe our successful track record of geographic diversification will be a key element of our ability to successfully navigate changing and uncertain market dynamics. We continue to evaluate the performance of all our markets and assets. The recent closure of our Portland service center is a strong example of our commitment to act when the business performance and outlook warranted. While there were no sales of vessels during the quarter, we will continue to prioritize efficient use of capital and be strategic in evaluating expansion opportunities.

I'd like to provide an update on our Fujairah Oil Terminal. Our storage facility, continues to operate at strong efficiency levels and is now performing at 100% capacity. The current market structure continues to be favorable for our storage business. The bunkering market at Fujairah is however facing headwinds due to low prices and Iranian oil, which has flooded the market with supply. We believe this market will return to an equilibrium and remains an important part of our global supply network. As we have stated in the past, Aegean has minimal exposure to the Greek economy and we are not affected by the local environment. We do not anticipate that Greece will have any impact on our company moving forward.

Turning to our financial overview, before we bring the call over to Spyros for a more in-depth analysis. In the third quarter, we introduced a new metric EBITDA per ton. For the fourth quarter, EBITDA per ton was $8.14. As I mentioned, we believe this more accurately depicts Aegean's performance in comparison with growth spread per metric ton and the impact our diversified revenue stream is having on the bottom line. Aegean now benefits from revenues generated through storage, vessel charters, cargo trading, back-to-back sales, in addition to our traditional physical supply operation.

To illustrate this point, gross spread per metric ton has decreased almost 22% since Q4 2014 from $26.2 per ton to $20.5. EBITDA per metric ton has only decreased from $8.56 to $8.14 or 5% over that same timeframe and has remained far more stable over time in gross spread.

For our 2016 outlook, we are focused on obtaining maximum efficiency out of our business, increasing the percentage of blended products we sell and continuing expansion to new strategic market. We are confident with this financial strength, and by continuing to execute our proven strategy, we will generate value for our shareholders and position our company for continued growth.

With that, I will turn the call over to Spyros to provide additional detail on our financial results for the quarter. Spyros?

Thank you, Nik. For the fourth quarter of 2015, our sales volumes increased by 19% to approximately 4 million metric tons on a sequential basis. This number includes 589,601 tons of bulk trading volume, net of which sales volumes were 3.4 million metric tons or a sequential increase of 3.2%.

Voyage revenues were $5.9 million in the fourth quarter, a decrease of $2.5 million sequentially. $2.3 million of this decrease was a result of the expiration of a charter agreement of a vessel at a charter cost of $1.4 million for the specific third quarter of 2015.

Looking ahead, we expect voyage revenues to increase slightly and we expect storage revenues to increase slightly from Q4 to Q1 as we reach 100% occupancy during Q1. Total gross profit for the fourth quarter increased by 4.6% sequentially to $88.3 million. Adjusted net income for the fourth quarter was $12.1 million or $0.25 per basic and diluted share. EBITDA for the fourth quarter was $32.8 million. Our EBITDA margin which is calculated as adjusted EBITDA divided by gross profit was 37.1% in Q4 in line with the previous quarter.

During the quarter, Aegean reported net cash from operating activities of $5.3 million. As of December 31, 2015, our cash position was $139.3 million and our working capital position was $341.8 million. As of Q4 2015, our net debt position was $58.1 million against fixed assets of over $600 million. Net debt is measured as total debt including trade payables, less total current assets, which are primarily comprised of cash, inventory, and receivables, all of which are highly liquid.

During Q4, we drilled down on our new Fujairah terminal facility, utilizing the proceeds to pay down more expensive existing debt and fund our day-to-day operations. As of December 31, 2015, our fixed asset debt to adjusted EBITDA multiple was approximately 2.3 times, significantly lower than many peers who have consistently over levered in this difficult market.

Our available trading credit lines continue to be at more than $1.8 billion. We are also in compliance with all our loan covenants. In the near term, we are using cash to purchase bigger cargos to exploit economies associated with buying bulk. We are also focused on increasing the percentage of blended product as well.

While the majority of our cash is reinvested back into our business, we are mindful that oil prices are at historic lows and are cautious of the uncertain economic environment. This is why we're making sure that flexibility [ph] is bit (14:21) into our financial plans to ensure we are positioned to continue operating at peak efficiency in the event of a significant price shift.

As always, we regularly consider all options to achieve our objective of driving maximum shareholder value, including ongoing reinvestments, share repurchases and dividend increases, as well as other opportunities. We also want to further strengthen our balance sheet and ensure that we continue to support our growth plan.

Now, I will turn the call back over to Nik. Nik?

Thank you, Spyros. Before opening the call up for Q&A, I want to discuss some of the continuing macro trends in our industry and provide detail on our financial and strategic position. In regards to marine fuel environments for 2016, we see market conditions improving slightly as incremental demand growth outpaces incremental supply growth throughout the second half of the year. Regardless of crude oil price direction, Aegean is well positioned and built to succeed at any commodity price environment.

Our outlook for the dry bulk market remains uncertain, especially as China's industrial slowdown continues. However, our recent results demonstrate our ability to deliver returns in a variety of market conditions as a result of a strong global platform. Despite challenging market dynamics, we have continued to leverage our asset base and infrastructure to capture additional storage revenue and opportunities and drive operating income.

Irrespective of macroeconomic conditions, we have a solid foundation, financial flexibility and strong relationship with customers and suppliers that span decades. We are confident that we are positioned to continue to successfully navigate industry challenges and are confident that Aegean will continue to achieve profitable growth as the market emerges for the current shipping cycle.

With that, I'd like to open the call for questions. Operator? [Operator Instructions]

We'll pause just a few moments to allow questions to queue. And we can take our first question from Ben Nolan with Stifel. Please go ahead.

Thanks. So, a nice quarter guys. My first question relates to how to think about something that you guys clarified a little bit on the conference call last time in terms of what maybe we should think of this spread on the physical side of the business net the bulk side, just to kind of get a better picture of where those margins are.

Yeah. Ben, on the physical side, we're looking at somewhere right around where it was last quarter, kind of in that [ph] mid-20% zone (17:21). That's what the physical volumes are generating and the balances what's affected from the bulk in the back-to-back traded.

The other – we think – I forgot to give you guys the metric that we typically provide, and that was sales volumes for the next quarter, and excluding bulk sales, the January and February volumes totaled $2.3 million metric tons. And then you obviously have March sales still to add and then whatever we do on the bulk side. So it looks similar to the prior quarter in that respect, so we'll see what the number comes out at the end of the quarter. But I just want to give that clarity.

Now that's both very helpful. On the bulk sales side, obviously there's been a huge ramp-up in the activity level there. How far into that process do you guys feel like you are – I mean, is this something that it really – we're only two quarters into it, but maybe what inning would you say that you're in terms of really being able to establish a footprint in that side of the business?

Yeah. Thanks for the baseball reference. Probably third inning. But again, it's an opportunistic thing, right? So, you get your hits in some innings, in others you don't. But I would say, we're keenly aware to opportunities, and we're making ourselves better positioned to go move on them. That's my answer.

Okay. That's helpful. And then, Spyros, you kind of alluded to this that at the moment your cash balances are sort of being earmarked for sort of building in more inventories into the business and that sort of thing. At what point or has the thinking begun to change at all about sort of when does that cash become more than what you need to use organically within the system and something else might be able to be down with it? Are we close to that point, or is it still just really return chain in your mind?

I think, as we pointed out on our readings and if we take a look what's going around in the market and where the price of oil is today and the opportunities ahead, I don't think we have reached the point yet to think of doing something else with this available cash.

Okay. And then last one from me and I'll turn it over. On the Fujairah storage, so it's fantastic that you guys [ph] are at a (20:19) 100% utilization. Has the actual lease rates that you originally thought you were going to be at? Have those come in as you thought and could you maybe remind us just in terms of the leasing aspect of the income? How should we think about, incrementally that how much of that add to the top line?

Well, let's just say that, as we gave some numbers in the past on what we were sort of getting on each quarter on Fujairah leasing. What we're seeing happen now and it's happening slowly and some good little signs of it, but nothing – but again it's started to happen as rates are creeping up, and [ph] they should (21:12). It really comes after having a year of experience of being an operator and seeing – the customers gaining confidence, and but again it's a big market there. But I think we're seeing the rates start to creep up. They will grow in the future. So I would say that as we look at what the contribution is of the Fujairah storage facility, it's essentially in line with what we expected and what we've talked about in the past.

Okay. Very good. Well, I'll turn it over, but nice quarter, guys.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

We'll go next to Kevin Sterling with BB&T Capital Markets.

Thank you. Good morning, gentlemen, and congrats on another solid quarter.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Nik, kind of what jumped out at me, your physical supply volumes were strong as well and as you noted competitions in creating in this low bunker price environment. So what's driving your volumes there despite all these competition? Is it primarily a fact of increased blended fuel sales? Are you doing anything different in your risk strategy?

Well, our risk strategy hasn't changed. We're still a very conservative company as we alluded to in our comments. But having said that, we sell to a broad array of customers. And I spoke about the tanker space. They are taking bigger list that before. They're moving faster and they're very, very well positioned with a lot of cash to pay their bill. So they're a very healthy customer of ours. The cruise ship industry is very strong. The car carrier industry is strong.

And having said that even the spaces that I thought might be challenged, that being the dry bulk and the container industry, they still buy fuel. You just have to be judicious on how you do it and we've been successful at that throughout our history. But we're just a learning people and we're cautious about it, that's it. So fuel sales are plentiful and we'll continue to see a lot of opportunities. And our services is well respected by our customer base, so our brand goes a long way. And now we're in 32 markets around the world. That's a big footprint.

Yeah, I know. And Nik let me piggyback on that. You talked about your brand, your footprint and your services are well respected. Even in this low price environment where you might have a little bit more competition, but are you seeing your customers, the shipowner's turn to you, what are your expertise in helping managing such a volatile commodity? Is that helping too?

Yeah. I hate bringing up something that happened in the past, and that was another industry player who blew up, right?

Right.

And that being OW, which again, I try to avoid speaking about others, but it created an unusual relationship with the shipowner. They were put at risk of having to pay their bunker and bill twice, where they pay the trader and then they pay the physical supplier. So the value that Aegean brings in a direct relationship is quite meaningful. So we differentiate ourselves. And a lot of that did come to us, yes. All right, so companies that are less reputable and don't have strong balance sheets, the shipowner is at risk. And that created a lot of value for the customer relationship with Aegean.

Got you. Makes sense. And Nik with your back-to-back transactions, are you taking on a little more risk than you normally would in your physical supply operations as you increase this business?

So what we're doing is servicing our current customers' needs. [ph] In ports, (25:10) we're not physical suppliers, and where they'll come to us and say, hey, can you take care of us in port X? We're not. And we'll go establish a current relationship on their behalf and that's it. Again it's a smaller part of what we do, but it's very important to our customers that we're there for them. And we do a good job in making sure that we get them the best possible prices there and make the operation for them as painless as possible.

Yeah. So it's not necessarily more risk because you're really dealing with your same customer base. Is that a fair assumption?

Yeah. Almost always. Yes.

Okay. Cool. And last question here, Nik. You talked about Iran and you're saying more oil hit the market. But with these sanctions being lifted, are there opportunities you see in your business?

So I think the – everyone saw it back in January of this year, the Iranian sanctions were lifted for various nations around the world, not the U.S., of course. But that did create in the region there a, let's call it oversupply of oil, and that has put some near-term pressure on what that market looks like. I think in time, as things sort of stabilize, it will create opportunities for us. Yes. So we're waiting to see how that sort of pans out. But I think it'll all be for the better.

Got you. Okay. Well, that's all I had. Thanks for your time and congratulations on another solid quarter.

Thank you, Kevin.

And as it appears we have no further questions. This will conclude the Aegean Marine Petroleum Network Inc. conference call. Thank you and have a nice day.