Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
E. Nikolas Tavlarios — President, Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.
Peter C. Georgiopoulos — Chairman, Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.
Spyros P. Gianniotis — Chief Financial Officer, Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.
Douglas J. Mavrinac — Analyst, Jefferies LLC
Ben J. Nolan — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.
Kevin W. Sterling — Analyst, BB&T Capital Markets
Katja Jancic — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, and welcome to the Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc. Second Quarter 2015 Conference Call and Presentation. I would like to advise everyone that there will be a slide presentation accompanying today's conference call. That presentation can be obtained from Aegean's website at www.ampni.com. I also want to inform everyone that today's conference is being recorded and is now being webcast at the company's website, www.ampni.com.

We will conduct a question-and-answer session after the opening remarks. Instructions will follow at that time. A replay of the conference will be accessible through the next two weeks by dialing 888-203-1112 for U.S. callers and 719-457-0820 for those outside the U.S. To access the replay, please enter the passcode.

At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to the company. Please go ahead.

Good morning, and welcome to Aegean Marine's second quarter 2015 conference call. I am Nick Tavlarios, President of Aegean. And on the call with me today is Peter Georgiopoulos, Chairman of Aegean, and Spyros Gianniotis, CFO of Aegean.

Before we begin our presentation, I would like to note that this conference call will contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as expects, anticipates, intends, estimates, or similar expressions are intended to identify these forward-looking statements. These statements are based on Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.'s current plans and expectations and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause future activities and the results of operations to be materially different from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.

Important factors that could cause actual results to differ include our future operating or financial results, our ability to manage growth, adverse conditions in the marine fuel supply industries and increased levels of competition. For further information, please refer to Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.'s report and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

I'd like to begin with an overview of our performance during the second quarter. I will then review developments within our specific business as well as the broader industry that have been drivers in our operational and financial results.

Once I've walked through a high level overview of our performance, I'll provide details of our financial results for the second quarter. I'll then conclude the call by discussing macro trends within the shipping industry and a positive trend that will help us continue to grow our company and our bottom line through the second half of 2015.

During the second quarter, our business faced some unforeseen expenses and two temporary headwinds that impacted our financial results; sustained lower oil prices and a disruption in one of our larger markets.

Sustained low oil pricing environment, lowered barrier to entry into the market allowing

competitors to aggressively opt for an incremental sales that would otherwise be beyond their credit capacity. These increased competitiveness has resulted in a tighter margin environment that has made an impact across the industry.

Despite the headwinds, Aegean extended its track record of profitability in the quarter, which marks our 18th consecutive quarter profitability. We have now achieved this goal in 33 of 34 quarters, since becoming a public company. This sustained success is a result of our differentiated strategy that separates ourselves from our peers. Financial flexibility is a main stay of our success and our strong balance sheet differentiates Aegean from its competition, which I will discuss later on in the call. Looking ahead, we continue to take steps and assure we are well-positioned regardless of the economic environment.

For the second quarter of 2015, we delivered solid results despite the difficult economic environment; achieving total sales volume of 3,150,950 million metric tons; a gross profit of $78.5 million, down approximately 7% over the same period in 2014; adjusted operating income of $14.8 million, 23.3% Q-over-Q, down; but adjusted net income of $7.1 million or $0.15 basic and diluted earnings per share for the second quarter. And despite these challenges we experienced in the quarter, we continue to successfully execute on our strategy, focused on successfully leveraging our global network and the supporting growth drivers we established.

Aegean remains uniquely positioned with a global network covering 31 markets across four regions; North America and the Caribbean, Middle East and the Mediterranean, Northwest Europe, and the Far East. This geographic diversification has allowed us to remain competitive in these large markets.

Shipping remains strong throughout each of these regions, particularly in North America and the Caribbean, where we experienced strong growth that bolster our results in the quarter. In Fujairah, our storage facility continues to perform well. The storage facility is operating at strong efficiency levels and is now at about 86% capacity.

This success was driven by our strong marketing strategy, and we remain on track to achieve our stated goal of 100% lease rate by the end of 2015. Fujairah continued to contribute to our EBITDA over the quarter and will meaningfully contribute in the going-forward quarters. In addition, we received an outstanding review from the Marine Port Authority, Fujairah on the terminal's performance, another sign of facility strength.

On the physical supply side, two additional jetties – or two load points will be opened by the end of the quarter and the current year. We expect our sales volume in Fujairah to materially increase. Demand in this market is quite strong. I also want to provide an update on the market in Greece and its impact on Aegean. From a capital perspective, we are not affected by the current environment in Greece. Our business is conducted in U.S. dollars and with a diverse group of international banks.

From an operational perspective, the Greek market has seen some minor impacts, but it continues to be a good market for the company overall. As stated earlier, sustained lower oil prices have provided the company – have provided the opportunity for some smaller, less well-capitalized suppliers to compete for share in certain markets. This was particularly noticeable in Northwest Europe.

To increase our efficiency in this region, we will be winding down our Portland Terminal and this – and all operations will now be covered by Northwest Europe office. We expect this adjustment to realize a few million dollars in annual cost savings as a result.

While there were no sales investments during the quarter, we will continue to pursue the most efficient use of our capital and improvement of utilization of our remaining fleet, while reducing maintenance CapEx. We are focused on maintaining our competitive advantage in order to capitalize our future opportunities as the market environment improves and continue to look for more efficient and profitable ways to generate growth and expand our geographic footprint.

To that point, we're currently pursuing several avenues to drive sustainable profitability and growth as we continue to execute our strategy. This includes entrance into new markets through low cost startup opportunities as evidenced by our recent expansions. Each of these initiatives is in line with our strategy focused on being in position of strength as the markets continue to normalize allowing us to respond to increased market demand.

Moving to our capital allocation strategy, we're proud of our ability to generate significant levels of free cash. In the past, we reinvested in the capital back into our business to enhance operations and create strong platforms for long-term sustainable growth. As our business continues to grow free cash, the board and management will, and as we always have, continue to assess our capital allocation priorities. Our focus remains on deploying our cash to drive the most significant stockholder returns; as such we will consider all options to achieve this objective including ongoing reinvestment, share repurchases, and dividend increases, as well as other opportunities to deliver shareholder value.

We also work to further strengthen our balance sheet and ensure that we continue to support our growth plan. We are confident that with this financial strength and by continuing to execute our proven strategy, we'll generate value for our shareholders and position our company for continued growth.

I will now provide some additional detail on the financial results for the quarter. As you know, since market conditions fluctuate at ports around the world, we provide sequential comparisons in order to discuss our quarterly financial results, compare results for the second quarter 2015 to the first quarter 2015.

For the second quarter, our sales volume increased by 8.1% to approximately 3.2 million metric tons on a sequential basis, 2.95 million metric tons of which was physical supply with the balance being made up of marketed back-to-back sales. During the second quarter, the gross spreads per metric ton of marine fuel sold was $22.5, a decrease of 6.6% over Q1 levels.

Total gross profit for the second quarter decreased by 2.7% sequentially to $78.5 million. Net income for the second quarter was $7.1 million or $0.15 per basic and diluted share. EBITDA for the second quarter was $24.1 million. Utilization of our physical supply fleet, which as a reminder, does not include Aegean Northwest Europe or U.S. West – East Coast or West Coast and Gulf operations and our Hamburg business, is measured as volumes delivered per vessel per day, excluded both scheduled and non-scheduled, non-operating or off-hire days, it was 545 metric tons per day compared to 513 metric tons per vessel per day in the first quarter of 2015.

We generated voyage revenues of $6.1 million in the second quarter. This figure was approximately $2 million lower than our original forecast due to dry-docking requirement for chartered vessels. Looking ahead, we expect these voyage revenues to increase. We expect storage levels to increase as we lease greater storage capacity to third parties at our Fujairah facility. On the expense side, our fuel consumption cost increased approximately $1.7 million to the approximate 11% rise in fuel costs.

On slide 10, we present our historical gross profit and EBITDA margin trends. Our EBITDA margin, which is calculated as EBITDA divided by gross profit, was 30.6% in Q2, a decrease of 11% over the previous quarter. During the quarter, Aegean reported net cash used in operations of $59.3 million, as trade receivables expanded from $363.3 million to $420 million and inventory grew from $176 million to $206 million through a 8.1% quarter-on-quarter increase in sales volume and almost 11% increase in fuel prices.

As of June 30, 2015, our cash position was $42.2 million and our working capital position was $267.7 million. Our total debt of $740.6 million can be analyzed as follows. Our fixed asset base of $630.7 million is financed by $211.8 million in debt, $38.8 million of which is classified as current, which implies leverage of 33.6%. Our $528.8 million in working capital debt, $233.4 million long-term and $295.4 million in short term, both of which combined finance current assets of $750.7 million, resulting in a leverage of approximately 70%.

As you know, our current assets are very liquid and our inventories are turned over every 16 days and our receivables in every 31 days. Our debt can be further analyzed as follows. Our fixed asset debt of $211.8 million secured by 36 vessels, all built after 2007. This means that we have $5.9 million of debt per vessel with an average vessel age of seven years. We own additional 12 vessels that are debt free. All financing is committed in attractive rates. We have set a $73.5 million term loan financing our storage facility in Fujairah with a book value of over $223 million; all term debt is also committed.

We continue to enhance our considerable financial flexibility, which remains a key differentiator to Aegean. We are also pleased to announce a successful refinancing of our $250 million U.S. facility with the ability to expand it to $300 million. We have a strong balance sheet that can support continued growth over the long term, and we appreciate the continued support of these banks and their confidence in Aegean Marine's business model.

As of June 30, 2015, our fixed asset debt-to-adjusted EBITDA multiple was approximately 2.1 times, significantly lower than many peers who have consistently over-levered in the difficult market. Our financial liquidity, which includes more than $1.8 billion of working capital credit facilities including supplier credit. We are in compliance with all loan covenants and have a strong fixed debt-to-adjusted EBITDA ratio.

I'll now turn the call over to Peter Georgiopoulos for closing comments.

Our second quarter results demonstrate our ability to deliver returns in a variety of marketing conditions, as a result of our strong global platform. While we faced headwinds during the quarter, we remain well positioned due to our unique and dynamic business model. For the month of July, our sales volumes were approximately 1,050,000 metric tons.

Before opening the call to Q&A, I want to outline some of the emerging macro trends in our industry, and detail why we believe we are positioned to continue to successfully navigate industry challenges and capitalize on positive shifts in the market landscape. Market dynamics in the shipping environment continue to improve steadily. The commodity price environment has had an impact on the entire industry, as sustainable oil prices have led to increased competition.

As we continue through the second half of 2015, we're confident that overall fundamentals in the maritime industry will gradually improve as well. As the regulations in our industry continue to change, specifically in fuel content requirements, we remain focused on leveraging our diversified approach to maintain a competitive advantage. With strong cash flow, we're well-capitalized with limited debt and vessels that can support multiple fuel grades. As a result, we're not facing any issues under these regulations and are confident that we will be able to gain profitable market share as our competitors exit the market.

Despite challenges, we're entering the second half of 2015 with several growth drivers in place that we expect will allow us to further improve our financial performance. Aegean's global brand diversified across four regions, 31 markets and world-class marine logistics platform position us well for the markets' continued improvement. Our strong balance sheet will continue to support our growth plan and our core operations around the world. As a result, we feel well-positioned to capitalize our market opportunities.

Looking ahead, we continue to focus on evaluating more efficient and proper ways to execute our proven strategy. As fundamentals continue to improve, we are poised to benefit from our expanded global market operations, diversifying our business and advancing our position in the global fuel supply market. We remain committed to delivering value to our shareholders, enhancing our network by opportunistically expanding our global footprint and ensuring customers are even better equipped to run their business around the world.

With that, I would like to turn the call over to questions. Operator? [Operator Instructions]

We'll have our first question from Doug Mavrinac with Jefferies.

Thank you, operator. Good morning, guys. I just had a handful of questions this morning, with the first few on the second quarter because there seems to be a lot of moving parts that kind of amount to one-off items, so I just wanted to make sure that I have it clear. So, Nick, in your commentary, in terms of sales volumes for the quarter, you mentioned that total volumes were 3.2 million tons and your physical sales volumes were 2.9 million tons, such that there was about 250,000-or-so million barrels of marketed back-to-back volumes. Now, when you look at those marketed back-to-back volumes, what sort of spread are you earning on them? And if it's a lower-than-average spread, what sort of impact would that have had on your overall gross

spread for the quarter?

Thank you, Doug. Yeah. So, those marketed back-to-back sales are done at a significantly lower spread than the physical supply volume, which is our core business. So, yes, they do have an effect on what that gross spread looks like. If you were to sort of adjust that spread, it'll probably be a $1 higher...

Okay.

...just physical supply volumes there. They [indiscernible] (17:42)...

Got you.

...much, much higher margin. But again, the other interesting thing is, those back-to-back, they're asset-light deals, they have a very – there is very little cost involved in doing those, and they have very high operating margin.

Right. So, we're looking at kind of your physical sales volumes, you were at least in line with 1Q. And even if you kind of look at the real spread that you made, it should be closer to $23.50 instead of $22.50, which is kind of in line with 1Q as well, is that the right way to look at it?

Yeah, that's right, Doug.

Okay.

Yeah, it would be close to that figure, yes.

Now, on that topic before switching gears, were there any vessels that you had off-hire during 2Q that could have even contributed further toward the sales volumes that you had?

Sure. Yeah, we had two vessels that we chartered out to third parties.

Okay.

And those vessels were in drydock for close to 60 days. So, the voyage revenues – I think I commented on this earlier – were actually $2 million lower, but the expense was there. So, what you see is $2 million in missing voyage revenue. So, in essence, our income would be about $2 million higher had they not been on drydock.

Got you. Got you. So volumes were at least as good as 1Q, spread in line with 1Q, and you could've had some upside if those things sort of had been operating. Is that so far? Okay, great. And then just final question on the second quarter but before looking at how this is all going to impact 3Q, in terms of the owned fuel consumption, you mentioned a $1.7 million hit. Is that solely due to the fact that we saw a spike in oil prices in 2Q that has subsequently come down?

Yeah. If you look at the year – and I'll go away from bunker fuel for a second and just talk about crude oil. I think you remember in sort of Q1, crude hovered around the low-$50s, and then by Q2, it kind of got close to $60, high-$50s, and now in Q3, we see it into the $40s even, right, but certainly averaging somewhere around high-$40s, while bunker fuel correlating to crude oil has had that same experience. So, what's happened for the consumption of our own fleet in Q2 going from Q1, we did have a $1.7 million rise in our expenses, since then in Q3, of course, you would expect that number to move downward.

Right.

Again, given that that fuel has gotten so much cheaper in Q3.

Right, perfect. Okay, great. And that's a perfect kind of segue into my next set of questions is on the third quarter, in terms of the sales volume update; Peter mentioned that you had over 1 million tons for July. Is any of that or how much of that can you quantify at this point – or would any of that be some of those marketed back-to-back volumes?

Yeah, there is about 70,000 tons of marketed back-to-back volume in that 1,050,000, yeah.

So, just under 1 million in terms of the physical volumes, which is kind of in line with 1Q and 2Q.

Correct. Yeah.

Got you. Got you. And then in terms of the spread environment, Nick, in this lower oil environment, with the increased competition that you referenced, $23.50 was kind of the spread number for 1Q. $23.50 was kind of the spread number for 2Q. Is that kind of what you are seeing on some of those volumes thus far in 3Q? Or is it too early to tell in terms of what your overall profitability is on those?

Well, before we even get into that, let's just point out, I did say it in my comments that the – that competition phenomenon is going on mainly in the large markets. It's not – again, Aegean has a very diverse number of ports it serves in terms of their characteristics. You see that in the largest markets in the world, like the Northwest Europes or maybe even the Singapores. That's where that kind of thing appears, where there is a lot of competitors and a lot of licenses. So, the smaller markets is not quite – we're not feeling that same effect. So, yeah, obviously, a low price environment does – or a low oil price environment, I should say, definitely creates that opportunity. And also, there is – it makes it a little harder to get the higher margin that you would get.

Right, right. But at the same time, it also helps on your own fuel consumption line, right? So my last question is, in terms of 3Q own fuel consumption, with crude prices and bunker fuel prices coming off not just from 2Q levels, but really coming off significantly, when you look at your own fuel consumption and your own expectations, do you view it as being likely more in line with 1Q? Or obviously, not 2Q, but is 1Q in terms of a run rate probably okay for our 3Q thoughts?

Yeah, I would say that's a conservative figure, yes.

Got you. All right, perfect. That's actually very, very helpful, Nick. Thanks for the time.

We'll go next to Ben Nolan, Stifel.

Thanks. Yeah, I had a few, I guess, strategy questions. You talked a lot about low barriers to entry as a constant of lower oil prices. And was just curious, is that also impacting your ability to, say, grow your volumes? And I realize they've grown as a function of the back-to-back sales, but they don't seem to be materially – if you look at the physical side, they don't seem to be materially higher than they were prior to the OW acquisitions. Is that – are you losing some share in some markets?

Yeah, I think, Ben, what you're doing – you're seeing is, we're being very selective about what volume we're going to sell. And Peter, do you want to add something? [ph]

Yes, Nolan, (23:31) and there is competition in ports. In some of the ports where OW was, when OW blew up, the team that was there sort of set up their own business. And so you've got a new company that we're competing against. And I think that's what's happened in some of the ports. We'd hoped they would go away. OW went away, but were replaced by someone else. And so I think that's why you're seeing some of the volumes sort of staying relatively flat. Most of the growth has been from new ports that we've taken that we took over from OW.

Right. And then sort of in line with that, another thing that we've been looking towards was maybe some impact on the spread from blending as a function of the new self-regulation. Again, is that being hidden by the increased level of competition? Or is that – is spread – or fueling requirement causing spreads to be higher, or is it not really happening?

I think it's probably hidden most by the lower oil price. You're not going to see as much of a benefit. I mean, not long ago, gas oil was $800 a ton and about a year ago, was $1,200 a ton. So, it's come down to some – now it's $500 a ton for gas oil. So again, if gas oil gets back to a normalized level at around $700 a ton, $800 a ton, yeah, you're going to – we're going to capture bigger margins on that – on that 0.1% sulfur fuel. There's no doubt about it. And that goes across the board. I mean, there's definitely going to be a little bit more money being made.

Okay. And that's helpful. All right. And then circling around to the Fujairah stuff, it's good to see that it's coming pretty close to full capacity. I was just curious if you could maybe put a number on how much the EBITDA contribution the Fujairah facility had in the quarter.

Look, I think we are still on track to see Fujairah getting to its $15 million level that we spoke of, right? So if you've got $15 million, you're talking about somewhere around $1.22 per month, $1.25 per month. So on that basis, again, you're going to be somewhere in that – again, that whole neighborhood of, let's just say, $3 million a quarter, probably where we are at. Yeah.

Okay. And could you remind me what sort of the other benefit – or aside from just the6 leasing aspect of it, how much of a contribution you would expect is a function of being able to improve your own business there?

Well, we certainly expect to do higher volumes in Fujairah and we expect to be able to generate a better gross spread than we did in the past. I could tell you the demand in Fujairah right now is very strong. The port is quite congested. They are opening up an additional two loading points. One is being done in the current quarter, as I said, and the other one early next year. As that happens, is we expect the volumes in Fujairah to ramp-up significantly, our sales to increase there, and we'll be able use that terminal in a way where, again, we can capture greater profit margin. A blender's margin from engaging and blending is somewhere between $5 a ton and $10 a ton on every ton that's done from blended fuel. So, as we begin to overlay that into our product mix there, we would expect our performance in that port to further improve.

Okay. And then, just two quick ones. So the tax conversion cycle looks like it has slowed a bit in receivable [indiscernible] (27:30). Any reason for that? Or is it something that we might see compress again?

Spyros?

Yeah. Actually, Ben, days receivables is relatively flat – 29 days; last quarter was 33 days, this quarter is 30 days. What has changed is inventory, from 12 days to 16 days. And this is mainly due to the U.S. business where we have six storages on the East Coast and the other storage on the West Coast, plus one big vessel in the U.S. Gulf. So, this is where you see the cash conversion cycle change.

Okay. And it's probably likely to stay at these levels is a fair assumption.

Yes. Yes, yes.

Okay. And then lastly, we've obviously seen some weakness in the share price and to the extent that we were to continue to see some weakness, how do you guys feel about buying back potentially some shares? I mean, given your outlook for the trajectory of the business, it might seem to be a good opportunity to do something like that.

Again – well, I think we spoke about our capital allocation strategy in our comments earlier, certainly believe in our company. It's a very good company; we got a very good runway ahead of us. We think that there is a lot of good things that are going to come. So...

And, of course, the board will look at that – will look at that as an option.

Okay. All right, very good. Thanks a lot, guys.

We'll go next to Kevin Sterling, BB&T Capital Markets.

Thank you. Good morning, gentlemen.

Good morning, Kevin.

Right. Nick – hey – Nick, looking at your back-to-back sales, do you envision these sales growing from current levels, or are you kind of happy where you are with your back-to-back business?

I think they could grow a bit, Kevin. There is no doubt about it. They could definitely grow. They were taking care some key customers and looking after their interest. It's not the primary part of our business. We're a physical supplier, that's how we define ourselves, but yeah, they could definitely grow a little bit.

Okay. And so basically, I guess, customers – it sounds like customers came to you guys and said, hey, we want to do this with you; would you offer this service? Is that kind of how this came about, maybe offering back-to-back in ports where you don't have physical supply?

That's correct. That's correct. Yeah.

Okay.

Yeah. In ports where we have physical supply, that's what we do. We present ourselves as the physical supplier, not as a back-to-back marketing entity.

Okay. Lastly – I think – and I missed this, I'm sorry – to Ben's questions, I think you talked about your inventories increasing this quarter on the balance sheet. Is that – you said – was that related to U.S., your U.S. business, or was that Fujairah or both? I'm sorry; I missed that.

It's – yeah, as Peter said, that it's mainly due to the U.S. business. Yeah...

Okay. [indiscernible] (31:07).

...we take inventories on the U.S. East Coast and we also take inventories in the West Coast. Yes.

Okay. And so as we think about that business going forward, you should kind of continue to expect to model, I guess, higher inventory levels. Is that right?

Correct. Correct. Now, again, that number will fluctuate based on the value of the commodity too.

Yeah. Okay. And then the last question here; most of my questions have been answered. Just kind of bigger picture, the smaller guys that you are seeing pop up, do you think they will hit a ceiling where they can't grow much more because they don't have the capital? If you are seeing some pressure right now from smaller guys, I'd imagine they are going to get to a point where they don't have the access to capital that you guys have and don't have the ability to grow. Is that kind of how you are seeing the business and maybe look at some of the competition?

Absolutely. I absolutely see that that will be the case. And the reason is, let's just – and I'll do a simple example for you. If they have $4 million of credit established somewhere and oil is at $250 a ton, they can go out and get X number, whatever that translates to in volume. But if oil goes to, say, from the $250 a ton to $400 a ton, which it was not too long ago, right, it compresses the amount of volume they can take out of the market, right? So, yeah, it absolutely has a direct impact on them.

Okay, yes, because they just don't have the access to capital liquidity that you guys have. Is that right?

Correct. They do not have that advantage. And we have so much spare capacity we could – that definitely translates to less competition for us. Yes.

I got you. Okay, well, that's all I had. Thanks so much for your time this morning, gentlemen.

Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

We'll go next to Katja Jancic with Sidoti.

Good morning.

Good morning, Katja.

Nick, you mentioned that you are planning to cut costs in the North European market. Can you provide a range as to what we are looking at?

Yes. Well, first thing we've done is, we've turned back our – we've closed down our Portland operation, and let's just say, that will translate to around $3 million to $4 million in savings per year.

And that will be immediately?

Yes.

Okay.

Yeah.

Now...

In addition to that, Katja, there is certain other initiatives where if there is an inefficiency within a particular business, we'll move on that too, whether that be a vessel or an operation itself.

Okay. Now, we expect if the oil prices pick up, a lot of these competitors will not basically be able to compete. Is that correct?

It is not quite as – yeah, they won't be able to compete as much. Yeah, they'll definitely become less significant in the market, yes.

Okay. My last question is regarding Chinese devaluing of its currency. Do you see – do you foresee any impact from that?

I think that could translate to increased Chinese exports that might have – be a positive driver for the container business, which is certainly a big customer base to us.

So, you see that in a way as a positive?

I do. I do. I think it's a positive macro kind of comment, yeah.

Okay. That's all from me. Thank you.

Thank you.

Thanks, Katja.

At this time, there are no more questions. This concludes the Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc. conference call. Thank you and have a nice day.