Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Spyros P. Gianniotis — CFO, Principal Financial & Accounting Officer, Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.
E. Nikolas Tavlarios — President & Head-Investor Relations, Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.
Douglas J. Mavrinac — Analyst, Jefferies LLC
William W. Horner — Analyst, BB&T Capital Markets
Chris M. Snyder — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC
Omar M. Nokta — Analyst, Global Hunter Securities LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning and welcome to the Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc. Fourth Quarter 2013 Conference Call and Presentation. I would like to advise everyone that there will be a slide presentation accompanying today's conference call. That presentation can be obtained from Aegean's website at www.ampni.com. I also want to inform everyone that today's conference is being recorded and is now being webcast at the company's website, www.ampni.com.

We will conduct a question-and-answer session after opening remarks. Instructions will follow at that time. A replay of the conference will be accessible through the next two weeks by dialing 888-203-1112 for U.S. callers and 719-457-0820 for those outside the U.S. To access the replay, please enter the passcode 3023210.

At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to the company. Please go ahead.

Thank you and welcome to Aegean Marine's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2013 Conference Call. On the call today is Peter Georgiopoulos, Chairman of Aegean, as well as Nik Tavlarios, President of Aegean.

Before we begin our presentation, I would like to note that this conference call will contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as expects, anticipates, intends, estimates, or similar expressions are intended to identify these forward-looking statements. These statements are based on Aegean Marine Petroleum Network Inc.'s current plans and expectations and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause future activities and the results of operations to be materially different from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.

Important factors that could cause actual results to differ include our future operating or financial results, our ability to manage growth, adverse conditions in the marine fuel supply industries and increased levels of competition. For further information, please refer to Aegean Marine Petroleum Network Inc.'s reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

I would now like to turn the call over to Nik Tavlarios, President of Aegean, to discuss highlights for the quarter.

Thank you, Spyros, and thank you to all for joining us today. I'd like to begin with an overview of our achievements during the fourth quarter and full-year drivers of our operational and financial results, and how recent and upcoming achievements demonstrate the strength of our business model and ability to execute. I will then turn the call over to Spyros for an in-depth discussion of our financial results. And finally, I'll end with our thoughts on the macro environment and our outlook for the year ahead.

We exited 2013 with broad momentum across our business as we continue to benefit from the initiatives we have put in place that have allowed Aegean to prosper despite a challenging operating environment. Q4 marked our 12th consecutive quarter and third consecutive full-year of profitability, which means that we've achieved profitability in 27 of 28 quarters since becoming a public company, while our industry has faced a protracted recession.

Our continued success has created a strong foundation for growth and we expect to capitalize further as markets begin to show signs of improvement. Our dynamic business model has allowed Aegean to leverage its asset base and infrastructure to opportunistically capture additional voyage and storage revenue opportunities as they materialize and drive profitability.

While the maritime industry has faced tremendous headwinds over the past five years [indiscernible] (0:03:45) some time, Aegean has continued to thrive across our key metrics. We have put sustainable internal growth drivers in place, including our new Aegean U.S. East Coast business as the expected introduction of our new storage facility in Fujairah, and we are confident that even with the macro environment, we will be well-positioned to continue to create shareholder value.

That said, should we see stronger market improvement, we're also uniquely positioned to see incremental benefits in our financial results.

Throughout the fourth quarter and full year of 2013, we refined our operating infrastructure so that it could dynamically respond to the real-time ebb and flow of current and future demand. Part of our strategy included sales of non-core vessel, which brought in cash proceeds and reduced our expense structure and will have no material impact on our ability to sell more fuel as the markets turn.

In 2014, we will continue to execute on this strategy and have a pipeline of opportunities that we are reviewing. During the fourth quarter, the gross spread per metric ton for our worldwide business, excluding U.S. business, increased approximately $26.90 per metric ton, compared to $25.80 per metric ton in Q3 2013.

In the fourth quarter, we continued to identify opportunities to increase efficiencies and drive profitability as capacity came out of the market. This strategy continues to deliver results, despite the competitive market.

Similar to quarters past, we capitalized on our significant built-in fleet capacity and took advantage of our incomparable economies of scale, successfully leveraging our fixed cost to drive improvement on the bottom line. We have built a strong foundation for profitable growth, and we expect to continue on a positive trajectory.

We continued to focus on driving our operating expense structure, while strengthening our integrated marine fuel logistics chain through the disposition of older non-core vessels during the quarter. The sales in older non-core vessels allows us to, over time, increase utilization of our remaining fleet and reduce maintenance CapEx.

We will also continue to rationalize our expenses by selling older non-core vessels. This will remain a part of our strategy for the foreseeable future. The targeted geographic expansion of our integrated marine fuel logistics chain remains a key consideration for Aegean. Diversifying our geographic presence and expanding our revenue base is an important means of increasing our long-term earnings power. We are identifying ports that have high utilization rates and we'll continue to evaluate the possibilities for Aegean in these geographics. For the month of January, we generated sales volume of approximately 922,000 metric tons.

We expect to commence operations at our Fujairah storage facility in the second half of the year 2014 and anticipate the facility to begin meaningful contributions to our EBITDA, storage fees and volumes in 2014. We are excited to capitalize on the emerging opportunities in the region. Additionally, our newer facility in Barcelona and operations at the Port of Algeciras Bay are contributing to our growth and allowing Aegean to participate meaningfully in the compelling Mediterranean market.

To expand our geographic presence and capture attractive growth potential in North America, on December 18, 2013, Aegean acquired Hess Corporation's U.S. East Coast bunkering business. This expanded our platform to key heavily-trafficked ports in New York, Philadelphia, Baltimore, Norfolk, and Charleston, and provides Aegean an additional 250,000 cubic meters of leased tank storage.

The acquisition required minimal startup cost and provided a number of benefits to Aegean. First, it has marked our entry into supplying customers in the United States; second, it will enable Aegean to meaningfully expand its global full service platform; and third, it will increase our exposure to U.S. clients worldwide, including leading cruise lines.

We continue our smooth integration ahead of schedule and are pleased with the performance of the U.S. East Coast bunkering business thus far. Throughout 2013, we successfully captured market share and continued to build volume in our lubricants business, as we executed our strategy to diversify our revenue stream.

For the fourth quarter and full year, we announced lubricant volumes, up 5,438 tons and 28,340 metric tons, respectably. This is a smaller lower volume business for Aegean, but it continues to yield higher operating margins and is an important revenue stream for the company. We are confident that expanding volumes in the lubricants business will continue to be a driver of additional revenue diversification going forward.

With that, I'll turn the call back over to Spyros to provide more detail about our financial results for the quarter and full year.

Thank you, Nik. As you may know, since market conditions fluctuate at ports around the world, we provide sequential comparisons in our discussion of quarterly financial results, comparing the results for the fourth quarter of 2013 to the third quarter of 2013.

Turning to slide four. From the fourth quarter of 2013, our sales volumes decreased 12.6% year-over-year to approximately 2.4 million metric tons. On a sequential basis, sales volumes decreased by approximately 4.5%, or 112,000 metric tons. For the full year, we sold 9.9 million metric tons, a 6.4% decrease year-over-year. Total gross profit for the fourth quarter increased by 5.9% sequentially to $75 million, totaling $286 million for the full-year 2013.

Net income for the fourth quarter was approximately $7 million or $0.50 per basic and diluted share from and $27.1 million, or $0.58 per basic and diluted share, for the full year. EBITDA for the fourth quarter was $22.4 million or $22.9 million adjusted for the sale of a non-core vessel. We achieved adjusted net income of $7.5 million, or $0.16 basic and diluted earnings per share, for the fourth quarter. During the fourth quarter, sales volumes continued to be affected by the challenging macroeconomic and marine industry landscapes, and it is important to note that under normalized market conditions, volumes would have been significantly higher.

During the fourth quarter, the gross spread per metric ton of marine fuel increased approximately 4.3% to $26.9 per metric ton, compared to $25.8 per metric ton in Q3 2013.

Slide nine illustrates our company-wide utilization, which is measured as volume delivered per vessel per day, excluding both scheduled and non-scheduled, non-operating [ph] or off-hire (0:10:42) days. In the fourth quarter, utilization rose 478.3 metric tons per day compared to 534.7 metric tons per vessel per day in the third quarter of 2013. Utilization decreased in the fourth quarter as a result of delivering overall lower volumes. As a reminder, our utilization does not include Aegean North West and Europe, which operates a spot-based business model focused on providing same-day sales and delivery services.

Our decision to reduce volumes that we deliver is aligned with our strategy to drive profitable volume growth. In other words, we will not sacrifice healthy margins to grow volumes in order to expand our top line. Our corporate objective is to achieve the best possible spread of volumes while generating profits. With 27 consecutive quarters of profitability, we have a strong track record of doing just that.

During the fourth quarter of 2013, we record a total of 133 non-bunkering days, which we defined as scheduled [ph] off-hire (0:11:55) days for our bunkering fleet, plus days associated with the strategically positioning of vessels. This number compares to 155 non-bunkering days in the prior quarter. For the full year 2013, we recorded a total of 566 non-bunkering days. For the current first quarter, we anticipate approximately 79 scheduled and non-bunkering days.

We generated voyage revenues of $7.9 million in the quarter, an increase of $1 million, or 14.2%, over the previous quarter. Looking ahead, we expect voyage revenues to grow slightly and storage levels to decrease slightly, as we continue to leverage our built-in idle fleet capacity and charter our excess tonnage.

On slide 10, we present our historical gross profit and EBITDA margin trends. Our EBITDA margin, which is calculated as EBITDA divided by gross profit, was 30.5% in Q4, an increase over our EBITDA margin in the previous quarter. For the full year 2013, our adjusted EBITDA margin was 29.2%, which was lower compared to last year's result of 30.5%. This was largely driven by our ability to drive down expenses and improve gross profit per metric ton.

Turning to our working capital on slide 11, during Q4, our days inventory increased substantially while days receivable and days payable increased slightly quarter-over-quarter. The net effect was an increase in our cash conversion cycle to 30.8 days from 26 days. This was a result of acquiring inventories in excess of $100 million from the acquisition of Hess bunkering, which closed on December 18, 2013. Going forward, we anticipate our cash conversion cycle to return to previous levels as those inventories will be converted to receivables and sales.

Aegean reported net cash provided by operating activities of $38.8 million for the fourth quarter. As of December 31, 2013, our cash position was $63.6 million and our working capital position totaled $244.5 million. We are pleased with our significant financial flexibility, which continues to be a key differentiator for Aegean.

In the fourth quarter, we put our global multi-currency credit facility into operation and we were also able to successfully establish an additional $150 million credit facility with ABN AMRO Capital of New York to support our new acquisition, bringing our total trade finance bank borrowing capacity through all of our credit facilities to approximately $1.3 billion. We continue to receive interest from various banking institutions to become lenders, underscoring the confidence in our strategy and belief that Aegean is poised for significant growth and expansion around the world.

These facilities and the continued support of our lending group will help support our continued ability to expand our global market share and achieve continued profitable revenue growth. As I mentioned during the Q3 call, in Q4, we drew down our Fujairah credit facility and completed a convertible bond at a 4% coupon rate.

In reviewing our balance sheet strength on slide 12, it is important to note that while trade finance debt at the end of Q4 totaled $520 million due to intensive working capital requirements inherent in the global marine fuel supply industry, this debt figure has a rapid turnover of between 30 days to 45 days. The remaining net debt on our books will be approximately $128 million, which is secured by 36 young vessels or $3.6 million of debt per vessel. As a result, we end up with unencumbered debt-free assets that include 18 owned bunkering vessels, three floating storage facilities and two existing onshore storage facilities.

As of December 31, 2013, our fixed cost of debt to adjusted EBIDTA multiple was approximately 3.2 times. Our substantial financial liquidity, including $1.3 billion in trade finance borrowing capacity and $500 million in supplier credit for a total of $1.8 billion, provides Aegean with a distinct competitive advantage as we seek to further expand our global market share and strengthen our industry leadership for the benefit of the company and shareholders. We are in compliance with all loan covenants and have a strong debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio.

Now, I will turn the call back over to Nik for comments on our outlook for 2014. Nik?

Thank you, Spyros. Fourth quarter [indiscernible] (0:17:21) results and strong financial position demonstrate how Aegean is driving growth and creating shareholder value, despite persistent industry headwinds. I would now like to provide some thoughts on the emerging macro trends in our industry and why we believe we are very well-positioned to continue to successfully navigate challenges and benefit from potential positive shifts in the market landscape.

As I mentioned last quarter, Aegean is beginning to see green shoots. Since our third quarter conference call, we have noticed certain market dynamics are beginning to turn and show some promise for growth.

Looking out over 2014, we expect to see the fundamentals in the maritime industry gradually begin to improve. We have already steadily realized the benefits from our leverageable business model and based upon improving fundamentals, we are very well-positioned to capture new growth opportunities throughout 2014.

If this expectation plays out, we would expect to see our financial results gradually accelerate throughout the year. Again, regardless of an improvement to our operating environment, we are executing a strategy that will allow Aegean to be successful and deliver strong financial results to our shareholders with or without macro improvement. We are excited about our path forward and opportunities to build significant shareholder value.

We are confident that there are several milestones in the horizon that will demonstrate our continued progress. This includes the contribution from our Aegean U.S.A. operations and the opening of our Fujairah storage facility, our ongoing program to streamline expenses, and the possibility of opening new ports that will increase the utilization of our assets.

On the credit side, our facilities and capital raised provide us flexibility to be opportunistic in the marketplace, and we explore ways to further open and expand our network. We will continue to increase our efficiency and streamline our cost structure.

In 2013, Aegean took many actions to prove its operational capabilities and financial flexibility. We built on our strong foundation for growth and poised to capture incremental market dollars once industry headwinds subside. We're confident Aegean will continue to achieve profitable growth as the market emerges from the current shipping cycle. Our prudent actions through the year have already demonstrated Aegean's potential, and we believe this is just a glimpse of the value that Aegean is capable of delivering to its shareholders.

With that, I'd like to open the call for questions. Operator? [Operator Instructions]

And we'll take our first question from Doug Mavrinac with Jefferies.

Great, thank you, operator. Good morning, guys, and congratulations on another very solid quarter. My first couple of questions pertain to the fourth quarter, because very solid number, but the internals are very interesting. My first question is the gross spread. The thing went up to almost $27 a ton. So, is there – I'm expecting you to say that it's probably just across the business platform, but was there a specific market that you saw particular strength, or was it just a reflection of we've done these things and this is the result?

Doug, we have a portfolio mix in our company. In fact, we're really [ph] not (20:38) relying on any particular one market. But yeah, we get contributions from a lot of different markets and we executed well on our strategy of profitable sales.

Right.

And, so, we're compromising volume as we said earlier in our comments. And, it was a very successful quarter. Having said that, 2015, and you're seeing it starting to happen now, the regulation coming into play on low sulfur fuel in 2015 becomes an even stronger and tighter regulation. That will be a better driver of gross spread. So, we feel as we've said all along, gross spread should be better. We never really try – we try to do our best possible job in executing good sales.

Yeah, I mean, that's apparent. It's pretty damn good number. My second question pertains to the fourth quarter before starting to look ahead is that, if you look at the volumes, they were actually, despite being a very solid bottom-line numbers, the volumes are actually down relative to 3Q and 2Q. So, the number could have been even better. So, was there something during the quarter that – maybe a repositioning or something like that, that caused the volumes to come in?

Yeah, well, we've seen something go on in Northwest Europe. We've spoke about that in our comments earlier, too. [indiscernible] (0:21:46) a little bit lighter than we expected. Maybe 60,000 tons to 70,000 tons coming out of there.

Okay.

And we do have some weather instances. Yeah, if you point out like things that are seasonal, yeah...

Right.

...weather – we had weather days certainly in Northern [indiscernible] (0:22:03).

Got you. Okay. That's very helpful. And so then turning the page, looking to the first quarter, Nik, you quickly made a comment that your January sales volumes were 922,000 tons. Is that right? S

Correct.

Yeah. Because that's another – obviously, extrapolating it, that would be 2.7 million tons for the quarter, which would be your best quarter in like two or three years. So, is that just the weather kind of being behind us and some of the – you mentioned the green shoots. Is that already starting to be seen and realizing your business with that sort of a volumes number, in your opinion?

Yeah it's that and we also now have the contribution from our U.S. operation. So, Aegean Bunkers U.S.A. is also in that volume number.

Got you. Got you. Got you. And then two last questions before I turn it over, talking about the green shoots, talking about the shipping markets. Clearly over the last year or so, we've seen a variety of shipping markets starting to improve and perk up. The next one that seems to be on the horizon is the crude oil tanker market. So, my question is, given your specific geographic locations, how would an improving crude oil tanker market impact your business, both from an activity standpoint, and then also just from a customer credit-worthiness standpoint?

First and foremost, we operate – one of our biggest operations is Fujairah, which is one of the biggest crude oil ports in the world. So, that will definitely prove to be a busier area and, yes, you're going to have more credit-worthy customers operating in that area. And as you know, we've made a substantial investment putting our storage facility there. But we have really good expectations that will come out of there. And the tanker business is an important part of our customer bases, so having them do better is very, very good to us.

Okay. Got it. It's great. Thank you. And then just final question – and this is just kind of more of a softer question in that it's not as specific as the first few. But you personally have been very busy lately with Fujairah, or with Hess, and everything else. My question is how have you been allocating your efforts and energy in terms of divvying them up, and what have you been most focused on as it would relate to what we should expect to see Aegean doing and benefiting from over the next quarter or so?

I think – look, I laid out my 2014 – or the company's 2014 strategy. We spoke of continuing again to streamline expenses and to move out some older non-core vessels, to open up in another port, to integrate this very outstanding operation we have here in Aegean Bunkers U.S.A. for the balance of the business and again have consistent model delivering across [indiscernible] (0:24:43). All of that will play out in the year. And also we're launching our operations in Fujairah in the storage. So, it's all about efficiency, using our tankers efficiently, using our ships efficiently, and these astute sellers of marine fuel.

Got you. That's great. That's very helpful. Thank you for the time and once again congrats on another very solid quarter.

Thank you.

We'll take our next question from Kevin Sterling with BB&T Capital Markets.

Good morning. It's actually William Horner on for Kevin.

Good morning, William.

Good morning, Nik. Going back to Doug's question for a second on January sales volumes. I know 922,000 metric tons during the quarter, including Hess – or excuse me, during the month, including Hess, and you're starting to see some green shoots. I guess my question is – well let me come back to that for a second – actually, quarterly OpEx, for a second, it ticked up this quarter, presumably to bring Hess online. So what's the right run rate, thinking about that going forward?

Spyros, do you want to answer that?

On rate and volumes?

No, on expenses.

On expenses. I would say last quarter, numbers should be the run rate, because last quarter incorporates Hess business, but also we had some repositioning which we don't expect to continue as heavy as it was in the quarter.

Okay, that's helpful. And sorry for my lapse of a – a brain lapse a second ago, but on the 922,000 metric tons during January. Again I know you said you're seeing some green shoots, but how much of that do you think was maybe a lead-up to shipments ahead of Chinese New Year, and maybe just a run of volumes from that? Or is it more a firming of the market in general, because now we're towards the end of February and have you seen those trends continue through February?

William, I would not attribute it to the Chinese New Year in any respect in terms of any ramp-up that goes with that. No, it just seems to be quite similar. And mind you, we traditionally find Q1 to be a lower volume quarter than the rest of the year, given weather days and February being a shorter month, but it's actually done a little bit better. So, this is a little more promising.

Okay, so it's safe to say that you're just seeing some firming across the board and it's not necessarily a seasonal thing but it could be more, like you said earlier, just the cycle starting to pick up a little bit?

I think [indiscernible] (0:27:42).

Okay. And then one quick housekeeping issue. I noticed your investing CapEx was up a bit this quarter. I know that's $30 million or so from bringing Hess online. Is the remainder of that the final bit that you have to pay for Fujairah? Or what else was in there that caused it to jump up so high? [indiscernible]

(0:28:03)

I'm sorry, so the remainder of that...

It's Hess and Fujairah.

Okay. All right. Thanks for your time.

Thank you.

We'll take our next question from Chris Snyder with Sidoti and Company.

Hey, good morning, guys.

Good morning, Chris.

I guess my first question is on the inventory number. I know that Spyros touched on this, but I think it was up probably about $100 million, and all of that is from the Hess acquisition?

Yes.

Yes, Chris. That's right.

Okay, and do you expect, as that business ramps up over the next 12 months, do you expect that inventory number will rise, or do you think that this – obviously, your inventory changes on a daily basis but is this a fair place to assume it will be?

It would be below $100 million.

Okay. Okay, that's good to know. [indiscernible]

(0:29:11)

Okay. And obviously you guys had a really good spread – the volumes were still a little soft. And are you attributing all of that just to the ARA market or is there something else going on for the reason for that?

Look, I think it was safe to say primarily the ARA market was [indiscernible] (0:29:35) and some selective selling was the other big thing that we talked about. I mean, we did – it was more – it was both. It was a combination of those two things.

Okay, and do you think that – and you expect to see – in the fourth quarter, we did see shipping rates pick up but there's a definite lag there, right? Between when those guys are seeing their rates spike, when they actually have the liquidity that makes you guys comfortable extending credit to them?

Yes, that's correct. Yes.

Okay, okay. I guess the next question, you guys did a good job lowering OpEx by selling the ships. Is there anything out there you think that you're – do you think that we could see more of that in 2014?

Yes. Look, I think we're going to continue to stream our expenses. What does that translate to? Two to three more ships, older non-core vessels. And again having said that, we have plenty of ships to expand the business and not have to buy a new one. So, moving out of two, three old ships should be fine.

Okay. And the expense will be about – the savings would be about $2 million a ship. Is that fair to assume?

Yes, approximately.

Okay. [indiscernible]

(0:30:51) floating storage vessel within that whole scheme too as we launch operations in our shore site storage in Fujairah, we'll sell the floating storage that we have in that market.

Okay, and talking about Fujairah, do you have any update there on how the progress is going?

We'll be in operations second half of the year, the beginning of the second half.

Okay. And I guess that's a little later than I was expecting. Is there any reason? Is it just regulation stuff or is there something we could point to?

More regulation than anything, yeah.

Okay. All right, that does it for me. Thank you, guys.

Thank you, Chris.

We'll take our next question from Omar Nokta with Global Hunter Securities.

Hi, thank you. Just had a couple of questions. Just first, and I apologize if you addressed this already, but wanted to ask about the Hess business – that closed of the end of year. Just wanted to get a sense around how is that coming along so far this year? I know it's still early. Has that been fully integrated? And obviously, looking at the sales volume so far in January, looked fairly solid. Just wanted to get a sense from you guys, how you feel about the Hess business and is it running as expected so far?

So, we've renamed it Aegean Bunkers U.S.A. That's the first step, right. We're licensed in every single one of the ports that they were before two. They're selling away and meeting their expectations and then, in some cases, exceeding their expectations. And we recently had them – we're trying to see where all the synergies that can go on with the other ports that they can affect. So, it's been very good. It's actually, in my view, ahead of what I expected.

Okay and just with respect to the spread – you guys have in the past talked about $25 being a good figure to go by. Does that change at all, going forward, with this transaction?

So, the Hess business is not exactly the same as the balance of our business. They don't have – it's sort of an asset-light hybrid model. They don't have any vessels. So, they engage in the buy and the sale of the fuel, and they have tanks associated with that but they don't have ships. So, there's no delivery premium reported in their gross spread. We're not going to include that into the spread figures that we had for that. Having said that, the $26.90 includes the Hess thing. But we will break it out separately in the future.

Okay. All right. Thanks for that. And I presume...

Let me clarify something though. If you were to treat it as if it were a delivered – on a delivered basis just like ours and sort of superimposed on top of that a delivery premium that is billed to the customer here, so you can make it an apples-to-apples comparison, you would find that their spreads are analogous or around the same level as the rest of the company and, in some instances, higher.

Okay. Now, that's very helpful. Thanks, Nik. And just one other question – I just wanted to go back to Fujairah, it will start up in the second half of this year. You had talked previously about the potential of leasing out half of that to third parties. Is that still something that you are looking to do? And if so, have you guys entered into any contracts or secured any of that open capacity?

So, we are in conversations with various firms. The plan is to launch operations by having us as the first customer. Then as typical with running tankage, you then become approved from a safety perspective to operate and engage other customers, known as a vetting process. And once that is completed, then we will be able to engage in contracts with those other customers. So, that's the protocol and the process and that will go on over the next months.

Okay. And would you feel comfortable being able to say whether your potential revenue from those customers would be more of a 2015 event as opposed to a 2014?

No, our expectation is in the second half of 2014.

Okay. All right. Thanks a lot.

Thank you very much.

At this time there are no more questions. This concludes the Aegean Marine Petroleum Network, Inc.'s conference call. Thank you and have a nice day.