corrected transcript


Movie Gallery Inc.
 
MOVI
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 18, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Excuse me ladies and gentlemen we now have Movie Gallery's Management Team in


Conference. Please be aware that each of your lines is in a listen-only mode. At the conclusion of


management's presentation, we will open the floor for questions. At that time, instructions will be


given to the procedure to follow if you would like to ask a question. I would now like to turn the


conference over to Mr. Thomas Johnson. Mr. Johnson, you may begin.


Thomas Johnson, Senior Vice President of Corporate Finance and Business Development


Thank you David and good morning everyone. This is Thomas Johnson, Senior Vice President of


Corporate Finance and Business Development for Movie Gallery. I would like to welcome everyone


to the company's 2004 fourth quarter conference call. This morning, we have a few remarks from


Ivy Jernigan, our Chief Financial Officer and Joe Malugen, our Chairman, President, and Chief


Executive Officer. After these remarks, we will be happy to take your questions.


Before we begin, I would like to remind you that this conference call may contain forward-looking


statements, including statements relating to our financial estimates for the 2005 first quarter and


fiscal 2005 year. Growth opportunities in the home entertainment industry, anticipated new store


openings, and our proposed acquisition of Hollywood Entertainment, as well as anticipated benefits


to both Hollywood's and Movie Gallery's shareholders. For this purpose, any statements made


during this call that are not statements of historical fact, may be deemed to be forward-looking


statements. Without limiting the foregoing, discussions of forecast, estimates, targets, plans,


beliefs, expectations, and the like are intended to identify forward-looking statements. We would


like to caution you that these statements may be affected by various risks and uncertainties, which


could cause actual results to differ materially from those stated or implied by such statements. We


refer to you our SEC filings, which may contain a more detailed description of our forward-looking


statements. The Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements,


whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.


I would also like to take just a second and point out that we are on track to file our 10-K today,


which is our due date. I know a lot of people in the industry have missed their filing dates, and I am


pleased to report that Ivy and her group has done an outstanding job and we are on track to get our


10-K filed.


With that, I would like to turn the call over to Ivy.


Ivy M. Jernigan, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you Thomas, and good morning everyone. Before I go through the results, I want to briefly


address the lease accounting matter detailed in the press release we issued earlier this morning,


and explain the $6.3 million pre-tax non-cash charge included in our fourth quarter. I will then


discuss our quarterly and full year results, before turning the call over to Joe for an update on the


business, including our pending acquisitions and 2005 guidance.


As many of you already know, on February 7th, 2005, the SEC clarified certain lease accounting


matters and their application under GAAP. The SEC specifically addressed the depreciable life of


leasehold improvements, rent holidays, and landlord-tenant incentives.


Like many other companies, Movie Gallery, together with our external auditor, reviewed our


accounting practices with respect to leasehold improvement and determined to take a one-time,
corrected transcript


Movie Gallery Inc.
 
MOVI
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 18, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


pre-tax non-cash charge of 6.3 million or $0.12 per diluted share to conform the company's


accounting to the treatment outlined in the SEC clarification. This represents the total cumulative


impact of the adjustment and has been recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004.


The charge was comprised of $3.4 million pre-tax, or $0.07 per share, for the current year and $2.9


million pre-tax, or $0.05 per share, for prior years. This is a non-cash charge and there will be no


impact on future cash flows. However, during 2005, as a result of this correction, we do expect to


recognize about $0.06 per share in accelerated depreciation expense.


With that matter aside, now let’s turn to the quarterly result. Total revenue in the fourth quarter was


208.4 million, an increase of 12.9 million or 6.6% from 195.5 million in the same period a year ago.


The increase in total revenue was primarily driven by a 15.6% increase in the average number of


stores operated during the period and partially offset by the anticipated overall 6% decrease in


same-store sales versus the fourth quarter of 2003.


We attribute the decline in same-store sales to a number of factors, including both Christmas and


New Year's Day occurring on weekend days in 2004, a significantly weaker home video release


schedule in the fourth quarter as a result of the 33% decrease in a number of movie titles released


in the quarter that grossed over 100 million at the box office, a decrease in product sales revenue


of 21.4% due to reduction in new release movie inventory for sell-through, and warm and dry


weather patterns in the fourth quarter which adversely affected our business.


Looking at our revenue mix for the quarter, rental revenue was 191.1 million, or 91.7% of total


revenues, versus 173.5 million, or 88.7% of total revenues in the comparable period last year. Our


overall movie rental comps were down about 2.5% during the fourth quarter. DVD revenue


comprised over 85% of movie rental revenues for the fourth quarter of 2004 versus approximately


65% for the fourth quarter 2003. Our game business was down 12.5% in the fourth quarter,


reflecting the overall weakness of the new game titles currently being released. This is consistent


with industry softness that occurs in anticipation of the introduction of new game platforms.


Product sales for the 2004 fourth quarter were 17.3 million or 8.3% of total revenues, versus 22


million or 11.3% of total revenues in the year-ago quarter. This decrease in sell-through revenue


was driven by our decision in the early part of 2004 to reduce our levels of new release movie


inventory available for sale in the stores.


Moving on down the P&L, total gross profit for the 2004 fourth quarter increased to 140.8 million


from 128.3 million in the 2003 fourth quarter. Excluding the charge associated with the rental


inventory amortization change in estimate from 2002, total gross profit in the 2003 fourth quarter


would have been 129.2 million or 66.1% gross margin. Overall this year's fourth quarter gross


margins improved 200 basis points to 67.6% versus the fourth quarter of last year.


Our store operating expenses for the fourth quarter were 107.6 million or 51.6% of total revenue.


Excluding the lease accounting charge, store operating expenses for the 2004 fourth quarter would


have been 101.3 million or 48.6% of total revenues versus 86.4 million or 44.2% of total revenues


in the comparable period last year. The increase in store operating expenses as a percentage of


total revenues was primarily driven by the 6% decrease in same-store revenues for the 2004 fourth


quarter versus the year-ago quarter, as certain operating expenses are fixed.


To a lesser extent, the increase in store operating expenses was also driven by the 30.3% increase


in the number of new store openings since last year, given that new stores have higher expense


ratios during the first year of operation due to the combination of start-up costs and a lower revenue


base.


Rental gross profit for the 2004 fourth quarter was 135.7 million or a 71% rental margin compared


to a rental gross profit of $124 million or a 71.5% rental gross margin in the same period last year.