corrected transcript


Movie Gallery, Inc.
 
MOVI
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 12, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Cal lS tr e et. co m • 21 2 .9 3 1. 65 1 5 •
 
C op yri gh t © 2 0 05 C a l l Str ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Thank you for holding. We now have Movie Gallery's Management Team in Conference.


Please be aware that each of your lines is in a listen-only mode. At the conclusion of the


management's presentation, we will open the floor for questions. At that time, instructions will be


given as to the procedure to follow if you would like to ask a question. I would now like to turn the


conference over to Thomas Johnson. Mr. Johnson, you may begin.


Thomas D. Johnson, Jr., Senior Vice President of Corporate Finance and Business Development


Thank you, and good morning, everyone. This is Thomas Johnson for Movie Gallery. I'd like to


welcome everyone to the Company's 2005 second quarter conference call. This morning we have a


few remarks from Tim Price, our CFO, and Joe Malugen, our Chairman and CEO. After these


remarks, we will be happy to take some of your questions. Before we begin, I would like to remind


you that this conference call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the


Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements regarding our future financial


performance. For this purpose any statements made during this call that are not statements of


historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements. Without limiting the foregoing


discussions of forecasts, estimates, targets, plans, beliefs, expectations, and the like are intended


to identify forward-looking statements. We would like to caution you that these statements may be


affected by various risks and uncertainties which could cause our actual results to differ materially


from those stated or implied by such statements. We refer you to our SEC filings which may contain


a more detailed description of our forward-looking statements. The Company undertakes no


obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future


events, or otherwise.


Before turning the call over to Tim Price, I want to offer a brief introduction as this is Tim's first


conference call since joining Movie Gallery as our CFO. Many of you on the call already know Tim


from his time at Hollywood Entertainment, where he served as Chief Financial Officer. Prior to


joining Hollywood, he was CFO of Robinson's May, and earlier in his career he worked at both


Kohl's and The Limited. As a 20-year veteran, he brings extensive experience in senior accounting


and finance roles, as well as a tremendous knowledge of the retail industry. His contributions as a


member of our integration team have already proven invaluable. Tim is a tremendous asset to our


Company and we will – and a welcome addition to the senior management team here at Movie


Gallery.


With that, I will now turn the call over to our CFO, Tim Price.


Timothy R. Price, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you Thomas, and good morning everyone. I'd like to begin by providing some brief highlights


of the results we achieved in the second quarter. Coming off a very strong first quarter, our second


quarter results include the results of operations of Hollywood Entertainment Corporation, which we


acquired, as you know, on April 27th, 2005. Accordingly, results for the second quarter of '05


include approximately 10 weeks of Hollywood's results and all 13 weeks of Movie Gallery's results.


In addition, the Hollywood results are not contained in the last year numbers. We recognize that


this may make year-over-year comparisons a little tricky here for the next few quarters, and we'll


attempt in our calls and public filings to add as much perspective on these changes as we can.


Total revenues for the combined company in the second quarter were $504.7 million as compared


to Movie Gallery's standalone revenues of $189.6 million in the second quarter of '04. On a GAAP
corrected transcript


Movie Gallery, Inc.
 
MOVI
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 12, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Cal lS tr e et. co m • 21 2 .9 3 1. 65 1 5 •
 
C op yri gh t © 2 0 04 C a l l Str ee t
 
2


basis, our net loss was $12.2 million or $0.39 per diluted share as compared to net income of 10.6


million, or $0.32 per diluted share in the second quarter of 2004. A significant piece of the loss can


be attributed to charges related to the acquisition of Hollywood Entertainment and a charge in the


Movie Gallery segment related to a change in accounting estimate on our VHS catalog inventory.


Excluding these charges, which are detailed in the press release that we issued this morning, our


net income would have been $4.3 million or $0.13 per share in the second quarter of 2005.


In addition, net income for the quarter includes on an after-tax basis about $10 million or


approximately $0.32 per diluted share in interest expense related to the new credit facility to fund


the acquisition of Hollywood as well as smaller business acquisitions.


Operating income for the quarter on a GAAP basis was $2 million, which included on a pre-tax


basis most of the same items impacting net income. Excluding these items, which again are


detailed in the press release, operating income would have been $25.2 million. For the second


quarter of 2004, the company's operating income was $19.8 million. Adjusted EBITDA was $58.1


million for the second quarter, which was an increase of almost $33 million or 130% over the


adjusted EBITDA for Q2 of '04.


As previously reported, total company same-store revenue was a negative 5.5% for the quarter and


a negative 0.3% for the year-to-date period in 2005. Same-store rental revenue declined 8.4% for


the quarter and declined 2.7% on a year-to-year basis. Product same-store revenue grew 10.6%


and 12.7% for the quarter and year-to-date periods respectively, driven principally by the sale of


new and used video game hardware, software, and accessories in Hollywood's Game Crazy


business.


For the thirteen weeks and twenty-six ended July 3rd, the Movie Gallery operating segment total


revenues increased 5% and 10.2% over the comparable periods of 2004. The increases were due


to an increase of about 14% in the average number of stores operated during both the quarter and


year-to-date period offset by same-store revenue decreases of 8.1% for the quarter and 3.2% for


the year-to-date period. For Movie Gallery, the same-store rental revenue declined 8.7% and 2.9%


for the quarter and year-to-date periods respectively. Movie Gallery's same-store product sales


declined 1.2% and 5.6% for the quarter and year-to-date periods.


Looking only at Hollywood as an operating segment, revenue for the 13 weeks and 26 weeks


ended July 3rd, accounted for 97% and 88.4% respectively of the total revenue increases.


Hollywood's total same-store revenues, which are inclusive of the Game Crazy store -- in-store


business, were down 4.4% for the second quarter, but up 0.9% for the year to date period.


Hollywood's same-store rental revenues declined 8.2% in the second quarter and declined 2.7% on


a year-to-date basis. Hollywood's same-store product sales increased 12.9% for the quarter and


16.6% for the year-to-date period. That growth in the Hollywood same-store product sales is, again,


primarily driven by the strength of the in-store Game Crazy departments.


I should note here that the same-store revenue percentage changes that we are providing for


Hollywood are for the full 13 weeks and 26 weeks, respectively, which we believe provides a more


useful indication of the operating results of that piece of the business.


We believe that the decrease in our total same-store revenues for the combined companies for the


second quarter is attributable primarily to the weak home video release schedule during the


quarter, which Joe will talk more about shortly. In addition, game rental revenue declined reflecting


the weakness of the new game titles currently being released and the industry softness that occurs


in anticipation of the introduction of new game platforms currently schedules for late 2005 in the


case of the next generation of Xbox and sometime in 2006 for the next-generation Sony


PlayStation platform.