corrected transcript


Movie Gallery, Inc.
 
MOVI
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 10, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Cal l St re et .c om
 
•
 
2 1 2. 93 1 .6 5 15 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 Ca l l St ree t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Excuse me everyone. We now have Movie Gallery's Management Team in Conference.


Please be aware that each of your lines is in a listen-only mode. At the conclusion of the


management's presentation, we will open the floor for questions. At that time, instructions will be


given as to the procedure to follow if you would like to ask a question. I would now like to turn the


conference over to Thomas Johnson. Mr. Johnson, you may begin.


Thomas D. Johnson, Jr., Senior Vice President of Corporate Finance and Business Development


Thank you Lindsay and good morning everyone. This is Thomas Johnson for Movie Gallery. I


would like to welcome everyone to the Company's 2005 third quarter conference call. This morning


we have a few remarks from Tim Price, our Chief Financial Officer; and Joe Malugen, our Chairman


and Chief Executive Officer. After these remarks, we will be happy to take some of your questions.


Before we begin, I would like to remind you that this conference call may contain forward-looking


statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including


statements regarding our future financial performance. For this purpose any statements made


during this call that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking


statements. Without limiting the foregoing, discussions of forecasts, estimates, targets, plans,


beliefs, expectations, and the like are intended to identify forward-looking statements. We would


like to caution you that these statements may be affected by various risks and uncertainties which


could cause our actual results to differ materially from those stated or implied by such statements.


We refer you to our SEC filings, which may contain a more detailed description of our forward-


looking statements. The Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking


statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. With that, I will now


turn the call over to our CFO, Tim Price.


Timothy R. Price, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you Thomas, and good morning everyone. I will take just a few minutes to provide brief


financial highlights before turning the call over to Joe. First I want to remind everyone that our 2005


financials include the results of Hollywood Entertainment as of April 27, 2005, the date the merger


was completed. All prior year numbers and all financial amounts prior to April 27 reflect standalone


movie gallery only.


On a consolidated basis third quarter revenues totaled $572.4 million on a GAAP basis. The net


loss for the third quarter was $12.5 million or a loss $0.39 per share. On a non-GAAP basis the


company’s adjusted net loss was $5.2 million or $0.16 a share after excluding purchase accounting


adjustments related to the acquisition of Hollywood, losses related to Hurricane Katrina, and non-


cash charges related to stock-based compensation.


These charges include the following items on an after-tax basis. First of all, a non-cash charge of


$1.9 million or $0.06 a share for depreciation expense relating to the second quarter of 2005, a


couple of different dynamics here. We have as part of the purchase accounting a step up in the


valuation of Hollywood’s fixed assets as well as conforming our depreciation policies at Hollywood


to those of Movie Gallery. In short, asset values are stepped-up, depreciation accelerated. This


was all – this analysis was completed and booked all in the third quarter. The 1.9 million after tax


pertained to the second quarter, so that’s why we’re calling that piece out and just as a note here,


we are estimating that the full quarter impact of this change prospectively will increase depreciation


in the $3 million to $4 million a quarter range for the next few quarters. I mentioned that just as an
corrected transcript


Movie Gallery, Inc.
 
MOVI
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 10, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Cal l St re et .c om
 
•
 
2 1 2. 93 1 .6 5 15 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 Ca l l St ree t
 
2


example of the continued to earnings volatility due to – or caused by the purchase accounting


issues as we work through these.


The second item is a non-cash charge of $4.7 million or $0.15 a share to conform Hollywood’s


method of recording expended viewing fees to Movie Gallery’s method. You may recall that we had


a sizeable impact in Q2 as well. There is about – on our balance sheet about a remaining $1 million


in late fee receivable that will be gone as of the end of Q4, and we will no longer have to talk about


this piece.


And then about a penny a share each for first of all, for a non-cash charge for the write-off of assets


for three stores destroyed by Hurricane Katrina and another penny for stock-based compensation.


On the revenue side as previously announced, same store total revenues for the combined


company declined 9% year-over-year, same-store rental revenue declined 10.3%, and product


same-store revenue declined 2.2%. For the Movie Gallery operating segment, total revenues


increased 3.9% from the comparable period in 2004. This was the result of an increase of


approximately 15% in the average number of stores operated year-over-year, partially offset of


course by a decline of 9.8% in same-store revenues. For Movie Gallery only the same-store rental


revenues declined 10.8% and same-store product sales actually increased 2.5% for the quarter.


For the Hollywood segment, total same-store revenues declined 8.6% for the quarter with rental


comps down 10.1% and product comp sales down 3%. As we have said in the past, we continue to


believe that movie rental revenues including the sale of previously viewed rental product have been


adversely impacted by the continued weak home video release schedule, the maturation of the


DVD lifecycle and the overabundance of DVD titles available in the marketplace.


In addition, game-related sales declines reflect the weakness of the new game titles currently being


released and the industry softness that has that has occurred in anticipation of the introduction of


new game platforms, which starts later this month with the Xbox 360 launch. Joe will speak to each


of these issues a bit further in a moment.


And for gross margins, the gross margin on rental revenue for the third quarter of 2005 was 71.2%,


up 20 basis points over the comparable quarter of 2004. This year-over-year improvement is an


indication of our success to date in adjusting our purchasing levels to keep them in line with the


same-store revenue declines that we’ve been experiencing.


The gross margin on product sales was 29.5% for the quarter, which compares to 37.1% for the


comparable quarter of 2004. The decrease in rate is primarily caused by the significantly higher


penetration of the sales of new and used video game hardware, software and accessories as a


result of the acquisition of Hollywood’s Game Crazy Business, as well as a higher penetration of


new movie sales at both Hollywood and Movie Gallery.


Store operating expenses as a percentage of total revenue were 55.9% for the quarter, up from


51.6% in the comparable period last year. Store operating expense increased 226%, obviously a


big number, principally as a result of the acquisition of Hollywood but also the 14.5% increase in


year-over-year store counts in Movie Gallery.


This loss of leverage is primarily attributable to the increased store count and increases in


occupancy related costs in existing stores, all in an environment of significant declines in same-


store sales.


G&A expenses as a percentage of total revenue were 6.9% for the third quarter of ‘05 as compared


to 7.6% in the third quarter last year. The improvement over last year is primarily due to the


acquisition of Hollywood and the Company’s continued reductions in duplicative general and


administrative functions.