corrected transcript


National R.V. Holdings
 
NVH
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 18, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Greetings ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the National RV Holdings First Quarter


Fiscal Year 2005 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference


is being recorded. It is now my pleasure to introduce Ms. Donna Dolan, Director of Investor


Relations. Thank you Ms. Dolan, you may begin.


Donna Dolan, Director of Investor Relations


Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today to discuss National RV’s first quarter


2005 financial results. Participating in today's call are Brad Albrechtsen, President and Chief


Executive Officer and Tom Martini, our newly appointed Chief Financial Officer. Before turning the


call over to Brad let me briefly go over our Safe Harbor Statement.


The following discussion may contain forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and


uncertainties. Actual results may vary materially and adversely from those anticipated, believed,


estimated or otherwise indicated including a change in economic and market conditions, and any


material weaknesses in National RV Holdings’ internal controls over financial reporting,


dependence upon certain dealers and suppliers, potential product liabilities and warranty claims,


unexpected manufacturing delays, government regulation and competition and those matters set


forth in the risk factors listed in National RV Holdings’ filings on Forms 10-K, 10-Q with the


Securities and Exchange Commission.


These forward-looking statements represent the company's judgment as of the date of this


conference call and the company disclaims any intent or obligation to update these forward-looking


statements. However, we may choose to update them and if we do so we will disseminate the


updates to the investing public. Now I'd like to turn the call over to Brad.


Bradley Albrechtsen, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Donna. Good morning to everyone and thank you for joining us. I want to first


apologize personally for any inconvenience or uncertainty resulting from our delay. By now all of


you should have received a copy of our news release that went out earlier with the results of the


company’s first quarter operations and additional restatement. I’m also certain you saw our release


last week regarding the appointment of our new CFO, Tom Martini. Let me cover the topics in the


following order.


First of all, I’ll talk a little bit about our new CFO Tom, then about the accounting restatement, and


then a status update on the various SEC filings our 10-K and 10-Q, and then – some changes we


are going to make in the type of information we’ll disseminate on this call. I’ll then have Tom review


the financial results for the quarter and then come back on to review the results of the first quarter


operations and what we are seeing so far in the second the quarter. Last week we accepted the


resignation of Joe Hansen, who had been here for a just over a year.


As previously announced the Board of Directors convened last week and enthusiastically and


unanimously agreed with my recommendation that we promote Tom Martini to the position of CFO.


Tom started here at National R.V. Holdings as Treasurer about 14 months ago. He has been


extremely instrumental in getting through the SOX process, in managing the internal audit function


and in working on our insurance and banking interests.
corrected transcript


National R.V. Holdings
 
NVH
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 18, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Tom has significant public company experience and during his time here has become extremely


familiar with our operations and accounting issues. He is well respected by his peers and we are


very fortunate to have someone of Tom’s stature and ability to take on the responsibilities of this


position. I believe you’ll find him positive and forthright in his approach to issues and we encourage


you come and get to know him. And we ask that you to take it easy on him this week as we


continue to work to complete our SEC filings.


Now regarding the accounting restatements, as we work to finalize and file our 2004 10-K, we have


been working very hard to do the right thing to leave no stone unturned and ensure that our records


are accurate on a going forward basis. As indicated in our release this morning the company


previously recorded certain cash incentives paid to dealers and their retail representatives as


selling expenses. In finalizing our year-end financials, we took a look at EITF 01-09 and concluded


that these payments should be treated as a reduction against revenues. This restatement was


primarily a reclassification of those selling costs of Internet sales. It has no impact on earnings,


cash flows, or stockholders equity.


This, as well as the previous restatements would be reflected in the company’s SEC filing, so I can


answer any specific questions you may have on these during the Q&A portion of this call. As most


of you know we are late in filing our 2004 10-K and our 2005 first quarter 10-Q. We are working as


hard as possible to finalize our financial statements for the year ended December 31st 2004 and


the quarter ended March 31st in order to file these as soon as possible. Now regarding the type of


information that we will disclose on the call.


Consistent with our peers and for certain competitive as well as accounting reasons, there is certain


information that we believe is no longer appropriate for us to share. For example, in the past we


have disclosed in our releases, unit and dollar sales information for each division. On the call, we


have gone further and given inventory numbers by division. We are no longer going to do this. I


apologize for the difficulty this causes some of you who have built your financial models by division.


We will continue to provide diesel versus gas sales information, and we’ll give combined inventory


breakdowns between raw material, chassis, work-in-process, and finished goods.


With that I will turn the time over to Tom to review the numbers. Then as mentioned, I will come


back on and discuss operations. Tom.


Thomas J. Martini, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer


Thank you, Brad. Since this is my first time on a conference call, I would also like to thank you all


for joining in this call. I’m excited about my expanding role at the company and look forward to


meeting many of you in the coming months. As you know, we sold our Towables operation in the


fourth quarter of last year and so [that was the third quarter incidentally, at the end of the third


quarter]. That’s right. [Go ahead] For the purposes of my discussion of the financial results all


comparisons refer only to continuing operations. For the first quarter net sales were 125.6 million,


which represents an increase of 22.5 million or 22% over the first quarter last year.


First quarter wholesale Class A unit shipments were 2% above last year’s first quarter and included


an increase in revenue due to a higher sales mix of diesel motorhomes and an increase in average


sales prices across all product lines. The total Class A unit shipments were as follows; For Q1


2005, there were 405 diesel units and there were 402 gas units for a total of 807. For Q1 2004,


there were 293 diesel units and there were 499 gas units, excuse me, for a total of 792 units.


Gross margin for this year's first quarter was 4.2% compared to 6.9 for the last year’s first quarter.


Brad will discuss the causes for this change, following my comments. Selling expenses were 3.6


million or 2.9% of sales for Q1 2005, compared to 2.7 million or 2.6% of sales for Q1 2004. Selling


expenses increased due to higher media and marketing costs to support the company’s dealer