corrected transcript


National RV Holdings
 
NVH
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 17, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Greetings ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the National RV Holdings Second


Quarter Fiscal Year 2005 Earnings Conference Call. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder this


conference is being recorded. It is now my pleasure to introduce Donna Dolan, Director of Investor


Relations.


Donna Dolan, Director of Investor Relations


Good morning and thank you for joining us today to discuss National RV Holdings second quarter


2005 financial results. Participating in today's call are Brad Albrechtsen, President and Chief


Executive Officer and Tom Martini, Chief Financial Officer. Before turning the call over to Brad let


me briefly go over our Safe Harbor Statement.


The following discussion may contain forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and


uncertainties. Actual results may vary materially and adversely from those anticipated, believed,


estimated or otherwise indicated including a change in economic and market conditions, any


material weaknesses in National RV Holdings’ internal controls over financial reporting, dependent


upon dealers and suppliers, potential product liabilities and warranty claims, unexpected


manufacturing delays, government regulation and competition and those matters set forth in the


risk factors listed in National RV Holdings’ filings on Forms 10-K and10-Q with the Securities and


Exchange Commission.


These forward-looking statements represent the company's judgment as of the date of this


conference call and the company disclaims any intent or obligation to update these forward-looking


statements. However, we may choose to update them and if we do so we will disseminate the


updates to the investing public. Now I'd like to turn the call over to Mr. Brad Albrechtsen. Brad.


Bradley Albrechtsen, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Donna. Good morning to everyone and thank you for joining us. Sorry for the earlier


hour, just to accommodate my schedule here in Minot, Georgia, the FMCA show. I am going to


proceed as follows. I’ll first give a general overview of the quarter, Tom will then discuss the tax


valuation allowance established with our filings with the SEC, the new credit facility and then the


detailed results for the quarter. I will then discuss where we are today. I indicated on our last call


that we were seeing industrywide weakness in the Class A market, which included widespread


overproduction, high dealer inventory levels than discounting.


These were causing us to downwardly adjust our production levels and to reduce cost. The quarter


ended even worse than expected in terms of the cost to us to continue to move product and in the


end production rates have been reduced further than expected. Our gas and lower priced diesel


products, those in the higher volume segments of the market have been widely impacted by the


market weakness leading to significant discounts to move these units at the end of their model


year. As you know we were just getting to break-even volumes in these units prior to the market


downturn. The weakness has moved us below break-even levels with these products.


On the other hand while both production volumes and gross margins of our Highline products are


somewhat below where we had hoped they would be this year, we have been able to adjust


production and continue to move those products without significant discounting. Now I will have


Tom discuss the financials, the recent accounting restatements and concerns of our auditors and


then he will talk about the new credit facility. Tom.
corrected transcript


National RV Holdings
 
NVH
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 17, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Thomas J. Martini, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer


Thank you Brad. I would also like to welcome everyone to our conference call. Let me begin with


our financial results. As you know we’ve sold our Towables operation in the third quarter of last


year and have announced several restatements. So for the purposes of my discussions of the


financial results all comparisons refer to restated prior year financials. For the second quarter net


sales were $123.2 million, which represented an increase of 3.9 million or 3% over the second


quarter last year. Year-to-date net sales were up 26.4 million or 12% over the same period last


year.


Second quarter wholesale Class A shipments were 8% below last year’s second quarter, however,


the increased revenue was the result of a higher sales mix of diesel motorhomes and an increase


in the average sales prices across all product lines. Year-to-date unit wholesale shipments were


3% below the same period last year. Total Class A unit shipments were as follows: For Q2 2005,


diesel units were 379, gas 369 units. For the second quarter of 2004, there were 444 diesel units


and 369 gas units.


Gross margin for this year's second quarter was 1.7% compared to 8.1% for last year’s second


quarter. Year-to-date gross margin for this year was 3.1% compared to 7.5% for the same period


last year. During the second quarter the largest factor, which accounted for nearly half of the


decline of the gross profits was higher discounting. We needed to discount more heavily in the


second quarter to reduce the 2005 model year inventory to a manageable level. Discounting


should be reduced dramatically as we have not carried excessive 2005 model year inventory into


the third quarter and we do not expect to discount the 2006 model year product.


The other principle factors causing the decline in gross margin are higher warranty costs. This


increase is partially due to higher costs associated with increasingly higher labor rates charged by


dealer service centers and slightly higher experience rates. The largest factor, however, is the


absence of the benefit in the current year of a declining warranty reserve.


As the quality of our coaches was improving over the last several years, our warranty rate was


declining, this decline led to a decrease in our overall reserve. As the decline has now leveled out


the benefit of the declining reserves have gone away. We also experienced higher direct labor


costs driven by inefficiencies related to model changeover and new products introduced to the


manufacturing process in a less-than-efficient manner. We also had higher overhead absorption of


fixed costs, as a result of lower quarter-over-quarter production rates and higher overhead costs for


engineering and R&D related to new product development.


For the second quarter of 2005, selling expenses were 3.3 million or 2.7% of sales; this was a 0.7


million increase compared to 2.6 million or 2.2% of sales in Q2 2004. Year-to-date selling expense


was 2.8% compared to 2.4% of sales for the first six months of 2004. Quarterly selling expense


increased due to higher media and marketing costs to support the company's dealer expansion and


other initiatives, higher dealer convention expense and higher sales commission resulting from the


higher sales volume.


General and administrative expenses were 3.9 million or 3.2% of sales for Q2 2005 or again a 0.7


million increase when compared to 3.1 million or 2.6% of sales in Q2 2004. Year-to-date general


and administrative expenses in 2005 were 2.9% compared to 2.5% for the same period last year.


Quarterly general and administrative expenses increased as a result of higher audit and


professional fees as well as higher staffing levels to support increased sales and production and


increased staffing to support ongoing stock compliance.


The resulting net loss was 5.4 million for the second quarter compared to net income of 2.5 million


for the same quarter last year. The year-to-date net loss was 6.9 million compared to a net income


of 3.2 million for the first six months last year. The company had a loss of $0.53 per diluted share