raw transcript


National RV Holdings, Inc.
 
NVH
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 8, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Greetings ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the National RV Holdings’ Third


Quarter Fiscal Year 2005 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are on a listen-


only mode. A brief question and answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator


Instructions]. As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.


It is now pleasure to introduce Ms. Donna Dolan, Director of Investor Relations. Thank you Ms.


Dolan, you may begin.


Donna Dolan, Director of Investor Relations


Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today to discuss National RV Holdings’ third


quarter 2005 financial results. Participating in today’s call are Brad Albrechtsen, our President and


Chief Executive Officer; and Tom Martini, our Chief Financial Officer.


Before turning the call over to Brad, let me briefly go over our Safe Harbor Statement. The


following discussion may contain forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and


uncertainties. Actual results may vary materially and adversely from those anticipated, believed,


estimated, or otherwise indicated, including a change in economic and market conditions, any


material weaknesses in National RV Holdings’ internal controls, dependence upon dealers and


suppliers, potential product liabilities and warranty claims, unexpected manufacturing delays,


government regulation and competition, and those matters set forth in the risk factors listed in


National RV Holdings’ filings on Forms 10-K and10-Q with the SEC.


These forward-looking statements represent the Company's judgment as of the date of this


conference call and the Company disclaims any intent or obligation to update these forward-looking


statements. However, we may choose to update them, and if we do so, we will disseminate the


updates to the investing public.


Now I'd like to turn the call over to Mr. Brad Albrechtsen. Brad?


Bradley C. Albrechtsen, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Donna. Good morning to everyone and thank you for joining us. Since we last spoke,


we have completed our audit for 2004 and have been able to file our 2004 10-K and the 10-Qs for


2005 with the SEC. As you know, we were late in filing these reports. We issued a release in


October telling you that we successfully completed our audit and received an unqualified opinion on


our financial statements. The time and effort that we had to expend completing these items was


significant and everyone here is pleased that we are now current with our SEC filings and able to


concentrate more fully on the tasks at hand.


As previously reported, we have engaged new auditors, Swenson Advisors, a regional firm, which


we believe is much better positioned to provide us with the level of service we need to file accurate


and timely reports. They have done the work for us this third quarter and have already begun year-


ending SOX work for 2005. The changes made for both cost and quality of service reasons; we


were billed approximately $2 million in audit fees for 2004, 20 cents a share compared to less than


300,000 or a 3 cents per share for 2003. We believe that continuing on course would not be in the


best interests of our shareholders.
raw transcript


National RV Holdings, Inc.
 
NVH
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 8, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


It is no secret that the industry has seen weakness in the Class A market including large spread


over production, high dealer inventory levels, and high sales incentive costs. The drop in demand


has resulted in recent quarterly losses at four of the top six public Class A manufacturers. We


experienced weak shipments in July followed by very strong shipments in August, only to see


September drop dramatically driven by a precipitous drop in consumer confidence in that month


caused by a combination of events including the two large Cal hurricanes that hit our Gulf Coast.


The market weakness in 2005 combined with the operational difficulties at our Perris operations


have resulted in our giving back 430 of the 510 basis point gains in gross margins we made in


2004. However, the majority of these issues will be addressed in full by year-end including


reductions in fixed overhead costs to allow us to be profitable in the down market.


Tom will now discuss the financials including a look at our balance sheet, which you have not seen


for a while. He will also address the continued listing requirements issue of the New York Stock


Exchange. Tom?


Thomas Martini, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Brad, and welcome everyone. For my discussion of the financial results, our


comparisons refer to restated prior year financial information. For the third quarter, net sales were


108.2 million, which represented a decrease of 4.3 million or 3.8% over the third quarter of last


year. Year-to-date net sales were up 22.1 million or 6.6% over the same period last year.


As a result of continued softness in the RV markets and declining consumer confidence in


September, our third quarter wholesale Class A shipments were 22.5% below last year’s third


quarter, but there was a shift to a higher sales mix of diesel motorhomes as nearly half of our


shipments for the third quarter of 2005 were diesel units as compared to 40% of our shipments


being diesel units in the third quarter last year.


Year-to-date unit wholesale shipments declined 9.4% from the same period last year. The increase


in year-to-date net sales when compared to a decline in unit shipments is mainly attributable to the


change in sales mix to include more of the high line diesel motorhomes, which had higher average


sales prices than that mid-line diesel units and gas-powered units.


Total Class A unit shipments were as follows: For Q3 2005, diesel units were 302, gas units were


303; for the third quarter of 2004 there were 315 diesel units and 466 gas units.


Gross margin for this year's third quarter was 2% compared to 7% for last year’s third quarter.


Year-to-date gross margin for this year was 2.8% compared to 7.3% for the same period last year.


The primary factors that led to the decrease in year-to-date gross margins in order of significance


were: higher sales incentive costs; higher production inefficiencies; higher warranty costs; and


other increases in overhead, including higher spending on inventory control and product


development.


The high sales incentive costs concentrated on the company’s lower-price products were driven by


an oversupply of products in a weakening market. Product inefficiency costs were also


concentrated primarily in the company’s Perris, California plant, and were driven by challenges with


2006 model year introductions, commodity flow difficulties, and the working down of excess working


process inventory combined with lower production rates leading to lower fixed cost absorption.


For the third quarter of 2005, selling expenses were 4.3 million or 4% of sales. This was a 1.3


million increase compared to 3 million or 2.7% of sales in Q3 of 2004. Year-to-date selling expense


was 3.2% compared to 2.5% of sales for the first nine months of 2004. Quarterly selling expense