corrected transcript


Nutrition 21, Inc.
 
NXXI
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 5, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning. My name is Christy and I will be your conference operator today. At this


time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Nutrition 21 Second Quarter 2009 Conference Call.


All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers’ remarks,


there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]. Thank you.


I will now turn today’s conference over to Mr. Joe Diaz with Lytham Partners.


Joseph Diaz, Jr., Lytham Partners


Thank you, Christy and thank you for joining us to review the financial results of Nutrition 21,


Incorporated for the second quarter of fiscal year 2009, which ended on December 31, 2008. As


the conference call operator indicated, my name is Joe Diaz. I’m with Lytham Partners; we’re the


financial relations consulting firm for Nutrition 21.


With us on the call today are Mr. Michael Zeher, President and Chief Executive Officer; Alan


Kirschbaum, Chief Financial Officer; and Dean DiMaria, Senior Vice President of Marketing and


Sales. At the conclusion of today’s prepared remarks, we will open the call for a question-and-


answer session.


If anyone participating on today’s call does not have a full text copy of our earnings press release,


which was issued this morning, you can retrieve it from the website at nutrition21.com or from


numerous financial websites on the Internet.


Before we begin with prepared remarks, we submit for the record the following statements. This


conference call may contain certain forward-looking statements. The company invokes the


protections of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words believe, expect,


anticipate and other similar expressions generally identify forward-looking statements. Participants


on this call are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements which


speak only as of their dates.


These forward-looking statements are based largely on the company’s current expectations and


are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including without limitation: the effect of the


expiration of patents; regulatory issues; uncertainty in the outcomes of clinical trials; changes in


external market factors; changes in the company’s business or growth strategy or an inability to


execute its strategy due to changes in its industry or the economy generally; the emergence of new


or growing competitors; various other competitive factors; and other risks and uncertainties


indicated from time to time in the company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission,


including its Form 10-K/A for the year ended June 30, 2008 and subsequent 10-Q filings.


Actual results could differ materially from the results referred to in the forward-looking statements.


In light of these risks and uncertainties, there can be no assurance that the results referred to in the


forward-looking statements will be achieved. Additionally, the company makes no commitment to


disclose any revisions to forward-looking statements or any facts, events or circumstances after the


date hereof that may bear upon forward-looking statements.


With that said, I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Mike Zeher, President and Chief


Executive Officer of Nutrition 21. Mike?
corrected transcript


Nutrition 21, Inc.
 
NXXI
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 5, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Michael A. Zeher, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Joe and good morning, everyone. All of us in Nutrition 21 appreciate your continued


interest in the company. Joining me on the call today is Alan Kirschbaum, the company’s CFO


along with Dean DiMaria, who is our Senior VP of Marketing and Sales of our Consumer Health


business. Dean will be providing a brief update on the company’s progress in the retail sector a little


later. Also joining us for the Q&A session later will be Jim Komorowski, our VP of Research and


Development.


I hope that most of you have seen the financial results for the quarter ended December 31, 2008,


which we released earlier this morning. If you haven’t yet read the release, it’s available on our


website at www.nutrition21.com.


The agenda for today’s call is fairly straight forward. I will give you an overview of the quarter’s


results, both from a financial perspective, as well as providing an overview on how our three main


business units are performing. Then our CFO, Alan Kirschbaum, will go into a bit more detail on the


financial results. Alan will be followed by Dean DiMaria, who will give you a detailed look at our


growing Retail Consumer Health business unit. I will then come back to provide an update on how


and what we see for the balance of this fiscal year both from a financial and general business


perspective. And lastly, we will open the call up for your questions.


Turning first to the most recent results. It is now slightly more than nine months since the company


made a significant change both in executive leadership and in operating strategy. I’m happy to


report that the remarkable turnaround, which began in the quarter ended June ‘08 has both


continued and solidified in this most recent quarter.


The highlights of our December ‘08 quarter are – total revenues for the quarter were $12.9 million,


which is 2% ahead of the previous quarter and essentially flat with the same quarter last year. As


you all know, this particular three-month period was one of unusual stress throughout the business


community and many companies in our industry experienced volume shortfalls. So, we are pleased


to have continued our revenue growth considering the severe economic turbulence and consumer


anxiety in the markets.


With this overall corporate revenue picture, our Consumer Health business – that’s the unit where


we sell to consumers through traditional retailers like Wal-Mart and Walgreens and Kroger posted


very strong gains versus the previous quarter and versus the prior year. For example, we achieved


46% growth in this business versus the prior December quarter. Partially offsetting this solid retail


revenue growth were moderate declines in both our Direct Response and our Ingredient business


units. The declines in Direct Response revenues were anticipated as we continue to fine tune and


calibrate our operating tactics to find the perfect balance between spending and revenue. The


softness in Ingredient revenues is largely attributable to timing differences in orders from a couple


of major Ingredient customers.


Regarding profitability, this quarter marks the third successive reporting period of strong positive


EBITDA, Earnings Before Income Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization, coming in at this quarter


at $1.5 million. This represents a $3.7 million improvement over the prior December quarter, where


EBITDA was negative 2.2 million. As you know, EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure


reflecting Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation, and Amortization. The company believes


that EBITDA is the best – is perhaps the best metric to evaluate our operating performance. For the


six month fiscal year-to-date, EBITDA is a strong 3.2 million compared to last year where the six


month EBITDA was negative $5.4 million; that’s an $8.6 million improvement.


On the bottom line, Nutrition 21 delivered $102,000 in net income. We’re particularly pleased that


this is the second consecutive quarter where net income has been printed in black ink. I would also


remind all of you that for Nutrition 21 virtually all of the difference between EBITDA and net income