corrected transcript


Nutrition 21, Inc.
 
NXXI
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Sep. 9, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning. My name is Christie, and I will be your conference operator today. At this


time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Nutrition 21 Fourth Quarter 2008 Conference Call.


[Operator Instructions] Thank you. I will now turn today’s conference over to Mr. Joe Diaz. Sir, you


may begin your conference.


Joseph Diaz Jr., Lytham Partners, LLC


Thank you, and thanks all of you for joining us to review the financial results of Nutrition 21 for the


quarter and the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008. As the conference call operator indicated, my


name is Joe Diaz. I am with Lytham Partners. We are the financial relations consultant firm for


Nutrition 21.


With us on the call today are Mr. Peter C. Mann, Member of the Board of Directors and a consultant


to the company; Mr. Michael A. Zeher, Chief Executive Officer of Nutrition 21; and Mr. Alan


Kirschbaum, Chief Financial Officer.


At the conclusion of today’s prepared remarks, we will open the call for a question-and-answer


session. If anyone participating on today’s call does not have a full text copy of the release, you can


retrieve it off the company’s website, at nutrition21.com, or numerous financial websites on the


Internet.


Before we begin with prepared remarks, we submit, for the record, the following statements. This


conference call may contain certain forward-looking statements. The company invokes the


protection of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words believe, expect,


anticipate and other similar expressions generally identify forward-looking statements. Participants


on this call are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which


speak only as of their dates.


These forward-looking statements are based largely on the company’s current expectations and


are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including without limitation, the effect of the


expiration of patents; regulatory issues; uncertainty in the outcomes of clinical trials; changes in


external market factors; changes in the company’s business or growth strategy or an inability to


execute its strategy due to changes in the industry or the economy generally; the emergence of


new or growing competitors; various other competitive factors; and other risks and uncertainties


indicated from time-to-time in the company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission,


including its Form 10-K/A for the year ended June 30, 2007.


Actual results could differ materially from the results referred to in the forward-looking statements.


In light of these risks and uncertainties, there can be no assurance that the results referred to in the


forward-looking statements. Additionally, the company makes no commitment to disclose any


revisions to forward-looking statements, or any facts, events or circumstances after the date,


hereof, that may bear upon forward-looking statements.


With that said, I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Peter Mann, a Member of the Board of


Directors of Nutrition 21. Peter?
corrected transcript


Nutrition 21, Inc.
 
NXXI
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Sep. 9, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Peter C. Mann, Board Member


Thanks, Joe, and good morning to all of you. We’re glad you’ve joined us on this morning’s call. As


Joe said, with me today in the Nutrition 21 offices are our new President and CEO, Mike Zeher, as


well as Alan Kirschbaum, the company’s Chief Financial Officer.


As many of you know, this is the second earnings call since the management changed at Nutrition


21 in late March, and it’s the first report of financial results under that new management team and


that new strategy. Those of you who were with us on the prior call in early May will remember that


we set two key priorities for the weeks and months ahead.


The first of those priorities was to sharply and immediately change the financial approach to how


the Nutrition 21 business was being managed. We told you then that we were going to focus our


efforts on achieving profitability, while still maintaining topline revenue growth. And, of course, the


other priority was to identify, recruit and then hire a top caliber chief executive officer who could


lead Nutrition 21 for many years to come.


As most of you know, we’ve already achieved that second objective about six weeks ago, when we


proudly announced that Michael Zeher had assumed the responsibilities of President and Chief


Executive Officer. Mike’s experience in the nutritional supplement industry, his proven ability to lead


and to motivate an organization, his skill in managing a public company and his well-established


marketing and business acumen made him an ideal choice for this all-important position.


On a personal note, I’ve known Mike for more years than I care to admit, and I know him to be an


individual of strong character and of genuine leadership. Nutrition 21 is indeed fortunate to have


attracted an executive of Mike’s caliber.


A few minutes, you will be hearing from Mike directly as he will be discussing both his initial views


of the opportunities and risks facing the company as well as his preliminary thoughts on how to


address those issues and capitalize on those opportunities.


Turning back now to the first short-term objective that we set three or four months ago, the


objective of rapidly improved profitability, our results are even better than we had dared hope. You’ll


remember that we set a very ambitious goal of achieving earnings before interest, taxes,


depreciation and amortization – commonly known as EBITDA – for the June quarter that would


approach breakeven.


For those of you who have already seen our earnings release – which went out early this morning –


you know that we surpassed that ambitious objective and actually surpassed it by a considerable


measure. For those of you who haven’t yet seen the release, it’s available on our website, at


nutrition21.com.


In just a few minutes, I’ll review those results in some detail, and I’ll try to give you some


considerable additional color commentary to help you better understand what’s behind the


numbers. But before I begin that financial review, I want to take a few minutes to thank the two


executives who have served as interim Co-COOs until the arrival of Mike Zeher. As most of you


know, Gerry Butler and Mike Fink assumed their roles in very late March, and the impact that they


have had on the company in a very short period of time has been truly remarkable.


They arrived on the scene and immediately rebuilt company morale and enthusiasm. They initiated


a series of cost improvement programs which are already bearing considerable fruit. They created


a new fiscally responsible operating strategy for the company which will serve as the model for the


months and years ahead. And they rejuvenated our new product development program with the


first tangible results of that effort now being launched into the marketplace.