corrected transcript


Nutrition 21, Inc.
 
NXXI
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
May 12, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning. My name is Dennis and I will be your conference operator today. At this


time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Nutrition 21 Third Quarter 2009 Financial Results


Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the


speakers’ remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions].


I will now turn the call over to Mr. Joe Diaz of Lytham Partners. Please go ahead sir.


Joseph Diaz, Jr., Lytham Partners


Thank you, Dennis, and thank all of you for joining us today to review the financial results of


Nutrition 21 for the third quarter of fiscal year 2009, which ended on March 31, 2009. As the


conference call operator indicated, my name is Joe Diaz. I’m with Lytham Partners; we’re the


financial relations consulting firm for Nutrition 21.


With us on the call today are Mr. Michael Zeher, President and Chief Executive Officer; Alan


Kirschbaum, Chief Financial Officer; and Bill Levi, Vice President of Ingredients. At the conclusion


of today’s prepared remarks, we will open the call for a question-and-answer session.


If anyone participating on today’s call does not have a full text copy of this morning’s earnings


release, you can retrieve it from the company’s website at nutrition21.com or numerous financial


websites on the Internet.


Before we begin with today’s prepared remarks, we submit for the record the following statement.


This conference call may contain certain forward-looking statements. The company invokes the


protections of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words believe, expect,


anticipate and other similar expressions generally identify forward-looking statements. Participants


on this call are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which


speak only as of their dates.


These forward-looking statements are based largely on the company’s current expectations and


are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including without limitation the effect of the


expiration of patents; regulatory issues; uncertainty in the outcomes of clinical trials; changes in


external market factors; changes in the company’s business or growth strategy or in ability to


execute its strategy due to changes in its industry or the economy generally; the emergence of new


or growing competitors; various other competitive factors; and other risks and uncertainties


indicated from time to time in the company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission,


including its Form 10-K/A for the year ended June 30, 2008 and subsequent 10-Q filings.


Actual results could differ materially from the results referred to in the forward-looking statements.


In light of these risks and uncertainties, there can be no assurance that the results referred to in the


forward-looking statements will be achieved. Additionally, the company makes no commitment to


disclose any revisions to forward-looking statements or any facts, events or circumstances after the


date hereof that may bear upon forward-looking statements.


With that said, I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Mike Zeher, President and Chief


Executive Officer of Nutrition 21. Mike?


Michael A. Zeher, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Joe, and good morning, everyone. All of us in Nutrition 21 appreciate your continued


interest in the company. And we are pleased to have you join us this morning. As Joe mentioned
corrected transcript


Nutrition 21, Inc.
 
NXXI
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
May 12, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


with me on today’s call is Alan Kirschbaum, the company’s CFO, along with Bill Levi, who is our


Vice President responsible for our very important Ingredients business. As usual Alan will provide


the in-depth look at our financial performance, while Bill will be providing you with a brief update on


the company’s progress in our Ingredients division.


I hope that most of you have seen the financial results for the quarter ended March 31st, which we


released earlier this morning. If you haven’t yet read the release it’s available on our website at


www.nutrition21.com.


The agenda for today’s call is fairly straightforward. First I’ll give you an overview of the quarter’s


results both from a financial perspective as well as providing a summary of how our main business


units are performing. Then our CFO, Alan Kirschbaum, will go into a little more detail on the


financial results. Alan will be followed by Bill Levi, our Vice President of the Ingredients division,


who will give you an in-depth look at our strategically important Ingredients businesses. I will then


come back to provide an update on what we’ve seen for the balance of this fiscal year both from a


financial and a general business perspective. And lastly we’ll open up the call for your questions.


Now let’s turn first to our recent results. It’s now just about one year since the company and the


board initiated major strategic and operating changes, which have led to the significant business


turnaround which began in the June ‘08 quarter. I’m pleased to report that this most recent quarter,


that’s the quarter ended March 31, 2009, continued that turnaround particularly regarding EBITDA


profits.


But turning first to sales. Total revenues for the quarter were $8.6 million, 20% below the same


quarter revenues last year and below the total revenues reported in each of the first two quarters of


this fiscal year. We will talk more about revenues as we discuss each business unit, but there are


several higher level reasons why the short-term quarter three revenue drop was expected, and we


don’t expect it to be a concern for the future of the business. First, as you all know, this particular


three-month period was perhaps the most challenging quarter in any of our collective memories.


Consumer confidence eroded, retailers reduced inventories in an attempt to conserve cash and


credit lines were tightened. These events impacted our Direct Response business the most, where


the majority of the sales are paid for with credit cards. So all of these external factors had an


impact on short-term factory revenues but not on the longer-term growth trajectory of our Consumer


Health brands and Ingredients businesses.


Secondly, while we continue to search for the best combination of marketing spend and economic


efficiency in our Direct Response unit, we are not investing large amounts in advertising until we


are absolutely sure that the mix of message, claims, and price is just right. In simple terms this


means that we are testing a wide range of advertising approaches and pricing options. And as a


result of lower advertising, combined with the very soft overall consumer products markets, our


Direct Response revenues were lower than last year.


Next, our burgeoning retail business also delivered Q3 revenues slightly below both last year and


recent quarters. But again this short-term revenue contraction was expected. Recent quarters


have contained a meaningful amount of new distribution sales, particularly to Walgreens, one of our


largest customers. Conversely, this quarter’s retail revenues contain relatively little new distribution


volume.


However, for any retail business the real scorecard is not just factory revenues but more


importantly actual purchases by consumers from their retailer’s shelves. And here the Nutrition 21


retail business continues to post strong growth. For the period which correlates to the March ‘09


fiscal quarter, consumer purchases of Iceland Health products at retail increased 28.9% over the


same period last year. This rate of growth for our brand was more than triple the growth of the


overall vitamin-mineral-supplement category, demonstrating our combination of strong branding


and great products. And effective advertising and promotion support is improving our Iceland