corrected transcript


Nutrition 21, Inc.
 
NXXI
 
Q1 2009 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 13, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning. My name is Regina , and I will be your conference operator today. At this


time I would like to welcome everyone to the Nutrition 21 Q1 2009 Conference Call. All lines have


been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers’ remarks, there will be a


question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions].


Thank you. Mr. Joe Diaz, you may begin your conference.


Joseph Diaz, Jr., Lytham Partners, LLC


Thanks, Regina and thank all of you for joining us today to review the financial results of Nutrition


21 for the first quarter of fiscal year 2009, which ended on September 30, 2008. As the conference


call operator indicated, my name is Joe Diaz. I’m with Lytham Partners. We are the financial


relations consulting firm for Nutrition 21.


With us on the call today are Mr. Peter Mann, a member of the Board of Directors and a consultant


for the Company, Mr. Michael Zeher, Chief Executive Officer of Nutrition 21 and Mr. Alan


Kirschbaum, Chief Financial Officer. At the conclusion of today’s prepared remarks, we will open


the call for a question-and-answer session. If anyone participating on today’s call does not have a


full text copy of the earnings release, please retrieve it off the internet at the Company’s website at


nutrition21.com or numerous other financial sites on the internet.


Before we begin with prepared remarks, we submit for the record the following statements. This


conference call may contain certain forward-looking statements. The Company invokes the


protections of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words believe, expect,


anticipate, and other similar expressions, generally identify forward-looking statements. Participants


on this call are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements which


speak only as of their dates.


These forward-looking statements are based largely on the Company’s current expectations and


are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including without limitation: effect of the


expiration of patents; regulatory issues; uncertainty in the outcomes of clinical trials; changes in


external market forces; changes in the Company’s business or growth strategy or an inability to


execute its strategy due to changes in its industry or the economy generally; the emergence of new


or growing competitors; various other competitive factors; and other risks and uncertainties


indicated from time to time in the Company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission,


including its Form 10-K/A for the year ended June 30, 2008.


Actual results could differ materially from the results referred to in the forward-looking statements.


In light of these risks and uncertainties, there can be no assurance that the results referred to in the


forward-looking statements. Additionally, the Company makes no commitment to disclose any


revisions to forward-looking statements or any facts, events or circumstances after the date hereof


that may bear upon those forward-looking statements. With that said, I would now like to turn the


call over to Mr. Peter Mann, a member of the board of directors of Nutrition 21. Peter?


Peter C. Mann, Operating Partner, West Hill Partners, Member of the Board of Directors,


Nutrition 21 Inc.


Thanks Joe, and good morning to all of you. As Joe said, joining me on today’s call are our


President and CEO, Mike Zeher, as well as Alan Kirschbaum, the Company’s Chief Financial


Officer. I hope by now that most of you have seen the financial results for the quarter ended
corrected transcript


Nutrition 21, Inc.
 
NXXI
 
Q1 2009 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 13, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


September 30, which we released a few hours ago. If you haven’t yet read the release, it’s


available on our website.


The agenda for today’s call is pretty simple and pretty straightforward. I’ll give you an overview of


the quarter’s results, both from a financial perspective, as well as providing some detail on how the


three main business units are performing. Then Mike Zeher, who has now been the Company’s


President and CEO for almost four months, will provide a considerable amount of additional color


commentary on how he views the business performance and, looking forward, what he sees for the


company in the future. Then I’ll come back to discuss a variety of non-operating financial topics, as


well as to give you a brief overview of what we see in the Company’s financial outlook for the


future. And then lastly, we’ll open up the call for your comments and for your questions.


Okay. Let’s turn to the results. As you know, or may remember, the September quarter is the


second reporting period under the Company’s new management team and under the new more


disciplined operating philosophy. At the time of the management change, which was in late March


of this year, we told you that the new focus of the Company was going to be to restore profitability


while building sustainable revenue growth.


In the June quarter, the first quarter under this new operating philosophy, we delivered modest


revenue growth and sharply improved profitability. In fact, during that quarter, the June quarter, the


Company delivered the first positive EBITDA in two and a half years. The results of this most recent


quarter, the September quarter, are clear evidence that the new team and the new philosophy are


continuing to work well and are actually building momentum.


Specifically, September quarter revenues were $12.7 million, which represents a 4% gain from the


corresponding quarter last year. Digging inside, within this overall performance, our Direct


Response business experienced a volume decline versus the prior year. However, most of this


decline is attributable to considerably less investment in advertising support as we are continuing to


calibrate this business to achieve the optimal balance between spending and profitability.


But more than offsetting the Direct Response revenue shortfall, our Retail Consumer Health


business, that’s the unit that sells to the consumer through traditional retailers like Walgreens, Wal-


Mart, CVS and others, posted very large volume increases. This growth was powered by good


gains on our existing items, as well as significant volume from a number of new retailer-specific


item at Walgreens. And lastly, our highly profitable Ingredients business recorded sales which were


essentially flat with the year-ago quarter.


The total revenues were up decently at plus 4%, but the real news of the quarter is the Company’s


continuing surge towards sustained profitability. For the September quarter, EBITDA a non-GAAP


financial measure, which we believe in many ways is the best metric to evaluate Nutrition 21’s


performance, EBITDA reached $1.7 million for the quarter, that’s more than double the strong result


in the June quarter and it’s almost a $5 million improvement over the same quarter last year.


And for the first time in about seven years, the Company delivered a positive net income of about


$200,000. And when you think about net income for Nutrition 21, I would remind all of you that for


the Company the difference between EBITDA and net income is expenses, which are virtually all


non-cash charges. Items like depreciation, amortization of patents and other intangibles and the


accretion of our two series of preferred stock.


Turning to the balance sheet, we ended the quarter with $2.7 million in cash, which is down from


the June 30 level of $4.8 million. We believe this entire decline is attributable to those new items at


Walgreens where we produced and paid for the merchandise which was shipped at the end of the


quarter but for which we had not yet received payment. I’m very happy to report to you now that


those payments from Walgreens are coming in on schedule and we are seeing a concomitant


increase in our cash position.