Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Adrian Adams — Chief Executive Officer & Director, Aralez Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Nichol Ochsner — Executive Director, Investor Relations & Corporate Communications, Aralez Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Scott J. Charles — Chief Financial Officer, Aralez Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Mark A. Glickman — Chief Commercial Officer, Aralez Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Dave Bautz — Senior Biotech Analyst, Zacks Investment Research
David Martin — Analyst, Bloom Burton & Co.
Keay Nakae — Analyst, Chardan Capital Markets LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Greetings, and welcome to the Aralez Pharmaceuticals First Quarter 2017 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Adrian Adams, Chief Executive Officer for Aralez Pharmaceuticals. Please go ahead.

Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining this webcast to discuss the 2017 first quarter financial results for Aralez Pharmaceuticals. Joining me on today's call is Scott Charles, Chief Financial Officer; Mark Glickman, Chief Commercial Officer; James Tursi, Chief Medical Officer; and Nichol Ochsner, Executive Director of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications.

Before I proceed, I would like to ask Nichol to say a few opening remarks. Nichol?

Thank you, Adrian. Earlier today, we issued a press release summarizing our financial results and key achievements for the first quarter of 2017, which can be found on the EDGAR and SEDAR databases and on our website at aralez.com.

Additionally, I would like to remind everyone that we have a slide presentation to accompany our conference call this morning, which can also be viewed at our website. If you are listening to this call on your telephone, you may access a synchronized slide deck on our website by choosing the link on our webcast page that says, click here to listen.

Before we begin, I would like to remind you that certain statements made during today's call may contain forward-looking statements under applicable securities laws. Forward-looking statements may include those described in the Disclaimer on page 2 of the slide presentation. Any forward-looking statements are based on management's current assumptions and expectations and are subject to the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to vary significantly from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. These important factors are described in the earnings press release we issued this morning, the company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016, and the company's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the first quarter of 2017, which will be filed later today.

You may obtain free copies of these documents and other related documents filed with applicable securities regulators at our website aralez.com under the heading Investors or on the SEC's website at sec.gov or on SEDAR at sedar.com. We undertake no obligation to update these forward-looking statements unless required by applicable law.

This presentation also contains non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of such measures to the most comparable GAAP figures is included in our first quarter earnings release issued earlier today. I would also note that all dollar amounts referenced on this call are references in U.S. dollars unless otherwise noted.

With that, I'll turn the call back over to Adrian.

Thank you, Nichol. On slide number 3, you will find the agenda for today's call. Before reviewing our first quarter 2017 performance, I will open with commentary around some important changes we have made to our business to address certain challenges we have been facing, and then I'll provide a summary of our recent achievements.

I will next provide performance updates from our product portfolio, including Zontivity, Yosprala, the Toprol-XL franchise and our Canadian business. Scott will next discuss the highlights of our first quarter 2017 financial results and cost savings initiatives. He will then provide our improved 2017 financial guidance. Following that, I will conclude by summarizing our areas of executional focus before opening up the call for your valued questions.

Turning to slide number 4. Before I discuss the first quarter highlights, I want to take this opportunity to talk about several important changes we plan to make in our business to address some challenges we have been facing.

Starting with Yosprala, I'd like to address the question as to why the product is not selling better despite the extensive and overall positive market research that is being performed. We have determined that patient sensitivity to copayments and out-of-pocket costs has been [ph] the formal (04:17) obstacle for Yosprala. This is like the switching to over-the-counter alternatives at the pharmacist level due to price. We believe that we would generate more filled prescriptions if we adjusted the price level to the patient.

To address this and ensure we are responding to patient and customer needs, we're currently implementing an aggressive change to our pricing strategy. We are rolling out a bold, patient-friendly pricing program that significantly reduces the out-of-pocket cost to all patients, regardless of coverage or the copay levels set by the insurance. We believe this will help make Yosprala available to every patient who needs it, whether insured or not at a very attractive and compelling cost.

For our shareholders, you may be asking the question as to whether we can be profitable at a lower price point. And the answer is yes. If we eliminate the barriers of patient and pharmacist acceptance of Yosprala, we believe that we'll make it simple for patients to get their prescription. We will continue to focus on driving volume and tapping into this sizable market opportunity.

We've also made significant progress with the implementation of our cost savings plan, which Scott will review in more detail later in the presentation, all with the goal of improving our cost structure and balance sheet to maximize and preserve our financial flexibility.

Overall, to date, we have identified a total reduction of $23 million in expenses across the business in 2017, $9 million of which were assumed in our previously announced 2017 financial guidance. Our updated financial guidance for 2017 reflects our determined goal of reaching breakeven on an Adjusted EBITDA basis this year through these cost management and other enhanced profitability initiatives. Taking into account these measures and current estimates, we are confident that we have sufficient cash to operate our business for the next 12 months.

We continue to look at opportunities in the interest of our shareholders with a strong immediate focus on value creation and transformative M&A that will bolster our financial profile. We are hopeful these significant actions will address shareholder concerns, instill investor confidence and begin to stabilize our stock price volatility.

Turning importantly to the financial results, we are very pleased to report a solid first quarter 2017 with net revenues for the quarter reaching $26 million. I'd now like to turn your attention to our exciting new product, Zontivity, which we plan to fully launch next month.

Please refer to slide number 5, where I would like to review the antiplatelet landscape and focus on an overview of several leading medications. This information was taken directly from the highlight sections of the prescribing information of several antiplatelet medications. This is not intended to be a comparison.

The information represented in prescribing information is not comparable because clinical files are conducted under varying conditions. However, examining the prescribing information enables a high-level view to consider potential core similarities and differences of drugs in this category.

When considering the population of patients for which these medications are indicated, only Zontivity and clopidogrel, also known as PLAVIX, which is now generic, are indicated in patients with Peripheral Artery Disease. Zontivity with its unique mechanism of action, inhibition of PAR-1 is the only antiplatelet product indicated for use with either aspirin or PLAVIX or with both medications.

All medications shown include a boxed warning with more information in that regard available on our and these respective medications' websites. Zontivity is contraindicated in patients with a history of stroke, TIA or intracranial hemorrhage, also known as ICH. BRILINTA or Effient contraindications also include some of these patient types, and all of these products are contraindicated in patients with active pathological bleeding as expected. Finally, the adverse reactions listed in the PI highlights section are identical for Zontivity, PLAVIX and Effient.

Moving now to slide number 6, let's look at the opportunity that we see for Zontivity. As a reminder, Zontivity is indicated for the reduction of thrombotic cardiovascular events in patients with a history of myocardial infarction or with Peripheral Artery Disease without a history of stroke or TIA.

The combined on-label use patient population with PAD and the history of MI without diagnosed PAD is approximately 14.2 million. As you drill deeper into the opportunity and focus on those patients, we believe present a persistent risk, diabetics and smokers; the patient population is approximately 9 million. Smoking is the single most important ideological factor for the development of progression of atherosclerosis.

As you know, we're now in the initial stage of our phased launch of Zontivity. We have spent considerable time evaluating this asset with an in-depth review of the clinical data, the antiplatelet market and healthcare practices, and this has enabled us to precisely crystallize our core positioning statement for Zontivity.

We are positioning Zontivity for patients with Peripheral Artery Disease and/or post-MI with a focus on persistent risk, which we define as smokers and diabetic patients. This positioning resonated with physicians [ph] and (10:26) research and helps identify the cardiovascular and cerebrovascular outcome improvements possible in patients treated with Zontivity in addition to standard of care.

Now please refer to slide number 7 for an overview of the commercial strategy for Zontivity. As evidenced on the graph on the left of the slide, after Merck discontinued promotion of Zontivity, the product was in decline. We then restarted a sampling program for current Zontivity prescribers on February 1 of this year, and have seen an increase in prescribing by 38% among sample doctors, which reinforces our belief that Zontivity is a promotionally sensitive product.

We believe this improvement will continue now that we have commenced the first phase of our product launch on April 24 by utilizing 15 sales representatives, who were deployed for high volume healthcare professional targets who treat post-MI and Peripheral Artery Disease patients. We next plan to proceed with the second and final phase, a full-scale commercial launch targeted for early June of this year, utilizing all 75 of our U.S. sales representatives.

Our sales force give us approximately 25% of the oral antiplatelet market [ph] and will be detailed (11:51) in Zontivity to a tiny physician population of approximately 12,000, made up of cardiologists, primary care, and vascular surgeons. We've also made good progress in ensuring patient access at an out-of-pocket cost competitive with generics and other grounded antiplatelet agents and are currently having success improving the tiered position for Zontivity.

We expect that by June approximately 76% of formulary lives will have Zontivity covered, with significant improvements anticipated in both formulary status and prior authorizations compared to the managed care position at the time of the product's acquisition from Merck. We are excited about the potential of Zontivity and believe it represents an excellent fit with Yosprala with a high overlap from a targeted perspective.

That transitions us nicely to slide number 8 where I'll review our commercial strategy for Yosprala. On the left side of the slide, you can see Yosprala metrics that we track internally, which comprise new prescriptions, total prescriptions and retail prescription equivalents or RPEs. The RPE measure takes into account mail order on those prescriptions that greater than [ph] a 30% count fill (13:14).

As you know, we announced a 32% reduction in the U.S. sales force in April of this year, which has reduced the size of the sales force from 110 to 75 representatives. Any [ph] type of (13:29) restructuring can be somewhat disruptive in the short-term and it is not uncommon to see a slight decline in prescribing trends as we're seeing here. However, we believe that this will stabilize and reverse course, and we're already starting to witness early signs of improvement.

Our commercial strategy for Yosprala has now been significantly refined. Yosprala will continue to be promoted by our sales force who will also be promoting Zontivity. And we will leverage our improving managed care position to maximize the value of the product with minimal non-selling expense. We continue to believe that Yosprala has growth potential. And as mentioned previously, we are implementing a new pricing strategy for Yosprala that we now believe is essential to drive volume growth.

That transitions us to slide number 9 for more details on our new pricing strategy for Yosprala. We are currently implementing a bold, patient-friendly program that will be aimed to allowing all patients to access Yosprala for only $10 per month regardless of coverage, commercial or no insurance and regardless of copay level set by the insurer.

We will offer copay cards and retail point-of-sale programs that operate 30-day supply of Yosprala to commercially-insured and cash-pay patients for $10. This compares to a $20 target copay at launch to commercially-insured patients, which we believe led to a patient abandonment rate at triple the level of other branded cardiovascular agents.

Our post-launch patient experience and research suggests that a $10 product offering is a compelling price point. This new pricing strategy is both bold and aggressive, and we believe it will lead to a significant reduction in patient rejections, which will help to overcome a key obstacle that has hindered Yosprala's volume growth. We also believe that our new pricing strategy is very competitive and, in fact, at a lower cost when compared to both generic and over-the-counter alternatives.

Finally, we continue to work with major retailers to ensure pharmacists' understanding of the therapeutic value of Yosprala and have partnerships with certain major pharmacy chains to educate pharmacists on Yosprala.

Overall, while we are limiting our non-direct marketing spend on Yosprala, we continue to be optimistic regarding the opportunity and remain focused on further improving patient access and growing the brand.

Turning now to slide number 10, I would like to move on to Toprol-XL. The Toprol-XL-branded prescriptions remain stable. During our last call, we were limited in what we could communicate due to ongoing discussions we were having with our various partners, including AstraZeneca with respect to the duration of our Transition Services Agreement and the Veterans Administration with respect to the renewal of our National Contract. We would now like to take this opportunity to clear off any confusions that there may be with respect to this product acquisition.

As you know, on October 31, 2016, Aralez acquired Toprol-XL and its authorized generic business from AstraZeneca. We have now extended our Transition Services Agreement from July 31 to December 31 of this year. During this time, Aralez will continue to report net revenues, which are net of positive sales and transition services fees paid to AstraZeneca, who will continue to distribute the branded products on our behalf. Most of the transition activities have now been completed, resulting in a reduction of the overall transition fees.

After various discussions, we are pleased that the VA has exercised its option to renew the National Contract, which has been extended to April 28, 2018 at reduced pricing. The VA pricing is now firm for another year and pursuant to its policy, local VAs are required to purchase of our National Contract.

While we were in discussions with the VA at the time we issued our earlier fiscal 2017 financial guidance, we did assume that pricing levels would be at or near the levels ultimately agreed upon with the VA, and as such, the economics to be realized from the VA business, as well as the AstraZeneca TSA extension were incorporated into our previously issued fiscal 2017 financial guidance.

In summary, we are pleased that the Toprol-XL franchise continues to generate significant revenues and cash flow for Aralez.

Turning now to slide number 11, I would like to briefly provide an overview of the growth drivers for our Canadian business. Revenues were $5.7 million in the first quarter of 2017, and we are pleased that the Canadian business continues to be profitable on an Adjusted EBITDA basis. As a result of [ph] the concerted effort to focus on (18:46) commercialization initiatives in Canada on those brands that provide sustained growth, the business has become more profitable.

The key contributors to this business include the growth driver brands: Cambia, Soriatane and BLEXTEN, which collectively grew around 39% in the first quarter of 2017 versus the comparable quarter last year and accounted for approximately 31% of total first quarter 2000 (sic) [2017] (19:16) revenues in Canada. We're also pleased that the BLEXTEN launch has exceeded our expectations to date and believe it will continue to be a significant product moving forward.

While in the United States, business development remains an important factor in 2017 and beyond, in Canada, we are strategically focusing on driving organic growth. Additional possible future growth drivers include the potential Zontivity launch and Yosprala regulatory submission.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Scott to discuss our financial results. Scott?

Thank you, Adrian, and good morning, everyone. Today, I'll be reviewing our first quarter 2017 GAAP financial results, our Adjusted EBITDA, our 2017 cost savings initiatives and updates to our guidance for the full year 2017.

Our press release provides our first quarter 2017 results, as well as the reconciliations of GAAP to our non-GAAP financial measures. Later today, Aralez will file its quarterly report on Form 10-Q, which will also include our first quarter 2017 results and I encourage you all to review that report.

As a reminder, our merger with Tribute closed in February of 2016, our acquisition of the U.S. and Canadian rights for Zontivity closed in September 2016, and our acquisition of the U.S. rights for the Toprol-XL franchise closed in October 2016. As a result, our consolidated results of operations for the first quarter of 2016 include the result of Tribute from February 5 through March 31, 2016, but do not include the results of Zontivity or the Toprol-XL franchise.

Our Transition Service Agreement with Merck was in effect for the first quarter of 2017. Zontivity revenues were primarily recognized within other revenues, net of related cost of product revenues and transition service fees paid to Merck. The transition from Merck was completed on March 31, 2017, and on that date Zontivity product revenues and cost of product revenues were recorded on a [ph] growth basis (21:16).

We also have a Transition Service Agreement in place with AstraZeneca, which as we mentioned earlier, was extended during the quarter to December 31, 2017. Revenues from the Toprol-XL franchise were also recorded in other revenues, net of related cost of product revenues and transition fees paid to AstraZeneca and will continue to be for the duration of the Transition Service Agreement. Beginning in the first quarter of 2018, we expect to record product revenues and cost of product revenues on a gross basis for the Toprol-XL franchise.

Now if we move to slide 13, total revenues for the first quarter of 2017 were $26 million compared to $8.1 million during the first quarter of 2016, an increase of $17.9 million. We've broken down the revenue into three categories: one, our core business, which includes Zontivity, Toprol-XL and its authorized generic, Fibricor and Yosprala; two, our Canadian products; and three, the Vimovo royalties.

Core business revenues grew from $0.3 million in the first quarter 2016 to $16.6 million during the first quarter of 2017. The increase was primarily driven by the Toprol-XL franchise. Canadian product revenues, which consists primarily of the product portfolio we acquired through the Tribute acquisition of $5.7 million during the first quarter of 2017, were up from $3.3 million in the first quarter of 2016. The first quarter 2017 included net product revenues from BLEXTEN, which was launched in the fourth quarter of 2016.

The Vimovo royalties, comprised of U.S. and ex-U.S. royalties, declined from $4.5 million in the first quarter of 2016 to $3.7 million during the same period in 2017, primarily due to lower U.S. net pricing for Vimovo. In the U.S., pursuant to our agreement with Horizon, subject to certain conditions described in our public filings, we are guaranteed a quarterly minimum royalty amount calculated based on annual minimum royalty of $7.5 million, which was reflected in our first quarter results.

Outside the U.S., royalties have been relatively stable through the first quarter of 2017. We do expect some decline in ex-U.S. royalty revenues going forward [ph] due to (23:30) entrance of a new generic competitor in Canada. One-time only and solely for clarification purposes, we want to take a minute to provide some additional detail regarding the way we record net revenues for Toprol-XL franchise on to the Transition Service Agreement. Net product sales for the Toprol-XL franchise were $25.1 million during the first quarter 2017.

Next, we reduce this amount by the cost of product revenues and to a lesser extent transition fees, which combined were approximately $10.1 for the quarter. This gives us net revenues of approximately $15 million for the quarter, which recorded other revenues in our consolidated statement of operations.

You should also note that with the renewals of VA Contract, which is effective for the period May 2017 through April 2018 and includes low pricing levels, we expect to record lower quarterly revenues for the renewal period as compared to the first quarter of 2017. The extension of the TSA, the renewal of the VA Contract, among other key factors, have all been built into the 2017 revenue guidance.

Now if you move to slide 14, Aralez's costs and expenses for the first quarter of 2017 included $2.8 million in cost of product revenues, $8.5 million of amortization of the intangible assets from the Zontivity, Toprol-XL franchise and Tribute acquisitions, and $4.4 million in expense related to the change in fair value of contingent consideration from the Toprol-XL and Zontivity acquisitions.

SG&A expenses were $30.8 million for the first quarter 2017, compared to $37.5 million in the comparable period for 2016. The decrease in SG&A expenses was primarily driven by costs related to the Tribute merger in the prior year of approximately $19.4 million, partially offset by increased costs related to the build out of our U.S. sales force in 2016 and increased promotional expenses in the U.S. during the first quarter of 2017.

R&D expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2017 were $0.1 million compared to $4.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016. The decrease related primarily to higher costs incurred in the first quarter of 2016 for Yosprala in advance of its U.S. approval in September 2016.

Interest expense of $6.7 million in the first quarter of 2017 was for the borrowing of $200 million under credit facility in the fourth quarter of 2016 pursuant to the acquisitions of Zontivity and the Toprol-XL franchise and the $75 million convertible notes.

Our resulting net loss for the first quarter of 2017 was $27.5 million or $0.42 per diluted share, compared to a net loss of $33.8 million or $0.73 per diluted share for the first quarter of 2016.

Now please turn to slide 15 for Adjusted EBITDA. We have provided our GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliations, which illustrate non-cash share-based compensation and certain discrete items impacting the quarter. Adjusted EBITDA for the first quarter of 2017 was negative $3.6 million compared to negative $11.1 million for the first quarter of 2016.

Now, from a balance sheet perspective, we ended the quarter with 65.8 million shares issued and outstanding, cash and cash equivalents grew from $64.9 million at December 31, 2016 to $73.7 million at March 31, 2017. The increase relates primarily to the timing of receipts and payments under our Transition Service Agreement with AstraZeneca, partially offset by cash used for operations during the quarter.

In the first quarter 2018, upon conclusion of the transition service period, we expect the working capital benefit to partially unwind. As Adrian mentioned, we continue to be focused on managing our cash and expenses prudently, while commencing our phased re-launch of Zontivity in the second quarter of 2017.

Now please turn to slide 16 for our 2017 cost savings initiatives. As you may recall, in April 2017, we announced that the company will be implementing cost savings initiatives as part of its ongoing effort to maximize value from its assets and preserve financial flexibility. These cost savings initiatives are expected to result in 2017 operating expense reductions of approximately $23 million, of which $9 million were included in our original 2017 Adjusted EBITDA guidance.

The cost savings include the previously announced 32% reduction in the U.S. sales force, which is expected to save $5.5 million for the remaining three quarters of 2017, a $9 million reduction in commercial spending, which primarily relates to the non-direct marketing spend on Yosprala, and $8.5 million reduction in departmental expense reductions across the business.

While we have made significant reductions to our expenses, we do plan to invest an additional $7 million to support the successful phased launch of Zontivity that commenced in mid-April based on the increasingly attractive opportunity we see for this asset.

The company has also identified other initiatives and is driving increased profitability, such as the outperformance of the Canadian business by increased focus on the core brands and the board's recent decision to reduce the cash portion of their fees for 2017 by half. All of these initiatives are intended to improve the company's profitability and preserve its financial flexibility.

Now if we move to slide 17, let's review our updated financial guidance for 2017. These estimates reflect our current belief about, among other things, prescription trends, competition, pricing and inventory levels, and anticipated future events and are subject to other material factors and risks, more particularly described in our earnings release and public filings.

The company's net revenue guidance for 2017 remains unchanged at $80 million to $100 million. The midpoint of the guidance range represents growth of 66% over 2016. The company's Adjusted EBITDA guidance range for fiscal 2017 has been updated primarily as a result of our cost savings plan and other profitable initiatives, is now expected to be in the range of negative $5 million to $5 million, an improvement over our previous fiscal 2017 guidance, which was approximately negative $25 million to negative $10 million. Our earnings release contains further information regarding the assumptions underlying our guidance on Adjusted EBITDA.

As we look forward, we continue to focus on driving revenue growth while being good stewards of our cash by prudently managing our expenses. We will very carefully manage and monitor our revenue growth and if such growth does not materialize as planned, we will continue to work to optimize our cost structure accordingly. We remain very excited about our prospects for the rest of this year and we'll keep you posted with our progress at our next call.

With that, I will turn the call back over to Adrian.

Thank you, Scott. I would like to finish with our final slide, slide number 18, for areas of corporate focus moving forward. We remain focused on the successful full-scale launch of Zontivity with the appropriate focus and drive towards excellence in commercial execution with this exciting product. We'll also strive for stronger commercial execution with Yosprala driven by our sales representatives, a solid managed care position, and the new bold and aggressive pricing strategy. We will also remain focused on effectively managing the Toprol-XL franchise and maximizing the value of this important product offering.

In addition, we are exploring both strategic and financing options with a continued focus on transformative M&A activity with appropriate opportunistic strategic flexibility going forward, all in the interest of our shareholders. We are delighted that Deerfield Partners have confirmed that they remain fully supportive of Aralez and its management team as the company navigates through recent challenges.

In conclusion, we are clearly committed to the responsibilities we have to our shareholders, our patients and the physicians that prescribe our products. We would like to assure you that the steps we have taken and will continue to take provide a clear pathway into 2018. We are focused on looking at a number of different financial options to increase our flexibility and extend our cash runway while continuing to maximize the value of our assets.

We will transparently communicate updates as they materialize to keep you apprised of our progress. We remain laser-focused and committed to delivering value to our patients and you, our shareholders. We thank you for your continued interest and support.

I'd now like to open the call for your valued questions. Operator, can you please give the instructions.

Certainly. We'll now be conducting a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Our first question today is coming from Dave Bautz from Zacks Investment Research. Please proceed with your question.

Hey. Good morning, everybody. Thanks for taking the question.

Good morning.

So I'm going to start with Zontivity. Maybe if you could talk a little bit about what you're going to do differently from Merck trying to make Zontivity commercially successful, maybe some of the areas that maybe Merck – or some of the things Merck did not do well in their launch and that you think you can improve upon.

Yeah, so very good question and thanks for asking it. I mean, clearly, as we're doing diligence on the asset, Merck were very open about areas that they felt they could have done a much better job on in relation to the asset in particular. We noted that because the product was approved earlier than anticipated, the degree of preparation that had taken place with key opinion leaders prior to the launch was minimal.

In addition, I think, [ph] when one (33:56) looks at the overall messaging for the product, our view and Merck's view was that the message was not crystalline. It was not directed with a view to the right patient [ph] types (34:07). In addition, I think the sales force that was in place for the launch of the product was suboptimal. So [ph] when one (34:16) looks at all of these different ingredients, it led to a situation where the product obviously was a very poor launch.

Now, clearly I think we wanted to take the time to make sure that obviously when we launch the products in early June of this year, I think that we put right all of those particular aspects that did not have the right levels of focus. So we have the time to spend quality time with key opinion leaders, particularly talking about the kind of interplay of reduction of thrombotic events and the Peripheral Artery Disease area.

In addition, as I mentioned in the call, we've done a lot time crystallizing our core positioning statement, which we believe is very opportunistic and is clearly attractive to the patient and physician population.

From an overall training perspective, I think we've trained our sales representatives. And so, we believe that we've done all the right preparative work with this product that gives a very strong chance of being very successful to what we see has been an increasingly interesting and attractive asset.

So from that point of view, we feel very confident about the progress. And in particular, I think I want to emphasize that the very attractive aspect of this product is the label. And in particular, I think if I look at the label for Zontivity compared to the other promoted products, BRILINTA and Effient, Zontivity is the only product that has on its label the Peripheral Artery Disease differentiating [indiscernible] (35:56) and we see that as being a key ingredient to success in the future.

Okay. Great. Thanks for that. And just a quick question on the new Yosprala pricing. That $10 price, is that going to apply to just anyone who walks up with a prescription to any pharmacy or the patients [indiscernible] (34:18) have to go through Aralez to get that special price?

Hey, David, this is Mark Glickman. Thanks for the question. It's the former. So really we have multiple channels for the patients who access the Yosprala for $10. We're trying to limit any barriers. So this will apply at retail pharmacy, our selected partners for mail order pharmacy, or even [ph] web (36:41) for some of those pharmacies. So it applies to all patients regardless of where they want to pick up their prescription.

Okay. All right. Well, thanks for taking the questions.

Thank you so much.

Thank you. Our next question today is coming from David Martin from Bloom Burton. Please proceed with your question.

Yeah. Kind of going back to that last question, so when they lock into a pharmacy, will they pay $150 for the prescription and then have to send in a coupon to get a refund down to $10, or will they just pay $10 at the pharmacy?

So, David, thanks for the question. It's Mark again.

Don't pay $10, and that's whether they have a coupon or not. We have both passive and active means to buy down that copay. So whether they have a coupon or not at a pharmacy, they'll receive the $10. They will not have to submit any type of rebate.

Okay. So previously your out-of-pocket target was $1 per day. Now you're down in the $0.30, $0.35 a day range. We have thought $1 per day [ph] be a loan up (37:55) price to attract the patients. Was there more complexity in getting to that $1 per day for the patients than there will be for the $0.33 a day? And was there anything else holding the product back aside from the out-of-pocket price and are you addressing those issues in any way?

Yeah, I think [indiscernible] (38:19) then I'll ask Mark to comment. Obviously, one of conundrums that we have with the Yosprala is the actual receptivity to the product message has been very, very strong. Qualitatively the feedback from physicians has been very supportive, and prescriptions have been generated on an ongoing basis.

Our frustration clearly has been that the actual number of prescriptions that were actually filled has been much lower than anticipated with significant amounts of rejection at the patient end of the business. You're quite right that we made [indiscernible] (38:55) that regardless of our WAC positioning, the WAC price, we wanted to make sure the patients get access from an out-of-pocket perspective of less than $1 a day.

What we have found, obviously, as we mentioned within our remarks is that still the levels of patient rejections were triple what we've seen with other cardiovascular agents and the reason for that we believe, is the very competitive price as it relates to over-the-counter medicines. So what we wanted to do in revising what is now a bold and aggressive pricing strategy is to remove all those obstacles. We believe that these patients for which we generated prescriptions should have that prescription filled with this life-saving medicine. So we want to remove all those obstacles, and that's why we have flexibility in relation to moving the price down to a $10 level.

Mark, do you want to add anything to that?

Thanks, Adrian. So, David, we do feel that copay, as Adrian said, really is the one piece that's holding back a significant number of prescriptions. And there wasn't really complexity at $30. Now that we have two quarters under our belt, we have patient research, which shows us abandonment at different levels, and that's why we feel this $10 is the right place to go.

So it's based on what we've seen live, what we've seen patients walk away from the product. And I think with the offering that we have, we will be able to get all these patients that need the product down to that $10 price point. I don't think it will be complicated at all to get down there.

And your cost of goods to manufacture Yosprala, I assume, is substantially lower than $0.35 a pill?

Yes, David. Absolutely. We've looked at this closely from a profitability perspective. And taken to account the cost of goods, we feel comfortable that we still make money on this product.

Okay. Another question then I'll hop back into line. [ph] Of the $15.6 million (40:52) for Toprol-XL and Zontivity, I'm assuming or am I right in assuming about $14 million, $14.5 million of that was Toprol-XL? And then, when you layer in now the pricing pressure on the drug that we set of the VA pricing and the reduction of your transition fees, where should we expect that number to go for the remaining three quarters of 2017?

Sure. So, as you know, Dave, we don't give product-specific guidance, but we'll try to be helpful. So the first quarter number for Toprol-XL, as we indicated, was $15 million on a net basis, and that starts with net sales of $25 million. Then you deduct the cost of product revenues and transition fees of $10 million to get to that $15 million. So that was the first quarter number.

And as we said, we do expect the net revenues to decline, starting the second quarter when the lower VA pricing takes effect, but all of that's incorporated into the updated end guidance that we gave before on revenues.

Okay. I'll get back in line.

Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our next question is coming from Keay Nakae from Chardan. Please proceed with your question.

Thank you. So with the pricing strategy made easier for the patient to fill the prescription, what else are you or can you do to get more prescriptions written?

Well, I think, again, [ph] I walk through – it's a very good question loud and (42:36) clearly was an important part of our consideration. Although, I've been disappointed in the slower uptake than we anticipated based on prescriptions that have actually been filled, the aspect which I found very encouraging consistently over the course of the six months of launch is that the generation of prescriptions at the physician level has remained strong.

So again, just to reiterate, I think the key aspect to challenge from the [indiscernible] (43:09) is the number of rejections at the patient end when prescriptions go into the pharmacies. So I think in relation to our detailing strategy, with Yosprala that remains exactly the same. We have a strong managed care position. We have a good sales force. And clearly, I think the level of detailing will remain the same. The only difference is that the prescriptions that they have been generating, we believe we're more confident now that they will actually be filled with what is now a bold and aggressive pricing strategy.

Mark, do you want to add anything to that?

Yes, Adrian. Thanks. [ph] Thanks (43:46). Also, as Adrian said, we've had a significant number of prescriptions abandoned. But as the physicians see the confidence that the patients are now receiving the product at a cost-effective price, their prescribing will go up as well. So we have seen as patients are not able to fill the prescriptions, the physicians have a little bit of frustration. So now they'll see a consistent fill rate and their patients coming back on the product, that in and of itself makes detail much more effective and allow our sales force truly generate the asset value as they have been at the higher rates. So I'm very confident that this has a two-fold effect that filling the prescription [ph] that has (44:23) physician gain that confidence on having prescriptions filled.

Okay. Second question with respect to Toprol-XL, what is the mix now that you've got the VA Contract renewed for the next year? What do you anticipate the mix will be between branded and generic?

Okay. Thanks for the question. We haven't given the split. The business between branded and generics, we haven't provided that level of detail. So obviously from our perspective, the VA business, we expect to decline, of course, as a result of the lower pricing, and the authorized generic business, we expect to continue as we've seen. So we feel good about both aspects of the business at that point, and again, all these things have been incorporated into our updated guidance for 2017.

Let me ask you maybe a different question. In terms of pricing pressure on the generic side, have you seen that stabilize or is there still some aggressive pricing going on there by competitors?

Good question. Yeah. We haven't seen any change in the pricing on authorized generic side. And so, at this point it feels good about where the business is at and we feel good about the trends that we're seeing and the current pricing as we discussed, albeit lower, has been taken into account in our guidance.

Okay. Then just a follow-up question on Zontivity. Where have you guys established the WAC price level?

So we have not changed the WAC pricing on Zontivity from what was previously published, where we are making [ph] pushes in (46:21) rebate offer to the payors and that's a fairly fluid situation right now, but WAC, most likely will not change.

So where was it then?

Hang a second. Yeah. We could follow-up with that. We're searching for it right now. I believe it was $298. We will get back to on the official WAC.

Okay. Thanks. That's all I have.

Okay. I think one of key points to point out from a pricing perspective is we do believe that from a pricing perspective, that it's priced very competitively to the other branded products. And when one combines that kind of pricing aspect to the positioning what we believe is a very differentiated positioning with the product, particularly as it relates to efficacy in the Peripheral Artery Disease area, we think the combination of the kind of competitive price and dispositioning bodes very well for what we see increasingly has been a very attractive opportunity. So we'll obviously update on an ongoing basis on that.

And to Adrian's point, if you look at the recommended maintenance dose, Zontivity is pirced at 15% discount to BRILINTA and 45% to Effient. So to Adrian's point, it's very competitive relative to the other branded products in the market.

Okay. Thanks.

Thank you. Our next question is a follow-up from David Martin from Bloom Burton. Please proceed with your question.

Hi. You mentioned that the $7.5 million annual minimum for Vimovo was reflected in the first quarter. So you have $3.7 million for Vimovo in total. The U.S. contribution, I guess, would be about $1.9 million. How much of the remaining $1.8 million ex-U.S. Vimovo revenues were from Canada? And is that the only country where you believe you'll see competitive generic pressure on Vimovo?

Yeah, good question, David. So at this point, that is the only market where we are seeing generic competition and it's only one competitor that has entered in Canada and [ph] they eventually had (48:50) a pretty reasonable price point. So from our perspective, the only market that we see of potential impact is the Canadian market, which represents approximately 30% of the ex-U.S. business.

Okay. Back over to Yosprala, you mentioned that you're entering partnerships. I think you said partnerships with major pharmacy chains to talk about Yosprala and I guess get these rejection rates down. How many pharmacy chains have you formalized these partnerships with at this point or it's something you plan to do?

Yeah, if I look to the major pharmacy chains that we had discussions with, I don't know, about three or four at this particular point in time, but they have kind of obviously a wide range of pharmacy networks that we have access to. And the key driver of this, as you might expect, is that we've done a very good job with physicians at communicating the overall benefits and profile of Yosprala.

A key ingredient obviously to getting prescriptions filled is not just dealing with the patient rejections, which we feel we've done now with a very bold and aggressive price strategy, but also to make sure that the individual pharmacists know fully at the message at it relates to the Yosprala offering that it offers beyond what the individual ingredients offer by just walking down the aisle. So from that perspective, I think that was the importance of the education initiative that we've been doing with the major chains.

Okay. One last question. You have up to $48 million of potential contingent milestone payments to AstraZeneca related to Toprol-XL. Obviously, you've seen some pricing pressure the VA Contract reset that I assume you didn't anticipate coming into this. Will the performance of the drug fall below any of the thresholds for these milestone payments?

Good question. So we haven't disclosed the specifics of those milestones. So we can't get into any detail with regard to whether we'll achieve those or not. There are no payments that we expect to make over the next 12 months. And obviously, with regard to the milestones, we're tracking and monitoring them closely, and we'll obviously let you know if and when they're achieved.

Would you only pay milestones if the product performed better than when you acquire?

Dave, we can't get into that level of detail. We haven't gone public on the nature and the description of exactly what triggers the milestone payments. We just simply can't get into that level of detail. But obviously, they're tied to the performance of the product. So if the product performs well, obviously, they're more likely to be paid.

Okay. Thanks.

Thank you. We've reached end of our question-and-answer session. I'd like to turn the floor back to management for any further or closing comments.

Thank you. And I'd like to thank all of you for joining us this morning, as always, and we very much look forward to updating you on our continued progress and corporate milestones moving forward. We're confident about Yosprala, increasingly confident about Zontivity. And now, with the clarification in relation to Toprol-XL, we believe we have a very nice runway into 2018.

So again, thank you so much for joining, and we look forward to updating you again on our next call. Thank you.

Thank you. We've reached end of our question-and-answer session. This does conclude today's teleconference. You may disconnect you lines at this time and have a wonderful day. Thank you very much.