raw transcript


Alpha Natural Resources, Inc.
 
ANR
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 3, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning my name is Tony [ph] and I will be your conference facilitator. At this time,


I would like to welcome everyone to the Alpha Natural Resources, Third Quarter Results


Conference Call. [Operator Instruction]. Thank you. Mr. Pile [ph] you may begin your conference.


Ted Pile, Director, Investor and Public Relations


Yes, thank you everyone for joining us this morning for Alpha Natural Resources, Third Quarter


2005 Earnings Conference Call. Covering our results and outlook will be Mike Quillen, Alpha’s


President and CEO, and David Stuebe, our Chief Financial Officer.


This conference call is been carried live on the Internet, can be accessed through our website at


www.alphanr.com. The call also will be made available as a replay through November 10th by


dialing 1800-642-1687 or 706-645-9291 and entering pass code 1694530.


During this presentation some forward-looking statement will be made within the meaning of the


Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our ability to achieve the financial and operational


targets discussed in this call today is subject to a number of risk factors. We referenced these risk


factors in our third quarter earnings press release which was filed in Form 8-K with SEC this


morning and which is posted on our website in the section marked SEC filings. You will also find a


discussion of these risk factors in our most recent annual report on the Form 10-K filed with the


SEC on March 30th 2005, and in our registration statement on Form-S1 filed on October 14th 2005


both of which are accessible through the Alpha website as well. A reconciliation of certain non-


GAAP financial measures discussed on this call to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is


also included in the press release, we issued this morning and posted on our website.


At this point, I will turn the call over to Mike Quillen, President and CEO of Alpha Natural


Resources.


Michael J. Quillen, President and Chief Financial Officer


Thanks Ted. Good morning to everyone and thank you for joining us for earnings call. We won’t


cover three general things in this call before taking questions. First, we would be explaining the


events that transpired in the third quarter that affected our operating and financial performance.


Second, we are in the heart of our Metco contracting season and we will update you on activity


there, as well as, the steam side. And third, we will talk a bit more about our near-term growth


including our mine expansion program and the now completed Nicewonder acquisition.


With first, as we always do, I want to address Alpha’s health and safety performance. We have


experienced terrific results from our safety system so far this year. Reportable medical incidence


and days lost to two main indicators we track, as shown as a planning trend all year along. This


continue into the third quarter as well with our subsidiaries operating considerably more safely than


the industry benchmark for Appalachia. We also won prestigious safety awards from the mine


safety and health administration and the State of Kentucky. Our behavior based safety program is


still in our miners the importance of watching our for the safety of their fellow workers, as well as


themselves.
raw transcript


Alpha Natural Resources, Inc.
 
ANR
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 3, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


I want to congratulate our miners, our mine safety professionals and our supervisors for an


outstanding job taking care of the fellow workers. Now, I will turn it over to Dave Stuebe, he is


going to cover the financial and operating highlights for the quarter.


David C. Stuebe, Chief Financial Officer and Vice President


Thanks Mike. Well our performance in the third quarter represented an improvement over the prior


year, clearly with the development, but we were satisfied with, and we previously discussed in our


September 26th press release and conference call. I will touch on that in a moment. Coal


revenues for the third quarter of a $345 million were up 17% from last year on the basis of a 13%


improvement realized for ton coal prices. Steam prices advanced 24% year-over-year to $41 and


66 cents per ton, but net prices also advanced 12% to $72.49 of ton. Our blended average was


$51.41 cents.


Indications from our recent contract signings, however that pressing will continue to move north.


Net income for the quarter was 8.2 million, which was 13 cents per diluted shares. These results


include the stock-based compensation charge related to our IPO of 3.4 million, which is equal to 4


cents per diluted share. Last year, net income for the third quarter was 5.4 million or 37 cents per


diluted share on a pro forma basis as if our IPO and relative restructuring transactions had taken


place as of the first of the year. Our net income in the third quarter of last year was 8.6 million or 14


cents per diluted share.


For all the data, I have given here for 2005 and 2004, the Colorado mining operations that we sold


this past April are treated as discontinued operations. Also excluded from the third quarter is our


Nicewonder acquisition, which was completed on October 26th of this year. EBITDA as adjusted


was 34.5 million for the quarter just ended, although this is a 7% improvement from last year, this


quarter was clearly disappointing for us and fell well short of our expectations.


As we noted back in September 26, we have 330,000 tons of net coal scheduled to ship on New


Orleans priced at over a $100 of ton loaded in the vessel when Hurricane Katrina slammed in the


Gulf Coast at very end of August. The net effect was to reduce our net sales as a percentage of


overall sales in the third quarter to 32% versus 42% for the first half of the year. A $30 plus


differential that we get from net coal was simply not there to the extent that we had planned for the


quarter. The second factor affecting EBITDA that we mentioned in our September conference call


was a production short fall at contract mines. Our contract mines produced 220 tons, 200,000 tons


less in the third quarter of this year than they did last year and through September 30th we are


about 600,000 ton short of what we planned. While we have instantly reducing outside coal


purchases since last year, in the third quarter, we had to cover that short fall for our customers and


buy coal in the market. This was at a cost of nearly $11 of ton higher than our contracted cost


would have been.


We estimate that the combined effect of the missed exports and our associated loss margins plus


the increased ship from purchase coal to replace the short fall from our contract mines together


impacted our earnings per share by about 12 cents into the third quarter. Like, firstly all the


producers, we have been facing increases in material supply costs, this two had an impact on our


year-over-year cost to sales for the third quarter and to get ramping up for three new mines. Mike


will specifically address this in a moment.


Interest expense for the third quarter was up a $1 million from last year due to higher net


indebtedness and higher interest rates associated with our use of our credit facility. Income tax


expense was 3.5 million or 30% of pre-tax income for the third quarter of 2005 compared to 2.5


million or 13.5% of pre-tax income for the third quarter of 2004. The unusually low effective tax rate


in the third quarter of fiscal 2004 and due primary of the fact that no tax was required to provide on


the portion of Alpha’s earnings associated with the minority interest and past annuities [ph] before