Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Adrian Adams — Chief Executive Officer & Director, Aralez Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Nichol Ochsner — Executive Director, Investor Relations & Corporate Communications, Aralez Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Scott J. Charles — Chief Financial Officer, Aralez Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
David Bautz — Senior Biotechnology Analyst, Zacks Investment Research, Inc.
Keay Nakae — Analyst, Chardan Capital Markets LLC
Antonia Borovina — Analyst, Bloom Burton & Co.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Greetings, and welcome to Aralez Pharmaceuticals First Quarter 2016 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

It is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to your host, Mr. Adrian Adams, Chief Executive Officer of Aralez. You may begin. [audio gap]

(00:32-00:41) first quarter 2016 financial results, together with more details on our portfolio commercialization plans, near-term business opportunities and our strategy moving forward.

With me this morning is our Chief Financial Officer, Scott Charles; and Executive Director, Investor Relations and Corporate Communications, Nichol Ochsner. Before I proceed, I would like to ask Nichol to say a few opening remarks. Nichol?

Thank you, Adrian. Earlier today we issued a press release summarizing our financial results and key achievements for the first quarter of 2016, which can be found on the EDGAR and SEDAR databases and on our website at www.aralez.com. Additionally, I would like to remind everyone that we have a slide presentation to accompany our conference call this morning, which can also be viewed at our website and is available on the EDGAR and SEDAR databases. If you are listening to this call on your telephone, you may access a synchronized slide deck on our website by choosing the link on our webcast page that says, click here to listen.

Before we begin, I would like to provide the following cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements. Statements made during today's call may contain forward-looking statements under applicable securities laws including statements regarding our commercialization strategy of our product development and launch efforts, including with respect to Fibricor and YOSPRALA upon FDA approval and our future financial results and business development efforts. These forward-looking statements are based on management's current assumptions and expectations and are made in light of management's experience and perception of historical trends, current conditions and expected future developments.

Actual operating results and other forward-looking statements including in respect of our product development and launch efforts may vary significantly from these forward-looking statements based on a variety of factors. These important factors are described in our filings with applicable securities regulators including the company's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015, and for the 10-Q for this fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2016, which will be filed later today. You may obtain free copies of these documents and other related documents filed with applicable securities regulators at our website, www.aralez.com under the heading Investors or on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov or on SEDAR at www.sedar.com. We undertake no obligation to update these forward-looking statements. I would also note that all dollar amounts referenced on this call are references to U.S. dollars unless otherwise noted.

With that, I'll turn the call back over to Adrian.

Thank you, Nichol. Before walking through details of today's agenda, on slide number three, I would like to comment as to why we believe Aralez is well-positioned to take advantage of today's market environment. While we clearly recognize the changing dynamics in the specialty pharmaceutical sector that have led to market challenges and turmoil, we remain very optimistic about the future of Aralez.

Our differentiated approach is simple and focused on growing a therapeutically diversified business with a lean, nimble and performance-orientated operating model that will allow us to build growth and value organically in both our Canadian and U.S. business, and for future acquisitions and the M&A.

From the outset, our approach to acquisitions includes buying assets and ensuring that only disciplined and appropriate resources are deployed to maintain the value while not taking on reasonable price increases. We believe in successfully integrating of our business development targets and also giving products appropriate commercial and medical support and deploying a smart, targeted approach to sales and marketing, [ph] backed out (4:53) with disciplined investment.

We aim to build Aralez by applying a back-to-basics approach through operating differentiated products with ethical sales and marketing programs, supported by aligned managed-care programs on patient affordable strategies. We will also do this while maintaining strong financial discipline and growing market share. As such, we think Aralez is both well-positioned and poised for a very bright future.

With this said, let's now review the agenda for this morning's call. We will begin with an overview of our portfolio commercialization objectives for Fibricor, YOSPRALA and our Canadian business. Scott will then provide the highlights of our first quarter financial results. I'll then review our platform for growth; business development focus areas; and how we see the business development landscape evolving. Finally, I'll summarize our near-term business priorities and how we are positioning the company for future growth, before opening the call up for your valued questions.

Please now turn to slide number four to review our commercialization strategy for Fibricor, a product that until now has not been promoted since 2009 and operates in a very large and heavily genericized market. In April, we deployed a 25-person high-quality sales force that began promotion of Fibricor in the United States. We are confident that this represents an opportunity to not only grow the asset, but also to build relationships with cardiologists, ahead of the potential launch of YOSPRALA.

Our commercialization strategy is designed to increase our market share within the fenofibrate and fenofibric acid market by detailing on the efficacy and safety of Fibricor, as well as educating healthcare practitioners on how to prescribe fenofibric acid to maximize use of our product.

As you can see from this slide, we have several focused objectives. Firstly, we intend to draw a broader utilization among our target universe. Secondly, we will employ a strategy that will seek to capitalize on the coverage, affordability and flexibility of both Fibricor and its authorized generic. Thirdly, we will use our new copay program. And finally, we will plan to increase pharmacy touch points to facilitate pull-through of the 105 milligrams scripts to help ensure there will be fewer substitutions of the pharmacy.

Our 25-person sales force is comprised of very high performers that we think will be very productive moving forward. It is still early days as we are only in the third week of promotion, but we believe we are well-positioned to capture market share with the combination of the brand and authorized generic product offerings.

Turning to slide number five, I would like to provide a regulatory update on YOSPRALA. As you may recall, the previous hurdles for the YOSPRALA NDA were primarily related to the original aspirin manufacturer. In 2015, we identified an alternative aspirin supplier; and in the first quarter of 2016, we determine that they're qualified to become our new primary aspirin supplier. As such, in March of this year, we resubmitted the NDA with this new primary aspirin supplier. The FDA has now provided a PDUFA goal date of September 14, 2016.

As we announced in April, we have been working closely with this new primary aspirin supplier to support preparations for a planned inspection by the FDA. We are pleased that this inspection resulted in no 483 observations. Pursuant to this, we are working with the FDA to remove the original primary aspirin supplier from our NDA resubmission; and the FDA has indicated they are in agreement with this plan.

We believe that we have now addressed the previous regulatory hurdles and are now targeting launch of YOSPRALA in the fourth quarter of this year, pending FDA approval.

Turning now to slide number six, let's review our disease awareness and educational initiatives. On the left-hand side of this slide, you will see the evolving market environment. New guidelines published in the Journal of The American College of Cardiology, include the use of aspirin in EVERY instance of Dual Antiplatelet therapy, further reinforcing that aspirin remained a cornerstone of antiplatelet therapy.

In other guidelines from the American Heart Association and American Stroke Association, aspirin is a preferred antiplatelet therapy for prevention of secondary cardiovascular events and for prevention of stroke. We believe we will benefit from the strong awareness of the cardioprotective aspects of aspirin and that this will provide a fertile foundation upon which to position YOSPRALA.

Turning to our disease awareness initiatives, we have developed an educational campaign entitled Hole in Aspirin Therapy. With the objective of raising awareness of the GI side effects of aspirin and the impact on patient outcomes. Non-adherence and discontinuation of aspirin therapy increases when patients experience an increasing number GI symptoms and when severe GI complications occur. This is meaningful because non-adherence or withdrawal of aspirin therapy is associated with an approximate three-fold higher risk of major adverse cardiac events. And aspirin discontinuation following a GI bleed further increases the risk of a cardiovascular events or death by almost seven-fold.

Moving now to slide number seven, I would like to review the market share opportunity we see for YOSPRALA in the United States. We believe around 26 million secondary prevention patients in the U.S. with around 18 million patients or 70% of these taking aspirin. According to market research, around 6 million patients in any one year, take aspirin plus a proton pump inhibitor. We believe that YOSPRALA may achieve a mid single-digit market share in this secondary prevention patient population with a patient affordable pricing strategy. This will represent an attractive market opportunity with peak sales revenue potential in excess of $200 million a year. We believe that a product designed to reduce aspirin intolerance and improved compliance to therapy has the potential to resonate very well with healthcare practitioners and patients.

The graph on the right-hand side shows the potential YOSPRALA market share opportunities, following exposure to a de-identified full core visual aid similar to the design we intend to use to educate physicians about the benefits of YOSPRALA, once approved by the FDA. We conducted physician market research in which the overall YOSPRALA profile known to participants as Product X, was presented with the goal of determining what their prescribing intention will be, following this profile sharing. The graph shows the current antiplatelet prescribing habits of these particular physicians.

Interestingly, the current prescribing of aspirin in the secondary prevention market is quite high, around 56% compared to about 44% what Plavix is prescribed. The bar chart on the right-hand side represent physicians' preferences after viewing the core messaging details for Product X. As you can see, these same physicians would now utilize YOSPRALA in up to 39% of their patients.

There are two important points from this that I would like to highlight. One is a clear apparent need in the antiplatelet market for a product like YOSPRALA and the other is that regardless of specialty, YOSPRALA can play a significant role within the doctors' armamentarium for managing the secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease in patients who require antiplatelet therapy and are at risk of GI events. We found it very interesting with an addition to the potential for YOSPRALA gaining a significant part of this market, this research suggests YOSPRALA may actually expand the proportion of this market, using aspirin therapy from 56% to 70%. This research is largely consistent with both the qualitative and quantitative research we previously conducted, further reinforcing our belief in the potential for YOSPRALA.

Please now refer to slide number eight, for an overview of our YOSPRALA commercial readiness and strategy. As mentioned, we have already deployed a 25-person sales force to promote Fibricor to key cardiologists. Upon FDA approval, we plan to expand the sales force by 85 representatives and launch YOSPRALA with a total of 110 sales professionals, targeting the top 29% of secondary prevention specialists. We will execute both a financially- and commercially-disciplined strategy of growing market share. We are confident in our planned pricing strategy for YOSPRALA. The cost to the patient will be around $1 a day out-of-pocket. We've also determined our [ph] whack (14:33) price, but we will not be disclosing it at this time for competitive reasons. Extensive research has been conducted to establish appropriate pricing that consisted of 200 patients, 80 healthcare professionals and payors, covering approximately 200 million lives.

Our current payor strategy focuses on securing tier 3 formulary access and where strategically appropriate, a preferred formulary position. In addition, to help gain patient access, we will leverage copay assistance programs to ensure YOSPRALA is accessible at a price competitive with existing over-the-counter and prescription offerings.

Now turn to slide number nine for an update on the broader regulatory front. In the U.S., as previously discussed, the YOSPRALA NDA was recently resubmitted and we received a PDUFA goal date of September 14, of this year. Moving on to Europe, we plan to file the YOSPRALA Marketing Authorization Application in the fourth quarter of this year. In Canada, we plan to file MT400 or Treximet and a new drug submission for YOSPRALA in the first half of 2017.

Turning to slide number 10, we've outlined some of the key growth drivers in the Canadian portfolio, including Cambia for treatment of migraines, Durela for the management of pain, Soriatane for the treatment of severe psoriasis and the recently approved BLEXTEN for the treatment of allergic rhinitis and chronic spontaneous urticaria, such as itchiness and hives.

As you may be aware, we also recently announced the hiring of Jim Hall, as our new General Manager for the Canadian business. Jim has tremendous commercial experience in the Canadian market and will drive the strategy going forward for Canada, which includes making the appropriate investments in the product portfolio to drive organic growth of the business.

With that, I will turn the call over to Scott to discuss our financial results. Scott?

Thank you, Adrian. With the merger with Tribute completed on February 5, our consolidated results of operations for 2016 include the results of Tribute from February 5 through March 31. For accounting and reporting purposes, Aralez is the successor issuer to POZEN. And as such for GAAP purposes, 2015 figures include the results of POZEN only.

Our first quarter 2016 results reflect the build out of the infrastructure for a global, commercial, specialty pharmaceutical company as well as the transaction-related expenses incurred in connection with the Tribute merger, while the results for the first quarter 2015 reflect the legacy POZEN business model only, which consisted primarily developing and licensing our products. I will review the GAAP financial results first and then we will review the non-GAAP, SG&A and R&D expenses for which we provided guidance earlier in the year. Later today, Aralez will file its quarterly report on Form 10-Q that will include more financial information, which I encourage you all to review.

Now turn to slide 12, total net revenues for the first quarter 2016 were $8.1 million, which included net product revenues from Tribute of $3.6 million for the period February 5 through March 31, and royalty revenues of $4.5 million, recognized on net sales of VIMOVO by our commercial partners, which is up from $4.4 million in the first quarter of 2015. Royalty revenues include higher ex-U.S. net sales due to an increase in the royalty percentage we now receive from 6% to 10%, partially offset by a decrease in U.S. net sales, primarily due to an increase in gross-to-net deductions recorded by our partner, Horizon Pharma.

In the first quarter on a GAAP basis, Aralez's cost and expenses included cost of product revenues of $2.5 million, which included $0.7 million of amortization of the fair value step-up on inventory as a result of purchase accounting and $1.3 million of amortization of the intangible assets we acquired from Tribute.

I'll review the components for SG&A and R&D expenses when we get to the next slides. Other income for the quarter included $4.6 million for change in the value of certain warrants we acquired from Tribute, which are recorded as a liability and marked-to-market each quarter. Our net loss was $33.8 million for the quarter compared to breakeven for POZEN in the first quarter of 2015.

Now turning to slide 13, excluding the impact of transaction-related expenses and share-based compensation, non-GAAP R&D expenses which really represent our ongoing cash-based operating expenses, were $3.4 million for the first quarter of 2016, compared to $0.9 million in the same quarter 2015. The increase was primarily due to the qualification of our now new primary supplier of API for YOSPRALA. On a GAAP basis, R&D expenses were $4.4 million for the first quarter 2016 compared to $1 million in the corresponding quarter of the prior year. The reconciling items from GAAP to non-GAAP include transaction-related expenses of $0.7 million and share-based compensation expense of $0.3 million.

Now moving to slide 14, excluding the impact of transaction-related expenses and share-based compensation, non-GAAP SG&A expenses which again represent our ongoing cash-based operating expenses were $14.1 million for the first quarter 2016, compared to $2.8 million in the first quarter 2015. The increase was primarily driven by $7 million in additional expenses incurred to build out the Aralez infrastructure and $3.7 million of pre-commercialization costs in preparation for the planned launch of YOSPRALA in the fourth quarter, assuming FDA approval.

On a GAAP basis, SG&A expenses were $37.5 million for the first quarter 2016, compared to $3.3 million for POZEN in the same period of the prior year. The reconciling items from GAAP to non-GAAP include transaction-related expenses of $19.8 million and share-based compensation expense of $3.6 million. The transaction-related expenses include $11.5 million of excise tax equalization payments, $7.3 million of transaction costs and approximately $1 million of retention and severance payouts.

As we discussed on our last call, we received $75 million of cash from the issuance of equity and $75 million from the issuance of the convertible debt on February 5. We ended the first quarter with $114 million in cash and cash equivalents after repaying Tribute debt, transaction-related expenses and net cash used in operations. In addition, we have access to $200 million of committed capital from Deerfield Partners to make accretive acquisitions. We continue to believe that we have the capital and the resources to significantly grow the business under the structure we have put in place.

With that, I will turn the call over to Adrian.

Thank you, Scott. Let's move to slide number 15, which captures the current profile of the company on what we believe is a compelling platform for growth. As you may know, Aralez Pharmaceuticals is a Canadian domiciled global specialty pharmaceutical company with a competitive growth platform supported by an efficient structure.

Looking at the 2015 pro forma revenues, the overall revenue is around net $45 million, comprised of product revenue from Tribute and POZEN royalty revenue, which together form the base business. In this particular environment, which we think is very good for platform like Aralez, we continue to believe we are in a strong position to build the company, moving forward. If we did nothing else from a business development point of view, which is clearly not our strategy, but simply leverage and maximize the base business that we currently have, we anticipate that by the end of 2018, we'll become profitable on an adjusted EBITDA basis. However, we fully intend to leverage our current platform and aggressively pursue business development and licensing, utilizing resources that we have to further diversify and propel the business forward with the goal of becoming profitable much earlier. We believe that this represents a compelling growth platform from which we have the opportunity to drive significant short, medium and long-term value creation.

Moving to slide number 16, let's review our business development strategy and areas of focus. As you know, business development is a very important part of the Aralez growth strategy. As I mentioned, we expect to leverage our competitive structure from a strong financial position and aggressively pursue corporate development and licensing products and portfolio opportunities together with potentially transformative M&A. This business development strategy is designed to maximize the benefits of the Aralez platform. Our focus on priorities, include actively assessing opportunities and approved products in our cardiovascular and pain anchor therapeutic areas that our near-term EBITDA accretive and revenue generating that are approved.

In the event that we can identify steppingstone transactions, revenue generating assets that we can put into the [ph] sales representatives' bag (24:13) and further leverage our infrastructure, we are keen on doing so. Also, if we see something of a larger size, we believe that we'll have access to capital and the support of Deerfield and others to complete such larger transactions. We're also taking an opportunistic approach to other specialty therapeutic areas that meet the specified criteria that I just outlined with a focus on the United States and Canada, with selective global expansion provided that this does not significantly add to our overall cost base.

In addition, we are very interested in aligned, value creating and transformative M&A. From a business development and licensing perspective, I've been asked many questions as to what the business development landscape looks like at this time given the turmoil in the specialty pharma sector. We believe that this change in environment gives Aralez a competitive advantage due to the fact that we are well-positioned with a competitive platform and committed capital to transact. The general M&A and broad acquisition environment is expected to get more buoyant in the near-term, and could even lead to greater opportunities. We also believe that the lower valuations in the specialty pharmaceutical sector may lead to a greater product and company acquisition opportunities.

Overall, we are confident that the landscape of opportunities is greater now for Aralez and our platform than ever before, leaving us in an enhanced competitive position.

In conclusion of our presentation today, let's look at slide number 17 for our near-term business priorities. We will continue to build out the organization in a financially-disciplined manner, as we execute with excellence the launch of Fibricor as well as prepare for the anticipated launch of YOSPRALA in the fourth quarter of this year, subject to FDA approval. In addition, we are planning to submit YOSPRALA in Europe in the fourth quarter of this year and MT400 or Treximet and YOSPRALA in Canada in the first half of 2017. We are also planning for the future launch of BLEXTEN in Canada. And as mentioned on the previous slide, we are actively assessing business developments and M&A opportunities that are near-term revenue generating and EBITDA accretive. As we look further into 2016, the business combination that is the formation of Aralez provides increased financial flexibility with an efficient platform for growth while we execute our business development strategy. In addition, we expect to continue to make financially-disciplined investments in organic growth drivers such as the anticipated launch of YOSPRALA and BLEXTEN in Canada to further transform Aralez into a leading global specialty pharmaceutical company with the goal of creating value in the short, medium and long-term.

We thank you for your continued interest and support. I would now like to open up the call for your valued questions. Operator, can you please give the instructions?

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from David Bautz with Zacks Investment Research. Please proceed with your question.

Oh, hi. Good morning, everybody. So, my first question is about the new guidelines that were issued in April by the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force in regards to daily aspirin. I mean you talked about this a little bit earlier. But, how best can the company take advantage of those guidelines and essentially [ph] be able to (28:12) monetize best on those?

Yeah. Thank you for the question. I mean, clearly, as we've been developing our pre-commercialization plans over the course of the last six months to nine months, we have had a lot of interactions with the American Heart Association, American Stroke Association and others. And as we mentioned on this presentation, I think, we do believe that the not only the past kind of review articles and landscape that provides the environment, but also evolving kind of guidelines, are very much working in our favor. I have never launched a product before in the United States, but from which we already have 100% awareness amongst the benefits – the cardio-protective benefits associated with aspirin. So, I think the guidelines, the evolving landscape put us in a very, very strong position. We continue to work with the American Heart Association, [ph] meeting, we are (29:16) very, very keen to make sure that aspirin is not only prescribed or used but also the patients are compliant with that therapy. And this positions YOSPRALA in a very, very nice way. So, we think a lot of the kind of winds are very much blowing in our favor.

Okay, great. And then two more on the – for approval of YOSPRALA sale, you mentioned that the aspirin supplier you are using now, they've passed an inspection but that was associated with another product. Will they need to be inspected again in association with YOSPRALA? And then also, will the new sales team that will be launched for YOSPRALA, will they be kind of lined-up, ready to go and then signed upon approval? I mean, I guess, I'm kind of looking for when the expenses for that sales team is going to hit the income statement?

Yeah. Thank you for both those questions. I think, just to reiterate, I think we were very, very pleased that – when the – what is now our new primary aspirin supplier were recently inspected by the FDA and this was a preplanned inspection. I think they had no, no 483 observations. So, we were very, very pleased with that. And we do not anticipate the need for any further inspections. So, again, I think the commentary in relation to what we believe that we've removed all the regulatory hurdles, we feel pretty good about that situation. And just to emphasize, I think during the evolution of the regulatory pathway with the YOSPRALA, the one area that has remained consistent is the agreements on the core aspects of the label for YOSPRALA as it relates to the safety and efficacy. All of the issues that we've had in the past are related to manufacturing issues, we now believe we've removed that obstacle. So, we feel very good about the situation with YOSPRALA and planning aggressively for launch in the fourth quarter of this year, subject to FDA approval.

On the second point, I think, as it relates to the YOSPRALA sales force, I made several references during my remarks on the financial discipline within the organization, just using the example of a Fibricor. We have a 25% sales force that we deployed. These sales professionals were high performers in the previous companies. And we put out contingent offers to them and at the appropriate time, we pressed the button and said please resign. And so, we did that in very close proximity to the proposed launch of Fibricor. We will adopt the same financially-disciplined approach to the build out of the YOSPRALA sales force. In that, once we get a pretty good feel to the timing associated with the approval and launch, we have already built out contingent offers to these sales professionals, all of who will be high performers where they currently are. And the appropriate time that is close to the approval and launch, we will press that button again and they will join. So, I think we're doing that obviously to make sure that we don't incur cost too far in advance of the launch of YOSPRALA. So, I think very strong discipline, but very importantly I think we've lined up these sales professionals. They are all very good people, and I think that dynamic will add to the rapid market share evolution with the product [ph] launch (33:05).

Thanks for taking my questions.

Thank you.

Our next question comes from Keay Nakae with Chardan Capital Markets. Please proceed with your question.

Yeah. Thanks. Good morning, Adrian. Having had the inspection of the new [indiscernible] (33:27), what's really left for the FDA to do in the next four months to complete the approval?

Well, I think obviously, I think now that we've had discussions with the FDA on the new supplier, I think clearly, as I mentioned, we'll be removing the original primary supplier. And therefore, I think it will be a very focused NDA. So, we've done that in agreement with the FDA. Now, clearly I think, once we have the PDUFA date, I think we have made reference to the fact that there is a window of approvability from two months to six months. We have assumed a six-month timeframe that takes to that September 14 day. But, our commercial readiness [ph] associated that (34:17) in the event that we got earlier approval, we will be able to act very quickly.

The key steps as we discussed now, obviously as the FDA continue to go through the documentation, the submission, et cetera, we will move through the aspects of normal course of business, review of the submission, answering questions, but obviously in a way in which we already [ph] know that (34:43) a lot of the questions as it relates to safety and efficacy for the product, the foundation of the very strong label we anticipate with the product have already taken place. So, again, we were hopeful that the FDA will complete their review in a timely manner, and so far so good.

Okay. Good to hear. Thinking forward a little bit about the filing for approval in the EMA which had 100 milligram dose, do you know how all of the bioequivalency studies you needed to do that filing and just really wait for the FDA approval for [ph] dose (35:22)?

Yes. We have everything that we need.

Okay. Very good. [indiscernible] (35:33). Thanks.

Thank you so much for your questions. [Operator Instructions]

Our next question comes from Antonia Borovina with Bloom Burton & Company. Please proceed with your question.

Hi, I'm on behalf of David Martin. So, just really two quick questions, can you provide us a little bit of visibility on the status of the VIMOVO Paragraph IV?

Yeah, sure. Scott, do you want to just mention it or...? [indiscernible]

(36:13)

On the Paragraph IV situation, we feel very good about where we are at this particular point in time. I think you may have seen over the course of the last couple of months, there's been a number of communications from Horizon. They continue to aggressively defend any intellectual property challenges for the product. So, we feel very good about our position. And again, we reiterate that if one looks broadly at the intellectual property, we feel that's – based on Horizon's comments as well that we feel we're in a pretty good situation at this point in time. So, we're not too concerned.

Okay, great. And I guess, my next question as you provided us with the net revenues for Tribute as of February 5, can you let us know what those would have been if it was for the full quarter? [indiscernible]

(37:18). We haven't provided that information at this time. It's not public. So, we did give you, as you saw, the net product revenues for the period from February 5 to March 31. So, if you do an extrapolation, you can probably get close to what you think the full quarter would look like.

Okay. Thank you.

Sure.

There are no further questions at this time. At this point, I'd like to turn the call back over to Adrian Adams for closing comments.

Thank you very much, operator. I'd like to thank you all for joining us this morning and we will certainly look forward to updating you on our continued progress and corporate milestones in the future webcast. Thank you so much and have a good rest of the day.

This concludes today's conference. Thank you for your participation. You may disconnect your lines at this time.