Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Adrian Adams — Chief Executive Officer & Director, Aralez Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Nichol Ochsner — Executive Director, Investor Relations & Corporate Communications, Aralez Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Scott J. Charles — Chief Financial Officer, Aralez Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Mark A. Glickman — Chief Commercial Officer, Aralez Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Keay Nakae — Analyst, Chardan Capital Markets LLC
David Bautz — Analyst, Zacks Investment Research
Antonia Borovina — Analyst, Bloom Burton & Co.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Greetings and welcome to the Aralez Pharmaceuticals Fourth Quarter 2016 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Adrian Adams, Chief Executive Officer of Aralez. Please go ahead.

Good morning, everyone and thank you for joining this Aralez Pharmaceuticals webcast to discuss our 2016 fourth quarter financial results. Joining me on today's call is Scott Charles, Chief Financial Officer, Mark Glickman, Chief Commercial Officer and Nichol Ochsner, Executive Director of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications.

Before I proceed, I would like to ask Nichol to say a few opening remarks. Nichol?

Thank you, Adrian. Earlier today, we issued a press release summarizing our financial results and key achievements for the fourth quarter of 2016, as well as the financial results for our full year 2016 which can be found on the EDGAR and SEDAR databases and on our website at aralez.com.

Additionally, I would like to remind everyone that we have a slide presentation to accompany our conference call this morning which can be viewed at our website. If you are listening to this call on a telephone, you may access a synchronized slide deck on our website by choosing the link on our webcast page that says click here to listen.

Before we begin, I would like to provide the following cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements. Statements made during today's call may contain forward-looking statements under applicable laws, including, without limitation, statements regarding the commercialization, strategy and opportunities for Yosprala and Zontivity, including the planned commencement of promotion of Zontivity in June of this year. We expect the benefits of the Toprol-XL acquisition, the growth drivers of our Canadian business, other product opportunities, our financial resources, our future financial results, including our 2017 financial guidance and our business development efforts. These forward-looking statements are based on management's current assumptions and expectations and are made in light of management's experience and perception of historical trends, current conditions and expected future developments.

Actual operating results and other forward-looking statements, including in respect of our product commercialization efforts, 2017 guidance and business development opportunities, may vary significantly from these forward-looking statements based on a variety of factors. These important factors are described in our filings with applicable securities regulators including the company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016 which will be filed later today.

You may obtain free copies of this document and other related documents filed with applicable securities regulators at our website aralez.com under the heading Investors or on the SEC's website at sec.gov or on SEDAR at sedar.com. We undertake no obligation to update these forward-looking statements unless required by applicable law.

I would also note that all dollar amounts referenced on this call are references to U.S. dollars unless otherwise noted.

With that, I'll turn the call back over to Adrian.

Thank you, Nichol. On slide number 3, you will find the agenda for today's call. Before reviewing Aralez's fourth quarter performance, I will open with the summary of our achievements in 2016 and we'll then provide updates from our product portfolio, including Yosprala, Zontivity, the Toprol-XL franchise and the growth drivers within our Canadian business. Scott will then discuss the highlights of our fourth quarter 2016 financial results and provide our 2017 financial guidance. Following that, I will conclude by summarizing our near-term business priorities before opening-up the call for your valued questions.

Turning to slide number 4, before reviewing our 2016 accomplishments, I would first like to take this opportunity to acknowledge that there are certainly challenges facing both the overall specialty pharmaceutical sector in which we operate and our business.

We believe that our financial guidance for 2017 as I outlined in our press release this morning, reflects our view of both the opportunities and challenges we face in what is an increasingly competitive business environment. When looking back on 2016, Aralez had a strong overall performance in which we exceeded expectations against the goals we outlined at the beginning of what was a foundational year for Aralez.

In February, 2016, we completed the formation of Aralez through the merger of Tribute Pharmaceuticals Canada with POZEN Inc. We began promotion of Fibricor in the United States with our initial 25 person sales force and increased prescriptions by over 100% in all covered territories. Then, upon receiving the FDA approval of Yosprala in mid-September, we expanded our sales force to a total of 110 sales representatives and on October 3, we launched the Yosprala to a targeted group of cardiologists and high-prescribing primary care physicians.

We have now firmly established out anchor position in cardiovascular disease. This was accomplished organically with the Yosprala and Fibricor and through business developments with the acquisitions of Zontivity and the Toprol-XL franchise consisting of the brand and its Authorized Generic.

Finally, throughout 2016, we maintained a sound financial position through disciplined decision making and cost management and as a result, we have exceeded our original and achieved our improved 2016 financial guidance.

Having recently completed our first years as Aralez, we remain confident that we are on the right path to succeed and had a continued and clear focus on excellence in execution and increasing shareholder value all the time.

Please now refer to slide number 5 for an overview of both the qualitative and quantitative feedback on Yosprala and some of the challenges that we're addressing on a going-forward basis. Qualitative feedback continues to be positive. Recent research that includes average to 250 healthcare practitioners show that they are receptive to the key messages and benefits that Yosprala [ph] account (6:28) for patients, including the synchronized therapy of aspirin and omeprazole, the benefits of gastro-protection, the convenience of a fixed-dose combination to potentially improve patient compliance with life-saving therapy. This research is encouraging and reinforces that the sales force is detailing the product effectively and suggests that the Yosprala message is resonating with targeted prescribers.

Looking deep in our quantitative metrics, our reach and frequency with the sales force has achieved planned levels with approximately 60,000 calls since launch to approximately 16,000 targeted healthcare practitioners, with a total of 54,000 sample bottles distributed. With this said, the launch to date have been slower than expected and frankly, a little disappointing. However, we are working diligently to improve performance by overcoming several obstacles that have provided barriers to success so far.

Over 600 physicians have prescribed Yosprala since launch and we see new and repeat writers increasing each and every week. Our data shows that the majority of Yosprala prescriptions to-date are being prescribed by primary care physicians. We remain focused on generating awareness amongst healthcare practitioners and patients to elevate the importance of appropriate treatment for the second intervention of cardiovascular and cerebrovascular events and the risks associated with discontinuation of aspirin therapy. This includes educating primary care physicians and in particular cardiologists on the need to protect patients against GI side effects related to aspirin therapy and gaining healthcare practitioners' commitment to incorporate Yosprala into their secondary prevention treatment regimens.

As with any new product launch, there have been additively being some business challenges. While we are pleased with our evolving managed care progress on the commercial side, it has been slower than anticipated process for National Plans to cascade coverage updates to the downstream systems which impacts the local plans.

On the Medicare Part D front, as you will see on the next slide, we had made progress, but there is still much work to be done. As we anticipated, cardiologists have been slow to adopt Yosprala despite positive reactions to the product profile and offering. As with many new product launches, reach and frequency of representative visits is important and it takes time to develop spontaneous awareness, positive for striving trends and a stickiness or repeat prescribing with the products.

We continue to work with major retailers to ensure pharmacist engagement and support, and we are also actively working with other physi-groups to build the importance of Yosprala therapy and to reinforce at the pharmacist level that Yosprala is not interchangeable with the individual components of over-the-counter aspirin and omeprazole.

Moving now to slide number 6, I would like to provide an update on the progress with managed care. Looking specifically at commercial payors, based on the February 2017 update of the Managed Markets Insights & Technology formulary database, the Yosprala has approximately 80% of commercial lives covered on the National Plans with approximately 74% having unrestricted access. As I mentioned, it has been a slower than expected process for the National Plans to cascade coverage, updates, downstream which impacts the Local Plans.

Nevertheless, our overall level of coverage within Commercial Plans is expected to improve as these downstream plans adopt Yosprala to former. Managed care plans are applying increasingly stringent requirements, including prior authorizations while we are working to minimize through various contracting or rebating strategies with commercial and Part D players.

On the Medicare Part D front as previously mentioned, we still have work to do. As you may know, Part D plans review once per year and we have submitted all bids with the goal of gaining additional coverage by the end of this year.

We are pleased that approximately 39% of Medicare Part D lives are committed and we believe coverage should be reflected in due course. Importantly, given that the Medicare Part D patient population is expected to represent approximately half of our market, we're also using specialty mail pharmacy options that is designed to help these patients who are having difficulties in gaining coverage.

In addition, we are continuing to disseminate patient access strategies that include co-pay accounts and point-of-sale discount programs with the goal of driving prescription growth among more target universe.

Please now refer to our next slide, slide number 7, where we review some additional early performance indicators for Yosprala. On this slide, you can see Yosprala metrics that we track internally which comprise new prescriptions, total prescriptions and retail prescription equivalents or RPEs. The RPE measure takes into account those prescriptions that are greater than a 30% fill. An example would be a three-month 90-count, mail-order prescription, which would count approximately as three 30-day prescriptions.

Although at a slower pace than we would like, we're nevertheless pleased to see renewed prescription growth since the Christmas and New Year's holiday weeks, when a large number of patients presumably took time off and physician offices have reduced hours and appointments. We also believe that we are now starting to see the impact of the agreements we secured with two of the largest pharmacy benefit managers in December and early January of this year.

Moving now to slide number 8, this graph shows cumulative prescribers of the Yosprala. From our launch on October 3, 2016 to-date, we have over 600 prescribers of Yosprala. As you can also see on this chart, we are making progress in expanding the proportion of cardiologists prescribing Yosprala. Our sales force remains motivated and is focused on accelerating the reach and frequency as called on targets with the goal of expanding use amongst cardiologists and high prescribing physicians.

In summarizing the Yosprala opportunity, we remain optimistic based on physician interactions and these early performance indicators. We will continue to closely track the prescription trends with Yosprala with the view to making the right resourcing decisions moving forward.

Now, please refer to slide number 9 for an overview of the market opportunity that we see for Zontivity. Zontivity is a single, once daily tablet which when given in combination with aspirin and/or clopidogrel for reduction of thrombotic cardiovascular events in patients with a history of myocardial infarction, or MI, or with peripheral arterial disease, or PAD, without a history of stroke, or TIA.

Zontivity has a unique mechanism of action and compared to the standard of care, patients experienced a 17% relative risk reduction in a composite endpoints of cardiovascular death, MI, stroke, and urgent coronary revascularization.

In any one year, there are approximately 6.4 million secondary prevention MI patients over 20 years of age, with approximately 6 million on anti-platelet therapy. In addition, it is estimated that approximately 4 million patients are at high risk for a secondary event.

While looking at the PAD market specifically, there are approximately 9.8 million patients with PAD of which approximately 3.8 million are on an anti-platelet agent. In addition, 1.3 million patients had a high severity PAD. Patients with PAD and without a prior history of stroke, currently have limited on-label alternatives beyond the standard of care to manage the cardiovascular and cerebrovascular risk associated with the condition.

Data shows that a dual indication for patients with PAD and MI has a potentially significant positive impact for high-value physicians. Clopidogrel is an established leader in the MI market and as indicated reduce the rate of MI and stroke in patients with ACS, MI, stroke and PAD. The branded competitors for patients with ACS and MI include Brilinta and Effient. We believe Zontivity represents an excellent fit with Yosprala and a high overlap from a targeted perspective.

Our sales force covers approximately 35% of the all anti-platelet market and ahead of the planned re-launch, we have reintroduced a sampling program for current Zontivity prescribers. We are excited about the potential of Zontivity and believe that the strong science-based detail could resonate well among cardiologists and could be beneficial by further introducing Yosprala into the conversation.

That transitions us nicely to slide number 10, where I'll provide an overview of key activities and next steps for Zontivity. Some of our commercial activities to date include conducting positioning work to identify the ideal targets for Zontivity. We have already made progress in our access and reimbursement initiatives with the objective of ensuring the appropriate Wholesale Acquisition Cost or WAC pricing and improving the Tier position with the product.

As part of our preparations for the re-launch of Zontivity, our key opinion leader Advisory Board Meetings which are underway, are playing an important role in our product acquisition, messaging, and the core visualized development for the promotional rollout of products which we are planning for June of this year.

The meetings are helping us to develop a more critical understanding of the Zontivity data, subset populations, PAD, long-term use and bleeding risk. The potential value in the PAD patient is that we are among the very few products that are indicated in patients with PAD for the reduction of cardiovascular events. We believe this important work will help crystallize what we see as an increasingly exciting opportunity for Zontivity and we very much look forward to launching this product in the very near future.

Now, please refer to slide number 11, where we would like to provide an update on the Toprol-XL and it's Authorized Generic. On October 31, 2016, Aralez acquired Toprol-XL and its Authorized Generic business from AstraZeneca. Toprol-XL is an established beta-blocker with a stable prescription base. There are number of key benefits that we articulated for this transaction. These include the fact that we were able to leverage our corporate structure by acquiring a substantial U.S. product in our core cardiovascular therapeutic area that meets our previously stated goal of adding immediate revenue and EBITDA on an adjusted basis. The addition of Toprol-XL also nicely diversifies our product offerings, revenue streams and provide immediate cash flow.

From October, 31 through December 31, 2016, Aralez recorded net revenues which are net of cost of sales and transition services fees paid to AstraZeneca, who continue to distribute the branded products on our behalf. Moving forward, Aralez will continue to record revenues net of cost of sales and transition services fees during the transition period. We are pleased that the Toprol-XL franchise continues to add near-term revenue and EBITDA, although as we mentioned at the time of the transaction, we do expect revenues to decline over time due to price erosion and/or further competition, which could also impact Toprol's Veterans Administration business. Meanwhile, the transition of the Toprol-XL franchise from AstraZeneca is underway and progressing well. We have completed the AG and VA agreement transfers, NDA transfer, pharmacovigilance agreement and medical information call center transfer.

Turning now to slide 12, I would like to briefly provide an overview of the growth drivers for our Canadian business. Revenues in 2016 grew by 7% and we are pleased with the overall financial contributions from the Canadian operations. The key 2016 contributors include Cambia, Fiorinal and Soriatane. While in the United States, business development remains an important driver into 2017 and beyond, in Canada, we are strategically focused on driving organic growth. Year-over-year approximately 15% growth came from these growth driver brands. Additional future growth drivers include Blexten, as well as the potential Zontivity launch and the Yosprala regulatory submission.

With that, I will turn the call over to Scott to discuss our financial results. Scott?

Thank you, Adrian, and good morning, everyone. I will first review our fourth quarter 2016 GAAP financial results and then our fourth quarter 2016 non-GAAP SG&A and R&D expenses. Additionally, I'll provide guidance with respect to revenues and adjusted EBITDA for 2017. Our press release provides our full year 2016 results as well as a reconciliation to GAAP for our non-GAAP financial measures. Later today, Aralez will file its annual report on Form 10-K which will also include our full year 2016 results and I encourage you all to review that report.

As a reminder, since our merger with Tribute closed in February of this year, our consolidated results of operations for 2016 include the results of Tribute from February 5 through December 31. Also since our acquisition of the U.S. and Canadian rights to Zontivity in our acquisition of the U.S. rights to Toprol-XL franchise closed on September 6 and October 31, respectively, our consolidated results of operations for 2016 include the results of Zontivity and Toprol-XL franchise from their respective acquisition dates to December 31.

Due to a transition service agreement that is in effect with Merck for up to 12 months from the date of the Zontivity acquisition, Zontivity revenues are recognized within other net revenues, net of related cost of product revenues and transition services fees paid to Merck. Also due to the transition service agreement in place with AstraZeneca currently for a period of up to nine months from the data of the Toprol-XL acquisition, the Toprol-XL franchise revenues are also recorded in other net revenues, net of related cost of product revenues and transition fees paid to AstraZeneca.

At the conclusion of the respective transition periods for each of Zontivity and the Toprol-XL franchise, we expect to report product revenues and cost of product revenues on a gross basis.

For accounting and reporting purposes, Aralez is a successor issuer to POZEN and as a result, the 2015 figures include the results of POZEN only.

Now moving to slide 14. Total revenues for the fourth quarter of 2016 was $20 million, which included net product revenues of $6.4 million, related to products acquired with the Tribute merger and Yosprala and $13.6 million of other revenues. Commencing with its launch in October, revenues of Yosprala are recognized on a sell-through basis, driven by prescription demand.

Other revenues of $13.6 million were comprised of $8.6 million of net revenues earned on sales of the Toprol-XL franchise and Zontivity and $5 million of VIMOVO royalties. The net revenues for the Toprol-XL franchise and Zontivity were recorded net of the respective cost of product revenues and transition fees pursuant to transition service agreements that are in effect.

Other revenues of $6 million in the fourth quarter of 2015, were solely comprised of royalties earned form VIMOVO. With the recent launch of Yosprala and the acquisitions of both Zontivity and the Toprol-XL franchise, we have meaningfully diversified the revenue base of our business and significantly strengthened our cardiovascular footprint.

Now if we move to slide 15, Aralez's costs and expenses for the fourth quarter of 2016 included $2.5 million in cost of product revenues, $6.8 million of amortization of the intangible assets from the Tribute, Zontivity and the Toprol-XL franchise acquisitions, $4.4 million related to the impairment of intangible assets acquired through the Tribute acquisition and $0.8 million expense related to the change in fair value of contingent consideration from the Zontivity acquisition.

SG&A expenses were $32.9 million for the fourth quarter of 2016, compared to $16.7 million in the comparable quarter of 2015. The increase was primarily driven by increased commercialization costs incurred in the U.S. predominantly related to the launch of Yosprala in October 2016, cost to support the build out of the Aralez's global corporate structure, continued continue to operational expenses in Canada, product acquisition-related expenses and higher share-based compensation expense.

The increased expenses was partially offset by a decrease in transaction fees compared to the three months ended December 31, 2015. For research and development, expenses were $0.9 million in the fourth quarter of 2016, compared to $3.4 million in the fourth quarter of 2015. The decrease in the research and development expenses was primarily driven by cost incurred related to Yosprala in 2015.

Interest expenses of $4.7 million in the fourth quarter of 2016, was from the borrowing of $200 million under the credit facility in the fourth quarter of 2016 pursuant to the acquisitions of both Zontivity and the Toprol-XL franchise and the $75 million in convertible notes.

Our resulting net loss for the fourth quarter of 2016 was $31.1 million, compared to a net loss of $13.3 million for the fourth quarter of 2015.

Now moving onto slide 16. For SG&A and R&D expenses, we have provided, our non-GAAP to GAAP reconciliations which illustrate non-cash share-based compensation and certain discrete items impacting the quarter. On a non-GAAP basis, SG&A expenses were $27.9 million for the fourth quarter of 2016, compared to $10.9 million in the fourth quarter 2015. The reconciled items between non-GAAP to GAAP results include transaction-related expenses, product acquisition-related expenses and share-based compensation expense.

Now please turn to slide 17. Non-GAAP research and development expenses were $0.9 million for the fourth quarter of 2016, compared to $3 million in the third quarter of 2015. The reconciling item between non-GAAP to GAAP results is related to certain retention and severance expenses.

Now from a balance sheet perspective, we ended the year with 65.6 million shares issued and outstanding and $64.9 million in cash and cash equivalents. We are focused on prudently managing our expenses as well as our cash, all while launching Yosprala and commencing the promotion for Zontivity planned for June of this year.

In conjunction with the Tribute acquisition, we issued $75 million in aggregate principal of senior secured convertible notes. On October 31, we drew down $25 million from our credit facility with Deerfield Management to replenish our balance sheet for the $25 million previously paid to acquire Zontivity, and an additional $175 million to finance the upfront payment for the acquisition of the Toprol-XL franchise. Deerfield Management has also agreed to provide us access to up to additional $250 million capital to fund mutually agreeable transactions. We continue to extend our capital structure as we seek to maximize our financial flexibility.

Now moving to slide 18, let's review our financial guidance for 2017. These estimates reflect our current beliefs about, among other things prescription trends, competition, pricing levels, inventory levels and the anticipated timing of future events. Potential challenges include, continued pricing pressures on the Toprol-XL franchise, slower-than-expected uptake for Yosprala, ongoing litigation for VIMOVO, and related to potential uptake for Zontivity upon commencement of promotion and other material factors and risks were particularly described in our earnings release and public filings.

Starting with net revenues in addition to growth we've earned in Vimovo, the company's guidance on net revenues will now include full year revenues for Yosprala, products acquired through the Tribute acquisition, Zontivity and the Toprol-XL franchise for the year ended December 31, 2017. As a reminder, for both Zontivity and the Toprol-XL franchise, we recorded revenues net of cost of product revenues and transition service fees paid during their respective transition periods.

The company's net revenue guidance for 2017 is $80 million to $100 million, up from approximately $54 million in 2016. The midpoint of the guidance range represents growth of 66% over 2016. The company's adjusted EBITDA guidance range for 2017 is negative $25 million to negative $10 million and improvement from approximately negative $47 million in 2016, but lower than previously expected.

Our adjusted EBITDA range includes among other items, cost to support the commercialization efforts with respect to Yosprala, Zontivity, and the Canadian product portfolio as well as cost to support the global corporate structure, and excludes share-based compensation expense, changes in fair value of continued consideration and certain discrete items including merger and product acquisition-related expenses.

As we look forward, we continue to focus on driving revenue growth both in good stewards of our cash by clearly managing our expenses. We will carefully monitor our revenue growth and if such growth does not materialize as we plan, we will work to optimize our cost structure accordingly. We are excited about our prospects this year and we will keep you posted on our progress at our next call.

With that, I will turn the call back over to Adrian.

Thank you, Scott. That transitions us nicely to our final slide, slide number 19, for our near-term business priorities. Our primary goal is clearly to build and accelerate the momentum with Yosprala. We will also do everything we can to execute a smooth transition of Toprol-XL and its Authorized Generic from AstraZeneca at the appropriate time and to maximize the value of its franchise in the face of an increasingly competitive environment.

We will complete the transition of Zontivity from Merck and prepare for the commercial re-launch of Zontivity, which we are now planning for June of 2017 with the appropriate focus and drive towards excellence in commercial execution with this exciting product.

In addition, we will also continue to focus on current and future organic growth products for the Canadian business and finally, given the ongoing opportunistic nature of the Pharma sector, we will continue to assess strategic business developments and M&A opportunities that we could generate near-term revenue and potentially expanding to new therapeutic platforms to further drive additional organic growth.

In conclusion, we are pleased with our fourth quarter financial results and continue to believe that we are well positioned for the future, notwithstanding some challenges with our business, we are confident in our ability to manage both the opportunities and challenges around Yosprala and Toprol-XL franchise. We foresee three areas of execution that will be the focus of our 2017 activities and that are expected to contribute to growth over the next few years.

Commercial execution with Yosprala and Zontivity, disciplined financial execution with cost and cash management and continued focused on successful execution on the business development front. We remain confident that we are on the right path to succeed and we'll continue to manage the business to be opportunistic and to adapt when necessary to navigate the changing environment, with a clear focus on execution and a strong view towards creating shareholder value in the short-term, medium-term and long-term.

We are committed to delivering value to our patients and you, our shareholders. We thank you for your continued interest and support.

I'd now like to open the call for your valued questions. Operator, can you please give the instructions?

Thank you. At this time we'll be conducting a question-and-session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you. Our first question is coming from the line of Keay Nakae with Chardan. Please go ahead with your question.

Yes. Thank you. Adrian, what's the biggest push back you're getting from cardiologists right now on Yosprala?

Yeah. I would necessarily it's – it's pushed back as we mentioned in the – in our call I think natural qualitative feedback from both cardiologists and primary care physicians is being very positive. I think clearly I think we see that reflected in the spontaneous and prompted recall on representative business.

So [indiscernible] (31:57) kind of reaction of the logic of Yosprala, I think we're getting very good feedback. I think what we are clearly seeing is we always anticipated that cardiologists would be slower to take on the product than primary care physicians; that's the nature of cardiologists. And that we do believe that the reach and frequency that are required with cardiologists are a little bit higher than the primary care physicians. So we're seeing nothing in relation to perception and positivity around the product is a question of getting to the habits of liking the products and clearly, I think getting that stickiness, which we've referred to on several occasions, which lead to repeat the prescribing. So there is nothing fundamental with the logic of the product positioning, so we're not too concerned in that area, it's all down to repeat levels of representative business.

Okay. With respect to your forward guidance, can you give us anymore detail on the assumptions you're using to come up with that composite number?

Okay. Thanks, Keay. So at this point, we're not giving product by product specific guidance. But let me give you some guidance here. So I think first off, with respect to Toprol-XL and Zontivity, I think what's important to remember, is that those revenues are recorded again net of cost of product revenues and transition fees that occurred during the respective transition periods that result our revenues and will record would be lower than what AstraZeneca previously would have reported, that's point number one.

And point number two is, with regard to Toprol-XL, we did our best to take into account the recent pricing erosion with respect to the existing competition that is being seen on the Toprol-XL, the Authorized Generic. And then clearly with respect to Yosprala, we took into account the slower than anticipated uptake of Yosprala in our range.

And then lastly we've got – with regards to Vimovo, we've got the litigation in Canada as well as [ph] the litigation (34:01) outcome in Canada and as well as the ongoing litigation in the U.S. that we try to take into account as well. So as you can see, there's a number of moving parts here and with respect to our range, we did our best to accommodate all those pieces when we put it together and deliver that range.

Okay. Could you tell us what the gross sales for Toprol were in Q4 and for the full year?

So do you mean you want the net sales, maybe?

Well, you gave us your net recognition. I'm wondering what the gross revenue or gross sales for Toprol were?

Okay, I don't have the gross sales handy. The gross sales are a big number. But I think the net sales, just so you know that AstraZeneca reported for the nine months ended September were $81 million and then they were – they reported for the full year, I believe it was $95 million in net sales for the full year, which included net sales that they reported through October 31, as well as any revenues that they would have recorded on sales to us for the supply from the period of October 31 to December 31. So that's the number that they have reported.

Okay. Thanks. And then one last one. Could you tell us what WAC prices, we should be assuming for Zontivity?

At this point in time, we're still forming our views on that, clearly upon looks at the WAC pricing with both Effient and Brilinta. I think with Brilinta, we have kind of a 15% discount to that product with Zontivity and with Effient, around about a 40% plus discount to the WAC pricing. So we think from a kind of an overall pricing perspective and the way in which we intend to position the product in the managed care environment, that we have more than enough room to be able to position the product very effectively within the marketplace.

But clearly, I think, with the June launch, our strategy – it's little bit different than with the Yosprala I think because we have the time, I think, what is an established product on the market, to work hard to get some good tier positioning within the managed care environment. And we've got some good work that's ongoing in that regard. So we think we're very competitively priced. I think given the profile and position that we anticipate with the product, that's what led to our increasing excitement around the brand.

Okay. Thanks.

Thank you. Our next question is from the line of David Bautz with Zacks Investment Research. Please proceed with your question.

Hey, good morning, everyone.

Good morning.

Hi, David.

What kind of feedback are you getting on Yosprala's pricing? The people deem it appropriate or what are you hearing?

Yeah, so it's a good question. I think, the bottom line is, we feel that we've priced it in the right range. So, as you will recall, I think as we're building up to the launch of the product, we spent a lot of time as to how we should position the WAC price and obviously, within that regard, I think there are a lot of different considerations as it relates to the rebate and contracting strategies we will have to get it positioned right in the managed care environment.

We also stress that key part of our strategy with the product was to make sure that we adopted a patient affordable strategy of less than a $1 a day. So overall, I think, our overall pricing strategy remained sound and we're very happy with the conclusions and assumptions that we've made. I would also like Mark just to comment a little bit specifically as well as to how things are resonating on the patient end.

Thanks, Adrian and David. Yeah. I mean, from the managed care perspective, I think, the blend of our WAC price and rebates has been well received. So that shows research paid off. We're still always trying to find ways to get into the patients' hand more affordably, but right now, as Adrian just said, we are concentrating on less than $1 a day. In many cases, we've been able to actually get it for $20 or in some case even less. So I think that we are removing any of the obstacles for patient acquisition, the managed-care plans seem to feel that we have a reasonable balance between WAC and rebates.

And clearly, I think to that point, I think, obviously our ongoing optimism with the products is clearly during the holiday period. We saw the dip in prescriptions and having launched a lot of different products in my time, I think I do feel a large part of that was related to, what I refer to, as the stickiness with the brand.

We have been encouraged that the two plans that we contracted with two last PBMs. One in December and one in early January, I think, when we are starting to see the impact of that and you could have seen from the graph that we have showed that we have some momentum with the brand as we're moving through the second quarter. So, we'll see how things go over the next few months.

Okay. Great. And how long will the Toprol revenues be recorded net of cost of sales, when you see that transition finally occurring?

Yeah. Good question, David. So, the transition period for Toprol-XL ended the end of July, and for Zontivity it's the end of August. And we're working very close to right now with our partners with whom we have great relationships to transition them both at the appropriate time.

Okay. Thanks for taking the questions.

Sure.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] . Our next question comes from the line David Martin with Bloom Burton. Please proceed with your questions.

Good morning. Antonia on the line for Dave. So, a few questions from us. First question is a bit of a follow-up to an earlier question. So relating to 2016 Toprol sales, they were higher in the first half of the year compared to the second half, so just wondering if the second half little less is typical of the drug seasonality or should we consider the second half sales to be the run rate for the product?

So, I think, what we have just put out is when you look at the second half, remember that AstraZeneca reported net sales through October, and then we purchased the product obviously on October 31. So for the period October 31 to December 31, that they were especially on our behalf. So, the only revenue that they received during that period was anything on the markup of supply to us. And then we recorded revenues for that period, so it's not quite apples-to-apples when you look at the first six months versus second six months with respect to Toprol-XL.

Okay. And if we were to compare it on an apples-to-apples is there a slowdown in the second half?

So, I think when you look at on a comparative basis that the revenues were pretty consistent half-over-half, a little bit lower in the second half than the first half, but not materially.

Okay, thanks. And then just a follow-up, what percentage of net sales you pay AstraZeneca for the supply royalty and transition services? And do we expect this percentage to stay relatively constant during the transition period? And also once it's over, what percentage of net revenue would you pay them?

Okay. So there is two things, we have a royalty that we pay on net sales which we've not disclosed, it is 15% of net sales that we payback to AstraZeneca. And then, in addition to that, during the transition period we pay them transition fees, that we have not publicly disclosed the detail though during that transition period.

Okay, thanks.

Sure.

Thank you.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we've reached the end of the question-and-answer session, and I would now like to turn the call back to Adrian Adams.

Thank you, operator. I would like to thank you all for joining us this morning and we look forward to updating you on our continued progress and corporate milestones in our next quarterly call. So, thank you so much.

Thank you. This concludes today's conference. You may disconnect your lines at this time. Thank you for your participation.