Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Adrian Adams — Chief Executive Officer & Director, Aralez Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Nichol Ochsner — Executive Director, Investor Relations & Corporate Communications, Aralez Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Scott J. Charles — Chief Financial Officer, Aralez Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Mark A. Glickman — Chief Commercial Officer, Aralez Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Louise Chen — Analyst, Guggenheim Securities LLC
Keay Nakae — Analyst, Chardan Capital Markets LLC
David Martin — Analyst, Bloom Burton & Co.
David Bautz — Analyst, Zacks Equity Research

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Greetings and welcome to the Aralez Pharmaceuticals Third Quarter 2016 Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

It is now my pleasure to introduce Adrian Adams, Chief Executive Officer of Aralez Pharmaceuticals. Thank you. You may begin.

Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining this Aralez Pharmaceuticals webcast to discuss our third quarter 2016 financial results, together with more details on our expanded portfolio commercialization plans, our near-term business opportunities and our corporate strategy moving forward.

With me this morning is our Chief Financial Officer, Scott Charles; our Chief Commercial Officer, Mark Glickman; and Executive Director of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications, Nichol Ochsner.

Before I proceed, I would like to ask Nichol to say a few opening remarks. Nichol?

Thank you, Adrian. Earlier today, we issued a press release summarizing our financial results and key achievements for the third quarter of 2016, which can be found on the EDGAR and SEDAR databases and on our website at aralez.com.

Additionally, I would like to remind everyone that we have a slide presentation to accompany our conference call this morning, which can also be viewed at our website. If you are listening to this call in your telephone, you may access a synchronized slide deck on our website by choosing the link on our webcast page that says click here to listen.

Before we begin, I would like to provide the following cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements. Statements made during today's call may contain forward-looking statements under applicable securities laws, including, without limitation, statements regarding the YOSPRALA launch, the commercialization strategy and opportunities for YOSPRALA and ZONTIVITY, the expected benefits of the recent Toprol acquisition, other product opportunities or financial resources or future financial results, including our updated 2016 guidance and our business development efforts. These forward-looking statements are based on management's current assumptions and expectations and are made in light of management's experience and perception of historical trends, current conditions and expected future developments.

Actual operating results and other forward-looking statements, including in respect of our product commercialization efforts, 2016 guidance and business development opportunities, may vary significantly from these forward-looking statements based on a variety of factors. These important factors are described in our filings with applicable securities regulators including the company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015, and the 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2016, which will be filed later this week.

You may obtain free copies of these documents and other related documents filed with applicable securities regulators at our website aralez.com under the heading Investors or on the SEC's website at sec.gov or on SEDAR at sedar.com. We undertake no obligation to update these forward-looking statements unless required by applicable law.

I would also note that all dollar amounts referenced on this call are references in U.S. dollars unless otherwise noted.

With that, I'll turn the call back over to Adrian.

Thank you, Nichol. On slide number 3, you will find the agenda for today's call. I will open with a reminder of the U.S. market opportunity for YOSPRALA before discussing early performance indicators, a managed care update and our near-term priorities for the product. I will also spend a few moments highlighting the strategic opportunity that we see for ZONTIVITY before moving on to the benefits that we also see with the Toprol-XL acquisition.

Scott will then discuss the highlights of our third quarter financial results and provide our updated 2016 financial guidance.

Following that, I'll review some of our key achievements to date and conclude by summarizing our near-term business priorities before opening the call up for your valued questions.

Turning to slide number 4, I would like to briefly remind you of the market opportunity we see for YOSPRALA in the United States. We believe that YOSPRALA has the potential to achieve a mid-single-digit market share in the secondary prevention patient population, a population which is comprised of approximately 26 million patients in the United States. We also believe that this will translate into an attractive market opportunity for YOSPRALA with peak sales revenue potential in excess of $200 million per year.

Of particular note is the fact that, of this 26 million patient population, approximately 18 million patients or 70% are taking aspirin. In addition, it is estimated that around 6 million patients take both and a proton pump inhibitor in any one year. Importantly, according to medical literature, each year, about three-quarters a million Americans have a new or recurrent heart attack.

As many of you know, aspirin has an established gold standard in the secondary prevention of cardiovascular events. However, adherence to aspirin therapy is not optimal, commonly due to GI symptoms that resulted in some patients discontinuing this important therapy, which in turn can pose a significant cardiovascular risk.

In a market where payors are exceedingly focused on reducing overall healthcare costs, we believe that improving compliance to medication is helpful to achieving this goal. Fixed dose combination regimens are being shown to reduce the risk of non-compliance and, as such, we believe that the YOSPRALA is a perfect fit for primary inclusion.

YOSPRALA is the first and only fixed-dose combination of aspirin and anti-platelet agent and omeprazole, a proton pump inhibitor approved in the United States. YOSPRALA is indicated for patients who require aspirin for the secondary prevention of cardiovascular and cerebrovascular events and who are at risk for an aspirin induced gastric ulcer. YOSPRALA is designed to support both cardio and gastro protection for at-risk patients through its proprietary Intelli-COAT system.

Please now refer to slide number 5 for more information on our core commercialization objectives for YOSPRALA. We are focused on generating awareness amongst healthcare practitioners and patients to elevate the importance of appropriate treatment for the secondary prevention of cardiovascular and cerebrovascular events and the risks associated with discontinuation of aspirin therapy.

This includes educating physicians on the potential need to protect patients again GI side effects, related to aspirin therapy and gaining healthcare practitioners' commitment to incorporate the YOSPRALA into their secondary prevention treatment regimens. We're also working diligently to ensure access to YOSPRALA by removing barriers and building brand awareness with consumers to drive requests for YOSPRALA.

On our next slide, slide number 6, let's review some early performance indicators for YOSPRALA. Clearly, this is very early days in the launch, but we're encouraged by these early performance indicators. The initial feedback from our targeted healthcare practitioners has been positive and they have been receptive to the potential benefits that YOSPRALA can offer patients including the synchronized therapy of aspirin and omeprazole, the benefits of gastro-protection, the convenience of a fixed-dose combination, and the potential to improve patient compliance. Overall, we believe our messages are resonating well with prescribers.

From our launch on October 3 to date, we have generated 190 new prescriptions averaging 48 new prescriptions per week. While it is clearly very early days, we are tracking reasonably well at this time and trending similarly to other U.S. cardiovascular launched analogs that include Brilinta, Effient, Eliquis, Savaysa, Xarelto, and Vascepa. During the first four weeks of commercial availability, these analogs averaged 58 new prescriptions a week according to Symphony Health. As you can see, [ph] all launch (08:53) seems to be demonstrating a comparable trend.

I'm also pleased to report that our call activity is progressing well and our sales force has already reached 8,000 targeted physicians with a targeted frequency average of two calls per month. In addition, to date, there have already been 17,000 sample bottles distributed to healthcare providers and we of course have sufficient supply on the wholesale and retail chain to ensure YOSPRALA is readily available.

E-prescribing a more specific of the placement of YOSPRALA on electronic systems is a critical and a time-consuming aspect of any new product launch, with several states mandating e-prescriptions for all medications. We are pleased that, even at this early stage, YOSPRALA has been added to approximately 50% of the covered databases. We also had a process in place that allows our sales team to address any e-prescribing issues and typically rectify them within 48 hours.

Moving now to slide number 7, I would like to provide an update on our progress with managed care. Managed care plans, as you know, are applying increasingly stringent requirements, including prior authorizations that access to treatment with any newly approved product. To address this, we are working diligently through eliminate access roadblocks such as National Drug Code, or NDC blocks, or the need for a prior authorization through various contracting and rebating strategies with commercial and Part D players.

To date, we are delighted to have approximately 50% of lives covered across all payors. Of these, about half are reimbursed without restrictions and half are reimbursed with a prior authorization.

New products are often subject to an NDC block upon launch. Nevertheless, we are pleased that by working closely with one major commercial plan, they agreed not to initiate such an NDC block. This is not only beneficial for the short term but has resulted in another major plan adding YOSPRALA as tier 3.

Looking specifically at commercial payors, we're also very pleased that approximately 60% of these lives are covered, and of those, only 40% require a prior authorization, even in these early weeks of launch. But also looking forward to getting several presentations to large payors in meetings that are set for the very near term with the expectation that some formulary decisions will be made this year. We will present clinical and core financial information as requested and in an effort to secure favorable coverage.

That transitions us nicely to slide number 8, where I will provide an overview of our near-term priorities for YOSPRALA. As I stated earlier, we will continue to work with the largest payors in an effort to secure formulary decisions and remove coverage roadblocks in the remaining two months of 2016 and in early 2017.

We are also focused on expanding YOSPRALA's inclusion on electronic medical records and electronic prescribing platforms. In addition, we will continue broad dissemination of patient access strategies that includes copay cards and point-of-sale discount programs. Meanwhile, our sales team is singly focused on driving the reach and frequency on called-on targets in cardiology and primary care. In summarizing YOSPRALA at this very early stage of launch, we remain both pleased and optimistic based on the position interactions and these early performance indicators.

Now, please refer to slide number 9, where we would like provide some highlights of the strategic opportunity we see with ZONTIVITY. ZONTIVITY is a once-a-day, first-in-class PAR-1 antagonist oral anti-platelet therapy indicated for the reduction of thrombotic cardiovascular events in a patients with a history of myocardial infarction or with peripheral arterial disease.

We recently acquired the product from Merck for an upfront payment of $25 million in addition to milestones and royalties. We believe that ZONTIVITY represents a nice long-term growth opportunity with five years of [ph] NCU (13:27) regulatory data exclusivity and patent protection to 2024 with likely extension through 2027 due to an expected patent term extension.

This slide provides an overview of the market opportunity we currently see for ZONTIVITY in the United States. A significant number of American who have survived a heart attack or who have peripheral arterial disease remain at risk for another major cardiovascular event despite the use of existing treatments. We also see a potential opportunity with patients who have a history of peripheral arterial disease or PAD. Our sales force will cover approximately 35% of the oral anti-platelet market, representing what we believe to be an excellent fit with YOSPRALA and a high overlap from a targeting perspective.

As part of our preparations for a relaunch of ZONTIVITY in 2017, we are conducting in-depth interviews with current and potential new ZONTIVITY prescribers as well as high-volume cardiovascular specialists in addition to a ranging key opinion leader advisory boards. Our relaunch efforts will be supported by qualitative and quantitative market research that will play an important role in our positioning, messaging and core visual aid development for the promotional rollout of the product in 2017. In the near term, our sales force will reintroduce a sampling program for current ZONTIVITY prescribers.

Please now refer to slide number 10 for an overview of the benefits that we also see for the recently completed Toprol-XL acquisition. We purchased Toprol-XL and its Authorized Generic from AstraZeneca for initial payment upfront of $175 million in addition to milestones and royalties. This acquisition was financed from the previously committed senior secured debt facility with Deerfield Management. The acquisition of this product allows us to leverage our corporate structure with a substantial and established U.S. product in our core cardiovascular therapeutic area.

This transaction meets our previously stated goal of adding immediate and significant revenue and EBITDA on an adjusted basis and is expected to provide significant cash flow to help fund our launches of YOSPRALA, currently underway, and the re-launch of ZONTIVITY in 2017. This transaction is also expected to accelerate Aralez's move into profitability on an adjusted EBITDA basis to 2017, as well as accelerating our ability to use existing NOLs in Ireland.

The graph on the left of this slide illustrates the revenue performance of Toprol-XL and its Authorized Generic. In 2014, AstraZeneca recorded U.S. net revenue of $91 million. In 2015, overall revenues remained relatively stable at approximately $89 million. It is also of note that, for the six month period ending June of this year, AstraZeneca recorded $53 million in U.S. net revenue.

Please note that, on November 10, we understand that AstraZeneca will report its third quarter revenues. The addition of Toprol-XL and ZONTIVITY nicely diversifies our product offerings and revenue stream. These acquisitions are consistent with our business model designed to build value organically through flawless commercial execution with YOSPRALA and through ceasing high potential growth opportunities through aggressive business development and licensing and will anchor therapeutic positions.

With that, I will turn the call over to Scott to discuss our financial results. Scott?

Thank you, Adrian, and good morning, everyone. I will first review our GAAP financial results and then we'll review our non-GAAP SG&A and R&D expenses. And lastly, I'll cover our improved financial guidance for 2016. Our press release provides the reconciliation to GAAP for our non-GAAP financial measures. Later this week, Aralez will file its quarterly report on Form 10-Q and I encourage you all to review that report.

As a reminder, since our merger with Tribute closed in February of this year, our consolidated results of operations for 2016 include the results of Tribute from February 5 through June 30. Also since our acquisition of the U.S. and Canadian rights to ZONTIVITY closed on September 6, our consolidated results of operations for 2016 include the results of ZONTIVITY in the U.S. from its acquisition date to September 30.

Due to transition service agreement that is in effect with Merck for up to 12 months from the date of the ZONTIVITY acquisition, the ZONTIVITY revenue is recognized within other net revenues, net of related cost of product revenues and fees paid to Merck. We are striving to complete the transition in less than 12 months, at which time we expect to record product revenues and cost of product revenues on a gross basis.

For accounting reporting purposes, Aralez is a successor issuer to Pozen and, as a result, the 2015 figures include the results of Pozen only.

Now moving on to slide 12. Total revenues for the third quarter of 2016 was $13.6 million, which included net product revenues of $8.1 million related to the products acquired with the Tribute merger. We did not show Tribute net product revenues in 2015 as the acquisition was not completed until February of 2016. Net product revenues of $8.1 million in the third quarter of 2016 were up from $7.4 million in the second quarter of 2016, mainly driven by growth and revenues from the Canadian product portfolio.

Other revenues of $5.5 million, which primarily represent royalties earned on sales of VIMOVO by our commercial partners, decreased slightly compared to $5.8 million in the third quarter of 2015. Such decrease was primarily due to the decline in net sales in the U.S. due to lower net pricing recorded by Horizon, partially offset by an increase in the royalty percentage due to us from AstraZeneca for ex-U.S. sales from 6% to 10% starting January 1st of this year and the net revenues from ZONTIVITY in the U.S. from its acquisition date through September 30.

Other revenues of $5.5 million in the third quarter of 2016 increased slightly from $5.2 million in the second quarter of 2016. With the recent approval of YOSPRALA and the acquisitions of both ZONTIVITY and Toprol-XL, we have now meaningfully diversified the revenue base of our business. Commencing in October, revenues of YOSPRALA will be recognized on a sell-through basis driven by prescription demand. Consistent with ZONTIVITY, due to a transition service agreement that is in place with AstraZeneca for a period of up to nine months from the date of the Toprol-XL acquisition, Toprol-XL revenues will be reported in other net revenues net related cost of product revenues and fees paid to AstraZeneca.

Similar to ZONTIVITY, we are striving to complete the transaction in less than nine months at which time we expect to record product revenues and cost of product revenues on a gross basis.

Now if we advance to slide 13. Aralez's operating expenses for the third quarter of 2016 included $3.4 million in cost of product revenues and $2.4 million of amortization of the intangible assets we acquired from Tribute and from ZONTIVITY.

SG&A expenses were $25.4 million for the third quarter of 2016, compared to $12.2 million in the comparable quarter of the prior year. The increase was primarily driven by increased commercialization cost incurred in the U.S. prominently related to the launch of YOSPRALA in October 2016, cost to support to build-out of the Aralez's global corporate structure, continued operational expenses in Canada prior to acquisition-related expenses and higher share-based compensation expense.

The increased expenses was partially offset by decreased in transaction fees compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015. For R&D, expenses were $2 million in the third quarter of 2016 compared to $1.8 million in the third quarter of 2015. Our net loss for the third quarter of 2016 was $20.6 million compared to a net loss of $8.1 million for the third quarter of 2015.

Now if we move to slide 14. For SG&A and R&D expenses, we provide our non-GAAP to GAAP reconciliations which illustrate non-cash share-based compensation and certain discrete items impacting the quarter. On a non-GAAP basis, SG&A expenses were $20.7 million for the third quarter of 2016 compared to $6.1 million in the third quarter to 2015. The reconciling items between non-GAAP to GAAP results include transaction-related expenses, product acquisition-related expenses and share-based compensation expense.

Now please turn to slide 15. Non-GAAP R&D expenses were $2 million for the third quarter of 2016 compared to $1.5 million in the third quarter of 2015. The reconciling item between non-GAAP to GAAP results is certain retention and severance expenses. From a balance sheet perspective, we ended the quarter with 65.4 million shares issued and outstanding and $56.5 million in cash and cash equivalents after paying $25 million to acquire ZONTIVITY. We are focused on prudently managing our cash and expenses all while preparing to launch YOSPRALA and to re-launch ZONTIVITY in 2017.

On October 31, we drew down $25 million from our credit facility with Deerfield to replenish our balance sheet for the $25 million previously paid to acquire ZONTIVITY and an additional $175 million to finance the upfront payment for the acquisition of Toprol-XL. Deerfield Management has also agreed to provide us access to up to an additional $250 million in capital to fund future mutually agreeable transactions. With significant access to capital, our balance sheet remains strong. We will continue to assess the capital markets as we seek to maximize our financial flexibility and improve our overall cost of capital.

Moving on to slide 16. Now let's review our updated and improved financial guidance for 2016. These estimates are updated from what was previously provided in March and reflect our current belief about, among other things, prescription trends, competition, pricing levels, inventory levels and the anticipated timing of future events. This improved guidance not only increases the revenue range, but also lowers the non-GAAP expense range from what was previously provided.

The company's updated 2016 guidance on net revenues include revenues from Tribute, ZONTIVITY and Toprol-XL from their respective acquisitions dates through December 31, 2016. The company's updated 2016 guidance on non-GAAP SG&A expenses and non-GAAP R&D expenses includes, among other things, YOSPRALA launch costs, taking into account the hiring of a total approximately 110 sales professionals, inclusive of the 25 sales professionals hired in March to initially market Fibricor, cost incurred in connection with receiving FDA approval of YOSPRALA and the cost to build the necessary infrastructure in the U.S. and Ireland.

It excludes share-based compensation expense and certain discrete costs including merger and product acquisition-related expenses. Even with the lower U.S. VIMOVO royalty revenues, with the acquisitions of both ZONTIVITY and Toprol-XL, for which the revenues will be recognized net of related cost of product revenues and fees, we have increased our revenue guidance from $54 million to $62 million, up from the previous estimate of $48 million to $58 million.

We have lowered our non-GAAP SG&A and R&D expense ranges from what's previously provided even with the incremental expenses related to our acquired products, driven by continued prudent expense management. We now estimate non-GAAP SG&A expenses in the range of $78 million to $86 million, a decrease from the previous estimate of $85 million to $100 million and non-GAAP R&D expenses now in the range of $8 million to $10 million, a decrease from the previous estimate of $8 million to $12 million. As we look forward, we will continue to be good stewards of our cash by prudently managing our expenses while we focus on driving revenue growth through sales of Toprol-XL, YOSPRALA and ZONTIVITY.

With that, I will turn the call back over to Adrian.

Thank you, Scott. Moving now to slide number 17, I would like to review our execution against the expectations that we set upon the formation of Aralez in the early part of this year. We have certainly had a very busy and productive initial nine months since the inception of Aralez.

Let's recount some of the key achievements since our formation. In February of this year, we completed the formation of Aralez through the merger of Tribute Pharmaceuticals Canada with POZEN Incorporated and the integration of these two companies is now completed. Ahead of YOSPRALA approval and commercial launch, we re-launched Fibricor in the United States and increased prescriptions by over 100% in all covered territories by utilizing our initial 25-person sales force.

Upon receiving FDA approval of YOSPRALA in mid-September, we expanded our sales force to a total of 110 high-quality sales representatives. On October 3, we began successfully executing the YOSPRALA launch. Our commercial team is continuing its deployment to their managed care strategy and tactics to drive growth with a strong focus on growing YOSPRALA use with cardiologists and high-prescribing physicians.

We have established an anchor position in cardiovascular disease with this approval and launch of YOSPRALA and through the recent acquisitions of two new cardiovascular products. We have leveraged our platform for growth by acquiring high-potential, revenue-generating bolt-on products in our core therapeutic that area designed to diversify our revenue stream and transform the company as evidenced by the recent acquisition of ZONTIVITY and Toprol-XL.

We believe that we have ample liquidity to commercialize YOSPRALA and re-launch ZONTIVITY in 2017 with $57 million in cash as of September 30, 2016, plus the drawdown of $25 million to replace the cash used to acquire ZONTIVITY. We have access to $250 million of additional capital from Deerfield Management to explore and execute upon mutually agreeable additional acquisition opportunities that can be integrated and optimized to fuel organic growth of the organization.

Finally, we have maintained a sound financial position through disciplined decision making and, as a result, we have updated and improved our 2016 financial guidance, increasing our revenues and decreasing our projected spending. Through the Toprol-XL transaction, we expect to accelerate our move into profitability to 2017 on an adjusted EBITDA basis.

I am pleased that we are continuing to deliver against the expectations that we communicated to the investment community, and looking ahead, we remain singly focused on excellence in execution.

That transitions us nicely to our final slide, slide number 18, for our near-term business priorities. We clearly are, first and foremost, very focused on the successful commercial execution of the YOSPRALA launch. We will do everything we can to help ensure a smooth and speedy transition of Toprol-XL from AstraZeneca and ZONTIVITY from Merck. And while we will clearly have a strong and primary focus on YOSPRALA, we will continue to work towards driving momentum with Fibricor, a product which will now benefit from additional sales force resource.

Although Merck continues to distribute ZONTIVITY on our behalf in the short term, we have commenced the commercial preparations for a re-launch of ZONTIVITY by our sales force in 2017 with the appropriate focus and drive toward commercial execution. In addition, we are prepared to submit the YOSPRALA in Europe in the fourth quarter of this year and plan to submit MT400 Treximet and YOSPRALA in Canada in the first half of 2017.

We will also focus on driving current and future organic growth for the Canadian business. And finally, given the ongoing opportunistic nature of the pharma sector, we will continue to assess strategic business development and M&A opportunities that are near-term revenue generating and accretive designed to drive organic growth.

In conclusion of our call today, we're extremely pleased with our progress to date. We have had a strong 2016 thus far as we continue to build the foundation for future growth by advancing and broadening our portfolio. We also continue to evaluate strategic opportunities to further diversify our portfolio.

We look forward to communicate on the progress of our business and we continue to believe that Aralez is well positioned to create shareholder value in the short, medium and long term. We thank you for your continued interest and support.

I would now like to open up the call for your valued questions. Operator, can you please give the instructions?

Ladies and gentlemen. At this time, we will be conducting a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Louise Chen with Guggenheim Securities. Please state your question.

Hi. Thanks for taking my questions. I had a few here. So, first question I had was, we've received some questions on how to think about forecasting sales and earnings in 2017, and maybe you don't want to get that specific, but just qualitatively, for ZONTIVITY, YOSPRALA and Toprol, and then more specifically how you're going to recognize the net margin from the transition of Toprol sales to Aralez. If you could give us some color on that, it would be helpful.

Second thing is, you talked about the $250 million facility and just curious if you could give us more specific thoughts on business development for Aralez and what you're thinking areas that you're interested in or what you're seeing that there are good opportunities?

And then, lastly, maybe this is jumping a little bit too far ahead, but just curious, when you look into 2017, what are some of the key objectives that you hope to hit or maybe you could lay out broadly for us some of your top priorities? Thank you.

Yeah. I'll tackle the second question and third question, then I'll ask Scott to address the first. Now, clearly, I think one of the reasons why we articulated on this call the – how we've executed against what we put in place at the beginning of this year and the expectations, I think we've been very, very pleased with the how we've transformed the company. And clearly, as we exit this year, I think with YOSPRALA, the early expectations look promising. And now with ZONTIVITY and Toprol-XL, I think we have a situation where we have a much broader portfolio with good growth potential as we move into next year.

I only mention that from the point of view, if we did nothing else, but maximize leverage, that portfolio with the platform that we have, that would be a very, very promising 2017. So we don't have to do any other business development. That said, clearly, I think, from an opportunistic point of view, the pharmaceutical sector remains very, very [ph] boring (33:35). And I think all shareholders would expect us to assess any opportunities that may or may not come up over the course of the next number of months and, indeed, years. So – and the fact that we have that expanded facility from Deerfield gives us an opportunity, as was the case with ZONTIVITY, as was the case with Toprol-XL, to act quickly if we see something that is in the interest of shareholders moving forward.

As it relates to 2017, your question on objectives, now clearly, I think having transformed the business this year, 2017 is clearly a year of execution and is an exciting possibility. Clearly, we're very encouraged with what we see with YOSPRALA. And as I mentioned on the call, we are tracking nicely against the cardiovascular analogs in this very early stage.

And obviously, I think, as we progress during the course of the year, I think we want to make sure that YOSPRALA is successful. We have the opportunity with ZONTIVITY, which we increasingly we feel is a very nice opportunity with a competitive profile. And clearly, with the cash flow and the stabilized cash flow we see from Toprol-XL, I think execution is the name of the game, execution with YOSPRALA, execution with Fibricor, execution with ZONTIVITY, and the stabilization and, clearly, the execution with Toprol-XL. That is a very, very nice position to be in whilst having that flexibility to do other things in the interest of shareholders.

Scott, do you want to address point number one?

Sure. Thank you, Adrian. Louise, with regard to your first question, in terms of the impact of ZONTIVITY, YOSPRALA and Toprol-XL on revenues and EPS, I think, obviously, at this point of time, we're not giving guidance on 2017. We've just giving updated guidance for 2016. We'll look to give updated guidance in 2017 the early part of next year.

So, at this point, and I'll speak qualitatively, we certainly expect ZONTIVITY being relaunched in 2017 will obviously add revenue growth to our portfolio. YOSPRALA, we continue to expect continued uptake of that product into 2017 to add revenue growth as well. And then of course with Toprol-XL, we expect meaningful revenues coming from that product in 2017 as well.

So our revenue growth will be significant as you look from 2016 to 2017 driven particularly by those three products. And then with that, as Adrian highlighted earlier, we do expect with the revenue growth of those products that we can bring profitability forward to 2017 on an adjusted basis. So we – that's our goal for 2017. And in terms of more specifics, obviously, we'll be back to you kind of early next year with more details on 2017.

But all in all, we feel really good about the position we're in, particularly with these three products that will bring about significant revenue growth and bring forward our profitability into 2017. And then with regard to the net margin recognition for both ZONTIVITY and Toprol-XL, during the transition periods of the respective products, as you point out, we're going to receive a net margin from both Merck and AstraZeneca. And that net margin is effectively that revenues net out the cost of sales and the transition service fees that we pay to each organization, and that net margin will be recorded in other net revenues for us during the transition period.

Once the transition periods end, we'll then be able to record revenues and cost of sales on a gross basis. And the transition periods are one year – up to one year for ZONTIVITY and up to nine months for Toprol-XL, but of course we're trying to do everything we can to accelerate those timelines.

Okay. Thank you.

Our next question from the line of Keay Nakae with Chardan Capital Markets. Please state your questions.

Yes. Thanks. Just wanted to talk about the revenue guidance for 2016 specifically for Q4. If we're looking at something that's essentially flat to up $10 million sequentially, can you give us some thoughts on what the contributions of YOSPRALA and ZONTIVITY and Toprol are?

So, with regard to, Keay, your question, I think when you look at the fourth quarter, we have not given product-by-product specific guidance and we don't plan to at this time. But just to give you some helpful points, I mean, with regard to YOSPRALA, obviously, we just launched in October. And as I mentioned, we're going to recognize the revenue on a prescription demand basis, so we certainly expect that to be a small contributor in the fourth quarter to revenues.

With regard to ZONTIVITY, given the fact that ZONTIVITY did as we said according to Symphony data, $2 million of gross sales in 2015 and the fact that we're not relaunching the product until 2017, we're also expecting a pretty small contribution in the fourth quarter of 2016 from ZONTIVITY. And again, it's going to be recognized on a net basis, on net margin basis as well, so that further impacts that number. So, we expect small contribution from that.

In terms of Toprol-XL, we've closed the transaction on October 31 and we expect this one will add revenues of course to our fourth quarter estimates and obviously help put us in a position to list our estimates for the fourth quarter. But again, it's only two months and it's also going to be recognized on a net basis, on a net margin basis as well, just like ZONTIVITY as I described.

So, all three are going to be contributors. Toprol-XL obviously being the largest, but I think the most important point is that the three products really well position us as you look to 2017, most importantly. I don't know, Adrian, do you want to add anything else?

No. I think, that last point I think, in particular, I think again going back to how the company is being transformed during the course of this year, I mean, in essence, I think we now have a very nice strong platform from which we're very well poised as we move into 2017. And as Scott mentioned earlier, I think, obviously, we're going to be demonstrating significant revenue growth versus our exit position in 2016 versus our expected revenue position at the end of 2017. And we'll update you on that when we give our guidance in the earlier part of next year.

Okay. And just to follow up, in terms of your existing debt, how far out do you envision having to season the cash flows, if you will, before you're able to effectively restructure that to a more attractive interest rate?

Yeah. Good question. Obviously, we're very focused on that. This is certainly a priority and – for us. I think when you look at from our perspective, we have kind of laid out what we think the key credit metrics we're going to need to be able to be in a position to approach the credit markets or the capital markets to be able to do this. And we're very focused on how quickly we can achieve those credit markets.

For us, it's not something that it's going to happen overnight. But we're certainly very focused on achieving those credit metrics and putting us out in a position to be able to refinance our debt to a lower cost of capital for the company. And we've had discussions also with Deerfield Capital (sic) [Management] (41:09) and they're very supportive of us in this process and knowing the best interest for our company that this is the place that we're going to go to. And again, what we – we have spent enough time to understand what it's going to take to get there and we're very focused on driving to that goal as soon as we possibly can.

Okay. Thanks. That's all I have.

Thank you.

[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of David Martin with Bloom Burton & Company. Please state your question.

Hi, congratulations on the quarter. Thanks for taking my questions. Regarding the market analysis you did prior to the launch of YOSPRALA, were those perceptions of value the product gathered with the stakeholders knowing the proposed cost of the product and would you say that, now that the product is on the market and the price is known, is the actual enthusiasm what you'd expect based on that market research?

Yeah. Very good question. I'll ask Mark to comment in a moment as well. Obviously, he's very near to the sharp end of the business. But to your point, I think, when – in the earlier part of 2016 this year, I think we spent a lot of time in assessing the market and, in particular, our pricing strategy as it relates to YOSPRALA. We were consistent throughout this time, but we wanted to make sure that we had a patient affordable pricing strategy that enable us to get to less than $1 a day out of pocket for the patients.

Critical to this was making sure that we positioned the WACC price at the appropriate level. So, [ph] it's that – (43:02) that obviously in the managed care environment with the appropriate rebating strategies, we could get to that patient affordable strategy.

So, clearly, as part of that, we put a lot of effort in making sure that we looked at all the different moving parts. And we feel based on all the feedback that we're getting, we feel that the way in which we've positioned the WACC price and the way in which obviously that reflects in the patient affordable strategy, that we got it right. And certainly, things seem to be resonating well in managed care so far.

So, Mark, do you want to just add some color to those things?

Just add on to what you had said, Adrian. We have done quite a bit of work with the payors trying to establish the WACC, so it's not a surprise that the WACC price is well received in the managed care discussions that we've had so far.

So I would say that is hitting according to the expectation. And I would say that our patient access strategies and tools that we've put in place to try to get patients to under $1 dollar a day, I think those are working well early on here. We have several reports, we're tracking very closely to see where patients are actually adjudicating as far out of pockets. And it would appear that these tools are working well, and we would be hitting the expectations for the overall program.

Okay. Another question. You've identified PAD as a potentially good opportunity for ZONTIVITY. I'm wondering why it seems like Merck hadn't promoted to that indication. Do you know why they hadn't and why it's revealed to you as something that you can get growth out of the product with?

Clearly, I think you're absolutely right. I think, in terms of our initial assessments of the profile of the product, we do see the peripheral arterial disease, the part of the overall message for ZONTIVITY has been quite attractive message.

You are also correct that, clearly, when the product was launched by Merck, I think the core focus did not include peripheral arterial disease. And certainly, I think from an overall perspective, I think it is correct to say that they've not leveraged that part of the overall message from the time of launch.

The reason why we believe peripheral arterial disease offers a potential opportunity is that if you compare the kind of labeled indications for ZONTIVITY versus Brilinta and versus Effient, it will – ZONTIVITY obviously separates out in terms of having already the indication for use in patients with the peripheral arterial disease.

So, we see that as being a nice opportunity. Clearly, we – after we announced the acquisition of ZONTIVITY, you may also note that the AstraZeneca reported the results of a very, very large study on Brilinta in peripheral arterial disease, which failed to meet its endpoints. And therefore, it just reinforced to us the differential competitive advantage that we believe we will have with ZONTIVITY. And clearly, we are doing a lot of profiling and positioning work at this particular point in time to assess the type of positioning we will have when we relaunch the asset next year.

Do you know why Merck didn't pursue it or was there something they didn't like about the indication?

Hi, this is Mark. So, from the work that we've done with Merck, it does appear that they were heading towards a PAD-type message, and they conducted quite a bit of research in preparation for that launch. And I guess, they just ran out of time to roll that out, but we do see actually the development of materials and market research in those areas. So, I don't think that they were going to continue to stay away from it for long.

Okay. And just tied into this last question, what are your thoughts – you've got $200 million peak sales expectation for YOSPRALA, what are your thoughts regarding ZONTIVITY and, to a lesser extent, Fibricor?

Well, I think with Fibricor, I think we always express the point that Fibricor is a very, very small product. The key obviously objective with Fibricor was to start promoting a product which had not been promoted for many, many years. We felt that it would move the needle on revenues, but clearly, the key goal was to build relationship springboards with cardiologists ahead of YOSPRALA, and we did that very, very well.

Clearly, we also were very pleased that, in that relatively short period of time, over a six-month period, we were able to increase the number of prescriptions by 100% in our targeted group for Fibricor. It's not going to be a significant product, although it will benefit from the increased sales force resource that we have.

As it relates to ZONTIVITY, I think obviously when we share our guidance next year, we'll give a broad revenue number that will reflect our views not only on the best platform of the business, but also on Toprol-XL, ZONTIVITY and YOSPRALA.

So, at this point in time, I don't want to comment on that. Suffice to say that from an asset, ZONTIVITY that we acquired for $25 million, we believe that even the event the one was able to grow that asset to $50 million, $60 million, $70 million, $100 million, it will be a very, very nice proposition. So clearly all the feedback we've had to date is positive and we are very much looking forward to relaunching that product.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you.

Our next question comes from the line of David Bautz of Zacks Investment Research. Please state your question.

Hey, good morning, everyone. Scott, I apologize if I missed this earlier in the call. But where were the savings coming from in your new guidance for SG&A for 2016?

Yeah. Thanks, David. So, David, it's really across the board, but particularly on the SG&A line item is where we've focused internally on just carefully managing the expenses and timing of expenses and just making sure that we're only spending exactly where we need to, bring it on head count precisely when we absolutely need them and just closely managing the expenses on the SG&A line as carefully as we could is what really led to [indiscernible] (49:39) down of the expenses.

In particular, if you look at the sales force, we managed that really carefully, the incremental 85 that we brought on, we timed it such that it was right a week before or effectively we had the launch meaning. So we were able to manage that timeline really close to bring down that expense that was planned. So we've really done a lot of things across the board and those are just a few examples of how we arrived at it.

Okay. And the revenues attributable to the Tribute products, there was a bit of a bump from Q2 to Q3, Q3 came in at bit above my estimates. I'm just curious if you could talk a little bit about what led to that and if that's kind of the new normal for those numbers.

Yeah. Good question, David. I think there was actually not one product that led to it. There were quite a few products in the Canadian product portfolio that led to the growth from Q2 to Q3. It includes Fibricor, it includes Fiorinal and a few of the other products in the Canadian portfolio that drove that.

In terms of new normal, I would not describe it is a new normal. I would say, when you look forward to Canada, things are going to evolve over time. In Canada, Adrian described it a lot that we're going to focus on the organic growth drivers in Canada as we look forward with the launch of BLEXTEN and future products in the Canadian business. And at the same time, some of the other products are facing competition in Canada, so that's obviously a tailwind – or headwind that's impacting us, I should say, in Canada as well.

So, you've got a few things kind of playing against us as we look forward to Q4, but we did have a very nice, as you said, Q3 and it was driven by a handful of product that drove that growth from Q2 to Q3.

Okay. I appreciate it. Thanks for taking the questions.

Thank you.

Sure.

Our next question is a follow-up from Keay with Chardan Capital Market. Please state your question.

Yeah. Thanks. I was wondering if you could talk a little bit more about the steps involved in getting a payor to remove YOSPRALA in this case from requiring pre-authorization?

Hi, Keay, this is Mark. So, it's part of the overall negotiation. We had scheduled in advance quite a few meetings to have with payors. Some are fortunately for decisions that we've made this year, and that's a more straightforward negotiation to get to a formulary this year.

In the cases where we have meetings set up with the payors, where we may not have a decision this year, that's when we're going to be discussing the possibility of the proper way to date a contract or to price a contract for the short term to have a block or PA removed with the understanding that we have a more formal financial package at the time of the official review.

So, these steps are part of the standard conversation that we're having with the plans right now. We're a new product, we're early. Launch in the fourth quarter doesn't always line up exactly with the goal to the plan as far as additions to formulary, we will take advantages to those when we have them, but when we don't, we'll be communicating a short-term plan to remove those blocks, again, with the understanding of having a longer-term financial package in front of them at the appropriate time.

And clearly, I think we're obviously measuring all the metrics within the organization. We're very encouraged by what we're seeing. I mean, one of the metrics we monitor is the number of lives that we cover. And certainly, in this [indiscernible] (53:20) I mean, we're literally four to five weeks into the launch of this product. To have 50% of lives covered we feel is a pretty nice position to be in. And again, I think we've used the term on several occasions during the course of this call as being very well positioned as we move through the course of the latter part of this year. And we certainly feel that that is the case in all [ph] parameters, not least (53:40) of which is managed care.

Okay. Thanks.

Thank you.

Our next question is another follow-up from David Martin with Bloom Burton & Company. Please take the question.

Hi, thanks for taking the follow-up. I just wanted to go back to my first question about the market analysis that was done and how it's playing out first month on the market. You mentioned that the payors are on board with the WACC price. What about the physicians and the patients? Do you have a sense of whether they're on board with the pricing for the product, and have you met any other speed bumps or any other unexpected upsides in the first month of the launch?

And clearly, I think Mark will comment in a moment. I think with any new product launch, you always have little speed bumps, et cetera, because there's an awful lot of different moving parts. All of that said, I think if one looks at the receptivity that we've had from physicians, clearly, it's been overly positive from an overall perspective, I think on the topic messaging. And clearly as part of those discussions we discussed with them, how we positioned the price and clearly that we wanted this to be a situation that was affordable to the patient, and we've had a very little in terms of negative feedback in relation to both the product positioning and of course the pricing that we have in place.

So, Mark, maybe you want to add some further color to this.

Thank you, Adrian. And, David, it's early. You see the prescriptions – although we have quite a few patients who have filled prescriptions, I think, again, we're monitoring based on the tools delivering under $1 daily seems to be doing their job. And that's what the physicians are expecting. On our literature that we hand out to the physicians, we referenced the under $1 a day. So, although very early, I would say, since the tools are working and delivering that, the physicians won't have a whole lot of pushback.

I will stress, I check in with my sales managers weekly and my head of sales daily to make sure that if there are any negative signs coming from physicians about acquisition of product, and I honestly have not heard any yet. So I think the tools are delivering the way they should be. We have good coverage coming out of the gates here, about 50% of the lives, and the tools are able to do their job in bringing it down to under $1 a day. It seems like it's working according to plan.

Have there been any big speed bumps that have been overcome that will change the trajectory even stronger in coming weeks?

I think I wouldn't classify them as major speed bumps. I think part of the overall plan when you first launch a product is not all chains have access to the product at the same time that other folks do. So I think, as we're going through this priming of the pump, I would say there is no real major speed bumps, but speed bumps that we anticipated that I think we've handled proactively and are now going to see the fruits of just pulling though this priming of the pump area.

And again, what I'd point out is the – on the call, we made reference to how prescriptions are attracting, and in particular I think we rigorously compare our performance versus a number of other launches that have taken place in this space. I referenced the prescription uptakes of this group who run about six or seven products that are covered by Symphony. And our trajectory at this particular point in time is tracking nicely compared to those analogs as well.

Clearly, we've had a number of calls asking us as to how we think things are going, and that is one of the metrics we look closely at. So we're very encouraged by what we're seeing at this particular point in time. I think there's always going to be, as I'm sure those products did, there's always going to be a little speed bumps and things that you need to iron out on a tactical perspective. But certainly, we're seeing nothing that we see as major speed bumps at this point in time.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you.

That does conclude our question-and-answer session. At this time, I will turn it back to Adrian Adams for closing remarks.

Thank you very much. Clearly, I think, as we've referenced, I think when we set up the company in the earlier part of this year, where we were hoping to get YOSPRALA approved and launched, I think when I look at where we are now in relation to not just having the product approved and launched with some good early metrics, some performance indicators, we've also in-licensed ZONTIVITY and acquired Toprol-XL. So we feel that we're in a position where we transformed the business and sales up very nicely as we move through the course of the latter part of this year and into 2017. I think we are very well poised.

So, with that, I would like to thank you all for joining us this morning and we look forward to updating you on our continued progress and corporate milestones on an ongoing basis. Thank you so much.

This concludes today's conference. Thank you for your participation. You may disconnect your lines at this time.