Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Keith R. Schroeder — Chief Financial Officer, Orchids Paper Products Co.
Jeffrey S. Schoen — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Orchids Paper Products Co.
Philip Ng — Analyst, Jefferies LLC
Louie M. Toma — Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC
Marco A. Rodriguez — Analyst, Stonegate Capital Markets
Michael N. Taglich — Co-Founder, President & Chairman, Taglich Brothers, Inc.
John Nobile — Analyst, Taglich Brothers, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, and welcome to the Orchids Paper Products Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call. On the call today are Jeff Schoen, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Keith Schroeder, Chief Financial Officer. All participants will be in listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] After today's presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask questions [Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the call over to Keith Schroeder.

Thank you, operator. Good morning, and thank you to everyone for attending our 2015 fourth quarter earnings call. The agenda for our call today will begin with my review of the fourth quarter results. Jeff will then provide his perspective on our results and our business environment. We will conclude with a question-and-answer session.

I would like to remind you that certain statements made during this conference call are forward-looking statements within the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended. These forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations, estimates, assumptions and projections that are subject to change and actual results may differ materially from the forward-looking statements.

Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include those risk and assumptions and uncertainties described from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014, and forms 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, June 30, and September 30, 2015, as well as our earnings release and any supplemental information. Any forward-looking statements are made only as of this date, and the company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.

I would like to point out that during my remarks, I will be making reference to both GAAP and non-GAAP or adjusted results. The adjusted results exclude certain charges that we believe are not indicative of our core operating performance. The reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP measures is included in our earnings release which is available on our website.

For the fourth quarter of 2015, these adjustments to EBITDA include $270,000 of non-cash stock compensation, and for the 2014 quarter include $270,000 of non-cash stock compensation, and $193,000 of demolition costs related to our Oklahoma paper machine project. The full year 2015 period includes $1 million of non-cash stock compensation expense, while the prior year period includes $1.9 million of non-cash stock compensation expense, $1.6 million of acquisition expenses and $400,000 of equipment and demolition costs. So with that, let's get to the highlights.

We are pleased to announce that we established multiple annual records with our performance in the fourth quarter. The records established were annual records for net sales at $168.4 million, converted product sales of $161.1 million, adjusted EBITDA of $32.4 million and adjusted net income of $13.8 million.

Now for some of the details. Net sales for the fourth quarter decreased by 1% to $41.9 million. Converted product sales were $40.2 million, a 3% decrease when compared to the prior year's quarter.

As disclosed in our press release, net sales were adversely affected in the fourth quarter following an incident at one of our major converting lines. This incident in the face of a strong open order book resulted in bottlenecks on certain product types which resulted in lower shipments. The line was placed back into service in mid-December and is now running essentially at pre-incident levels. This is an insurable loss from both a property, casually and business interruption perspective. We estimate approximately 300,000 cases of lost shipments in the quarter due to the interruption or about $4 million in net sales, which we anticipate will result in a claim of approximately $1 million. Now to be clear, none of this business interruption claim was recognized in our 2015 earnings.

Parent roll shipments in the quarter totaled 1,753 tons which is compared to no shipments in the 2014 quarter due to the decommissioning in 2014 of two paper machines related to our paper machine project in Oklahoma. Parent roll shipments in the current year quarter were reduced as we built some parent roll inventory for the Barnwell start-up.

On a sequential quarter basis, net sales were lower by approximately $5 million, or 10%. Converted product sales were lowered by approximately $3.5 million, or 8%, due to the converting line incidents. Net selling prices per ton compared to Q3 were up about 1%. Parent roll sales were lower by about 1,400 tons primarily due to the previously discussed inventory built for the Barnwell converting plan start-up.

As a reminder the converting production at Barnwell will be supported by either utilizing our own internally produced parent rolls to the extent that they are available or by purchasing parent rolls on the open market until the paper machine begins production in early 2017.

On a year-to-date basis, the previously mentioned record converted product sales were influenced by the full year effect of the Fabrica transaction, which closed in June of 2014, and higher shipments from our Oklahoma facility. Again, the full year converted product shipments from Oklahoma were hampered by the converting line incidents in Q4.

For the year converted product sales were up 18% on a 24% increase in tonnage shipped being somewhat offset by a 5% decrease in net selling prices. As discussed in earlier calls net selling prices are lower on a year-over-year basis due to the full-year effect of sales under these supply agreement and due to some changes in our product mix.

Gross profit for the fourth quarter was $8.1 million, an increase of $1.7 million, or 26% over the prior-year quarter. Gross profit margin for the quarter was19.4% compared to 15.6% in the prior-year quarter. Margins in the prior quarter were reduced due to effect of the paper machine project in Oklahoma which reduced our production and increased our operating cost.

Gross profit margin in the current year quarter were aided by improved margins under our supply agreement and lower production costs in our paper-making operation. This improvements were somewhat offset by higher fiber costs, higher converted product production costs and higher depreciation. The continued strong U.S dollar coupled with some SKU rationalization earlier in 2015 helped improve margins under the supply agreement. Our paper machine project in Oklahoma continues to provide the expected returns with lower production cost of about 20% when excluding changes in fiber.

Turning to fiber, current forecast for recovered fiber are relatively flat pricing through the end of 2016. Forecast for virgin fiber indicate relatively flat pricing for eucalyptus through the end of 2016 and some minor increases in NBSK.

On a year-to-date basis our gross profit increased $3.8 million, or 14%. Our gross profit margin in 2015 period was 18.1% which was lower than the 18.9% experienced in last year primarily due to the effects of the Oklahoma paper machine project on our results for the first quarter of this year, which we discussed in our previous conference calls, higher fiber prices, higher converted production cost and some higher depreciation.

The previously discussed factors with the exception of depreciation resulted in an increase in adjusted EBITDA in the 2015 quarter of 39% to $9 million and adjusted EBITDA margin of 21.4% compared to the prior-year quarter. This brings our year-to-date adjusted EBITDA to $32.4 million or 19.2% of net sales.

SG&A in the fourth quarter was $2.4 million or 5.6% of net sales compared with SG&A in the prior year of $2.6 million or 6.2% of net sales. SG&A decreased primarily due to lower sales commissions due to customer mix.

Now turning to our taxes, our effective rate for the full year is estimated at 30.9%. This estimate is lower than our estimate as of the end of the third quarter due to the adoption by Congress in the fourth quarter of several tax extenders including the Indian Employment Credit which is extended for both 2015 and 2016 and due to higher state investment tax credits than were previously estimated. Per GAAP, we were not allowed to record the effects of Indian Employment Credit until it was made law.

Now turning to the balance sheet and cash flow. During the quarter we entered a new market tax credit transaction which provided funding for the Barnwell expansion project. The effects of this transaction was a total of $16 million of borrowings of which $11 million was provided by U.S. Bank and approximately $5 million were provided by new market tax credit CDE. As a result, our syndicated loan for the Barnwell project was reduced by a like amount. So overall borrowings will remain flat for the project.

The effects of the transaction are very positive for Orchids as we were provided a fixed rate loans at a weighted average interest rate of around 3.5% for a minimum of seven years. Also the $5 million of borrowings provided by the CDE can be put Orchids for $1,000 after seven years.

Cash flow from operations in the quarter were $5.6 million. Cash flow from operations were mainly affected by increase in income tax receivables, higher parent roll inventory and higher prepaid expenses.

The higher income tax receivable is a result of ratification by Congress of the bonus depreciation provision for the fourth quarter of this year which was a significant portion of our income tax experience from current to deferred.

Inventories increased primarily due to the previously discussed build up of parent roll inventory to support the Barnwell startup being somewhat offset by lower finished goods inventory due to the converting line incident. Prepaids increased due to the classification of repair items covered by our property casualty insurance on the converting line incident.

Our capital expenditures totaled $63 million for the year and $27.5 million in the quarter. Our capital expenditures for Barnwell were $42 million for the year and $25 million for the quarter. Our total debt outstanding as of December 31 was $75.6 million, including the new market credit transaction. There were no amounts outstanding on the revolving credit line. Net debt outstanding as of December 31, 2015 was $71.7 million.

Our fixed charge coverage ratio stood at 2.31 to 1 and our funded debt-to-EBITDA was 2.33 to 1. We returned $3.6 million of cash to shareholders in the quarter, bringing the year-to-date total to $13.8 million.

Now, I'll turn to the outlook for 2016. We normally do not provide sales forecast or guidance, however, with the start up of the converting plan in Barnwell in 2016, we thought it's prudent to provide a range of sales. Our current estimate of net sales for 2016 is between $185 million and $195 million. EBITDA margins will be affected on a quarter-by-quarter basis due to the start up curve of the converting lines at Barnwell, also during the entirety of 2016, we'll be supporting the parent roll requirement for Barnwell by providing a combination of excess parent rolls from Oklahoma and purchases of parent rolls. As a result, margins on the products produced in Barnwell during 2016 will be reduced until the paper machine starts up in early 2017.

We expect cash flow from operations being in the $7 million to $8 million per quarter range and some quarters may be affected by small inventory builds as we start up Barnwell. For 2016, we are anticipating total capital expenditures around $96 million comprised of approximately $90 million for Barnwell and $6 million for the Oklahoma facilities.

I will now turn the call over to Jeff.

Thanks, Keith. Good morning, everyone. As we look forward in 2016 I have a few brief comments. As Keith discussed year-over-year sales and EBITDA improved by about 20%. This occurred within a very competitive environment and as we were executing a major capital expansion in the form of new paper machine and converting line in the Pryor facility. The results of these projects were a 20% improvement in overall cash production cost per ton excluding fiber.

Looking back for a second, the machine event that negatively impacted sales in Q4 is behind us. Notwithstanding this event, we had strong sales opportunities in Q4 due to the programs we have developed and executed with our customers throughout 2015. These opportunities are still with us and even though we lost sales opportunities, we view those as a temporary setback as we have not lost customers and are still in a strong order position for the first quarter. We delayed some new product rollouts that will get back on track in Q2 as we ramp up Barnwell and continue to improve efficiencies in Pryor.

The Barnwell expansion is on track to start shipping product in early March as we enter the startup phase of the new converting line. We are very pleased with the execution of this project to-date and look forward to a strong start in Barnwell as we have new business to source the converting line as it progresses on its startup curve. We expect to be in full production on that line by the end of Q2 equating to about 2 million cases of capacity dependent on mix and search capacity retained.

We have new business in the pipeline to help ensure a solid ramp-up. The second converting line will start up late Q2, We will be in full production in all lines by the end of Q4. The paper machine is also on track as we expect it to start up in the first quarter of 2017. The paper machine is designed to provide us significant competitive advantages from both a product design and the cost standpoint. We eagerly anticipate its start up.

With that I'll now turn the call back to the operator for questions. [Operator Instructions]

And our first question will come from Philip Ng of Jefferies. Please go ahead.

Hey, good morning guys. Can you talk about how much of that new capacity that you're bringing on in Barnwell between, I'm sorry, at Barnwell between the new converting lines and the paper capacity? How much of that is committed at this point and give any color on the progress you're making penetrate the grocery and convenience store channel? Thanks.

We have gained new business with existing customers on the East Coast. It's difficult for me to talk about what that looks like relative to things sold out because the line will be in startup so relative to that I expect us to sell out as we ramp it up. We also have pipeline stuff that is going to be sold in this quarter which will support that line as well but we're in the process of doing that. So it's difficult for me to guarantee anything given we're still in the selling phase for that particular line.

Got you. But all in all it sounds like it's progressing as planned?

It's progressing as planned.

Okay that's helpful. And the revenue per ton ticked up this quarter and you called out away from home prices increased. But can you talk about how the competitive activity has been shaking out in light of some of the new capacity that's coming on? I know it's more focused on the parent roll side but just any color on pricing would be helpful.

The capacity that you're talking about hasn't really come on yet from our perspective. We're not seeing that type of pressure at this point. Our focus is on adding in new types of products and we're increasing our selling prices through that factor. Of course, everybody who is paying attention to this space knows that there is new capacity that's coming on late this year early next year and we believe that will have an influence on selling prices per ton as people try to sell at that capacity. We have a strategy we believe that helps combat that which we'll be focused on, but for any existing business I think anybody out there if all you do is compete on price you will see selling prices go down. You've got to have strategy that does some other things from a selling perspective to offset that.

Okay and is that strategy more so a function of how you guys are fairly integrated is that how we should be thinking about the strategy?

I think you know, I think one of the things we tried to do with Orchids in the last couple of years is improve our capabilities to meet market needs in places that other people aren't meeting them, so I think that's a big factor. The assets we're putting in place are world class, they allow us to do different things with products than we have been able to do in the past. And we'll be taking advantage of those capabilities as we grow our paper capacity as well as our converting capacity.

Okay. And just one last one from me, should we expect some of the working capital headwinds you called out in 2015 to reverse this year? And CapEx, for at least 2016 seems to running a little higher than we expected. Are some of the investments in terms of the costs of ramping up some of Greenfield capacity tracking a little higher than you thought? Thanks.

Okay, so this is Keith, I'll answer those questions. The first one is yes, the headwinds that we called out in the first – in the fourth quarter will be a tailwind going forward. With the change in the bonus depreciation or I guess I should say the enactment of the bonus depreciation. In the fourth quarter we ended up in an over paid position for 2014. So that will affect – that will positively affect our cash flow in the first half, if you will, of 2016. And plus some of the parent roll build that we did which was another factor that has been, there is less parent rolls that we have to buy during the startup phase and we built over 2,000 tons of inventory so that should last us a good three months or four months, in the first three months or four months of the startup phase.

And then on CapEx?

Okay, that's mostly timing, we are just maybe just a tad over but I think, overall, I think – remember there are still some guides that we gave, there is still some capital expenditures that will fall over into 2017, but overall the project may come in just a bit over where we thought, but nothing large at all.

Okay, all right, very helpful, thanks.

Our next question will come from Louie Toma from Craig-Hallum Capital Group. Please go ahead.

Hi, guys, just had a couple of questions, can you give us little bit insight know given the new capacity coming online how we should be modeling gross margins and EBITDA margins throughout the quarters?

Well, I think not in terms, if you are talking about in the short-term, I think it was modeling hours out here, primarily the focus is much on the fact that we will be buying parent rolls either – or excuse me, we're going to be using our internal parent rolls to support the Barnwell startup to the extent that are available or where we can find parent rolls and so that will put a reduction on those margins of the sales out of South Carolina for the first year and not until the paper machine starts up in 2017. As far as the timing of any price pressures on any new capacity coming online, really can't say exactly when that will start to be felt.

And I think another way of maybe thinking about this is, historically, when you have a business that just runs parent rolls, your margins get cut in half versus an integrated mill. We don't think it will be that much because the model we're putting into Barnwell, we're not adding a lot of SG&A to do that, so to speak. So, we think that will be little bit better than that. Now, when we use our own parent rolls, it's really our cost structure plus freight to get it there it is what we pay for that.

So in an environment where we could make – we could support Barnwell with all of our excess parent roll capacity that would help that scenario, of course, that's really not my goal. My goal is to sell off that parent roll capacity in Pryor and then put us in a position where we have to buy on the outside. So it's kind of an equation of can we get more parent rolls out of our facility in Pryor that are excess compared to what we need to support Pryor that would be a great goal, that's what we're focused on. So I've tried to give you a little bit perspective but that's the way I would think about it.

When we look at it for the whole year last – for 2015 you had gross margins of 18%. Is it reasonable to think that they would be at that range or below it or above it just in terms of the whole year putting everything in perspective?

For the whole year I would anticipate a little bit of pressure on those margins, again, because you have the startup curve, you have, you know, it's not going to be anything like the paper machine project the fact we had here of course during 2015, and the end of 2014 but you know when you have your plan it's the one that first starts up you still have all of your people so the production ramps over a roughly three-month or so timeframe and then we will be buying parent rolls. So what we would expect to see in the early parts of the year would be a little bit of pressure on those margins and then as the lines come up to full speed and we're starting to sell those out then the margins would start to come back.

Got it.

Of course, all things being equal, Keith is right, however, I tell people all the time, but I still believe we have a lot of cost to take out of Pryor. So we want to try to balance that and we have improvement opportunities at Pryor that we expect it to help offset some of that deterioration you will see because of Barnwell.

Got it. Thank you. And just lastly given the taxes for this quarter and the [ph] stuff (24:43) that you mentioned, should we expect a 31% tax rate similar type of tax rate for the full year of 2016?

I model, Louie, would be a 32% tax rate.

Great, thank you very much.

You're welcome.

Our next question will come from Marco Rodriguez from Stonegate Capital Markets. Please go ahead.

Good morning guys, thank you for taking my questions. I had a few questions, one a follow-up here in regard to the previous questions on margins, I understand the gross margin impact you're having a little bit come off. I am just trying to get – a little bit better of a sense as far as the magnitude. Are we talking 100 basis points, 200 basis points, how should we kind of think through that?

You would probably look at maybe 100 basis points or so during the first part of the year.

Got you and then clarification on the commentary about I think you might have been talking about – when you are running completely parent roll, you lose margins by about half, so I'm just trying to get a clarification there, so if Barnwell in a normalized state run in about 20% operating margins or excuse me EBITDA margins, is the expectation there that you might be running somewhere in the mid teens until you get fully ramped up?

Cut that between 10% and 15% is probably the – just the way for me to say that about.

Got you. And then in terms of the CapEx, can you give us a sense as far as how that spend will progress through the year?

We don't have that handy, Marco I can follow-up with you right after the call.

Got it, okay. We'll do that, and then a last quick question and I'll jump back in the queue. In terms of Barnwell, there is some nice color in terms of when the launch is starting up and the paper machine. Can you kind of give us a sense maybe from a timing perspective, I know you talked about it little bit here, but the capacity that's coming online, how quickly can it come online and when do you think you can get operation at full capacity there, if you will?

Well, I think the first line will of full capacity by the end of second quarter. I mean, obviously we want to do it better. We actually have a record of doing it better but it's a new line, you got brand new people, you got brand new everything in the facility, so you have to build a team, educate the team and it may take a little bit longer. Of course, it could also happen shorter. So, certainly by the end of this year we're at full capacity. So, our sales people are excited to go sell the stuff out and really it's the ability to sell against our ramping for the new lines is what our approach is to this and so managing that process of keeping the line loaded up while we're ramping it up is the challenge that we have in front of us.

Got you, that's helpful. And I'm sorry, last quick question. The incident that happened in Q4 on the line, were there any injuries?

No. No.

Got you. All right, great, thanks a lot guys.

It impacted a section of the machine. There were no injuries and there was no damage outside of that particular part of the machine.

Perfect, Appreciate it guys.

Thank you.

Our next question will come from Michael Taglich of Taglich Brothers. Please go ahead.

Good morning guys, I thought that was a good quarter. I have two quick questions and thanks for working hard. First one is the Q4 incident, is the $0.06 a pre-tax number or post tax number as far as the pro forma if you would?

That's a post tax number.

Post tax okay, great that's better, okay. And if I look at Q4 your end of the year balance sheet, how much of – you know, I'm looking from enterprise value standpoint how much debt to back out that is in assets that are not yet generating cash flow, you know specifically...

Well, actually just the borrowings on the Barnwell projects are – it's around $45 million I believe is the, that's yes...

Right, so I got $45 million in capital that I sort of back out of my balance sheet because it's producing no return on my enterprise value, right.

Correct. Yes.

Okay. All right great, good quarter, I'm looking forward to seeing you guys at the year. Thanks.

Thanks, Michael. [Operator Instructions]

. Our next question will come from John Nobile of Taglich Brothers. Please go ahead.

Hello, good morning, just a couple of questions, a lot of them were answered but I wanted to talk about the parent rolls in the fourth quarter, I noticed they were a little over 1,700 tons, I was little surprised at that given the reduced level of converted sales. I was hoping you could talk a little bit about that, should I make the assumption that it's all because these are going to Barnwell or was there something that might have happened in this?

It's rather most part John it's – we ended up and our decision was do we try and sell a lot of extra parent rolls in the fourth quarter which is not an ideal time to really dump a bunch of parent rolls on the market, or do we go ahead and keep them in inventory for Barnwell. So, we build 2,500 tons or so of inventory, so that's sort of the driving factor.

Okay, and I know you talk about it in terms of cases, 300,000 cases that were a shortfall in the fourth quarter, I was hoping you could actually convert that to tonnage, because I know you talk about tonnage shipped, but then you talk about cases, but the shortfall, so I just want to compare apples-to-apples and find out what is 300,000 cases that was in tonnage, you know you said it was about $4 million it equated to in revenue, was that correct?

That is correct.

Okay so -

In terms of tons, John, it's just over 2,000 tons.

Okay, slightly more than 2,000 tons. And how much because you did mention, it was until Q1 that you got to the pre-production rates before the incident, so Q1 is going to be affected by this, I'm just curious if you could quantify how much you believe Q1 will be affected by that loss converted production in tonnage if you could give me that that would be great?

Well we're not really prepared to do that in that for the most part it's not going to be a significant number at all like we had in the fourth quarter, because the fourth quarter was really lost sales. The line did come up and start running. It was running at a fairly high percent of its pre-incident levels when it came back up, it's certainly not up to 100%, so you know starting week or so ago, I guess, if you have the exact date it was pretty much back up to its full rate, so we're not going to see a huge effect in the first quarter like we saw in this fourth quarter.

Okay. But there will be somewhat of an effect in the first quarter?

Maybe small amount, yes.

Okay. And run rates, Fabrica and Oklahoma converted tonnage, what did you say would have it as a current run rate on an annual basis right now considering the converting line is back to where it should be?

At the last call we gave guides of around 90,000 tons and we're still in that range.

Okay, which is equating to your $185 million to $195 million in revenue?

Correct.

Just one final question. With Fabrica, you have an option to purchase 7,700 additional tons, now that's going to end in the second half of this year. So, that's going to drop you down to I guess about 19,800 tons if I recall correctly with Fabrica versus like you're doing in the low to mid 20s now. I was curious is there any chance that this agreement could be extended or does it look like it's definitely going to be capped at that I think 19,800 tons coming in Q3, Q4 this year?

We're very confident the agreement will be extended. In fact we want to continue to grow it. I mean our partnership with Fabrica is not based on this, it's based on growing the West Coast. So, we're not concerned about that at this point.

Okay, but will you make it public?

We got bigger and better plans for the West Coast than just this particular agreement.

Okay. Although that is significant 7,700 additional tons so I was just hoping that you might be out there publicly when this indeed does happen. You feel confident but I just want to see that as a done deal hopefully soon.

Yes, understood.

All right. Thank you.

Our next question will come from [ph] Michael Ladder of Hanley (34:44). Please go ahead.

Hi, good morning. I have a couple of questions. My first one is in the last couple of quarters going back to the second quarter and again in the third quarter, we spoke about longer term goals of $60 million in EBITDA and $2.50 to $3.40 in earnings per share, is that still intact, has anything changed as far as that long-term forecast?

Nothing has changed regarding that long-term forecast, we're still committed to that. Nothing's changed.

Okay. And then my second question is I'm trying to getting my arms around the negative reaction to the stock this morning. If I take the estimates that were on the Street, the consensus, would it be an assumption – could I assume that if we add back in the $0.06 from the lost business and the potential or the lost revenue from the incident in Oklahoma that we actually would have beat numbers both on the revenue and on the earnings line?

Yes, [ph] Michael (35:48), that's what I look at. We not have the incident, our sales numbers would have been right at or over Street estimates and our earnings per share would have been over Street estimates. So, really, all-in-all, I think it's a really good quarter.

Right, which is what it look like, so yes, that's why I was just trying to get my arms around, stock's down almost three points, it's a little I guess an overreaction to say it, to put it lightly. Okay, so thank you very much and keep up the good work.

Thank you.

Our next question is a follow-up from Louie Toma from Craig-Hallum Capital Group. Please go ahead.

Hi, guys. Just wanted to make sure I understood correctly. So, were you saying that the 2016 EBITDA margin should between 10% and 15%, is that what you were saying earlier?

No, for Barnwell, not the company but for Barnwell because you're not – because you don't have an integrated mill there, you don't have a value of a paper machine basically, you're either going to buy parent rolls or we're going to source them out of Barnwell. If we source out of Pryor, those margins will be on the higher end of mid-teens. If we have to go 100% parent rolls, they're going to be in the lower teens.

Got it, okay.

On the [ph] mark (37:18) as I think about that business relatively low volume versus what we have for the rest of the company. So, you will see some margin. You'll have offset, you'll have a margin hit I guess if you want to think about it that way. However, we're also working on continuing to improve margins in Pryor and in Mexico. So, the net effect of all that, it's hard to say right now we have to execute our plan, but I don't think it's as impactful as what it sounds when we talk about low-teen margins.

Got it. No, that makes a lot more sense. Okay, thank you very much.

Ladies and gentlemen, this will conclude our question-and-answer session. I would like to turn the conference back over to Mr. Jeff Schoen for closing remarks.

So, let me summarize kind of where we are right now. We missed Street estimates by about $0.02 in an environment where we had very strong sales, better than what we expected, and we had this incident. I would hope that people are looking forward to and the question that they would ask is what has this done with your customer relationships. And the answer to that question is our customer relationships are very strong.

In the first quarter we are having a strong first quarter, five weeks into it, we have a strong first quarter. There is nothing that's happened as I previously stated that changes my thinking about our long-terms goals for the company. We're very excited about Barnwell, we're very excited about getting the paper machine. Everything we've discussed is on track to meet that goal of $60 million EBITDA and $2.50 to $3.40.

Of course, we are in very competitive environment, but the way we're growing Orchids is to be the person that can take on that competition and be successful. We've invested a lot of money over the last couple of years not only in Pryor but in Barnwell, we expect to continue to make investments that give us competitive advantage and I guess we'll see – we'll talk to you again at the end of this quarter.

The conference is now concluded. Thank you for attending today's presentation. You may now disconnect.