Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Keith R. Schroeder — CFO, Secretary & Head-Investor Relations, Orchids Paper Products Co.
Robert A. Snyder — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Orchids Paper Products Co.
John Nobile — Analyst, Taglich Brothers, Inc.
John H. Curti — Analyst, Singular Research

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

[Starts Abruptly] and welcome to the Orchids Paper Products Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]

I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Keith Schroeder, Chief Financial Officer; and Mr. Bob Snyder, President and Chief Executive Officer. Please proceed.

Thank you operator. Good morning and thank you to everyone for attending our Second Quarter of 2012 Earnings Conference Call. My name is Keith Schroeder, and I am the Chief Financial Officer. I am here today with Bob Snyder, our President and Chief Executive Officer.

The agenda for our call today, we'll begin with my review of the quarterly and year-to-date results. Bob will then provide an update on key performance areas and initiatives in the company. Following that discussion, we'll be happy to address any questions that you might have.

And with that, I would like to inform you that statements made during this conference call, other than those that refer to past events and results are forward-looking statements and are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions in the Securities Reform Act of 1995. Such statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth during this discussion. Among other things, these risks and uncertainties involve the risks and assumptions described in Item 1A and Item 7 of our Form 10-K for the year-ended December 31, 2011.

We operate in an environment that involves numerous known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could materially affect our operations. We assume no obligation to update or supplement forward-looking statements that become untrue because of events that'd happen in the future.

First, I'll start with some highlights. In the second quarter of 2012, our converted product net sales were $22.3 million, an increase of 19% over the prior year quarter. In the second quarter of 2012, we delivered EBITDA of $5 million, an increase of 36% over the prior year quarter. This result included a $336,000 loss on a disposal of some older pieces of converting equipment that were replaced with the completion of several capital projects in the quarter. The disposed assets included a wrapper and two case packers that were replaced as a result of the completion of the three key capital projects that totaled $2.3 million.

As a percent of net sales, EBITDA was 19.8% compared with 15.7% in the prior year quarter. We also delivered earnings per share of $0.29 per share, an improvement of $0.13 per share over the $0.16 per share we recorded last year. The previously referenced equipment right-off negatively affected EPS by about $0.03 per share.

Now for some details, our total net sales for the 2012 quarter were $25.3 million, an increase of 8% over the $23.4 million of net sales in the same period of 2011. Net sales in the quarter were comprised of converted product net sales of $22.3 million and parent roll net sales of $2.9 million.

Our converted product net sales were favorably affected by new product sales primarily in the mid-tier market and increased distribution of products with existing customers. This resulted in a 24% increase in converted product tonnage shipped. The increased converted product tonnage shipment and resultant effect on the parent roll requirements in the converting plant resulted in a 37% decrease in parent roll tonnage shipped. This brings our year-to-date sales to $51 million, an increase of 11% over the prior year period. The total is comprised of $45.9 million in converted product sales and $5.1 million of parent roll sales.

Converted product sales were 25% higher in 2012 than in 2011 due to the same factor cited for the quarterly comparison. Converted product tonnage shipments were up 28% in 2012 compared to 2011. Parent roll sales were lower due to the same factor cited for the quarter.

Gross – our gross profit for the second quarter of 2012 was $5.6 million, an increase of $1.9 million or 51% compared to the 2011 quarter. As a percent of net sales, gross profit increased to 22.2% in the current year quarter compared to 15.9% for the same period of 2011. Gross profit and gross profit margins were favorably affected in the second quarter by the higher levels of converted product sales, a decrease in fiber prices, and improved converting production costs. These effects were partially offset by higher maintenance repair costs in the paper manufacturing operation.

The higher converted product sales in the quarter resulted in an increased percentage of our parent roll production being diverted from lower margin parent roll business to the higher margin converted product business, which thereby favorably affected our gross profit margin. Our cost of fiber in the second quarter of 2012 was lower by about 19% compared to the prior year quarter, which reduced our cost of sales by approximately $1 million.

The higher overall volume requirements in the converting operation combined with improved efficiencies helped reduce the overall per unit costs in converting during the quarter when compared to the prior year quarter. This brings our gross profit for the year to $11.7 million, an increase of $5.3 million or 83% over the $6.4 million for the 2011 period.

As a percent of net sales, gross profit improved to 23% in 2012 compared to 13.9% in the prior year for primarily the same reason cited for the quarter. On a year-to-date basis, our fiber costs in 2012 were approximately 22% lower than those experienced in 2011 period, which reduced our cost of sales by approximately $2.4 million.

As we will be – we have previously discussed, EBITDA for the second quarter of 2012 was $5 million, an increase of $1.3 million compared to the $3.7 million we reported for the prior year quarter. As a percent of net sales, EBITDA was 19.8% in the 2012 quarter compared to 15.7% reported in the 2011 quarter. On a year-to-date basis, EBITDA was $10.7 million, an increase of $4.1 million compared to the prior year. As a percent of net sales, EBITDA was 20.9% in the 2012 period compared to 14.2% in the prior year period.

Our selling, general and administrative expenses in the second quarter of 2012 were $2.1 million, which was $296,000 higher than those experienced in the prior year quarter. This increase is primary due to higher accruals under our incentive bonus program due to the higher earnings, increased professional fees and higher sales commissions due to the high levels of converted product sales.

We estimate our effective tax rate for 2012 to be 30.3%, this compares to the 32.7% we estimated at the end of the first quarter. As a result, the effective tax rate for the quarter was 27.1%, which affected earnings per share by about $0.02 per share.

I'll now like to turn your attention to the balance sheet and cash flow. Total debt outstanding as of June 30, 2012 was $16.8 million. When netted against our cash and short-term investments of $7.8 million, our net debt was $9 million. There are no amounts outstanding under our revolving credit agreement as of the end of the quarter. As of the end of the quarter, our funded debt to EBITDA ratio was 0.81 to 1 and our debt service coverage ratio was 6.94 to 1.

For the year-to-date period 2012, we generated cash from operations of approximately $7.9 million. This was comprised primarily of cash earnings, which were partially offset by higher accounts receivable and inventory levels to support the increased sales levels. Our capital expenditures for 2012 were amounted to approximately $3.1 million and we expect our capital expenditures for the full year 2012 to be approximately $5 million.

I'll now turn the call over to Bob.

Welcome, fellow shareholders. Thanks, Keith. I'm Bob Snyder, President and Chief Executive Officer of Orchids Paper Products. It's great to speak with you again. We're pleased to announce our results for the quarter. As Keith discussed, the quarterly results included $336,000 write-off for a disposable of equipment. Excluding that write-off, our adjusted EBITDA for the quarter would have been $5.3 million or 21.1% of net sales, a very solid result.

Our new product development efforts along with our sales and marketing plans continue to pay off as we've recently secured new business, which is primarily in the mid-tier category. We expect this new business should start to ship by the beginning of the fourth quarter. This new business should represent an increase of about 7.5% over the shipments of our second quarter.

In addition to this new business, we are active in several other opportunities at both mid-tier and value segments, that could yield substantial additional business. These other opportunities would likely not begin shipping until the fourth quarter of this year or early 2013. We continue to be very positive about our short and long-term outlook as we continue to strive to boost higher quality competitively priced products that performed well for our customers.

Now, I will turn the call over to the operator for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Your first audio question is from the line of John Nobile. Please go ahead John.

Hi, good morning guys. I want to start with a question to get a feel for the growth of your mid-tier products. You mentioned last quarter, in the first quarter, 12% of total sales were to the mid-tier market and that that was actually higher than the fourth quarter. What would it be in the second quarter, your percentage of total sales to the mid-tier market?

Second quarter of this year, John?

Yes.

It would be about the same as the first quarter.

Which I believe you said at that time it was about 12%?

Yeah.

Okay.

I think that's right, yes.

Okay. And I assume starting in Q4, that number would go up with the 7.5% increase in mid-tier products. Speaking about 7.5% increase, now that is the second quarter run rate, which was converted product sales is about $22.3 million, I'm looking that this in terms of revenue, and 7.5% of the $22.3 million is about $1.7 million a quarter or $6.7 million a year. Am I correct in this? Almost a $7 million jump in revenue from converted product sales due to this starting in Q4?

Yes. It jumps about right.

Okay. What about in tonnage, because I just went through your revenue example. If you could speak of this in tonnage, this 7.5%, what would that equate to?

No, in tonnage, I don't really have that in front of me, it would be – I have to do some quick math here John, let me...

All right, thank you.

Let me get back to that, okay.

Okay, okay. And actually one other follow-up on that question, how long is that contract for, in other words, starting in Q4, we believe starting in Q4 that your converted mid-tier products would jump up about 7.5%, now did you sign a contract for this or is there an indefinite amount of time that we may see this number going forward?

No, we typically don't – aren't signing contracts, John, on our business, but it typically lasts a couple of years. If – it could last even longer than that.

Okay, okay. And – yes, in the second quarter, the selling price was $1,817 per ton, and I've seen them sequentially going up now for about five quarters in a row, but this quarter, the second quarter is actually lower than the first quarter; first quarter was $1,910 per ton in selling prices, and now it dropped almost to $100 per ton. I was hoping you could talk a little bit about the reason for that drop in the selling price per ton?

John, the reason for the change in the selling price per ton is that we – that our converted product sales were down just a bit in the second quarter versus the first quarter, so I mean a few more tons were sold as a parent roll form, so the sales per – the sales dollars per ton are obviously less on those.

Okay.

And we had a bit of a change in mix as well.

Okay. But as far as converted product selling prices in the second quarter versus the first quarter, were they kind of stable or...

They were down just a bit, but again it was due to mix to an – due to an actual change in our pricing, okay.

And one more question on the effective tax rate, I know that previously you had estimated 32.7%, now you're estimating 30.3% for the full year.

Right.

I was just hoping to get a reason for this drop in the effective tax rate.

It's just a normal thing, John. As the year goes on, you look at your estimates, your earnings and your primary differences and things like that. So, it was just a change in those.

Okay. And obviously it still might change as we go forward another quarter or two...

Yes.

...but right now we're looking at 30.3%. All right, that's about it. I'm not sure if you had a chance to...

Yes, I do John. So, the answer to your first question is probably around 3,100 tons per year on an annualized basis, the additional business would consume roughly an additional 3,100 tons per year.

Okay, addition, that's about 7.5% increase over what you do now?

Correct.

Okay, thank you very much.

You're welcome.

Thank you. Your next audio question is from the line of [ph] Francis Bisaillon (15:45).

Please go ahead Francis.

Good morning, a question, after considering the 7.5% incremental business, what is the capacity available for additional sales in 2013?

We still have room for additional sales.

I mean are you at 80% run rate of your facility or 90%?

It is probably around 80%.

Okay. That will do it. Thank you, very much.

Thank you.

Thank you. Your next audio question is from the line of John Curti. Please go ahead.

Could you tell us how much converted products sales were in cases for the second quarter?

Yeah, in cases about a $1.750 million, somewhere in that yeah, $1.750 million.

Okay. When you talked about price per ton being down a little bit to mix, was part of that reason the continued increase in the mid-tier sales to the mid-tier channel?

No, that's – when I'm referring to the mix change, there's going to be a difference between the amount of bathroom tissue and towels and the configuration in a case and things like that.

Right. And you mentioned CapEx for the year would be about $5 million, so what remains to be done in the balance of the year?

See, I think I stated how much result is already completed for the year, there is not a lot left to be done. We've spent about $3 million, so we've got about two less so...

Likely to be any additional equipment write-downs in the balance of the year as the CapEx...

No, no, nothing more for this year.

Within the SG&A expense, are you still expecting balance of the year to be around $2 million to $2.2 million a quarter?

Yes, that is still good.

All right, that's it from me. Thank you.

Thank you, John.

Thank you. There are no other audio questions at the moment [Operator Instructions]

Thank you for attending today's conference call. We look forward to talking to you again in the next quarter. Thanks.

Thank you. That concludes your conference call for today. You may now disconnect. Thank you for joining and have a very good day.