Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Keith R. Schroeder — Chief Financial Officer, Orchids Paper Products Co.
Jeffrey S. Schoen — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Orchids Paper Products Co.
Ian Zaffino — Analyst, Oppenheimer & Co., Inc. (Broker)
Alexander Gerhard Hutter — Analyst, Jefferies LLC
Louie M. Toma — Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC
Marco A. Rodriguez — Analyst, Stonegate Securities, Inc.
John Nobile — Analyst, Taglich Brothers, Inc.
Michael N. Taglich — Co-Founder, President & Chairman, Taglich Brothers, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning and welcome to the Orchids Paper Products First Quarter 2016 Earnings Conference Call.

On the call today are Jeff Schoen, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Keith Schroeder, Chief Financial Officer. All participants will be in listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] After today's presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask questions. [Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.

I will now turn the call over to Keith Schroeder.

Thank you, operator. Good morning and thank you to everyone for attending our 2016 first quarter earnings call. The agenda for our call today will begin with my review of the first quarter result. Jeff will then provide his perspective on our results and on our business environment. We will conclude with a question-and-answer session.

I would like to remind you that certain statements made during this conference call are forward-looking statements within the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 as amended. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, estimates, assumptions and projections that are subject to change, and actual results may differ materially from the forward-looking statement.

Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those risks and uncertainties described from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015, as well as our earnings release and any supplemental information.

Any forward-looking statements are made only as of this date, and the company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.

I would now like to point out that during my remarks I'll be making reference to both GAAP and non-GAAP or adjusted results. The adjusted results exclude certain charges that we believe are not indicative of our core operating performance. The reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP measures is included in our earnings press release which is available on our website.

For the first quarter of 2016 those adjustments to EBITDA include $149,000 of non-cash stock compensation expense and for the 2015 quarter included $267,000 of non-cash stock compensation expense.

Adjustments to net income for the 2016 and 2015 quarters total $346,000 and $422,000 respectively on a tax-affected basis. Those tax effect adjustments include the just-mentioned non-cash stock compensation expense of $98,000 and $175,000 respectively and intangibles amortization of $248,000 and $247,000.

Due to the material amount of our intangibles amortization we began using that expense as a net income adjustment beginning this quarter.

So with that, now let's get to the highlights. We were quite pleased to announce that we established record sales and earnings results in the quarters. We established records in the total net sales, converted product mix sales, adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EPS of $47.7 million, $45.3 million, $11.6 million and $0.56 per share respectively. Additionally, our adjusted EBITDA margin was 24.4%, our best quarter ever.

And now for some detail. Net sales for the quarter of $47.7 million were comprised of $45.3 million of converted product sales and $2.5 million of parent roll sales. Demand for our converted products was strong in the quarter, resulting in an increase in sales of 21% over the prior-year quarter and 13% increase on a sequential quarter basis.

Converted product tonnage shipped in the quarter totaled 23,400 tons, an increase of 24% over the prior-year quarter and an increase of 13% when compared to the fourth quarter of 2015. Our net selling price per ton was lower by about 3% compared to the prior year and flat on a sequential quarter basis. Our parent roll sales totaled $2.5 million and were limited by the demands of our converting operations in Oklahoma and in South Carolina.

Our adjusted EBITDA for the quarter was $11.6 million, an increase of $6.8 million or [ph] 141% (04:58) over the prior-year quarter. As a reminder, as discussed in previous conference calls, our first quarter of 2015 results were negatively affected by the paper machine project in Oklahoma. On a sequential quarter basis, adjusted EBITDA increased $2.7 million or 30%. Our adjusted EBITDA margin for the quarter was a very solid 24.4% compared with 12.9% in the first quarter of 2015 and 21.4% in the fourth quarter of 2015.

Our first quarter margin was delivered due to several factors, primarily strong demand for our converted product, solid operating performance improvements in the Oklahoma converting facility, favorable fiber pricing and solid earnings under the supply agreement. Our results for the quarter do not include any income from the business interruption claim discussed last quarter. That claim is in process and we expect to settle it over the next two quarters.

Now for some detail on the margin improvement. Operating performance rates in our Oklahoma converting plant improved by about 24% in the first quarter of 2016 compared to our performance during 2015. This had the effect of reducing per unit production cost due to the increased absorption and other factors. Our fiber prices were favorable in the quarter on both a year-over-year and a sequential quarter basis by approximately $800,000 and $550,000 respectively. Margins on the supply agreement were favorably affected on both a year-over-year basis and a sequential basis due to the favorable U.S. dollar to peso exchange rate and lower overall operating cost at the Mexicali site. These favorable results more than offset the effects of start-up cost in Barnwell.

Looking at these factors on a sequential quarter basis, lower converting cost increased margins by about 290 basis points, fiber was positive by about 120 basis points and the supply agreement contributed about 30 basis points. The Barnwell start-up costs were a drag on the margin of about 120 points.

Now turning to fiber forecasts. Current forecasts for recovered fiber are relatively flat pricing through the end of 2016. Forecasts for virgin fiber indicate downward pressure for eucalyptus through the end of 2016 and some minor increases in NBSK.

Our SG&A expenses in the first quarter of 2016 were fairly flat with the prior-year quarter at $2.7 million or 5.7% of net sales compared with $2.5 million or 6.7% of net sales in the prior-year quarter.

And now turning to taxes. Our effective tax rate for the full year is estimated at 34.2%. This estimate includes the effects of the Indian Employment Credit which was extended to the 2016 tax year.

Now turning to the balance sheet and cash flow. Cash flow from operations in the quarter was $8.9 million. Cash flow from operations was positively affected by cash earnings and an increase in accrued liability. These factors were partially offset by increased accounts receivable due to the increased sale.

Capital expenditures in the quarter were $25.6 million including $21.3 million of expenditures on the Barnwell project. We utilized $4.8 million of restricted cash related to our new market tax credit transaction to fund a portion of the Barnwell expansion and incurred borrowings of about $18 million on a delayed draw term loan and our operating revolver. During the quarter we also received $1.9 million in state level incentives for our Barnwell expansion project. $3.6 million of cash was returned to shareholders in the quarter.

A new accounting standard requires a classification of unamortized credit issuance costs as the contra to long-term debt on the balance sheet. I will be discussing debt levels at a gross level – in other words, with the debt issuance cost added back – in this call and in future calls.

So our total debt outstanding was $92.9 million as of March 31, 2016. That total debt includes about $48 million in borrowings related to the Barnwell project. Unrestricted cash stood at $8 million, resulting in net debt outstanding of $84.9 million. Our funded debt to EBITDA ratio was 2.37 times at quarter-end and our fixed charge coverage ratio stood at 3.59 times.

And now turning to our outlook for 2016. Jeff will discuss our business outlook in more detail, however I'll provide a bit of color now. In light of our strong sales performance in the first quarter and a review of our sales estimates for the remainder of the year, we are raising our full-year net sales guidance range to $190 million to $200 million.

We experienced a great quarter from the adjusted EBITDA margin perceptive in Q1 at 24.4%. Our current adjusted EBITDA margin estimate for the full year are in the 20% to 22% range. This is taking into account a series of headwinds related to the Barnwell project.

We expect margin headwinds in the second quarter due to lower margins under the supply agreement. We exceeded a 20,000 ton limit under the agreement in late March and will have two months of margin sharing under the agreement, which will effectively reduce our earnings by approximately $1 million in the second quarter compared to the first quarter. The tonnage limit resets on June 1 and returns to the normal margin.

We also expect the exchange rate to be a bit less favorable moving forward in 2016 as it exceeded 18 pesos to the dollar in Q1.

As some further ongoing headwinds as discussed in our fourth quarter earnings call and includes a requirement to purchase parent rolls to support the Barnwell start-up as we move through the year and additional Barnwell start-up costs related to the second converting line during Q2 and Q3 and to the paper machine beginning in Q4. The significant operating performance improvement in our Oklahoma converting facility along with continuing cost reduction efforts will help mitigate some of these headwinds.

Cash flow from operations is expected to range between $9 million and $10 million per quarter for the remainder of 2016. We will experience some cash flow tailwinds when we settle the property damage and the business interruption claims discussed in our fourth quarter call as well as the effects of the income tax receivable on our books at the end of 2015.

On the flipside, we expect to experience some headwinds from some inventory bills related to the Barnwell start-up.

For 2016 our capital expenditure expectations are approximately $94 million, including $85 million from Barnwell and $9 million for our facility in Oklahoma.

I'll now the call over to Jeff.

Good morning. As I stated in the press release, we were very pleased with the overall performance of the company in the first quarter, because the results reflect a lot of work coming to fruition both by Sales to develop strong relationships with our customers and category management and product positioning, and also by Operations to improve its ability to develop, produce and deliver high quality, low cost products. As I stated in our Q4 earnings call in January, demand was strong and demand continued to be strong throughout the quarter.

Our Q1 margins were 24%, reflecting a variety of factors that Keith discussed, but the most significant was the overall productivity improvements which I expect to continue as we move further into 2016. These improvements will help offset the margin loss we will see due to the South Carolina start-up and sell out. As Keith mentioned though, even with the Barnwell headwinds, we expect to still attain 20% to 22% margins for the overall business.

The Barnwell start-up is on plan and we're currently loading the plant up as the productivity improves. We have added new business to the site and will continue to add new business as we improve our overall case rate. The second converting line will be up and running in late Q2. The paper machine is on schedule to start up in Q1 of 2017. In 2016 we expect to sell approximately 13.6 million cases or 20% more cases that in 2015. As a reference point, in Q1 we sold 3.4 million cases.

Looking forward, the competitive landscape is strong, reflecting higher branded promotional activity as well as other competitive threats. Orchids has a strategic plan it is executing in Q2 that will help mitigate the effects of these threats and help continue our growth rate which will show results in Q3 and Q4.

We're also currently working with Fapsa to develop a new supply agreement that continues to source new growth on the West Cost over the 20,000 tons we currently own as we look forward to develop a longer term plan that provides Orchids the capacity it needs to grow at 20-plus percent sustainable margins.

Keep in mind that the agreement we have that ends in June will not impact Orchids until we exceed 20,000 tons, recognizing that the clock turns to zero in June. Historically, we've reached 20,000 tons in Q2 of the following year. So, we have time to work out an agreement with Fapsa that supports both companies' long-term goals. I'm confident we'll develop a plan that ensures Orchids' West Coast growth continues.

Finally, I need to pause here to say thank you to all of the Orchids employees as well as our suppliers and customers for supporting Orchids' growth. We're committed to adding value in the market in a way that differentiates us from our competitors.

With that, I'll now turn the call back to the operator for questions.

We'll now begin the question and answer session. [Operator Instruction] Our first question comes from Ian Zaffino of Oppenheimer. Please go ahead.

Hi. Thank you very much. The question would be on just the cadence of the profitability or I guess the EBITDA. I know you mentioned a $1 million dollar headwind going into the second quarter; do you have enough going on in the rest of the business, I guess from ramping up the facility, to offset that or are we looking at a down sequentially EBITDA number? Thanks.

That's a hard question to answer right now only because, as I mention, second quarter typically, at least since I've got here, is the time when a lot of competitive activity is occurring. Last year, one of the brands started dropping price and doing a lot of promotional activity. That continued through second quarter. The retailers reacted to that in a way frankly that helped grow their business and helped grow our business in fourth quarter and the first quarter this year. So that's going on right now.

This is also a period at Orchids where we do our cold mill outages. So we tend to take time to do work in the second quarter to prepare us for the second half.

Having said that though, our business is still – we're adding new business, we have new business that we can put into Barnwell right now, but the limiter is the productivity of the plant. We're probably moving that business into Pryor while we transition Barnwell up. So there's a lot of activity going on. Those are the key points I think for you to consider at this point. But we're not trying to think about the second quarter as an island; we're looking at the whole year, as we do, which is why Keith gave guidance for the year.

Okay, great. Thank you very much.

Our next question comes from Phil Ng of Jefferies. Please go ahead.

Good morning, Jeff and Keith, and congratulations on a good quarter.

Thank you.

This is actually Alex Hutter on for Phil. First question is on the operational improvements. Can you talk about what kind of the big surprises were versus kind of where you guys were thinking about it coming into the first quarter, because obviously you had really strong margins and very good cost performance. So what were the big surprises?

Well, I think one of the reasons I came to Orchids was I believe there is a lot of opportunity in the operations part of our business to make improvements. We've spent time rebuilding this team from the ground up, putting systems in place, and I think – I call it melting ice, because there is a lot of energy going into these things but you don't see the temperature rise. Well, the temperature started rising in the first quarter. We came out of our incident, we've done a very good job of executing projects which previously was an issue. And I think our teams have changed the way they think about our business, our skill sets have gotten better in both our operators and our [ph] mains (19:23) people and it kind of all clicked.

Now, it clicked to a point where on a relative basis we made a lot of improvements. However, from my perspective, it's a new platform that we can now build off of and we expect further improvements, further momentum, if you will, based on the work that the operations team has done.

So I guess surprise isn't the right word for me; I expected it to happen. The timing turned out to be perfect because we had strong sales and we were sold out, which also helps lines run better when they're consistently filled up.

Got it. So when you say things clicked, does that imply that these things are sustainable, that these are permanent improvements that you guys have in place or was there some sort of one-off stuff that was going on?

We saw a step change in productivity that we believe is sustainable. I mean, we saw it in January, it continued in February, continued in March. So, I mean, we believe it's sustainable and I believe it's sustainable because I know what changes we've made that have caused this to happen. This isn't something that was just luck.

Got it. And then in terms of the capacity, in May I think we're going to be coming up on a year from the new converting line you added in Pryor and then obviously you recently added something in Barnwell and there's another line coming on. Can you talk about how each of those three lines are sold out, what percentage of capacity you have spoken for at this point?

Yeah, I think rather than try and split hairs on that stuff, I think what's important is we expect to sell 13.6 million cases for the year. And the reason I say that is because we've got excess capacity at Pryor, we've got excess capacity at Barnwell, we're going to be moving things back and forth to optimize the operations but on a net change year-over-year, we expect to grow our business again by about 20%.

Got it. And does that 20% growth number, I guess it's the same on – does that carry over to tonnage as well, is it 20% tonnage growth?

Yes.

Yes.

Got it.

Right. So the question this year is really, we're out of capacity on parent rolls obviously, so that's the issue in terms of sourcing both sites with parent rolls to make up for the excess tonnage that we will sell. But from a converting standpoint, we've got the capacity to sell more tons than what we can produce.

Got it. And then just lastly from me, the new capacity at Barnwell, how is that ramp going relative to your expectations, have there been any lessons that you guys have learned that are applicable to the new converting line that's going on and have you made any progress hiring someone on the sales front down there?

We have a person on the East Coast who sells for us right now. We're looking for more people. But the start-up curve at Barnwell is going as planned. Obviously in a brand new facility with brand new people, brand new management, those start-up curves are going to be longer than for instance the one we had when we installed our new line at Pryor. But we are on curve now. The learnings that you attain because of the first line will be applied to the second line, which means that start-up curve should be much shorter. And my VP of Operations just cringed when I said much shorter. It's a question of how much shorter. But yeah, I mean, as we learn, we expect to ramp up.

What we've done in this company, and this is in Pryors, we've put in a lot of systems, a lot of standardization, if you will. So a lot of the work that we've done at Pryor, we're just applying to Barnwell as we ramp it up, which will help us ramp up a lot more efficiently than we might have a few years ago.

Got it. And actually just one more. I noticed that in the CapEx guidance I think you said $85 million for Barnwell. I think that was previously $90 million. Can you talk about what changed?

Yeah. There isn't any change in the timing of the start-up. This is just as we look at things, how bills come in and et cetera. So not meant to be a reflection on a change in the start-up; it's just basically when the cash will flow.

Got it. So that should theoretically carry over into 2017 then?

Yes.

Yeah.

Understood. Congratulations again on a great quarter and thanks and good luck.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Our next question comes from Louie Toma of Craig-Hallum Capital Group. Please go ahead.

Hi, guys. Congratulations on a great quarter. I just had one question that I wanted to get a little bit of insight into. You said that in Q1 Barnwell had a drag of about 120 basis points. You guys have a lot of stuff going on this year with line one, line two and then the paper machine. Can you give us some color on what your expectations are in terms of drag for the next couple of quarters?

Well, we're not going to get into the detail of that. On a quarter-by-quarter basis, obviously you expect that the drag would be a bit less in the second quarter as the ramp-up curve improves. But we also have the second converting line that will be starting up in that quarter as well. So you would expect the drag to be a bit less on the start-up cost as you get into Q3. Then we get into Q4, you have the paper machine's start-up costs. And then of course when we get into Q3 and Q4, based upon our current sales forecast, we will be buying parent rolls. So that will be a drag, not really due to the start-up per se, but those are costs that we will incur over and above the time when we have the new paper machine up and running. So I hope that helps, but we're not going to get in the quarter-by-quarter stuff.

Yeah. Okay. Thank you.

Our next question comes from Marco Rodriguez of Stonegate Capital Markets. Please go ahead.

Good morning, guys. Thank you for taking my questions. Just real quick here wanted to kind of get a little bit better of a feel on the revenue in this particular quarter. Were there any particular areas of strength that you saw, like additional customer wins or was this perhaps some of that revenue that you lost because of the line incident last quarter basically got shifted into Q1? Any kind of color you can help me there with?

I think for the most part we saw a shift in private label volume versus branded volume happening. There was a little bit of carryover, but we were actually sitting here thinking and says when does this carryover end, and it never ended. And it was a function frankly of some work that we did with our customers to respond to branded activity last year. And then once branded activity stops, what typically happens is you see private label start regaining its share, and that's kind of the phenomena that goes on every year over time. So we think we saw a lot of that in Q1. Now, whether that's sustainable is going to be a function of what the brands do and what we do working with our customers.

Got you. That's helpful. And then in terms of the supply agreement and the margin share, can you just provide a little more color? I mean, where is that going to be impacting you on the P&L? Is that going to be on a cost of sales side, is that – where exactly are you going to see that first?

The effect will be seen in the cost of sales, yes. That's exactly right.

Got you. And the expectation is that reverts to a normalized margin in Q3. Is that what I heard?

No. That versus the margins versus Q1 of this year.

But the margins we set to the good margins, if you want to think about it that way, on June 1.

Correct.

And then we accumulate tons and once we hit over 20,000 tons, then the shared margin kicks in. And that's not typically till second quarter of the following year.

Got you. Okay, great. Thanks a lot, guys. Appreciate it.

Sure.

Thanks, Marco.

Our next question comes from John Nobile of Taglich Brothers. Please go ahead.

Hello. Good morning. Thanks for taking my question. I just wanted to get some clarification on the Fabrica agreement now. I know that the two-year reset starts in June. However, I was under the assumption that the annual limit was actually 19,800 tons and then you had an additional 7,700 tons that you could purchase, bringing the total to 27,500 tons total. So I'm just trying to get an idea now why I'm seeing a 20,000 ton annual limit when the two-year period hasn't ended yet for the 27,500 tons.

Well, John, first of all, I'm averaging the number. So it is 19,800 tons, I just say 20,000 tons just to make it easy. The incremental tonnage though, we've had agreement that we would be able to buy all that for two years at a specific model, okay? What changes is the model which we have to renegotiate with Fapsa, but the effect of that will not happen until we get over 20,000 tons. So you are going to have April and May, and then the rest of the year, it's not going to be a factor. It will be a factor in 2017...

You've exceeded the 20,000 tons though. If you look at a trailing 12 months going quarter by quarter, you have exceeded that 20,000 ton limit though. That's what I'm not seeing.

That's right, which is why we're in a shared margin scenario right now. But on June 1, it all starts over. We start with zero tons. So you're going to accumulate 19,800 tons at their cost structure, and when you hit over 20,000 tons, it's going to be under a different margin model.

Okay. So at that point, I think you brought it up before on the call that you're going to share – well, cost of goods sold will be impacted by about $1 million I guess in Q2.

In Q2, but not in Q3 and not in Q4.

Okay, Q2 solely. And obviously you're still working on the terms of this, so there is the possibility you still may have that additional 7,700 tons option. I mean, that could go away but... [indiscernible]

(30:35) tons. We're not going to get cut off, if you will, in terms of our supply. What we're working on is at what margin model that will be. And I think that's not going to be – I'm confident we're going to get a model that gives us fair margins. But the reason I haven't done a lot – I mean, I'm working with them now, but I'm also looking broader than that. We're trying to grow a business on the West Coast and I have to think about longer than just how do I source another 5,000 tons or 6,000 tons. I have to figure out how do I source another 35,000 tons. So that work is also going on at the same time I'm discussing this with Fapsa.

All right. And obviously you had put up some guidance on the overall margins for the year of 20% to 22%, which I think is higher than what you had previously, and this incorporates also the need that – the great possibility that you would be purchasing parent rolls in the secondary market, at least in the second half of this year. You could still feel pretty confident in obtaining a 20% to 22% margins for the overall business?

Yes.

Okay. Well, that's good. Just a couple more. In regards to Barnwell, I wanted to see if I could get some specifics on the tonnage in the quarter. I know you just started shipping from Barnwell late in the quarter, but do you have that number, how many tons you did ship from Barnwell in the quarter? And also, as we stand now as of the date of this call, what do you believe is the current run rate from that converting line in Barnwell?

John, really don't want to get into those specifics, I don't think it's relevant when you look at what's happening over the year. As I said, we're in a ramp-up. We have new business we're loading in, we're moving between Pryor and Barnwell as we add the new business in and right now we're on plan relative to what we've told the Street.

Okay. And if I could just approach Barnwell in one more direction here. Now, assuming that both lines in Barnwell are running at full capacity, you have them to where you need hopefully by the end of this year, how many tons do you believe are going to be needed to satisfy your current existing customer base in this area, because I know there should be some cannibalization because you are servicing that area even before you went into Barnwell. So I'm just curious as to what is going to be existing and how many tons do you believe will be shipped to new customers that hopefully you can generate in that area.

John, that's not a number that I can give you right now. We'd have to think about that some more and do some calculations.

Okay. But you do have customers in that Southeast area, because I know like you're anticipating...

We have new distribution in the Southeast, it's not just moving product from Pryor to Barnwell.

Okay. But you did have existing customers and I just wanted to get an idea of – because obviously if you're looking in that area of say 30,000 tons plus, how many of that is going to be satisfying current customers that you did have in whatever radius you can look at in that area? That's what I just wanted to get a handle on.

John, I think the best way to answer that question is that's really going to depend on – we've put as much new customer business as we can in there and then the rest of the capacity we'll fill with business that perhaps we currently have or new business with existing customers that are best shipped out of that site. So that's not ongoing process, so it's very hard to answer that question right now.

John, it's kind of like pushing a rope too because whatever business we had in Pryor that we put in Barnwell will create capacity in Pryor which we expect to sell out. So on a net basis, at the end of the day, a year from now we can talk about what the margin differences are between Pryor and Barnwell, but that would be the only thing that I would be thinking about relative to your question.

Okay, fair enough. All right, well, that's all I have. Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you, John.

Our next question comes from Michael Taglich of Taglich Brothers. Please go ahead.

Two things. First off, awesome quarter. Congratulations, guys. Thanks. I'm really proud of what you're doing. Basically with Barnwell, you're hoping we're going to make around $25 million in EBITDA out of that when we get that turned on – or within six months of it getting turned on, right?

Yeah, that's a good estimate. [indiscernible]

(35:32)

Yes, exactly.

I mean, I would say by the end of [ph] Q2 2017 (35:37).

You're at that kind of run rate?

Yeah.

All right. Well, you are going to be selling paper at the rate you need to get there out at Barnwell from a converting operation standpoint by when you think?

I'm going to say the end of 2017.

Okay. So at the end of 2017 on the sales side and then obviously the parent rolls you are filling in starting – your scheduled date is in Q1 of next year, correct?

Correct.

And you should get the machine delivered when this year?

We'll start installing it in the fourth quarter.

Okay. Is it on the boat yet or no? [indiscernible]

(36:21) all that kind of stuff right now, but...

Okay. Is the machine on the boat yet?

No. But I think the first equipment starts arriving July.

That's pretty exciting. All right. So we're in this for a $65 million EBITDA run rate by the end of next year still?

That's what we're shooting for, yeah.

Man, you're a great CEO.

I would hedge myself and say [ph] Q2 2018 (36:55), but if everything...

Well, run rate.

Yeah. Run rate, that's right. That's the way to think about it.

Terrific. Well, keep up the good work. I'm excited. My other questions were answered. Sorry, go ahead. I'm sorry, Jeff, I talked over you.

I would say that we will have full value for that in 2018.

That's great. All right, my other questions are answered. You are doing a great job as the CEO. Keith, great job as CFO. Keep it coming. Thanks.

Thank you, Mike.

And this concludes our question-and-answer session. I would now like to turn the conference back over to Jeff Schoen for any closing remarks.

Well, I have no further comments. And as I said, we're very excited about what's happened in the last couple of years at Orchids and we will continue to look at growing our business in the most efficient and effective way that we can. So with that, we'll look forward to talking to you again in the second quarter earnings call.

The conference is now concluded. Thank you for attending today's presentation. You may now disconnect your lines. Have a great day.