Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Keith R. Schroeder — CFO, Secretary & Head-Investor Relations, Orchids Paper Products Co.
Robert A. Snyder — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Orchids Paper Products Co.
John Nobile — Analyst, Taglich Brothers, Inc.
Katja Jancic — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC
Marco A. Rodriguez — Analyst, Stonegate Securities, Inc.
Mike N. Taglich — Co-Founder, Chairman & President, Taglich Brothers, Inc.
John H. Curti — Analyst, Singular Research

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, and welcome to the Orchids Paper Products Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Teleconference Call. All participants will be in a listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] After today's presentation, there'll be an opportunity to ask questions. [Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Keith Schroeder, CFO. Please go ahead.

Thank you, Operator. Good morning, and thank you to everyone for attending our 2013 third quarter earnings call. My name is Keith Schroeder, and I'm the CFO. I'm here today with Bob Snyder, our President and CEO. The agenda for our call today will begin with my review of the results for the quarter. Bob will then provide an update on key performance areas and initiatives within the company. Following that discussion, we'll be happy to address any questions that you might have.

With that, I'd like to inform you that statements made during this call, other than those that refer to past events and results are forward-looking statements and are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions in the Securities Reform Act of 1995. Such statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth during this discussion. Among other things, these risks and uncertainties include the risks and assumptions described in Item 1A and Item 7 of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012. We operate in an environment that involves numerous known and unknown risk and uncertainties that could materially affect our operations. We assume no obligation to update or supplement forward-looking statements that become untrue because of any future events.

First, I will start with some highlights. This quarter was a very strong quarter for us as we established records for EBITDA, total net sales and converted product sales. EBITDA for the quarter was $6.9 million, beating the previous record established in Q3 of 2009, and also exceeding prior year's result by $1.6 million or 30%. For a third consecutive quarter, we established new sales record for both total net sales and converted product net sales.

Total net sales were $29.8 million and converted product net sales were $28.2 million, beating the previous records established in the second quarter of this year of $29.2 million and $27.8 million, respectively.

Net income for the 2013 quarter was $3.7 million, an increase of $1.4 million or 60% over the $2.3 million in the prior year quarter. Our diluted earnings per share for the 2013 quarter were $0.47 per share, compared with $0.29 per share in the same period last year.

Now for some details. Our total net sales of $29.8 million in the third quarter were comprised of $28.2 million of converted product sales and $1.6 million of parent roll sales. Converted product sales continued their strong improvement trend as net sales and converted product increased by $5.4 million or 24% over the prior year.

Converted product tonnage shipped increased by 24% and net selling prices per ton of converted product were essentially flat. Most of the shipment increases came from new mid and premium-tier sales. Net sales of parent rolls were down in the year-over-year comparison due to the higher demands of the converted product business. This favorable mix shift increased overall net selling price per ton to $1,952 per ton, compared with $1,839 per ton in the prior year.

On a year-to-date basis, our net sales increased $8.8 million or 11.5% to $85.6 million compared to the prior year. Converted product net sales totaled $80.6 million in the 2013 period, an increase of $11.9 million or 17% compared to the prior year. New product sales primarily in the premium and mid-tier markets were the primary driver of the increased sales. On a year-to-date basis, our converted product tonnage shipments were up 17%.

Gross profit for the third quarter of 2013 was $7.1 million, an increase of $1.8 million or 32% over the prior year period. Our gross profit margin improved to 24% in 2013, compared to 20.9% in 2012. The margin improvement is primarily due to the favorable mix shift to converted product sales, lower fiber prices, and lower overhead costs in the paper manufacturing area being partially offset by the cost associated with the consumption of purchased parent rolls during the quarter.

In the year-over-year comparison, our fiber costs were lower by about $570,000. Overhead costs in the paper manufacturing area were approximately $530,000 lower than the prior year costs primarily due to lower maintenance and repair costs. We consumed some purchased parent rolls during the quarter to meet an expected short-term spike in our converting requirements. We consumed all those parent rolls during the quarter and this added about $300,000 in additional cost to our cost of sales.

This brings our gross profit on a year-to-date basis to $20.7 million, an increase of $3.5 million or 21% over the prior year period. Gross profit margin was 24.1% in the 2013 year-to-date period as compared to 22.3% in the 2012 period. The improvement was primarily for the same reason cited for the quarterly comparison, but also includes a negative effect of external warehouse costs incurred in the first half of the year. On a year-to-date basis, external warehouse costs were $730,000.

Selling, general and administrative expenses in the third quarter of 2013 were in line with expectations at $2.1 million, an increase of $93,000 over the prior year. As a percent of net sales, SG&A was 7.1% in the 2013 quarter compared with 7.9% in the prior year quarter. Higher sales commissions due to the higher sales levels were the primary reason for the increased expense.

We estimate our annual effective tax rate at 26.2%. This includes the 1.3% favorable effect of an Indian employment tax credit for 2012 that was recognized in the first quarter of 2013. This compares to the 28.4% we estimated at the end of the second quarter. This favorably affected our earnings per share calculation by about $0.01 per share in the quarter.

Now, I'll cover a few comparisons to the second quarter of 2013. On a sequential quarter basis, converted product sales increased by $387,000 or about 1.4%. Converted product tonnage shipped increased by approximately 2.5% and price per ton was down slightly at 1% due to a change in mix.

On a sequential quarter basis, gross profit improved $144,000 or 2%. Gross margin as a percent of net sales was relatively flat, up 0.1% to 24%. EBITDA improved by $576,000 or 9% due to lower SG&A expense, lower external warehouse expense and the favorable mix shift towards increased converted product sales. Our earnings per share also improved on a sequential quarter basis. After taking into account minor effective tax rate adjustments in both the last two quarters, our diluted earnings per share was $0.46 per share in Q3 and $0.38 per share in Q2.

I would now like to turn your attention to the balance sheet and cash flow. For the nine-month period in 2013, we generated cash flow from operations of $11.7 million. Our capital expenditures totaled to $7.6 million during the 2013 period. We paid $2.8 million in cash in dividends in the third quarter, bringing our year-to-date amount to $7.9 million. Looking at net cash flow generation for the third quarter, we generated approximately $2.5 million in cash during the quarter.

Total debt outstanding as of September 30, 2013 was $15.4 million. When netted against our cash and short-term investments of $10.1 million, our net debt was $5.3 million. There are no amounts outstanding under our revolving credit agreement as of the end of the quarter. And as of September 30, our funded debt-to-EBITDA ratio was 0.62:1 and our debt service coverage ratio was 2.76:1.

I will now turn the call over to Bob.

Thanks, Keith. Thank you for joining our call today. I'm pleased to be able to discuss with you the results of another strong quarter. The third quarter reflected strong sales and effective cost controls, which resulted in a record EBITDA level of $6.9 million and established records in total sales and converted product sales. The combination of higher converted product sales, strong cost controls and moderate fiber prices resulted in a EBITDA of 23.3% of net sales for the quarter, our strongest profit margin since 2009.

And as we have discussed in our recent conference calls, we have developed a significant new business which continues to come online. The new business allowed us to set new sales records in the quarter exceeding the record we established in the previous quarter.

Total net sales and converted product net sales were $29.8 million and $28.2 million, respectively, in the quarter. Converted product case shipments were strong in the third quarter as we achieved another new record at 2.096 million cases.

Our new mid-tier and premium tier products continue to resonate well with the marketplace. Our new products in these higher-quality tier markets are the major driver behind our recent growth. Our opening price point products also continue to perform well, and we continue to gain new business with strategic customers in that market as well.

Our paper making operations continued its strong performance this quarter with production at 14,800 tons, while exhibiting strong cost controls. The paper making operations have been effectively managing their costs with major reductions realized in maintenance and repair costs, paper machine clothing and energy. Due to effective operations and planning, we reduced maintenance and repair costs by approximately $460,000 compared to the prior year quarter. The strong production rate combined with the cost controls helped to improve our paper production cost by approximately 14% exclusive of fiber.

In our last call, we anticipated shipments in the third quarter to exceed those in the fourth quarter due to timing of promotions in anticipating the normal seasonal softness in the fourth quarter. Some of the promotional business we anticipated for third quarter has been moved to the fourth quarter and we have some new business starting during the fourth quarter. So, our current outlook is for the fourth quarter shipments to exceed those in the third quarter by approximately 4% to 5%. As a result, we expect full-year shipments for 2013 to exceed 2012 by approximately 16% to 17%. The end of the year performance provides a solid starting point for our 2014 level of new business started shipping during 2013, which will be fully realized in 2014.

We continue to work on new business for 2014 to further improve our growth rate. Our ongoing efforts in new product development continue to open up new opportunities for us with the market. We believe our ability to deliver our product lineup across all product quality tiers enhances our ability to grow our sales beyond market growth rates.

Now, I will turn the call back over to the Operator for questions.

Thank you. We will now begin the question-and-answer session [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from John Nobile of Taglich Brothers. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good morning. I wanted to back up to the Q4 shipment volumes that you expect to exceed the Q3 volumes. I did some math and I did it with keeping Q4 tonnage even equal to Q3, and when I run through those numbers, we're looking at a 19% increase in full-year tonnage shipped. Now, I know that you had said that you're looking for 17% increase, but even with flat tonnage, it equates to 19% for the – I get over 52,652 tons being shipped, which I believe is 19% above your fiscal 2012. So, I was just hoping to get a little clarification on that, see where I might be making an error here or if indeed we're looking more of the closer to 19% increase?

Yeah, John, the percent increase that we were referring to was in case count, okay? And you're doing tons. So, sometimes they're very close, sometimes they're off a percent or so.

Although I believe higher tier product is a heavier content product. So, that's why I looked at it and said tonnage, if anything, should even be greater than case shipments only because of the weight. That's why I was kind of thrown from that to see a number there for 17% even on equal shipments. Well, tonnage I was looking at, but only assuming that tonnage would be heavier. Are you saying that tonnage is actually less on a case volume?

It depends. Some products when you're comparing, the higher tier to the opening price point that there is more weight in the case, sometimes it's less. It depends on the mix between the amount of – the percent of bathroom tissue versus towel. And so there's a lot of mix sort of...

Okay. So, it's mix related, because I remember bringing it up on another call where I was trying to get clarification and I walked away from that call thinking that higher tier product just was more in weight on the volume or a shipment. Okay. So, bottom line is look for a 17% increase in cases over last fiscal year?

Yes.

Okay. And I was wondering if you could talk a little about your penetration at the grocery stores and the plans that you have to increase penetration further in that area?

Bob, you want to talk about that?

Well, it's an ongoing effort and our plans are to continue to work with our current customers and our prospective customers primarily in our area to continue to do.

Okay. And Q3 over Q2, you believe you're gaining traction into the grocery store area, I mean, you can quantify that?

Oh, yeah. Yes. And we have been...

Okay. And...

We [ph] will be (16:18) to do that.

All right. And I'm curious if there's any plans to develop a higher-tier product than you currently offer. I know that you recently got into like a mid and an upper grade tier product, but I'm curious if you'd ever consider entering into the TAD market? I know you're not there now, but – or any plans in the future for getting into that market?

We're studying different alternatives in all the different categories.

Okay. So, there is a possibility of getting into the TAD market?

We are considering all alternatives.

Okay. And let me – in regard to SG&A, I noticed sequentially from Q2, it dropped about $400,000. So, I'm curious if this current level, which I think was about $2.1 million, if this is a level that you feel comfortable with and maintaining this going forward or do you see this maybe changing or even further cost controls going forward?

John, what we would expect is that the SG&A expense level which we experienced in Q3, which should be about the same in Q4, maybe a bit more, the only reason – the main reason it would go up in Q4 would be as sales go up, as sales commission piece of that goes up. Okay?

Right.

So then we get into 2014, it's – again, it's really as sales go up...

Right.

...the main increase in that area would be the sales. Okay?

Okay. Because I think when I worked the math on it, I think it was like about 16% or 17% of your SG&A was related to sales commissions. So, if I factor that in the level that you're at now should stay about the same and obviously sales go up, the commission part of it will go up by that degree?

Correct.

Okay. And just one more question and then I'll open up the queue here. With the favorable tax treatment, the Indian employment tax credit, obviously it benefited you this year in 2013, but do you see this credit available for you in 2014?

Yes. That tax credit was extended through 2014 and so as – I believe it was – so, yes, at this point we would expect that to continue for 2014. Now, you have to remember that we did – we're really recognizing two of those this year because that credit expired at the end of 2012, and then it was signed back into law for 2012 but not effective until 2013. This is the number that we've talked about on our last two calls. So, this year in our tax provision, we recognized the 2012 tax credit which reduced this year's effective tax rate by about 1.3% and then of course we have the current year's tax credit as well.

Okay. So without the double benefit from recognizing the 2012 and this year, your tax rate for this year would have been about 1.3% higher than the 26.2%?

Correct. Absolutely.

Okay, great. That's all I have. I appreciate it, and keep up the good work. Thank you.

Thanks, John.

And our next question comes from Katja Jancic of Sidoti & Company. Please go ahead.

Good morning, guys.

Good morning, Katja.

My question has to do with the production of parent rolls. Are you looking into expanding that in order to preserve the margin? Because even in this quarter, as you mentioned, it did kind of depress the margin a little bit, and going forward, if you reach full capacity, you will be required to purchase more of them. What is the situation with that? How are you looking at that?

We're under – we're studying all our alternatives including any opportunities for growth which includes additional paper making capacity, converting capacity and the such.

At what point would you, let's say, decide on expanding? What would have to happen for you to decide – make that decision or what would be the driving force?

I guess this is a decision the board will end up making ultimately, but we're considering all our options at this point.

Okay. That's all from me. Thank you.

Thanks, Katja.

And the next question is from Marco Rodriguez with Stonegate Securities. Please go ahead.

Good morning, guys. Thank you for taking my questions. I have a couple of quick questions in regard to the mid and premium tier. Can you give me a sense as far as what percent of your revenues was in that area in this quarter and how that compared year-over-year?

It was around 38%, I think, for the quarter, 36% – yeah, 36% for the quarter.

And year-over-year, how does that compare?

And the prior year quarter, we were around 18%.

And I believe on the last call, you guys...

The quarter before this, we were at 40%.

You were at 40% in Q2?

Yes, yes.

Okay. Got it. And can you kind of give us a little bit of how you're thinking about – obviously, you've got a lot of initiatives to move into the mid and premium tier markets. Can you kind of give us a sense as far as how you're thinking that percentage moves next quarter and then through 2014?

I think you're going to see it continue to increase. I think we're going to probably have growth rates that will exceed the market. I would anticipate probably into the 4% or 5% into the following year that we would think something like that over this year.

Okay. Excellent. And I believe you had implemented sales efforts in regard to this market over the last year. So, can you provide any updates here in how that's progressing? Are you seeing things tracking according to expectations?

Yeah. We feel our sales efforts have – we're turning at a pretty good rate for us. You're seeing some growth rates of 16% to 17% over last year. And I think our traction with our new products is very strong.

Okay. Are there any initiatives that you might be working on to maybe accelerate that growth or do you think you guys are pretty optimal right now?

I think we'll continue to look at all our growth options that we have, which I stated earlier looking at paper machine capacity, additional converting capacity, our footprint and all those type of opportunities that the company has to grow.

And I'm just kind of – to follow up on a question that was asked just earlier here in regard to obviously your growth offerings, you're evaluating all sorts of situations, I would assume. And you mentioned that the board – it would kind of be a board decision there. Can you give us a sense maybe in terms of timing as to when you might, I don't know, become a little bit more active and really studying and putting a fine pencil to paper here when it comes to perhaps taking that next step to hit the higher growth?

All those ideas are under consideration currently.

Okay. And the last – in the last call, last question I have, in the last call, you talked about potentially looking at some land next year to increase your warehousing ability. Any progress there?

Yes. We haven't purchased the [ph] land (24:37). But we have a right of first refusal option on the land. So, we have that – we have blocked out that opportunity for growth there.

Okay, great. Thanks a lot, guys.

Thanks, Marco.

And our next question is from Michael Taglich of Taglich Brothers. Please go ahead.

Hi, guys. Congratulations on a very good quarter and thank you. From an order of magnitude standpoint, how much business was pushed out of this quarter into next quarter?

Probably – Mike, it's Keith – about 100,000 cases, somewhere in that range, maybe 125,000, something in that range.

Good. Okay, you started with a lead. Terrific.

Absolutely.

All right. Thanks a lot. I appreciate it, and a great quarter, guys. Congratulations.

Thank you.

Thank you, Mike. [Operator Instructions]

And our next question comes from John Curti of Singular Research. Please go ahead.

Yeah, good morning, gentlemen.

Hi, John.

First question, how much were the outside warehousing costs for the quarter?

Outside warehouse cost for this current quarter were quite low. I think they were around $100,000. They were low. We did a good job of managing our inventory and managing the use of that outside warehouse. So we brought those costs well – welded down in the quarter.

Anything that you can do with the current facility to reconfigure converting equipment or paper making equipment that would free up additional space for warehousing?

No, John, unfortunately not.

Okay. Have you purchased parent rolls in all three quarters of this current year or was it just only in the third quarter where you started to make outside purchases?

Well, just in Q3, and that was due to – like Bob said in his part of the call, that there's a kind of like a short-term spike in the sales forecast as we looked at the balance on our machines and what grades of paper that we needed when for converting. We thought it was best to protect the customer that we went out and bought these rolls. So they were purchased and they were all consumed in Q3.

Well, it looks to me like we'll tend to keep a pipeline open where we'll buy and we'll also be selling parent rolls.

Okay. I know on the – maybe it was on the last call you talked about by the time you got into 2014, you foresaw the likelihood of very little in the way of parent roll sales. Is that still the case?

Yes.

Yes.

That's true.

Maybe by the time we get to the back half of the year not doing any real amount?

Yes. That's true because if you look at the parent roll tonnage that we shipped in the quarter, it was only 10%. So, as we continue to grow into 2014, the parent roll sales will essentially go away.

And that's why we'll want to start trying to get a supply and also be selling it till we use up all our ability to sell capacity.

Right.

Does that make sense?

Well, yeah, because you're going to be in a situation where you've effectively used up your own paper making capacity and you've got more converting capacity. At some point after you've blown through your own paper making capacity and begin to approach your converting capacity, you will have had to make a decision about additional capacity additions for both.

That's correct, yes.

I'm assuming you don't want to have a repeat of what happened the last time when you made your big expansion and then the market went to heck?

Yeah. Oh, yeah. No, we don't.

So that's why you might tend to run a little longer buying outside rolls?

Yeah. For us, Marco, those – I mean, John, those things are long lead time items. So, we want to study the market, carefully study the options very carefully so we make the decision – that we make the right ones or the best ones.

With the increase in percentage of sales of product in the mid-tier and premium categories ramping up rather dramatically, at least by my calculations on a per case basis, the increases are relatively modest. And I'm just trying to understand is it – what's causing maybe the price per case to maybe not rise as fast as one would anticipate, because it sounded like in the third quarter, you actually had higher shipments and lower – slightly lower prices or flat prices per converted product.

Well, there wasn't any changes in our overall pricing structure. So, as you move from quarter-to-quarter, any changes that you're trying to – back into a price per case or et cetera will be strictly mix, mix between different customers, mix between bathroom tissues, towel, grades, et cetera. So – look, one of the things is we shipped slightly less on a percentage basis...

Right.

...of the higher tier products in Q3 versus Q2. It wasn't a big change. It was small. But all of those things sort of weigh in.

And given the fact that some of the cases are going to get pushed into 4, that will likely push up that percentage of mid-tier and premium product sales in the fourth quarter?

It will be somewhere in that same range, maybe up just a bit as in Q3.

And then, as we stand right now, where are paper prices, fiber prices versus the same time a year ago? What does it looking at currently?

Versus prior year?

Yeah.

The fiber prices, as we said, were down quite a bit third quarter versus – this year versus third quarter of last year. Our prices so far in the fourth quarter have been flat. So we would still expect to be under in Q4 of 2013 versus Q4 of 2012.

And recycled paper?

Same.

Same. Okay. And do you have handy the amount of converted tonnage cases and parent roll tonnage for the fourth quarter of 2012?

Yes, I do. The converted – you're talking about the converted product tonnage shipped?

Yes.

Yeah, it was 10,415 tons.

For the fourth quarter of 2012?

Correct.

And how many cases?

The case count was 1.672 million.

And parent roll tonnage?

2.181 million – 2,181, excuse me. [indiscernible] (32:41)

And I think it's very helpful that you put out additional information with regard to your production, breaking that out between parent rolls and converted. That helps.

Okay, good. I'm glad it does.

Yeah. I think that's all my questions. Thank you.

Thank you.

I'm showing no further questions. This concludes our question-and-answer session. I'd like to turn the conference back over to Mr. Snyder for any closing remarks.

We want to thank you all for attending today's conference call. And we look forward to talking to you again next quarter. Have a great day.

The conference is now concluded. Thank you for attending today's presentation. You may now disconnect.