Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Rodney D. Gloss — Chief Financial Officer, Orchids Paper Products Co.
Jeffrey S. Schoen — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Orchids Paper Products Co.
Daniello Natoli — Analyst, Oppenheimer & Co., Inc. (Broker)
Louie M. Toma — Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC
Matthew Ford Sherwood — Analyst, Cooper Creek Partners Management LLC
John Nobile — Analyst, Taglich Brothers, Inc.
Michael John Laderer — Managing Director, Henley & Co. Wealth Management LLC
Michael N. Taglich — Co-Founder, President & Chairman, Taglich Brothers, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning and welcome to the Orchids Paper Products Third Quarter 2016 Earnings Conference Call. On the call today is Jeff Schoen, President and Chief Executive Officer and Rod Gloss, Chief Financial Officer. All participants will be in a listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] After today's presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask questions. [Operator Instructions] Please note that this event is being recorded

I will now turn the call over to Mr. Gloss.

Good morning and thank you for joining Orchids 2016 Third Quarter Earnings Call. The agenda for our call today will begin with the recitation of standard notices and my review of our third quarter financial results. Jeff will then provide his perspective on our results and on our business environment. We will conclude with a question-and-answer session.

Please remember that certain statements made during this conference call are forward-looking statements within the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 as amended. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, estimates, assumptions and projections that are subject to change and actual results may differ materially from the forward-looking statements.

Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include those risk and uncertainties described from time-to-time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015, as well as our earnings release and any supplemental information. Any forward-looking statements are made only as of this date and the company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.

During our remarks, we will be making reference to both GAAP and non-GAAP measures. The reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP measures is included in our earnings press release which is available on our website.

For the third quarter of 2016, those adjustments to net income to drive adjusted EBITDA included interest expense of $639,000, income tax expense of $735,000, depreciation and amortization of $3,142,000 and stock compensation expense of $69,000. I will also be referring to a separation of operating cash flows between changes in working capital and other operating sources and uses of cash.

Management believes that the changes in working capital provides an indication of cash invested in or provided by changes in operating assets and liabilities and therefore may indicate trends in operating performance and may call out a significant source or use of cash during any period. Operating cash flow, exclusive of the changes in working capital, is believed to provide an estimate of the cash generated from all operating activities prior to investments in or liquidations of operating assets and liabilities.

I'll now turn to the 2016 financial results noting highlights and explaining selective metrics. Year-to-date, with quite similar dollars sales to those in 2015, gross profit improved $2.1 million or 9.5%, due principally to an array of cost reductions including fiber cost reductions, favorable production costs, effects of the peso devaluation and a one-off recovery of $1.1 million of insurance proceeds in the second quarter of 2016.

The third quarter gross profit margin of 15.7% compares negatively to the 19.3% year-to-date margin. However, the negative relative performance is principally due to many of our costs being fixed and semi-variable, Barnwell's startup costs and to increased depreciation associated with new assets.

Similarly, year-to-date adjusted EBITDA improved 13%, but the third quarter 2016 adjusted EBITDA margin of 17.2% compares negatively to the year-to-date margin of 20.8%, largely due to reduced operating leverage and the Barnwell startup costs.

Net sales for the quarter of $39.6 million were comprised of $38.8 million of converted product sales and $1.3 million of parent roll sales. Converted product sales had a greater proportion of bathroom tissue and a lesser proportion of towel sales and is typical, comparatively less than both the average selling price and the average cost per ton. Year-to-date, net income improved 3% relative to the same period in 2015. However, third quarter 2016's net income performance was lackluster. Decreased sales volumes, the product sales mix and increased interest expense principally drove the decline in net income from $4.7 million in third quarter 2015 to $2.2 million in third quarter 2016.

Relative to second quarter 2016, net income declined by $0.4 million due principally to second quarter 2016 having received the one-time benefit of the $1.1 million of insurance claim proceeds; two, a $0.04 million increase in interest expense; three, a partially offsetting reduction in tax expense of $0.6 million related to tax credits; and four, $0.5 million of assorted favorable changes in costs.

Now regarding cash flows. Operating cash flows less changes in working capital increased from $18.1 million to $27.3 million or by 51% in the year-to-date 2016 period, principally due to the deferral of $6.6 million of income taxes, the accelerated depreciation and other tax planning differences. Operating cash flows less changes in working capital increased $7.5 million to $9.9 million or by 31% in the third quarter of 2016 relative to the third quarter of 2015. Again, deferred taxes of $4.4 million had the largest impact upon this change.

Working capital increased $6 million in the third quarter of 2016 versus having decreased $0.7 million in third quarter of 2015, principally due to the startup at the Barnwell facility, an increase in finished goods inventories and an increase in raw material inventories.

Increased borrowings on our revolving credit lines of $28 million largely financed the investments in the Barnwell facility and other capital assets of $28.3 million. Dividends of $3.6 million were paid in both quarters and are included in financing activities.

The Barnwell South Carolina facility is now forecasted to have a total cost of $150 million, partially due to a change in scope in the pulp mill to allow broader furnished options and partially due to increased costs due to cement, piping and wastewater treatment additions. At September 30, 2016, debt, not having been netted with unamortized deferred debt issuance costs, was $131.5 million and the adjusted EBITDA leverage ratio reportable to the bank was 3.7.

I will now turn the call over to Mr. Schoen.

Good morning. As I stated in the press release, Orchids' year-to-date 2016 performance has improved as bottom-line metrics such as gross profit up 9.5%, net income up 3%, adjusted EBITDA up 13% and operating cash flows less changes in working capital up 51% and raw material increased over the same period last year. At the same time, though, competitive pressures continued into the third quarter 2016 which negatively impacted sales volumes.

Our Q3 adjusted EBITDA margin was 17.2% reflecting a variety of factors, the most significant being the competitive pressures upon sales volumes, coupled with the new capacity increases, both negatively impacting absorption. Many of our costs are fixed and semi-variable, so sales volumes affect our cost per ton in a major way. On the flipside as we gain volume, the variable margin associated with the incremental tons and cases sold will improve EBITDA margins back over the 20% we have historically achieved.

On a positive note, the sales volume picked up in September and continues into October due to new distribution and recovery of private-label business with existing customers who implemented responses to branded promotional activities in September. We expect this trend to continue.

As we look forward, Orchids is actively pursuing new business and the key to our success is to win outstanding and additional bids presented to new and existing customers that comprises a broader product offering in brands and private-label in all product segments including value, premium and ultra-premium as well as broader distribution channels than Orchids has previously pursued.

We had increased our sales force by approximately 40% to include new employees as well as a broader broker network. Additionally, we have expanded our product development and commercialization team to develop products that maximize the capability of investments we have made over the past few years in quality and in innovation. Operations have added approximately six million cases of capacity and continues to improve its ability to develop, produce and deliver high-quality, low-cost products.

Regarding the South Carolina project, the two converting lines have been completed and are ramping up. The paper mill is still scheduled for completion by the end of the first quarter of 2017, with the major ramp-up occurring in the second quarter. End of curve is expected by the end of 2017.

2016 has been about creating new capacity and new product capabilities to support those areas of the market where we believe we have a competitive advantage. I believe the combination of the new product capabilities, combined with the cost structure, as well as the new distribution channels we are pursuing will provide more opportunities to sell out the capacity and achieve our stated goals. Overall, we remain optimistic about our ability to achieve our long-term goal to grow Orchids' earnings per share to approximately $2.50 to $3.40 a share. Additionally, long-term we expect EBITDA margins of 20% to 22% for the overall business.

I will pause here to say thank you to all of the Orchids' employees, our suppliers and our customers for supporting Orchids' growth. I also want to formally acknowledge Rod Gloss as our new CFO. Rod brings a working knowledge of all aspects of corporate finance to Orchids, including SEC reporting, banking, tax, cost and managerial accounting, IT and business analysis. He is a welcome addition to our team.

With that, I will now turn the call back to the operator for questions. [Operator Instructions]

. Our first question comes from Philip Ng with ‎Jefferies.

Hi. This is actually [ph] Colin (12:41) filling in for Phil. Just a question on the competition, elevated promotion you've seen. Has that been from only the branded players defending their share? Or are you seeing an uptick in competition from your private-label competitors as well? And how have these promotions trended in the fourth quarter?

We're seeing both, although I would say the major impact has been with the branded promotions that have impacted our major customers. The thing to think about with the brands is it's a combination of – especially one. It's a combination of them deciding – from my perspective anyway, that their premium brand and their ultra-premium brand were positioned to closely together. So they chose to lower price on their premium brand and promoted to gain share as a way to set themselves up, I think, to really upgrade their ultra-premium business.

But in fact, they've targeted private-label. What normally happens – and this is not unusual that this happens. It's happened, I have seen it many times in my career, they grow their share, they promote the business to do it, once they get there, now they have to worry about their margins. And if it isn't happening already, I think it will happen, they'll start making product changes to take sheets out, to maybe lower basis weight, things like that to grow their business and they'll back off on promotions while they're trying to improve their profitability.

At the same time though, private-label has to respond to this. They can't sit back and just wait for promotions to end and they are doing that. Although I think it's been slower than what we would have liked to see. There are plans in place at some of the major retailers to redesign the private-label programs as they did last year. But I expect those to take affect really early Q1 this year. So this quarter, I think some of the promotional activity will slow down, but I think the price point that they've established will stay. So that's a problem for private-label in general. I believe it's impacting the whole industry at this point in time.

Great. And then just in terms of the volumes, the increase in volumes you saw into September, have they been a result of promotions and competition subsiding? Or is it more your internal initiatives like the branded product rollout and Barnwell.

I think it's a combination of several factors. Certainly, the branded product rollout is now picking up steam. We've picked up 30 new customers in our branded program that are in place in rollout mode, if you will. We'll end up promoting against those customers here in the fourth quarter to drive volume. We've also gained additional DCs on some customers and we've had some redistribution of volume among competitors in other areas.

We have seen in spite of the branded promotional activity, we have seen a private-label start to come back with our major customers. So I think that's positive from that perspective. And we also have, not only in branded, but we picked up some new customers in private-label that are rolling out this quarter as well. So I think it's a combination of factors. Notwithstanding the branded competitive pressures, I think we've done a good job of adding new volume. We'll continue to add new volume based on our strategic plan for our brands.

Great. And if I could just squeeze one more in there and I'll hop back in the queue, one of your competitors recently talked about a European producer bringing two new tissue machines into the Ohio region. Can you talk about how that might impact your regional competitive position in Oklahoma and in Barnwell?

Sure. The company is Sofidel. It's an Italian company, a big player in Europe. They have been coming into this market for the last several years, had an acquisition, done a couple of acquisitions and announced a greenfield site in Columbus, Ohio. It's scheduled to start up in, I think, 2018 timeframe. From our perspective personally, I think that's a market for them that targets the Northeast and Upper Midwest. So I don't really think it's something that impacts us. Our focus is mostly Southeast, Central, West Coast.

We do do some up in the Upper Midwest and we think that we'll be competitive with them, given the fact that they are really starting up a major greenfield site and it will be a long ramp-up curve from my perspective. So it's not something I'm thinking about right now. I think, for Orchids, we have an opportunity because we're effectively the first company that's adding capacity to get on to the marketplace and the assets that we're putting in place really allow us to compete effectively in the ultra-premium and premium space with innovation and product capabilities that I don't believe other people have.

Great. I'll get back in the queue.

All right. Our next question is from Ian Zaffino with Oppenheimer.

Hi. This is Dan Natoli from Oppenheimer. Just a quick thing on the Barnwell, I know in 2017 you expect that to ramp up, but maybe if you could just give us a little more detail as to how the timeline will work?

Well, we think we'll be making product at the end of first quarter, but that's not really the right question. The right question is to what's the ramping, what it's going to look like? If you think about being [ph] in end of (18:40) curve by the end of the year which, to me, is conservative, I think we should be able to do better than that. We want the first three months are all about making sure the machine is really lined out. We go through periods where we're going to be running different products, so we'll have learning curves associated with different products and new products. So for me, the first three months, if you will, are all about really lining out the machine. I think the second part of that in terms of the summer will be about optimizing where we are. And I think in the third quarter, we'll be at full speed. In the fourth quarter, excuse me.

Fourth quarter. Okay. And then just is that ultimately the time horizon for your long-term annual EPS number? Or maybe you could just give a sense of timing on that, the $2.50 to $3.40?

My long-term EPS number, my target has always been to be at that run rate by the end of 2018...

Okay.

So if we sell out, when we sell out this business at the margins and selling prices that we expect to sell it out, that's the range that we will be in. If we do it sooner, great. If it takes later, then it'll be later. But my target is to have it done by the 2018. I'm highly incented to move toward that target.

Great. Thank you.

Our next question is from Louie Toma with Craig-Hallum Capital Group.

Hi, guys, thanks for taking my questions. Just a couple of things. First of all, of the 200 basis point sequential decline in margins, can you help me break that down between what was attributed to pricing promotions and temporary operational efficiencies at Barnwell?

Let's see. Let me try to figure how to say that. The pricing promotions stuff I don't think -- I translate that into lost sales. And so the impact on margins is really absorption. The startup costs associated with Barnwell in terms of overhead, we believe that we have invested within a $0.5 million maybe next year of incremental overhead; that we have all the overhead in the system that we're going to need to run the business. So with the two lines and the paper machines, we effectively have staffed up for that right now. So the part of the margin that's related to startup I really don't think about it that way because it's a fixed cost for us now. So the incremental volume we add is all about gaining absorption and gaining variable margin on top of that. So it's really about getting the sales.

Got it. And so can you put a revenue number to – as far as the impact from the pricing promotions?

Oh well, if you take -- what was our run rate on sales in the first quarter? [indiscernible]

(21:52)...

Well, I don't have the numbers in front of me, Louie, but I would take the first quarter run rate numbers where we were effectively sold out minus Barnwell and use that as the reference point because the only thing that's really impacted that has been the competitive activity.

Got it. So it looks like about $48 million was Q1. So about $9 million, is that reasonable?

Yep. That would be the calculation that I would give you. Yeah.

Got it. Okay. And then inventory was flat sequentially, but it's elevated from last year. Can you talk a little bit about that? Is this the new normal? Or do you expect it to come back down at some point?

Nope. No, actually, I think the forecast that we had in the system relative to what really happened from a sales perspective had us drive enough inventory based on what our customers were forecasting. So we gained inventory in finished goods because of that. We also gained some inventory in materials. Now our goal by the end of first quarter is to pull about $4 million out of inventory. It's a combination of finished goods and materials. So I don't consider where we're as the new norm. In fact, I don't like it at all and we're going to pull that number down significantly by the end of the first quarter.

Got it. And then lastly, your tax rate was lower this quarter. Can you talk a little bit about what was driving that? And is 34% still a good target? Or has that number come down?

Long-term, it should come down a little bit for the next 10 years, more to what we're reflecting this quarter. The reason is principally South Carolina tax credits. A company has previously negotiated other favorable tax credits, particularly in Oklahoma, that have basically negated the state taxes. But with the Barnwell addition, we've gotten some South Carolina tax credits that will have a positive benefit over the next 10 years, effectively lowering the tax rate.

Doesn't have any material and positive impact on the cash flow; that – a different matter. The accelerated depreciation that we get to take for tax purposes that aren't reflected in the books are basically allowing us to pay the taxes much later than we would otherwise. So there's a timing difference. So a lot of the improvement in the cash flow is because we are able to put off our tax payments for years.

Thanks, Rod. That's helpful. So as far as modeling for the next year or so is 25% tax rate a good number to start with?

On a cash flow basis, yes.

Got it. Okay. That's all I have. Thank you.

Our next question is from Matt Sherwood with Cooper Creek Partners. Mr. Sherwood?

Hey, guys. Hey, how're you doing?

Good.

Great. So I just had a quick question on the balance sheet. Just trying to work through the math here and I guess in [indiscernible] (25:14) you're seeing on the Barnwell the increased cost and also in Q4 just the fact that you're going to have higher – you're going to still have substantial CapEx. I'm getting the chance of a sort of covenant breach in Q4 or Q1 of next year. I guess just how do you look at that? And are there things you can do to sort of offset that?

Well, this was always going to be the period, fourth quarter/first quarter where we're going to get potentially tight on covenants. We're well aware of that. Our goal, of course, is to grow the sales, grow the EBITDA so that doesn't become a factor. And yet, we're not naïve enough to not understand the sensitivity around this. So we do have close relationships with our bank. We are working closely with them to understand and make sure that this does not become a problem. We don't expect it to become a problem, but we are actively talking with them about potential scenarios and how we can mitigate those things without disrupting the business.

And look, the covenant breach would be for an investment in growth, so I think the bank could be understanding, I just wonder in a tougher banking environment where banks have a lot of regulatory pressure if they're going to let you maintain a dividend at current levels? And is it even prudent when you have such a good longer-term opportunity to sort of risk a banking relationship to pay the dividend rate now?

The banks are fairly tolerant of temporary situations. Assuming sales and EBITDA bounce back in fourth quarter as we're projecting and we're really talking about the last two quarters causing us a problem. The leverage ratio is calculated on a rolling 12-month basis. So we have to work through the lower EBITDA numbers in the second and third quarters of 2016 before we'll be loose on the leverage ratio covenant. But we are just looking at a two-quarter period of issues. So the banks are in – will probably continue to be supportive of a temporary issue.

Okay. And then can you just remind us, so now you still have – what's the CapEx expected to be for the balance of this year? And how much will you have left to do on Barnwell in 2017 with the new higher costs?

The maintenance capital is – we have about $5 million of maintenance capital to finish out in fourth quarter and first quarter next year. After that, we think all the equipment has been updated and have very low maintenance capital requirements next year, planning less than $0.5 million for any new projects next year. The Barnwell project, I don't have the numbers at the tip of my tongue. I want to say we've got about another $40 million to go, maybe it's $35 million to go. The big piece that isn't done at Barnwell is the paper mill and we did just update our forecasts and are looking at total spending of $150 million. I'm just forgetting off-hand how much we've already spent project to-date.

Is there anything just sort of that would benefit your cash flow in Q4, Q1? Because $45 million on top of $131.5 million gets you to – and then you have the dividend and interest payments, you could see your debt going up to like $170 million or something, is just the way I'm doing it back of the envelope.

Yeah, let me take back the number and throw the ballpark figure out at $35 million. So we could be looking at something in the $165 million neighborhood first quarter next year for total debt. And the upsides are basically if we draw down our inventory, as Jeff discussed, we can pull that debt down. There are other measures. We're expecting a tax refund of $3 million in December and have the ability to apply for another about $2.7 million tax refund that we could get back probably in the first quarter next year. Some other things will help us lower that debt to offset those requirements.

But longer-term, I guess if you are at $165 million of debt and the leverage ratio covenant steps down to 3.75 in the middle of the year, you think you can do the $45 million roughly of EBITDA to sort of get under that ratio?

Yes. Absolutely.

All right. Thank so much.

That's what our plan says we're going to do and we're doing it. If you think about Orchids' previous and where we're now, we've been a company that was concentrated in particular channel, lot of value products, moved into the mid-tier a few years ago, but never really expanded our distribution. We've expanded our distribution in a few ways: by focusing on a branded business, which we started on the West Coast. We're now moving nationally, having good success there. We got new customers. One big grocery customer, bunch of little grocery customers that we are starting to grow our business with. So for us, it's more about – kind of like boots on the ground, if you will, that's out there driving our business and that's where we're going to see our growth, not so much within what we've always been doing, but more outside of what we've always been doing.

If we execute that plan well, I expect really good, I expect a good fourth quarter that will help everybody understand that this period, although sensitive, is -I think third quarter is the low point for us. Fourth quarter is going to be better. First quarter is going to be better than that. And as long as we show these types of trends, I think the banks will be fine and we'll be successful.

All right. it's comforting to hear it. And you don't expect them to extract a pound of flesh and just say, hey, cut your dividend in half or something, just in light of the breach?

I don't because I don't think – honestly, it's not that big a number. We're funding our dividend out of operating cash flow, although if you take a look at EPS, you could say you're borrowing your dividend, but the cash flow that we had last quarter paid for the dividend. I think they're going to be most interested in the rate at which we pay down debt. And I think that's the right way to think about it. And that requires us to execute our plan. So if those things happen... [indiscernible]

(33:18) They increase amortization or something like that, but, yeah, all right. That's great. Thanks a lot. I appreciate the color.

Our next question is from John Nobile with Taglich Brothers. Mr. Nobile?

Hello. Good morning. Thanks for taking my questions. I just wanted to know how has the increased competition affected the average selling price a ton of your converted products in the third quarter? I know you used to put those figures down in your press release, but I don't see it in this one. So hopefully, you have that available, average selling price per ton and how that compares, say, to sequentially Q2 and last year's third quarter?

Yeah. I've done that by design because I think it's a real competitive metric that gives other people an advantage against us. But I can talk anecdotally about what we're doing. I will tell you that in the bids that we were in, I think for those where there's a lot of competition, you're going to see selling prices per ton go down. However, from a mix standpoint, Orchids within our brands will higher selling prices per ton. I think as we move up into ultra-premium, we'll see higher selling prices per ton.

So when you think about Orchids, what I've always stated is I want to maintain 20% to 22% margins on a higher sales rate and it's going to be a combination of lower selling prices per ton for some pieces of the business and higher selling prices per ton for the others. If you think about what – in the third quarter, John, your question, I think our selling prices per ton relative to where we've been were a little bit lower, but it was because of a mix shift. We sold more tissue than we did towel and that's what drove that number.

So it's not really about the current business in terms of our selling prices. It's more about what you have to do to get future business and the channels that we're now competing in and the products and the different selling prices per ton based on what the product mix ends up being.

Okay. And if I could talk about gross margins, you indicated it's really a unit or production flow that affects it. Now when I factor out the $1.1 million gain that was in that gross margin, it was 12.9% for the third quarter. So I just wanted to get a feeling for what could we expect in the fourth quarter? I believe you said that we're going to see an improvement in Q4, so volume should go up. So with everything being stable, we can anticipate a higher gross margin than, say, 12.9%?

John, you're predicating that on an error. That $1.1 million adjustment was in the second quarter, so it was affecting the year-to-date numbers, but it didn't affect the...

Oh, I'm sorry. I thought it was additionally related to an incident in the second quarter. I apologize for that. That was in the second quarter. I apologize for that. So it wasn't – okay.

The margin is drawn – if you're looking at the gross profit margin, it was drawn by increased depreciation and Barnwell costs principally, as well as the production overhead. To address an earlier question a little bit more specifically, the production overhead at Barnwell is running about $1.5 million a quarter right now. We're really not – haven't ramped up much and aren't getting much production. So that's sort of sitting there as a – until we get more sales, that is. So we're really sort of just looking that as a fixed startup cost. And some accountants would capitalize that, say, we're in ramp-up mode, we haven't hit our critical mass or production targets yet. So they would be capitalizing those as startup costs. And we've taken the very conservative view of just expensing all of the costs whether they're related to the ramp-up or not. So you're seeing the full impact there of everything we're spending at Barnwell.

Okay. So a little pick up in volume in the fourth quarter at Barnwell, obviously, margin should improve?

Yes.

And speaking of Barnwell, you said it was about currently $1.5 million a quarter out of Barnwell. How much could you relate to new customers? Because I would assume there's some cannibalization of existing customers that were included in the Barnwell plant. So I wanted to get a feel for what are the new customer volumes or revenue that we're looking at in Barnwell at this point?

Well, I have to go out and carve that out. I mean, our sales are really essentially flat year-over-year. So the impact of all of the competitive activity is kind of weighing all this. But I can tell you that we picked up new distributions. So trying to carve that out, John, we can do that maybe offline and so you understand what that looks like. But as I mentioned, we've added – when you think about the volume for Barnwell, it's really about Pryor, Barnwell and Mexico. It's really about the whole company's volume.

And the distribution, we have picked up new DCs in Barnwell, regional ship-to points, if you want to think about it that way. Our branded business is moving east. So we've got branded business shipping out of Pryor. We got more out of Pryor than we do out of Barnwell, but we expect Barnwell to gain volume as we move toward the East Coast and we add new customers. We've got some national new business, if you will, that will be allocated to each plant. So that's incremental for Barnwell. And there is some business that we have moved to Barnwell that was part of Pryor because of ship-to regions. So that's also a part of what's in there.

But I will tell you that Barnwell, the way it's been designed, has a better cost structure than Pryor, mostly because of the assets that we put in place and the team structure that we've put in place. So anything we can do, even on marginal distances from a freight standpoint, we will be loading up Barnwell probably more quickly than Pryor might be.

Okay. And press release mentions a 40% increase in your sales force. So I just wanted to get into the SG&A expenses how we should be looking at this going forward? When in the modeling perspective, I know that you came off, what is that $2.5 million, almost $2.6 million in SG&A in your third quarter? So Q4 going forward, I mean, are you done with the increase in your sales force? What can we expect as far as these expenses?

Yeah, I mean, the sales force adds $0.25 million, something like that, to that. The real impact though is brokers. We've got a lot of boots on the ground and they get paid based on a commission. So they get paid as the volume goes up. So really, it's a combination of we brought on what I believe are two outstanding people in our group and the broker network that we've established gives us a lot of boots on the ground to go drive new business in different channels. The drug channel, military channel, the Home Depot channel, whatever that's called, a lot of different channels that we're exploring right now.

Okay. So looking at the $2.6 million level which was in Q3 and Q4, Q1 of next year, should we look at this to creep up somewhat? Or are you at a level now that you feel you're comfortable with?

I'd say both in that we expect it to creep up. Creep is probably a good word, meaning we don't expect much change, nothing material...

Okay.

The Q3 number reflects the additional personnel. We may do some additional advertising there. There are those broker fees that Jeff was alluding to that will creep it up with volume or go up with volume. So it will go up, but nothing materially.

Okay. And just one final question, well, Hurricane Matthew obviously pretty devastating in the Southeast region and that really started in the tail-end of September, the bulk of it really hitting those states in October. So I'm just curious if you know of any potential impact on any of your customers related to this hurricane that might impact your sales in the fourth quarter?

No. I have not heard of any issues with our customer base having problems because of the hurricane.

Okay. I just wanted to make sure. Thank you.

Our next question is from Michael Laderer with Henley. Mr. Laderer?

Yeah. I am just going to say hello. My questions were addressed. Thank you.

Our next question is from Michael Taglich with Taglich Brothers. Mr. Taglich?

Hi, Can you hear me?

Yes, Mike.

First question. Hi, guys. Hi, Jeff. With regard to the capacity expansion in the industry that happens continuously in this industry, Jeff, would you give me your viewpoint of how many months worth of capacity are being built on an absorption rate, if you would? And also if there's a differentiation in the quality of that whether it's premium capacity or value? And I'm looking at a net number with retirements and such. I can understand your viewpoint about how these expansions get announced and they're normal. But how long it takes to get absorbed in the growing population we have? And to what extent the retirements of some of the less marketable type of paper affect that?

Okay. Well, when you think about the growth of the space in total and this is everything. So what I have been told is that the market grows at a rate of about 70,000 tons a year, which is like one machine, maybe a little bit more than that. So that's in the system. Now, the new capacity that's being put into the system that I'm aware of – and we never know about what's being retired, so we'll just call this net gains. There was a lot of investment made a few years ago by some of the bigger companies with TAD machines. Those are all in place. They're all up and running. That's in the system already. The new capacity that's coming in is us and we're at only 35,000 tons of paper capacity. Resolute has announced or is in the process of building a 70,000 ton facility and Sofidel has announced they are building a 140,000 ton facility, all of that being fully integrated probably by the middle to the end of 2019. I mean, to me, that's all absorbable. So that's kind of the first question and it's based on rates where that is now.

Now the second part to think about is the quality of the assets that are being put in are all ultra-premium assets. Resolute has announced they are putting in NTT structured tissue and so is Sofidel, NTT structured tissue. So that product plays in the ultra-premium space or maybe the high-end premium space. But Resolute is going into retail, I believe. Sofidel is a combination of away-from-home and retail. So they may end up taking – they may be using some of that capacity in the away-from-home market.

So for us, we've created – our goal is we've created over the last year three years, we put 35,000 tons into Barnwell. We've created another 15,000, 20,000 tons because of Pryor. So we're positioned to sell out a much smaller amount than everybody else is. And we're doing it by focusing on expanding our distribution channels, changing our product mix from a higher ultra-premium/premium mix and doing it with a cost structure that I believe that nobody else will have in Barnwell. That allows us to be innovative and still run a variety of different furnish mixes to get our cost structure low enough to be competitive.

Yes. That's my follow-up question, if you will. I mean, you said before this expansion that your expectation was you'd be the low-cost manufacturer in the area of these ultra-premium – or of the premium product lines, if you would. I just want to double-check, you still feel that way?

Yes. I do. I do. The asset we're putting in, the work that I did in Sweden with other people indicates to me that we can run a variety of furnishes which is important for our cost structure and get the high-quality products that we need to be competitive. So from a quality and cost standpoint, that's what I expect from this machine.

Okay. From a converting side standpoint, I mean, you've got that up and running to some extent, is there anything you've seen that would have you back off that? Obviously, the mill will be up and running and just on the converting side [indiscernible] (47:51)...

No. We've been going through our startups and it's not gone as well as I would like to have seen it. We've made some leadership changes. We've made some other changes in the business. But right now, I feel like that the trends in the right direction and we're preparing to escalate those trends based on some changes that we've made. But the assets themselves I think are great assets. We're seeing the quality that we expected from the converting assets and for us right now it's load the plant up so that they can really drive their efficiencies based on having volume and the pressure to perform, if you will.

All right. Great. I'm looking forward to a fourth quarter, have to wait three months plus though. I'm sure. So okay, so September was strong, October those trends continued and you don't see any reason why we shouldn't see that flow through from here?

Yeah. I look at third quarter as the bottom of the curve and fourth quarter will be better. I mean, there's always some wishy-washy stuff that happens because of seasonal things. You've got Thanksgiving and the holidays and how people order. But I'm really excited about what I think will happen in the first quarter to be honest with you. I think we'll be fine this quarter and maybe even better. We have got our rollouts happening. But a lot of that is being funneled in. We're doing a lot of promotional activity starting this quarter, but I think the fruit is going to borne in early first quarter. And we also have bids that are out there that I'm waiting to hear answers on, but I'm very optimistic that we will net gain business based on these bids.

Terrific. All right. Thanks a lot, guys. Enjoy the day. [Operator Instructions]

This concludes our question-and-answer session. I would like to turn the conference back over to Mr. Schoen for any closing remarks. Mr. Schoen.

Well, thank you for your time. There were a lot of great questions in there and just want everybody to know that we're extremely focused on delivering this plan. Obviously, the competitive pressures have been a headwind for us. But all that's done just caused us to accelerate what we are focused on to grow our business. So I'm happy to talk with analysts further about their models and I look forward to talking to you again in January.

The conference has now concluded. Thank you for attending today's presentation. You may now disconnect.