Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Rodney D. Gloss — Chief Financial Officer, Orchids Paper Products Co.
Jeffrey S. Schoen — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Orchids Paper Products Co.
Michael Fawzy Malouf — Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC
John Nobile — Analyst, Taglich Brothers, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, and welcome to the Orchids Paper Products Third Quarter 2017 Earnings Conference Call. All participants will be in listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] After today's presentation, there will be a question-and-answer session. Please note this event is being recorded.

On the call today are Jeff Schoen, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Rod Gloss, Chief Financial Officer.

I will now turn the call over to Mr. Gloss. Please go ahead.

Good morning, and thank you for joining Orchids third quarter 2017 earnings conference call. During this call, I will provide a review of the third quarter's results and then Jeff will provide an update of the business and guidance for the fourth quarter. We'll then conclude with a question-and-answer session.

Before we begin, I'd like to draw your attention to the Safe Harbor statement issued in yesterday's press release. Please remember that certain statements made during this conference call are forward-looking statements within the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, estimates, assumptions and projections that are subject to change, and actual results may differ materially from the forward-looking statements.

Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include those risks and uncertainties described in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Form 10-K for the year December [ph] ended (01:45) 31, 2016, as well as our earnings release and any supplemental information. Any forward-looking statements are made only as of this date, and the company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.

During our remarks, we will be making references to both GAAP and non-GAAP measures. The reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP measures is included in our earnings press release, which is also available on our website. Non-GAAP measures we use include EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA. We'll also be making a distinction between operating cash flows attributable to changes in working capital and other operating sources and uses of cash.

Management believes that these non-GAAP measures provide incremental information useful in understanding the cash flows and operating performance of the company. The EBITDA measures are also required and evaluated by our lenders. The non-GAAP measures should not be construed as alternative or better metrics than the GAAP measures.

Moving forward with the comparison of the financial results in the third quarter of 2017 relative to the third quarter of 2016, revenues, net of discounts increased $5.5 million or 14% in the third quarter of 2017, compared to the same period in the prior year. Net sales of converted product benefited approximately $4.2 million from increased volume, while a lower average selling price per ton, net of discounts had a negative impact of approximately $500,000.

Additionally, parent roll sales increased $1.8 million, resulting directly from ramping-up capacity at the new mill in Barnwell, South Carolina, making more conventional parent rolls from prior available for sale.

Gross margin in the third quarter of 2017 was 6.1%, down from 15.7% in the third quarter of 2016. The 960 basis point decline was driven by several factors. First, lower pricing inclusive of changes in freight negatively impacted gross margins by roughly 330 basis points. This was the result of an elevated competitive environment as well as competitive pricing for new business.

Second, higher material costs [ph] hit (04:16) margins by approximately 380 basis points. Higher material costs were principally due to lower than expected ramp-up of fiber recovery at Barnwell, as well as a general increase in fiber prices. We also saw a general increase in other material prices. The fiber recovery system at Barnwell is currently fully operational and we expect to drive an increase in future margins as a result.

Third, utility and recycled fiber costs in Mexicali increased, driving margins down by approximately 280 basis points. We expect that the ramp of new business in the new Barnwell facility over the next two quarters will drive additional sales growth as well as improved margins. In addition, the company is currently in process of engaging in various cost reduction programs that we believe will expand margins in coming quarters.

SG&A expenses increased $0.5 million principally due to contributions of excess inventory to support hurricane relief efforts and due to increased legal and professional fees. Interest expense increased $200,000, or 29%, to $0.8 million due principally to increased debt levels. Our interest rate is largely variable and dependent upon our financial leverage, and was 5.2% at the end of the third quarter of 2017.

Interest expense for the third quarter of 2017 excludes $1.5 million (sic) [$1.6 million] (05:50) of interest capitalized to the Barnwell, South Carolina, capital project, pending its completion, compared to capitalized interest of $300,000 for the same period in 2016.

A tax benefit of $2 million was recognized in the third quarter of 2017 compared to tax expense of about $700,000 in the third quarter of 2016, reflecting both a decline in pre-tax earnings and the company's recognition of tax credits on a year-to-date basis.

As a result of the foregoing factors, net income of $700,000, or $0.07 per basic share, was recognized in the third quarter of 2017 compared to net income of $2.2 million, or $0.21 per basic share, in the third quarter of 2016. Adjusted EBITDA in the third quarter of 2017 was $3.9 million, compared to $7.1 million in the third quarter of 2016.

Operating cash flows, excluding changes in working capital, decreased $7.6 million compared to the third quarter of 2016, primarily reflecting the decrease in net income, net of changes in deferred taxes. Changes in working capital provided $0.9 million of operating cash flows in the third quarter of 2017, principally as accounts payable decreased a bit more than accounts receivable increased. Cash from borrowings in both periods was used to finance investments in the Barnwell facility.

Comparing the third quarter of 2017 with the second quarter of 2017, revenue grew 17.5% and gross margins improved by roughly 2 margin points. The margin improvement was primarily impacted by better product mix, improved absorption at our Pryor plant, driven by increased production and sales volumes as opposed to the increases in SG&A expenses noted in price comparison. SG&A expenses declined about $300,000 due to the avoidance of timing issues noted in the prior quarter such as a high degree of employee claims, medical claims [ph] and a higher level of legal and consulting expenses (08:16).

I will now turn the call over to Mr. Schoen.

Good morning. Sales in Q3 experienced strong growth due to new business that started shipping in June, leading to an annualized revenue level of about $180 million. We successfully replaced the business [ph] lost to branded (08:36) and other competitors in 2016, but had an approximate 3% margin hit, including reductions in net selling prices plus higher freight costs related to a higher mix of delivered pricing. Looking forward, we are pursuing specific cost management programs in the range of $4 million to $5 million to recover margin.

We are on track to complete the start-up curve of the Barnwell facility by the end of 2017, as we stated previously. Relative to our start-up curves, the paper machine has met all expectations from a product quality and cost standpoint. The fiber prep and recovery systems, which are part of the overall paper-making system ramped up slower than expected, resulting in a temporary increase in fiber cost. The fiber prep and recovery system is now fully operational, which should drive an improvement in future margins.

In August, we announced the addition of a new ultra-premium customer that when fully implemented by Q2 2018 will increase total company sales to a range of $220 million to $240 million. I am pleased to announce that starting in December, we expect to ship at 50% of the final sales run rate and ramp to full production by the end of the first quarter of 2018.

As I previously stated, the Barnwell plant was designed to produce ultra-premium products at higher selling prices per ton and margins than the value in premium segments of our business.

The paper machine has met all start-up expectations and is fully capable of delivering the product quality and capacity to support the new business. This new business [ph] will load (10:18) the Barnwell facility at approximately 80% and will provide 40% to 50% contribution margins.

Our largest cost increase of the last year has been the overhead and infrastructure at the new Barnwell, South Carolina plant. As we ramp-up our recent customer win with ultra-premium converted product business at this facility, we expect to see a substantial increase in selling prices per ton in gross margin as this new business will significantly offset the margin deterioration we have seen in the value in premium product segments.

Our banks granted us with a covenant waiver in the third quarter, as we're in the final stages of ramping production in our new Barnwell facility, which we again expect to drive a significant increase in revenue and margins. The company is focused on working with the banks to properly finance the debt structure in a way that allows Orchids to implement its business plan in a lower risk environment.

Beginning this quarter, we are going to start providing earnings guidance to our investors. Taking into account seasonality factors and the beginning of the ramp-up of the new business, we expect fourth quarter revenue to be in the range of $43 million to $46 million and adjusted EBITDA to be between $4 million and $5 million.

With that, I will now turn the call back to the operator for questions.

We will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] The first question comes from Mike Malouf with Craig-Hallum Capital Group. Please go ahead.

Thanks. Thanks guys for taking my questions. You kind of guided the $220 million to $240 million run rate at the end of the first quarter when everything is up and running. Can you give us a sense of what would cause you to be at sort of the lower end or the higher end of that range? And then, within kind of new business pipeline, is this pretty much [ph] gets you (12:45) to where you want to be as far as capacity or do you have any more that you can squeeze out? And is there any other, obviously, smaller [ph] prospect in the wings (12:54)? Thanks.

So starting with the new business and the range that we provided. I think what we've learned in the past with some of the customers is sometimes the ramps are slower than they expect. And so, that's what would drive a lower number. It's not really a function of not getting the business. It's a function of how fast we roll it out and it's a combination of couple of things. One is the orders that come in, they come in based on historical, where they are. That's one factor. So the rate at which they come in and the rate at which they are managing their business is a factor. I will tell you though that a bigger factor from our perspective is the ability of us to ramp-up. They want us to ramp-up faster if we can.

Right now, with Barnwell up and running, we're at that 50% run rate. The other 50% is dependent on Pryor coming up and all that they need are certain change parts, which we expect to arrive by the end of December. So really a combination of those two things is the reason we have the range for that particular business.

Regarding overall capacity, we said that this business and existing business of Barnwell will [ph] sell us out (14:28) at about 80%. If you think about the total tons in the company, we've got about 130,000 tons. So we probably got in the range of 15,000 to 20,000 tons available, which represents couple of million cases probably in that range.

So really from a company perspective and absorption, we're in that sweet spot, where we can really start to drive cost, cost savings and cost management by becoming more efficient [ph] and then (15:02) the marginal capacity that we increase, because of that, I think gives us another 20,000 tons [ph] and (15:09) couple of million cases of incremental sales opportunity.

Okay. Great. And then, when you look into 2018, and let's assume by, say, the end of June, you are fully ramped, can you give us a sense of where are the gross profit, given some of the cost controls that you've tried, that you've started to implement and some of the, obviously, savings with regards to fiber that you're going to get now [ph] that you're (15:32) operational? So can you just give us a sense of where that gross profit you think will shake out once you are fully ramped with these two large clients?

I think when we look at our models right now, I really want to give better guidance on the year after we get [ph] the (15:54) fourth quarter, but I think our models are same. We're in the 18% to 20% EBITDA run rate by the time we fully ramp-up this new business and execute some of our cost management programs.

Okay. All right. Great. And then, with regards to the debt, there's obviously a lot of movement going on. So your banks have given you how much time to sort of [ph] refinances (16:19) and are the banks considering just doing it on their own? Can you just give us a little bit more color on that, because it seems like it's taken a long time to get something in-place? And maybe you just needed to get this thing ramped up before they were – kind of give you the green light, but I'd love some color on that. Thanks.

Obviously, we [ph] all (16:40) want to do what's right for all of the stakeholders in this process. It's difficult for me to talk about specifics, because there are several windows that we are still pursuing. I do think though that the position that we're at right now, I do think that it's very valuable knowing that we have this new business and that we're completing the Barnwell ramp for the investors who have been looking at this with us and coming up with terms that are acceptable to everybody.

Being at this position with these headwinds effectively behind us, give me a pretty high confidence that we will be able to get where we want to be within this quarter. We're actually being somewhat held accountable to that. So there is a high sense of urgency to deliver that. And as I said, there are several options that we are exploring right now, that we think lead to a path that satisfies all stakeholders.

Okay. Thanks. [Operator Instructions]

The next question comes from John Nobile with Taglich Brothers. Please go ahead.

Hello, good morning, and thanks for taking the questions. I wanted to start with the converted sales, was $42 million in third quarter. And I remember last call, it was mentioned that in June and July, the converted sales volumes were at an annual run rate of about $180 million to $190 million and that that at the low end is really about $45 million a quarter, and you just reiterated that with the saying about $180 million run rate. Now I look at the numbers at $42 million, and I say, okay, it's about $3 million shy from the lower end of the run rate. So I just wanted to get a handle on the $42 million versus really the run rate that was mentioned, of $45 million? What were the mechanics in that? Were there any manufacturing issues in that that the customers require less, was it selling prices? I just wanted to get a handle on that.

$180 million run rate includes parent rolls, John. So that's [ph] what I was (18:59)...

Oh, I thought that was converted. Okay. If I remember [ph] that, bringing that up (19:02) on the last call, and it was mentioned that that was on converted sales.

Well, we're at $180 million run rate. Let me talk about the converted sales. So in June, you have a pipeline [ph] fill (19:16) that occurred. So we were higher as a run rate in June than we were in July, because we saw July come down and then we saw August come up close to normal levels, I would say. Then the hurricanes hit us, which impacted us probably somewhere in the neighborhood of 50,000 cases between the two things. I mean, it was really a big deal in terms of shipping down there as well as having higher freight cost to get it done. So cleaning it up, what I'm saying is our run rate is about $180 million. Now you load on this new business and you're $220 million to $240 million.

Okay. Because I do remember, you did say that it was on the converted sales. I brought that up specific, last call. That's why I was looking at really about a $45 million rate. But now we're looking at parent roll sales. Okay. All right. I'll take that into consideration.

One other thing that was [ph] – well, they're (20:13) supposed to be minimal and this was brought up on the other call too, interest being capitalized from the Barnwell project in the third quarter. So I look and I see that this quarter you've really capitalized about $1.6 million of the interest in the third quarter. And I just wondered why that much was capitalized. I think there was still only about $5 million of CapEx for the project. I was surprised to see that high of capitalized interest in the third quarter. And that leads me to a question, to ask if there's anything left to be capitalized in the fourth quarter?

John, first part of that on the interest. We didn't finish up the project as early as we thought on our last call. We're capitalizing all of Barnwell except for the recycling plant at the end of Q3. So September 30, the lion's share of the capitalized interest stopped, but [ph] it is a quarter at a (21:13) full allocation of capitalized interest. The only thing we'll be capitalizing interest on in Q4 is the recycled fiber plant at Barnwell that was completed in November. So we'll just have a month or a month and a half of capitalized interest on a small piece of the project in Q4. [ph]

But it (21:40) should be pretty minimal as far as what we're going to see capitalized in Q4?

Correct. We should see minimal capitalization of interest in Q4.

Okay.

I think there was another part to your question. [indiscernible]

(21:56) that was the other part as far as what's left to be capitalized in the fourth quarter. But with the new business mentioned in August, I'm curious if you'll be able to satisfy that with your existing paper machines. And I'm curious if you would need to purchase parent rolls in the secondary market at that $220 million or $240 million run rate.

The answer is at this point no. Our goal is to sell Barnwell out with 100% ultra-premium paper, frankly. That's where we get the highest selling prices and margins and EBITDA contribution from. So at this point, we're not anticipating buying parent rolls.

Okay. So no problem even with the – towards the higher end, if it was $240 million, you should satisfy that with your own machines, right?

Yes. And we can go even a little bit higher there in terms of overall parent roll sales. It depends on the mix.

Okay. And that just leads me to another question, because it's still working on qualifying the ultra-premium products, [ph] with (23:01) certain retailers, I believe that's still ongoing. I was wondering if you can elaborate on how well that's actually going. Haven't heard anything sort of the August release as far as winning that business. But how is that going with the qualification of other retailers? And I'm just curious if you do get a significant further increase in business, are you going to need to expand further from where you are now?

Well, keep in mind, John, that the new business we announced in August is 100% ultra-premium paper. So we have qualified very robust process for this particular customer. It took us several months even pre- the machine started up to work through this. So as far as I'm concerned, it's been qualified by one of the best qualifiers in the country.

Having said that, we've also qualified with a couple of other customers that are in the final stages of looking at pricing. But I'm very happy and confident with the fact that the paper that we've produced on this machine matches what we expected when we bought the assets two years ago.

Okay. Only because you had mentioned earlier that you're going to be near capacity [ph] – well about (24:16) 80% capacity with the new business, which really bumps you up nicely. Congratulations on that. But I'm just – call it a good concern about another significant retailer jumping on ship and hitting your capacity [ph] you're (24:31) going beyond that, but I guess we'll address that if and when we get there.

Yeah, I think you asked – when we get there there's definitely opportunities. Of course, our focus right now is really managing the debt structure of the company and getting that where it needs to be before we talk about moving any farther beyond that.

Just one final question. I don't want to hang up the whole call here, but your higher cost inventory affected the second quarter and I believe, it was supposed to be exhausted in the third quarter, which obviously affected your margin. So I just wanted to find out if indeed that higher cost inventory has been fully exhausted and if we could expect a significant – an improvement in your margin starting in the current fourth quarter?

John, mixed answer on that. The cost adjustment that you're referring to is at Pryor that – as we've loaded volume back on Pryor, its cost per unit has been declining. And so, we've got a lower cost inventory now out of Pryor. We haven't hit that same benchmark at Barnwell yet. Now we should hit that benchmark in Q4 with the new business being loaded on. So we will be working off high cost inventory at Barnwell late in the fourth quarter and the first quarter of next year. So, yeah, we sustained all that for Pryor, but we've got some high cost inventory at Barnwell we'll be working through in Q4 and Q1.

Okay. That's all I have. Thanks for taking my questions.

This concludes our question-and-answer session. I would like to turn the conference back over to Mr. Schoen for any closing remarks.

Wow. That's probably the fewest questions I've ever had. Well, anyway, I want to thank everybody for their time. If I look back six quarters on this business and where we were Q1 of 2016, it's a reference point that I've used, we've come a long way to mitigate the volume that we ended up losing, but we've recovered it. And I really believe that with Orchids selling ultra-premium on our QRT line that that's a game change for this company, and we should see significantly improvement in results in Q4 and Q1 moving forward. So I appreciate your time.

The conference has now concluded. Thank you for attending today's presentation. You may now disconnect.