Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Jeffrey S. Schoen — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Orchids Paper Products Co.
Louie M. Toma — Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC
Michael N. Taglich — Co-Founder, President & Chairman, Taglich Brothers, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to the Orchids Paper Second Quarter 2016 Earnings Conference Call.

All participants will be in listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] After today's presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask questions. [Operator Instructions] Please note today's conference is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Jeff Schoen. Mr. Schoen, please go ahead.

Thank you, operator. Good morning and thank you to everyone for attending our 2016 second quarter earnings call. With me today is our Director of External Reporting, Kimberly Peak.

The agenda for our call today will begin with my review of the second quarter results. I will then provide my perspective on our results and on our business environment. We will conclude with a question-and-answering session.

I would like to remind you that certain statements made during this conference call are forward-looking statements within the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 as amended. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, estimates, assumptions and projections that are subject to change, and actual results may differ materially from the forward-looking statements.

Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include those risks and uncertainties described from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015, and our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2016, as well as our earnings release and any supplemental information.

Any forward-looking statements are made only as of this date, and the company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.

I would like to point out that during my remarks I will be making reference to both GAAP and non-GAAP or adjusted results. The adjusted results exclude certain charges that we believe are not indicative of our core operating performance. A reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP measures is included in our earnings press release, which is available on our website.

For the second quarter of 2016, those adjustments to EBITDA included $386,000 of non-cash stock compensation expense and for the [ph] 2015 (02:23) quarter included $423,000 of non-cash stock compensation expense.

Adjustments to net income for the 2016 and 2015 quarters totaled $504,000 and $14,000, respectively, on a tax [ph] effective basis. Those tax effective (02:41) adjustments included the just mentioned non-cash stock compensation expense of $255,000 and $280,000, respectively, and intangibles amortization of $249,000 and $250,000, respectively.

The 2015 quarter also includes an offsetting adjustment of $516,000 from a change in our estimated state tax liabilities. Due to the material amount of our intangibles amortization, we began using that expense as a net income adjustment beginning in 2016.

So with that, let's discuss the results of the second quarter and our path forward. Following a very strong quarter, second quarter of 2016 proved to be a challenging quarter for the company. With adjusted EBITDA of $8 million for the quarter, we reported adjusted EBITDA margin of 20.3%, which includes $1.1 million of business interruption proceeds for the incident that occurred in our converting operation during the fourth quarter of 2015. Adjusted diluted earnings per share came in at $0.30 a share.

Net sales for the quarter were $39.4 million comprised of $39.3 million of converted product and $75,000 of parent roll sales. Net sales of converted products decreased 1% over the prior year quarter and 13% on a sequential quarter basis. Net selling price per ton was flat compared to the prior year and increased 2% on a sequential quarter basis.

Converted product tons shipped in the quarter totaled 20,000 tons, a decrease of 2% over the prior year quarter and a decrease of 14% when compared to the first quarter of 2016. Relative to Q1, the primary reasons for the increase in volume were heavy branded promotional activity and inventory reductions at a large customer.

Parent roll sales totaled $75,000 compared to $2.5 million in the second quarter of 2015 and $2.5 million in the first quarter of 2016. We made a strategic decision in the second quarter of 2016 to utilize excess parent rolls in our South Carolina facility as we believe this will result in future benefits in the form of higher margins on this tonnage due to it being sold as converted product rather than as parent rolls and will eliminate the requirement to purchase equipment tonnage on the open market to support demand at our converting operation in South Carolina.

Adjusted EBITDA for the quarter was $8 million, a decrease of $373,000 or 4% over the prior year quarter. On a sequential quarter basis, adjusted EBITDA decreased $3.6 million or 31%. Our adjusted EBITDA margin for the quarter was 20.3% compared with 19.8% in the second quarter of 2015 and a record 24.4% in the first quarter of 2016.

Our second quarter adjusted EBITDA margin was favorable, impacted by 2.7% due to the business interruption proceeds previously mentioned. The decrease in adjusted EBITDA margin is attributable to several factors, including increased promotional activity on branded products by our competitors, inventory reductions by our largest customer and lost margins on parent roll sales as previously mentioned, along with higher production costs, start-up costs in South Carolina and profit-sharing with Fabrica.

Production costs increased in Q2 2016 compared to Q2 2015, primarily due to higher repairs and maintenance expenditures, partially due to the planned annual cold mill outage, a 33% increase in depreciation expense due to assets placed in service since the second quarter of 2015, including $36.6 million of assets in South Carolina, and approximately $300,000 of start-up cost in South Carolina, including approximately $150,000 of relocation expenses.

Production costs increased on a sequential quarter basis primarily due to higher repairs and maintenance expenditures, depreciation on South Carolina assets placed in service and South Carolina start-up cost as previously discussed, and approximately $120,000 of additional outside warehousing cost due to lower sales level in Q2.

In addition, the above slowdown in volume related to branded activity left Orchids with a higher cost structure than what's required for the volume necessary to support [ph] current (07:06) sales. The cost structure is rebalanced in Q3.

Fiber prices were favorable on a year-over-year basis by approximately $600,000. On a sequential quarter basis, fiber prices remained flat. Margins under supply agreement were favorably affected on a year-over-year basis due to the favorable U.S. dollar to peso exchange rate and lower overall operating cost in the Mexicali site.

On a sequential quarter basis, margins under supply agreement were unfavorably affected by profit-sharing under the supply agreement, which became effective in March of 2016 when we purchased more than the 20,000 tons allowed under the agreement. Keep in mind that the contract resets itself every year on June 1.

SG&A in the second quarter of 2016 increased $264,000 or 12% compared to the 2015 quarter to $2.5 million or 6.4% of net sales, compared with $2.2 million or 5.3% of net sales in the prior year quarter, primarily due to higher professional fees and higher artwork and design fees.

Turning to taxes. Our effective rate for the full year is estimated at 34.1%, which is comparable to the 34.2% estimated as of the end of the first quarter of 2016. This estimate includes the effects of the Indian Employment Credit, which was extended through the 2016 tax year.

While the second quarter was somewhat soft due to the factors described above, on a year-to-date basis, net sales of converted products increased 10% over 2015, while sales of parent rolls increased 2%.

Converted product tonnage shipped in 2016 increased 11% over the prior year. Net selling price per ton decreased 1% compared to the prior year. Adjusted EBITDA is up $6.4 million or 49% in the 2016, while adjusted EBITDA margin increased to 22.6% in 2016, compared to 16.6% in 2015.

Adjusted diluted earnings per share was $0.85 in 2016, compared to $0.59 in 2016. Operating performance rates in our ongoing operations have improved 15% in 2016, and another 3% due to production in our South Carolina facility as we have produced over 5 million cases thus far compared to 4.2 million cases in 2015.

Additionally, our paper mill production has increased 23% year-over-year, primarily due to the addition of our new paper machine in March of 2015. Furthermore, tonnage shipped under supply agreement increased 9% in 2016 as compared to 2015.

Now turning to the balance sheet and cash flow. Cash flow from operations in the quarter was $7.5 million primarily as a result of cash earnings, a decrease in accounts receivable and $1.8 million of insurance proceeds received related to the fourth quarter incident in our converting operation. These factors were partially offset by increased inventories due to decreased sales during the quarter.

Capital expenditures in the quarter were $20.2 million, including $17.8 million of expenditures on the Barnwell project. We utilized $2.3 million of restricted cash related to our New Market Tax Credit transaction to fund a portion of the Barnwell expansion and incurred borrowings of $12.7 million under the delayed draw term loan and revolver. During the quarter, $3.6 million of cash was returned to shareholders in the form of dividends.

Total debt outstanding was $104.6 million as of June 30, 2016. Total debt includes about $60 million in borrowings related to Barnwell. Unrestricted cash stood at $6.2 million, resulting in net debt outstanding of $98.4 million. Our funded debt to EBITDA ratio was 2.69 times at quarter end and our fixed charge coverage ratio stood at 2.89 times.

Cash flow from operations is expected to range between $8 million and $10 million per quarter for the remainder of 2016. For 2016, our capital expenditures expectations are approximately $94 million including $85 million for Barnwell and $9 million for the Oklahoma facility.

As we look forward, our priority is to continue to source Barnwell and Pryor with new business from existing customers while also aggressively pursuing new business through bids and branded product introductions. Competitive pressures from both branded and private label competitors are strong as they were at this time last year. Inevitably, I believe that retailers will respond to the branded promotion pressures and a new balance will be restored. In fact, the volume increases Orchids experienced in the fourth quarter of last year and the first quarter of this year were partly driven by the response to branded promotional activity at this time in 2015.

I expect a similar shift as we move forward. Orchids is also introducing an expanded branded program that was tried on the West Coast successfully [ph] and is on way (12:15) to a national roll out beginning in Q2 that will continue for the rest of the year with additional new product introductions. We expect our branded program to provide additional lift to the business as we compete for new private label business.

Relative to the guidance we have given, I would say we're about four months behind where I expected us to be, but we have plans to get us back on track and continue our profitable growth plan.

Finally, keep in mind that Orchids experienced 24% margins in Q1 with margin improvement driven mostly by productivity improvements. Orchids has the ability to [ph] continue effectively to ensure we load (12:46) the plants in a way that ensures a very competitive cost structure and healthy margins for the business.

Finally, as you know, we are currently in a search process for a CFO. The process has been in full attention and is moving forward with streaming candidates and interviews.

With that, I'll turn the call back to the operator for questions.

Thank you. We will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] And today's first question comes from Louie Toma of Craig-Hallum Capital. Please go ahead.

Hi, guys. Thanks for taking my question. Just wanted to get a little bit more insight into the branded promotions that you mentioned. When do they start? We're currently one month through the third quarter. So are they still going on at the same level? Can you just give us a little bit insight in terms of that, please?

Yeah. They started probably early, mid-second quarter. They're still going on. If you think about what happened a year ago at this time, branded promotions are something that happen. We don't always know about them. [ph] We (14:26) typically spend money, a lot of money to gain share back.

In the mean time what happens in private label is, they have short-term response to this, to try and increase the price gap. And usually, what has happened is, well, they redesign product to make a permanent fix relative to what the brands are doing. That's what happened last year. It's what's being worked on right now. So that's kind of the summary of where I think [ph] we've always had particular issue (14:55).

Right. Thank you. And just one more question. How should we think about the parent roll shipments to Barnwell over the next couple of quarters? Did you shift enough in this last quarter to last till the new paper machine comes on or do you expect to continue to ship for the next three quarters? And give us some insight into what your current sales are coming out of Barnwell and how that balances with the inventory? Yeah, thanks.

Yeah, I wouldn't say that we've got enough in Barnwell to last us through the [ph] end of the year (15:34). So I expect us to continue to ship. I would say though that our parent roll inventory across the company is high right now, higher than I wanted it to be. But I do expect to continue to ship parent rolls to Barnwell this year.

The majority of what you have in inventory, is that parent rolls or some of that converted product?

A lot of it's converted product. When we were in the situation in the second quarter, we elected to convert the parent rolls into finished goods based on giving the plants an extra level of inventory to support orders as well as give them flexibility in terms of their production start-up curves.

Got it. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

Our next question is from Michael Taglich of Taglich Brothers. Please go ahead.

Hi, guys. Tough quarter in a sense, but I'm excited about the progress you're making in Barnwell. Jeff, if you had to look into the second half of this year, calendar year, do you think results closure to the first quarter are more likely than results closer to this quarter?

I think I can answer that, [ph] say, somewhere in between (17:05) above that. We did almost 6.3 million cases I think for the first half. If we just do that [ph] at 12 sect (17:22), I expect us to be – we always do better in the second half than the first half historically. Plus you got Barnwell adding on production. Without giving you a full added up number that's kind of to the way I would view it right now.

Another way to think about it is lost opportunity from the second quarter. If I assume I just use [ph] Street (17:46) numbers of $0.39 versus $0.30 actual, that equates to about $1 million of EBITDA at 20%. That's about $5 million in sales, appropriately 400,000 cases.

So if the world stays that way, we'd come in probably in the range of 12.5 million to 13 million cases, but as I also stated, I don't believe – [ph] actually (18:21) we did nothing and we're not doing nothing. We're continuing to grow our business plus we're responding to the branded promotion activity.

When you look at [ph] sell any additional capacity of (18:33) Barnwell, obviously you're going to ship some stuff from Barnwell that you were shipping out of Pryor, right? So you have basically excess capacity at Pryor and Barnwell [ph] in reality in the way it shapes out (18:46). What your goal is for selling out this excess capacity? [ph] What would be (18:55) a reasonable expectation that we should have going forward based on the way the world is today?

Well, the way to think about is what is the process to add capacity. It's a combination of the branded roll out that we're doing with supermarkets. That just started. So I expect that to ramp up over time. And by the beginning of the year, I expect that to be in full sell mode. So [ph] it's that piece (19:25). You've also got bids and there are several very large bids going on with major retailers. And I expect to be very aggressive within those bids, given the – when I think about the first quarter and I reemphasize the point that we had probably 4% margin point improvement, because of productivity improvements.

So very important for us to recognize that [ph] a lot of the plants were (19:53) gaining efficiencies because of that issue. That means Orchids has the ability to be more aggressive, if you will, in these bids to try and get larger pieces of business. So that's an approach there. And now with existing suppliers, we're also being aggressive there to add more DCs, and work towards helping our partners, if you will, recognize that we add value in other ways than just being a supplier of converted product.

So those are the three engines, if you will. Right now lot of the bids are targeted for this fall, but the volume will show up in the first quarter of next year. So you've got that factor in terms of 2017 that will be in play. Right now we are rolling out branded products [ph] product for me to (20:46) estimate what that looks like right now. So our main focus right now, still relative to the plan that I had, is to gain additional DCs with existing customers.

Ideally it would be great to sell your capacity [ph] model (21:05). But I mean, is your guess that you'll have the converting line sold [ph] out-ish, your excess capacity sold out-ish (21:10) when you turn on the mill?

No, no. My goal, if I'm going to commit to something – the sell-in process, I think that we typically use as two years to sell it out. So we got one line in production. The second one is coming into production in August. So my goal, my vision in terms of what we're trying to do is all of the objectives I've laid out in terms of long-term come to fruition in 2018. That's my endpoint for the current plan that we have now, which would include filling up Barnwell and filling up Pryor, if you will.

The rate at which that happen, again, it will come in slugs. We'll get a ramp because of the branded. As we add DCs with existing customers that will be a function of somewhat of the bid process, but really it's an impromptu bid process. And then, the formal bid processes are timed and we'll get the volume. We'll get the big slug of volume based on winning a bid.

Right.

And again, a big part of that for me is in the first half of next year. We're successful with bids this year. We will see that volume and we'll see the lines load up fairly quickly in the first half of next year.

One more question. How much money is laid out as of the end of the June quarter in capital equipment, and therefore, debt that's not yet turned on? [indiscernible]

(23:01). So, Mike, I think the answer to your question is there's about $60 million that's not in service. About $36 million of that is being depreciated today.

Okay.

Of course the total capital expenditure for Barnwell is in the neighborhood of $140 million, which would be paper machine, paper machine building, et cetera.

Is the $60 million including the underutilized part of the overall plant, if you will, or just the machinery itself has not yet turned on?

Well, to think about the building in terms of all the assets not being, there's a piece of the building that's underutilized, yeah.

Yeah. Okay. So not counting that part [ph] for what it is. Okay. So $60 million is just machinery that's on a border for practically available (24:09)?

In building. That $60 million includes the building.

Okay. Okay. All right. So that $60 million is right now providing zero return. All right, good. That's all what I've got. I'm looking forward to this thing getting turned on. Thanks.

Thanks.

And ladies and gentlemen, this concludes our question-and-answer session. I'd like to turn the conference back over to Mr. Schoen for any closing remarks.

Thank you for your time. We will talk to you in approximately three months.

Thank you, sir. That concludes today's conference. Thank you all for attending today's presentation. You may now disconnect your lines and have a wonderful day.