Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Rodney D. Gloss — Chief Financial Officer, Orchids Paper Products Co.
Jeffrey S. Schoen — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Orchids Paper Products Co.
Michael Fawzy Malouf — Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC
John Nobile — Analyst, Taglich Brothers, Inc.
DeForest Richard Hinman — Analyst, Walthausen & Co. LLC
Evan Greenberg — President, Legend Capital Management
Michael N. Taglich — Co-Founder, Chairman & President, Taglich Brothers, Inc.
Jackson W. Webster — Analyst, Boston Hill Advisors

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning and welcome to the Orchids Paper Products Second Quarter 2017 Earnings Conference Call. All participants will be in listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] After today's presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask questions. Please note that this event is being recorded.

On the call today are Mr. Jeff Schoen, President and Chief Executive Officer; And Mr. Rod Gloss, Chief Financial Officer. I will now turn the call over to Mr. Gloss. Please go ahead.

Good morning and thank you for attending Orchids' second quarter 2017 earnings call. I'll begin with the standard notices and then review the second quarter's results. Jeff will then provide his perspective on our results and on our business. We'll conclude with a question-and-answer session.

Please remember that certain statements made during this conference call are forward-looking statements within the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, estimates, assumptions and projections that are subject to change, and actual results may differ materially from the forward-looking statements.

Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include those risks and uncertainties described in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016, as well as our earnings release and any supplemental information. Any forward-looking statements are made only as of this date, and the company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.

During our remarks, we'll make references to both GAAP and non-GAAP measures. The reconciliations between GAAP and non-GAAP measures are included in our earnings press release, which is available on our website. Non-GAAP measures we use include EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA. I will also be making a distinction between operating cash flows attributable to changes in working capital and other operating sources and uses of cash.

Management believes that these non-GAAP measures provide incremental information into the cash flows and operating performance of the company. The EBITDA measures are required by our lenders and the non-GAAP measures should be construed – should not be construed as alternative or better metrics than the GAAP measures.

I will now compare financial results in the second quarter of 2017 to those in the second quarter of 2016. Net sales decreased $1.0 million or 2%. Major factors leading to this decrease include parent roll sales volume increased $3.7 million; while converted-product sales volume declined $2.3 million; and there was a decrease of $2.3 million in average converted-product prices, reflecting both the lower prices associated with new bids which became effective in 2017 and the product mix sold to a changing mix of customers.

Cost of sales increased to $4.4 million, or 13%. Standard cost of sales for parent rolls increased $2.4 million due to the much higher number of parent-roll tons sold. This leaves a $2.0 million, or 7% increase in cost of sales that is primarily attributable to converted product sales. Major contributors to this increase in their approximate order of significance include, the addition of labor, overhead and start-up costs for Barnwell not yet been fully offset by production and absorption. This accounts for the largest portion of the relative cost increase.

When sales and production volumes increased in June, absorption increased and per unit cost decreased, but this was more than offset by the sale of older, higher-cost inventory, manufactured when operating leverage and operating efficiencies were lower.

Next, the timing of health care claims filed by employees drove significant increases in benefit cost in the second quarter of 2017. Fiber usage increased and higher prices were paid for fiber on the West Coast for Mexicali. Labor usage increased and utility costs increased, principally due to significant rate increases in Mexicali. Additionally, the second quarter of 2016 benefited from the recovery of $1.1 million in business interruption insurance proceeds, which did not reoccur in 2017.

SG&A expenses increased $0.8 million principally due to increased legal and professional fees and the timing of employee medical claims.

Interest expense increased $0.3 million, or 96%, due to principally to increased debt levels. Our interest rate is variable and dependent upon our financial leverage, and was approximately 5.1% at the end of the second quarter of 2017. Most interest was capitalized to the Barnwell, South Carolina's capital project, pending its completion.

A tax benefit of $0.4 million was recognized in the second quarter of 2017 compared to tax expense of $1.3 million in the second quarter of 2016, reflecting both the decline in the pre-tax earnings and the company's recognition of tax credits. The effective combined tax rate estimated in the second quarter of 2017 is 21%, lower than the statutory rate principally due to Oklahoma tax incentives that are not proportional to income.

For those of you who have requested guidance as to the expected future tax rate, I believe it likely to increase between 24% and 27% for the balance of 2017, and it's moved to within the 30% to 34% range for 2018.

As a result of the foregoing factors, a loss of $2 million, or $0.20 per basic share, is recognized in the second quarter of 2017, compared to net income of $2.6 million, or $0.25 per basic share, in the second quarter of 2016.

EBITDA was $1.6 million in the second quarter of 2017 and $7.6 million in second quarter of 2016. The change is principally related to the change in pre-tax income. Adjusted EBITDA was $2.5 million in the second quarter of 2017 and $8.2 million in the second quarter of 2016. The principal difference between EBITDA of $1.6 million in the second quarter of 2017 and adjusted EBITDA of $2.5 million was an add-back of $760,000 for start-up costs incurred at Barnwell in the quarter.

Operating cash flows, excluding changes in working capital, decreased $2.2 million comparing second quarter 2017 to second quarter 2016, primarily reflecting the decrease in net income, less the noncash impact of deferred taxes.

Changes in working capital nominally used $5.1 million of operating cash flows in the second quarter of 2017, compared to $1.2 million in the second quarter of 2016. However, this $5.1 million net use includes a $5.4 million increase in tax refunds receivable expected to be carried forward to future years, and this is another non-cash transaction. Exclusive of this increase in tax refunds receivable in 2017, working capital provided $0.3 million in cash. This $0.3 million net figure principally reflects receipt of $3.5 million of tax refunds in the current quarter and an increase in accounts payables, largely offset by increased inventories and accounts receivable that are in support of our new business.

Turning to comparison second quarter 2017 relative to the immediately preceding quarter. Net sales increased $3.1 million, or 9%, as the previously announced new business began to be produced and shipped in the second quarter of 2017. Parent roll sales increased $1.3 million. Converted product revenues increased $1.8 million; a $2.4 million increase resulted from the increase in volume and a $0.6 million decrease resulted from a decrease in the average price.

Cost of sales increased $3.5 million, or 11%. Standard cost of sales for parent rolls increased $1.3 million with $0.9 million of this increase being attributable to the greater number of parent-roll tons sold. This leaves $2.2 million, or 7%, increase in cost of sales that is attributable to converted product sales, freight costs, and manufacturing variances. The converted-product-tons sold increased 7%, roughly the same relative figures as the cost-to-sales, exclusive of the parent rolls. There was a net $0.4 million increase in cost principally attributable to the sales of higher-cost inventory produced in first quarter and to the unfavorable material usage variances. Barnwell's start-up cost were estimated within $760,000 in second quarter of 2017 versus $312,000 in the first quarter of 2017.

SG&A expenses increased $0.7 million principally due to increased legal and professional fees, the timing of employee medical benefits, and the timing of recognition of stock options.

Interest expense remained relatively flat at $0.6 million in the second quarter of 2017 compared to $0.5 million in the first quarter of 2017. Most interest incurred was capitalized to the Barnwell, South Carolina, project, pending its completion.

A tax benefit of $0.4 million was recognized in both the second quarter of 2017 and the first quarter of 2017.

EBITDA was $1.6 million in the second quarter of 2017 and $2.7 million in the second quarter of 2016. The change principally related to the change in pre-tax income. Adjusted EBITDA was $2.5 million in the second quarter of 2017 and $3.1 million in the first quarter of 2017. Barnwell's start-up cost being the most significant adjustment to EBITDA in both quarters.

Operating cash flows, excluding changes in working capital decreased $0.8 million compared to first quarter of 2017, primarily reflecting the decrease in the net income, net of non-cash changes in deferred taxes. Changes in working capital provided $0.3 million of operating cash flows in the second quarter of 2017, net of the non-cash $5.4 million increase in tax refunds receivable expected to be carried forward to future years. This is compared to $1.2 million net source of funds in the first quarter of 2017, also net of the non-cash change of $5.0 million in the tax refunds receivable in that quarter.

At June 30, 2017, debt, not having been netted with unamortized deferred debt issuance cost, was $167.6 million and was largely incurred to finance the construction of our integrated converting facility in Barnwell, South Carolina. The total project expenditure for the Barnwell facility is appropriate $160 million, of which $155 million had been expended as of June 30, 2017.

The fiber processing plant in Barnwell is expected to be completed this week; otherwise, Barnwell plant was completed in June. Roughly $5 million of related invoices payable and unbilled amounts remains to be paid.

At June 30, 2017, our leverage ratio was 8.8, and the fixed charge coverage ratio was negative 0.2. Our lenders waived the leverage ratio and fixed charge coverage ratio requirements for June 30, 2017. As of June 30, 2017, the borrowing under the credit agreement and the term loan that are due in 2022 were reclassified as current on the balance sheet due to uncertainties regarding our ability to meet the existing debt covenants over the next 12-month period. There can be no assurances that our lenders will agree to further waivers or amendment to the existing debt covenants. While management intends to amend or refinance the debt, there can be no assurance that we'll be able to obtain additional financing on terms that are satisfactory to us or at all.

I will now turn the call over to Mr. Schoen.

Good morning. As expected, June sales increased significantly reflecting the new business we announced last January. Our current sales run rate including July results is in the range of $180 million to $190 million with case sales rates in the range of 12 million to 13 million cases annually. Strategically, this new business helps us broaden our customer base and sales concentration, although we must continue to diversify our customer base and further reduce the risk associated with customer concentration.

On a positive note, I expect the new business we started in June to be stable for at least three years, assuming Orchids executes well in terms of quality and service. This particular retailer believes the processes take a lot of time and people resources that can be better focused by working with key suppliers and applying those resources to areas that add more value like product development, cost management, supply chain management and speed-to-market.

Although our operating cost came down significantly in June, the overhang of higher cost inventory produced in April and May resulted in over $2 million in cost flowing out of inventory and then the cost of sales in June. The April and May cost structure represented the highest cost structure we experienced this year due to reduced sales and production volumes.

Moving forward, the higher cost inventory would be fully replaced by the end of August since we use a three-month lagging inventory average as the basis for inventory valuation. Also keep in mind that the cash cost of the inventory has been recovered as we sell the older inventory. EBITDA will be positively impacted by cost savings as the older inventory is replaced which will be reflected in Q3 earnings. In addition, as we sync up production to sales, the company will increase its absorption which will have a further positive impact on EBITDA.

Moving on to Barnwell, we designed Barnwell to give Orchids the capability to compete effectively in the ultra-premium product segment where higher selling prices and less competition presently exists. Right now, ultra-premium paper capacity in the industry appears to be tight reflecting the growth rates in the ultra-premium product segment.

Only a few years ago, private label competitors announced new ultra-premium with TAD capacity expansions in the amount, I believe of about 500,000 tons. Today, that capacity appears to be fully utilized as both national brand and private label companies have announced new expansions in TAD and NTT capacity scheduled to start up in 2019 and 2020, reflecting what I believe is a shift by the consumer to higher quality products as well as private-label quality approaching national brand quality.

The new QRT product capabilities as well as the limited ultra-premium capacity position Orchids well to enter the ultra-premium space. QRT is a hybrid machine that includes what are the best parts of a TAD, NTT and light dry crepe machine. The quality of the paper rivals TAD without of a higher cost structure associated with TAD. We have successfully passed the product qualification for ultra-premium bath tissue with a potential major new customer and are in the process of finalizing the qualification of an ultra-premium kitchen towel. In addition, we are qualifying ultra-premium bath tissue and kitchen towel business for private-label bids that are currently underway and for which we expect shipments in 2018.

Finally, we are qualifying existing ultra-premium converters with TAD-equivalent paper that would allow us to sell parent rolls at higher average selling prices per ton than conventional paper, while we work to sell out the converted product capacity.

We believe any new ultra-premium business will increase our average selling price per ton, an EBITDA contribution relative to our current conventional paper averages. As we sell out our existing available capacity which is in the range of 4 million to 5 million cases on an annual basis, along with cost optimization, we expect EBITDA margins to recover to a range within – between 18% and 22%. Given the early success we're having on the quality of the products and our expected cost structure, we are highly optimistic we will be able to sell out our new capacity in 2018.

We expect Barnwell to complete its ramp-up curve by the end of the year. The paper machine is currently operating at a rate of about 20,000 tons to 25,000 tons on an annualized basis. Given the complexity of this project, although not satisfied, we are happy with this progress and expect all current line speed and delayed bottlenecks to be resolved in Q3 with continued optimization to occur in Q4.

Right now, Orchids' complete focus is on execution from a quality and service standpoint to existing customers, selling out our new capacity, cost management and debt management. We have substantially completed our capital expansion plans. Looking forward, we expect minimal capital spending in 2018, averaging in the range of $4 million to $5 million on annual basis.

We have implemented a margin improvement plan that includes both selling price increases on some existing business as well as cost management plans targeting material spends, efficiencies and services.

As Rod mentioned, we are working closely with our banks who have been very supportive as we complete the capital projects and begin to realize the associated benefits. We believe the stock is grossly undervalued relative to the potential of the company. Concentration risk has been reduced with the addition of 3-plus million cases outside of the dollar channel. Execution risk has been reduced with the start-up of Barnwell. As we move forward, our cost structure will be improved significantly, as we sell out the new capacity and implement our cost management plans. We are positioned to sell out our new capacity in the premium and ultra-premium product segments given the tight capacity in some of these product segments.

Given all of this, we believe the stock is grossly undervalued. Given our story is a positive one, we expect to resolve the debt concerns through a refinancing program with our existing banks or with an alternative debt structure in Q3.

Finally, Orchids is well positioned to sell out its new capacity at higher selling prices and margins. The timing associated with these new wins will be a function of product quality qualification, timing of new premium and ultra-premium bids, and opportunities that present themselves due to tight ultra-premium capacity.

With that final thought, I will turn the call back to the operator.

We will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Mike Malouf of Craig-Hallum Capital Group. Please go ahead.

Great. Thanks for taking my questions. And some of the [indiscernible] (21:21) you pointed out is nice, but I think the key question continues to be around the debt. I know that on the first part of the prepared comments you said there's no assurances. But then later you said that you have pretty good conversations with your banks right now with regards to refinancing this, in this quarter. So, can you talk a little bit more about how that process is going, what kind of options you have and what we should sort of expect with regards to the debt side? Thanks.

Well, we have an active process going on with our banks to look at all different scenarios in terms of refinancing. I think most people know that there are several options, there's the term loan A market which is what we're currently in. Term loan B, there's an ABL scenario that could exist, there's mezzanine. All these things are being evaluated to determine what's best for Orchids.

I would say though that, I know people are looking at operating leverage and are concerned as we are, but if you think about the company from an asset perspective, our debt is $167 million, $160 million of that is because of Barnwell. Over the past three years, we've invested probably $40 million and prior – another $37 million in our Mexican operation on the West Coast. When you look at that number, that's $40 million, $30-something-million – $70-some-million, of which $7 million of that is left. So, we have built an asset base in the company that – book value is probably $360 million, replacement value is probably $460 million.

So, when you think about the debt from the perspective of assets, $160 million relative to those numbers, we're looking at debt-to-equity ratios even – I think our debt-to-equity ratio is about 0.5. We're in a good position to get the financing done. The question is what's the right way to get it done, that's what we're focused on, and that's the path that we're on. As opposed to the equity side, and of course, that's still an option, there are lots of people who want to invest in the company at this stage, but it's not the best option. The best option for us is to pursue the path that we're on.

Okay. And then a quick question on the operating leverage you mentioned, so the targets of 18% to 22% with regards to EBITDA. At what kind of revenue run rate on a quarterly basis would that be sort of achievable?

We sell out, you mean.

Yeah, Mike, do you mean when we're – as sold out in capacity which we expect in 2018 or are you talking about the present situation?

You mentioned that you think that the leverage is able to get up to the 18% to 20% range. I'm just wondering what type of revenue rate does that equate to in your model?

It's basically loading up the capacity in the EBITDA levels that we would expect in 2018.

And what would that be on a revenue basis?

Sorry, I don't have the dollar figure on the tip of my tongue, and the dollar figure depends greatly on mix, but [indiscernible] (25:06) capacity, we're thinking about 135,000 tons of capacity which – what's that equate to in cases. About – multiply that 135,000 tons by about 150 or 160 cases per ton and you have a case figure.

But in terms of dollars, it depends on the mix. To the extent we're...

Let me answer that. We're at $180 million to $190 million. We've got 5 million more cases. That puts us at the $250-plus million range in terms of revenue. The 18% to 20% puts us at $50 million of EBITDA. That's what our model says we will attain by increasing our mix from a more ultra-premium to what our current base is, and the cost structure that we've developed at Barnwell will support that.

And you still feel that that's a target to reach on annual sort of a run-rate basis by the end of 2018. Is that sort of your target?

Yes, yes.

Got it. Okay, thanks for taking my questions.

Our next question comes from John Nobile of Taglich Brothers. Please go ahead.

Hello. Good morning. I just wanted to get some clarification on the $180 million to $190 million range of sales for June. Now is this converted product we're talking about or is this total?

Jeff is basically quoting converted product.

That is converted. Okay. And what type of gross margins are we looking at with the – that annual run rate of $180 million to $190 million? I know your June figure was that. And did you say that July was also at that rate right now? So we're currently at that rate?

July, we're at the same sort of sales rate as June, and Jeff has put in his comments that we're expecting 18% to 22% EBITDA margins going forward on the sales.

And that's – that's at a new curve, that's a new curve.

That's in 2018, I believe.

Yes.

...18% to 22% EBITDA margins.

Correct.

I'm just saying, at this point here, because EBITDA margins to be at that rate, you're looking at nearer to $250 million revenue rate, I believe. Correct?

Right. That's correct.

Okay, so what...

We're not there yet because of Barnwell's start-up curve and optimization we have to do relative to the volume and right-sizing the organization as we go through this ramp-up.

Okay. Actually, interest expense, I noticed that it seemed like a small amount on the income statement. However, I imagine a great portion of it was capitalized. Could you give us that number, how much interest expense in the second quarter was indeed capitalized?

If you take roughly $160 million of debt times about 5% interest rate, you should come up with the annualized number, and then divide by 4 to get to the total.

Total interest...

Sorry, I'm not remembering it off the top of my head. But you are correct that the...

Right, right.

...the lion's share of the interest was capitalized in the quarter because we didn't complete Barnwell until late June.

Okay. So with Barnwell complete into the third quarter right now, there should be no more capitalization of interest, am I correct? We'll see the full interest on the income statement?

With a small exception, we're completing the paper processing plant at Barnwell. It should be completed this week. It's – some place, it's less than a $5 million investment. So that part of it...

Okay. It will be relatively insignificant.

...hasn't been capitalized yet, but with that exception, yes.

Okay. And how much of the newly won business that was announced earlier in the year – I think it was in January; you had the 8-K out there. How much of that actually contributed to the second quarter sales? Now, you say you've ramped up in June, so I just wanted to get a feel for either revenue or if you can quantify that in tonnage, I'd appreciate that. Thank you.

Okay. So – I'm sorry, you were asking how many cases or dollars we sold in June as – on an incremental basis?

The newly announced business which I think was at least 30%, 35% over – I believe, it was last year's third quarter that you were looking to have an increase in converted tonnage. So, I'm just curious now that June sales have that in there. Well, actually the second quarter, how much of that really was from this new business that was mentioned earlier in the year?

Well, basically, all of it – almost all of it was implemented in June. So, we – there's probably another 10%, 20% that we're promised that hasn't been placed on order as yet. So, there should be a little bit more uptick in sales. But basically, all of that, 30%, 35% that we were promised and it kicked in, in June.

Okay. And I was just hoping to get a breakout of either the revenue or the tonnage that that contributed in your second quarter. I mean, roughly.

Well, I'll tell you the run rate that I quoted is – the $180 million or $190 million, our sales were – that were at that run rate in June. So, I don't – the quarter number, take that minus $60 million and that's the difference.

Okay. Let me just ask one more question. In the first quarter, the call, you had mentioned that results were impacted by a drawdown of inventory by a specific customer. I'm just curious if that's been alleviated in the second quarter or has that customer – is he still drawing down inventory?

No. No, that is no longer in play. That's been reconciled.

Great. All right. Thank you. Thank you for taking my questions.

Our next question comes from DeForest Hinman of Waltau & Co. (sic) [Walthausen & Co.] Please go ahead.

Hey. A couple of different questions about a few different things. As it relates to options for financing, have we considered rights offering at all?

My hearing is off today or something. I apologize. Could you repeat the question?

Have you guys considered a rights offering at all in terms of financing option?

Not really. We'd like to make a rights offering available to existing stockholders and give them the advantage of this low price. But any form of equity issuance at this point just seems a poor judgment because of the low price that we would be receiving for it. Again, we think that stock prices are grossly undervalued and hasn't to do anything on the equity side because of that.

Okay. That's helpful. And then a way to help us understand how you're working with the banks. And obviously, this is a trough and June is really this inflection point and it sounds like things kind of build from there. But, do we have an ability within our accounting systems to give the banks or people who are looking at doing this financing, monthly financial reports or even weekly financial reports that could really help them understand the story more on a forward basis.

We can give them monthly reporting, our bank syndicate has asked for that going forward. So, we'll be doing that going forward.

Okay. And you've also brought up a few important things on the qualifications for some of these customers. Could you clarify if those are existing customers or these would be entirely new customers?

Some of them are existing customers but a vast portion of what I've been discussing is new customers.

Okay. That's helpful. And to help us further understand that, when you talk about a product being qualified, historically, what's the time lag between a customer approving, they negotiate the price we agreed on that and then that potentially turning into a sale in terms of case shipments?

Usually three months, something like that. Because once you get the product qualified, you have to go through the process of setting up the item. In some cases, there's capital to invest in and then you have to produce, build the inventory to hit their ship dates. So, typically, when they say go, it's within three months.

Okay. Thank you.

Our next question comes from Evan Greenberg of Legend Capital Opportunity Fund. Please go ahead.

Yeah. Hey, how are you? That wasn't my question.

Good. Well...

So...

Go ahead.

I wanted to ask – can you hear me now? Okay.

Yes.

I wanted to ask about the parent roll shipments were way up, which I assume was because you had some, I guess, downtime in the facility in April and May, so you wanted to just keep the factory busy. Is that correct in terms of product mix, that impacted the quarter significantly?

I'd phrase it a little bit differently that the mills can run independently of the converting facilities, so we run the mills all out and make as much paper as we can. And then to the extent we don't need the paper for converted product sales, we sell the parent rolls, so we recovered cash flow and generated small margin on the parent rolls.

Right, okay. So we can assume that the parent roll shipments will be dropping significantly over the next two quarters as the converted product gets sold?

That's correct. As converted product goes up, parent roll sales go down.

Okay.

With the exception that we're bringing on the mill at Barnwell, so that will be adding capacity on parent rolls. So until we fill up Barnwell's converting operation that we may still have parent rolls, or we should still have parent rolls.

Right. The next question relates to the internal controls and processes that you put in at Barnwell and the start-up costs that you incurred. I'm sure you incurred normal start-up issues as you would have in any facility. What kind of issues did you see that you've already been able to say, we can eliminate that cost or we can eliminate that process, adding to the increased EBITDA margin in the future?

I think the main thing that you look at from the cost structure at Barnwell is the start-up curve. So, the paper machine coming up, your first month, you're debugging, et cetera, et cetera. The first month, we produced at a rate of, say, 30% of total capacity. When I quoted you the number now, we're at 20% to 25%. That's at approximately two thirds of capacity, and we expect in the fourth quarter to be averaging 85%, 90% with 100% going into January of 2018.

So if you're going through an optimization process, the cost structure of Barnwell, we have a relatively few converting assets, so the labor you can assume for the most part is fixed. So you get a lot of leverage as you're adding in converting capacity into that facility. Of course, we'll now get the absorption associated with the improved tonnage that will come out of the mill, and depending on how we sell it out, we will gain selling price and margin because this paper is more valuable than conventional paper, so to speak.

Okay. And final...

I'd add two comments to that. One is adjusted EBITDA for the quarter includes $760,000 of pure start-up costs that were added back to adjusted EBITDA. So on that line, we are adding back that figure, that $760,000. Cost of goods sold and EBITDA figures that are being quoted still include those start-up costs.

More to Jeff's point, the other point I'd make is that the main start-up cost is simply a lack of production, that we've added all the expense, particularly the fixed expenses for running the plant and the ramp-up curve, we just don't have the offsetting production for a while. So it's not so much that they're start-up costs as a lack of production as you ramp up the – of course, not a lack of, but a delay in production as you ramp up the facility.

Okay. And final question had to do with – I know the company owns some of these facilities. Is the debt – is any of the current debt – I know the current debt is attached to that. So could you do a sale-leaseback in prior for financing? Is that a possibility?

As a refinancing, as Jeff was referring to one of the possibilities is sort of asset-based loan where we'd use all of our fixed assets as – more as collateral and use it for a refinancing. That is an option. It's not like the facilities are unencumbered at the moment. All of the equipment is technically security provided to our bank syndicate. So it's not unencumbered at the moment. It would require a refinancing.

But is there any a real estate attached to the valuations right now of the company?

Yes, and we own our plants. We did not lease anything back at this point.

Okay. Great. Thanks.

Our next question comes from Mike Taglich of Taglich Brothers. Please go ahead.

Jeff, just for quick [indiscernible] (41:09) I've got one question on where we finally got [indiscernible] (41:12) congratulations, never do it again? But it's a joke.

If you do the inventory adjustment, if you adjust the EBITDA for the high cost inventory you blew out in June, is it wrong to look at the company is having kind of a $25 million EBITDA run rate at present?

John, I'm sorry. Mike, I'll try answering that. There's a lot of background noise in your line. But anyway the... [indiscernible]

(41:53).

Okay. Thanks. One month does not make trends. I've got to qualify with that. Plus, there are other factors going on that could add some uncertainties. But if we look at June's EBITDA rate, we add back $2.2 million of cost that we believe were liquidations of high value inventory, and we add back other timing anomalies like medical expenses and legal fees and certain things that just we're running at well above average rates, we would be looking at something closer to about $3.5 million of EBITDA of June.

So, you annualize that times 12, you're almost at a $40 million EBITDA run rate. But again, that's one data point. It assumes that these anomalies don't continue. A lot of the anomalies are timing difference as opposed to onetime events. So, a lot of qualification in that, we still have to prove out that sort of running rate. But again, June, if you take out all the anomalies, it does look like a good month and an inflection point.

All right, thanks. That's all I've got right now.

Our next question comes from [ph] Naveed Udddin (43:36) of Manalapan Oracle Advisors. Please go ahead.

Hi. I believe you filed a registration statement quite recently to raise capital, so I just wanted to know what's the capital plan going forward.

We don't have any specific projects on the table going forward, but as Jeff mentioned in his comments, just based on some sort of improvement projects that we'd like to do, we're envisioning some place around an annualized capital spend rate of $4 million, starting in 2018. I really don't expect anything else this year other than finishing paying off the Barnwell bills.

Okay, thank you very much. [Operator Instructions]

Our next question comes from Jackson Webster of Boston Hill Advisors. Please go ahead.

Hi. Thanks for taking my call. My question is more concerning cash and cash flow going forward. So it looks like in this quarter, you burned somewhere $4 million to $5 million in cash and down just above a $1 million cash position. So going forward, can you just talk about through the remainder of the year, how do you see cash flow evolving. And just to add on to that, how confident you are that this really was the inflection point, not only in EBITDA and maybe revenue but also cash flow going forward?

I'll address the cash flow and then maybe Jeff can chip in with his confidence level on the inflection point. The $1 million – getting down to the $1 million, I think, in a sense just reflects good treasury management. There was no reason to have a bunch of idle cash. The cash is better applied to keeping the debt down. We had about $7 million of headroom under our revolver at the end of the quarter that with the increase in receivables and inventory and being able to manage down our revolver debt with our bank syndicate, we actually created a fair amount of headroom there. So it, in many respects, just reflects a better treasury management. And we still have that headroom on our revolver.

The main issue on the liquidity and the cash situation going forward, it is really dependent on the refinancing or the bank syndicate sticking with us. In turn, we will – the work we did and we will be generating enough cash flow from operations to cover off any other requirements we have. So it will basically be a matter of taking excess cash and paying down the debt going forward. So I don't expect any liquidity shortage as long as we can work out something with the refinancing. We are generating enough cash and so forth to manage the situation. It's not a – nowhere close to a crisis on cash management or liquidity.

The operating cash flow number is a bit misleading that under GAAP, you look at all the changes and I'll call it working capital in the operating cash flow. But we've built up our tax as receivable by about $10 million this year. That tax receivable is an accounting calculation. We won't actually – we aren't actually investing cash in it and we won't get the cash back from the IRS until some future year, possibly even like 2020. So a $10 million use that shows up on the cash flow statement is really a non-cash item and it's unrealistic. So it's making the cash flow look worse than it actually is.

Jeff, you have comments about your confidence in the inflection point?

Well, I don't like – I'm not forecasting what we're doing. I would say the key to success for our business, one, was getting this new volume in place in June and having it actually represent what we were told it would represent, and so we're very happy with that. And that run rate really puts us back to where we were in Q1 of 2016.

Over and above that, the quality of the products we're producing out of Barnwell, and I'm very pleased with where that's at, finishing the project, we're happy that that's – that headwind is not in front of us anymore.

The key to success again is getting the things sold out and we have active plans to do that. On top of that, when you think about the business model that we're operating against, where we started off with a five-year plan, we've invested all the capital that we're going to invest in terms of expansion. We've created about 8 million cases of capacity with all of the investments we've made, we're sold out at about 12 million to 13 million . We've got another 4 million to 5 million to go.

And from a pure expansion standpoint, really, 2018 is just about harvesting the investments, getting our ROIC up where it should be and really cleaning up the business.

So, I'm confident that all of that will happen. I'm optimistic that it will happen. As I found with most of these things, it's all about timing and of course, the competitive landscape has changed significantly over the last few years and that probably will continue.

Thank you.

This concludes our question-and-answer session. I would like to turn the conference back over to Mr. Schoen for any closing remarks.

Well, I think the last comment I made was probably the way I wanted to summarize the business. I just want to thank all of the employees of Orchids have been working tirelessly to execute Barnwell and are working smart. The key to success for everybody is that our stakeholders, including our suppliers, our board, our employees are all working together to accomplish the mission that we set out to do three years ago.

So, with that, thank you for your time. We'll talk to you soon.

The conference has now concluded. Thank you for attending today's presentation. You may now disconnect.