Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Keith R. Schroeder — CFO, Secretary & Head-Investor Relations, Orchids Paper Products Co.
Robert A. Snyder — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Orchids Paper Products Co.
Marco A. Rodriguez — Analyst, Stonegate Securities, Inc.
John Nobile — Analyst, Taglich Brothers, Inc.
Gunnar G. Hansen — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC
John H. Curti — Analyst, Singular Research
Mike N. Taglich — Co-Founder, Chairman & President, Taglich Brothers, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, and welcome to the Orchids Paper Products Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2012 Financial Results Conference Call. All participants will be in listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] After today's presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask questions. [Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Keith Schroeder, Chief Financial Officer of Orchids Paper Products. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you, operator. Good morning and thank you to everyone for attending our fourth quarter of 2012 earnings conference call. My name is Keith Schroeder. I am the CFO. I am here today with Bob Snyder, our President and CEO.

The agenda for our call today will begin with my review of the quarterly and full year results. Mr. Snyder will then provide an update on key performance areas and initiatives in the company. After that discussion, we'll be happy to address any questions that you might have.

And with that, I would like to inform you that statements made during this conference call, other than those that refer to past events and results are forward-looking statements and are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions in the Securities Reform Act of 1995. Such statements involve risk and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth during this discussion. Among other things, these risks and uncertainties include the risks and assumptions described in Item 1A and Item 7 of our Form 10-K for the year-ended December 31, 2011.

We operate in an environment that involves numerous known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could materially affect our operations. We assume no obligation to update or supplement forward-looking statements that may become untrue because of any future events.

First, I will start with a few – some information. For the full year of 2012, we achieved record net sales for both converted product and total net sales. Net sales in converted products were $90.5 million, increase of 10% over the $81.9 million reported for 2011. Our total converted product shipments were just over 7 million cases another new record and we're 10% higher than the 2011 total of $6.4 million. Total net sales were $100.8 million, an increase of 3% over the $97.8 million in the prior year. Our net income for the full year of 2012 was $9.3 million, an increase of $3.1 million or 49%, compared to the $6.2 million of net income in 2011.

Our diluted earnings per share for the full year of 2012 are $1.18 per share compared with $0.80 per share in the prior year. For the fourth quarter of 2012, our earnings per share were $0.28 per share compared with $0.35 per share in the prior year quarter. We estimated our effective tax rate at the end of 2012 to be 30.9%, which is higher than the 30% we estimated at the end of the – in the last nine month timeframe.

As a result, our EPS for the fourth quarter of 2012 was negatively affected by $0.02 per share. In the fourth quarter of 2011, earnings per share were positively affected by $0.03 per share due to the change in our estimated effective tax rate. As a result, the earnings per share comparison excluding the effective tax rate changes were $0.30 per share in 2012 as compared to $0.32 per share in 2011.

Now, for some additional information, the total net sales for fourth quarter of 2012 were $24 million, which was a decrease of 6% from the $25.7 million of net sales in the same period of 2011, a $2 million decrease in converted product net sales was slightly offset by a $380,000 increase in parent roll sales.

The lower year-over-year converted product sales was primarily due to promotional activity by certain of our customers in the 2011 quarter that did not repeat in the current year quarter. As discussed in our last conference call, the new business wins that we disclosed in October of last year were not expected to have a material effect on Q4 shipments, as these shipments were expected to begin – for the most part in the first quarter of 2013.

Tonnage shipments of converted products for the fourth quarter were lower than the prior quarter by about 10%, while net selling prices per ton were up about 2%. For the full year period, as previously mentioned, converted product net sales increased 10% when compared to the prior year timeframe.

Fourth quarter sales levels were under expectations. This shortfall was primarily driven by a particularly soft month in the middle of the quarter, which negatively affected our earnings. Shipments rebounded nicely in the month of December and the current month of 2013, and the year 2013 is off to a very strong start and within our expectations.

Converted product tonnage shipments were up about 12% in the year-over-year comparison, while net selling prices per ton were lowered by about 1%. For the full year period, parent roll sales were lower due to increased parent roll requirements to meet the higher converted product sales.

Our gross profit for the full year of 2012 was $22.6 million, an increase of $6.6 million or 41% over the prior year period. Our gross profit margin improved to 22.4% in 2012, compared to 16.3% in 2011. The margin improvement is due to lower fiber prices, the favorable mix shift to higher margin converted product business from lower margin parent roll business and lower per unit converting production cost. These factors were somewhat offset by higher maintenance and repair costs in the paper manufacturing operation.

In a year-over-year comparison, our fiber costs were lower by about $5 million. Converted production costs were favorably affected by the cost absorption effect of a higher volumes and improved efficiencies. Maintenance and repair costs in the paper manufacturing operation were higher in 2012 by approximately $822,000. As discussed in the third quarter call, maintenance and repair costs returned to more normal levels in the fourth quarter and we expect that trend to continue in 2013. The gross profit for the fourth quarter of 2012 was $5.4 million, excuse me, which was relatively flat with the $5.6 million reported for the same period of 2011.

As a percent of net sales, our gross margin improved to 22.6% in the fourth quarter of 2012 from 21.8% in same period of the prior year. Lower fiber costs and lower repair and maintenance costs being partially offset by the lower converted product sales and higher converted product – production costs were the primary reason for the improved margins in 2012. Fiber costs were lower in the fourth quarter of 2012 by approximately $1 million, when compared to the prior year quarter.

Maintenance and repair costs in paper manufacturing lowered by approximately $300,000 in the current year quarter; converted product production costs were higher due to the resulting effect on cost absorption of fixed cost for matching production of converted products with the lower sales.

I'll now provide a little flavor on the fiber market. Recycled fiber prices dropped in the first two months of the fourth quarter and stabilized in the final month of the quarter. We have experienced some strengthening in our recycled fiber costs so far in 2012 – 2013, excuse me, as prices have increased about $10 per ton in both January and February.

Selling, general and administrative expenses in the fourth quarter of 2012 were in line with expectations, which was slightly higher than those experienced in the prior year quarter. As a result of the lower sales in the current year quarter, SG&A expense as a percent of net sales increased to 8.4% compared to 7.4% in the prior year.

I would now like to turn your attention to the balance sheet and cash flow. Total debt outstanding as of December 31, 2012 was $16.2 million. When netted against our cash and short-term investments of $10.7 million, our net debt was $5.5 million. There are no amounts outstanding under our revolving credit agreement as of the end of the quarter. At the end of the year, our funded debt to EBITDA ratio was 0.75:1 and our debt service coverage ratio was 3.56:1.

For the full year period in 2012, we generated cash from operations of approximately $17.5 million, excuse me, this was comprised primarily of cash earnings, which were partially offset by increased inventory levels to support the increased converted product sales.

Our capital expenditures for 2012 amounted to approximately $6.8 million. 2012, we made principal payments of $1.2 million and returned $6.4 million in cash dividends to our shareholders. We expect the capital expenditures for the full year of 2013 to be approximately $10 million, comprise approximately $5 million of base capital and $5 million of improvement projects. The major improvement projects include an upgrade of the towel lines and improved product flexibility and increased output, and a project to improve our fiber yield.

I will now turn the call over to Bob.

Thanks, Keith. I'm Bob Snyder. It's great to speak with you again. We are very pleased to announce record sales achievements in both converted product and total net sales for the full year of 2012. This result is a reflection of the continued success of our new product development and marketing efforts, which are allowing us to successfully penetrate the mid and premium tier markets.

2012 was a good year on the operational front as well. Our paper machines produced just under 57,000 tons which established the new production record. In converting, our efficiencies improved in 2012 over 2011, helping lower our production costs per unit by about 5%. The 7 million cases of product ships in 2012 were also a new record. Our previously announced new business gains of 1.1 million cases are progressing in line with expectations.

As previously discussed, the 1.1 million case of a new business started shipping primarily in January 2013, providing a solid start to 2013, as our shipments in January set a new monthly record. The new business is proceeding according to expectations and we expect it to be fully reflected in our first quarter shipment levels.

We have secured additional business, which we expect to start shipping by the beginning of the third quarter of 2000 – of this year, which will raise our annualized case shipment rate – run rate to approximately 9 million cases, and a full year shipments are expected to be approximately 8.7 million cases.

The market for new business remains very active, and we are optimistic about our chances to gain additional business prior to year end. Our new product quality along with our best-in-class customer service continues to provide substantial business opportunities for our organization.

Our sales trends have been very positive and our expectation for future sales are that we will continue to be – continue this positive trend. This momentum continues to move us further down the path of utilizing all of our paper making capacity and our converting operation. Thereby maximizing our profit margins and continues to move us closer to fully utilizing our converting capacity.

Now, I will turn the call back over to the operator for questions.

Thank you, sir. [Operator Instructions] The first question will come from Marco Rodriguez of Stonegate Securities. Please go ahead.

Good morning, gentlemen. Thank you for taking my questions. I had a quick follow-up in regard to the decline year-over-year on the converted products, if I heard you correctly, it was your end customers they were having promotions that led to the decline, is that – did I catch that correctly?

What I think you – no, you have a misunderstanding I think. In 2011, there were some promotions that then repeat in 2012.

And those promotions were by the end customer of your products, correct?

That'll be right.

Okay.

That would have been in increased sales in 2011 promotion.

Okay.

They went across all this is.

Yep, okay. Perfect. And then just if you could give us a little bit of flavor here, I'm just wondering what sort of insight you might have from your end customers in regard to those types of activities that might give you, I don't know, a bit of a forewarning going forward?

I think what it is, is more about a stable rather than promotional business. You got to think of promotional opportunities as opportunistic. And really the sales that we're talking about are basic – not promotional per se they're basically pretty standard sales.

Okay. And then maybe you can also help me understand something perhaps I'm just misunderstanding something, but I believe that in Q3 you had discussed about 150,000 new cases from business that I was anticipating was going to hit in Q4, yet it seems like case volume was flat sequentially. Can you talk a little bit about that?

Well, the volume was really – as far as the starting of that volume is really starting in the first quarter of this year.

Okay. And then just to get another clarification on the 9 million case annualized run rate from new business that starts in Q3, or is there a ramp between today and Q3?

It'll be phased in, but it should be fully phased in by then.

Can you discuss a little bit how that ramp's going to look?

Well, it usually takes some time during that that time period from that business of getting – working with the customers as far as our work in that type of thing, but it usually takes a couple of months. It could be even longer, but two to three months and that's why we say it'll be phased in by that time.

Okay. Do you expect more of a hockey stick bend as – because the volumes increased when they hit that annualized run rate in Q3?

No, I think it'll be a phase-in, but fully operational by then.

Okay. Got it. And then last quick question, what was the percentage of revenues that were into the mid-tier market. And then if you could provide some additional color on how your efforts are kind of progressing there?

Well it's – let me do it this way. Let's take the first month of January of this year and let's look at it from that view point, and quite honestly, the run rate that we sustained in that record was basically what you would think as the annualized run rate of about 8.1, which is what we've been telling you.

Now in that month, you would have said that 32% of the volume would have been mid-tier type products and otherwise if you would annualize that run rate, it'd be about 2.6 million cases. And then with the – some of the other business gains we were talking about that will be phased in here in the near-term, it's about another 80,000, 90,000 cases of business which when you get done with it, would put you at about 3.6 million case annualized run rate of mid-tier and higher tier products.

Great. Thank you, guys.

Our next question will come from John Nobile of Taglich Brothers. Please go ahead.

Good morning, guys.

Good morning, John.

I just want to get back into the fourth quarter numbers as far as the cases that were shipped; I know you said that they're really starting in 2013. However, I know the original part of that 1.1 million cases was approximately 700,000 cases annually. And that was supposed to start in Q3, and really show up in the whole second half of 2012. So I was just curious if you could shed light onto why these orders might have been postponed, really almost half a year?

I don't see it is being postponed, I think from the time that we brought up the fact of knowing that we're going to get the business. And we're replacing another vendor and they usually have to work that vendor out and as we get our output put in, I think your timing and I believe John is a little off or an understand – misunderstanding of what was said. At the same time, we, to get it fully implemented really took the fourth quarter of getting that done and getting the other suppliers out of the stores and us in.

And the Q4 converted product numbers as far as cases or tonnage, what was that exactly?

Could you come back at that again please?

Yeah in the fourth quarter, the converted product tonnage or cases either/or, actually if you have both that would be great?

John. This is Keith. The cases we shipped in Q4 were right at 1.7 million, just a tad under Q3. Okay and there's really one thing I want to go back on your first question. What we had – we talked about in the last call is that the 1.1 million cases was going to be really for 2013. We did expect a bit of that to start in Q4 of 2012. But wouldn't be fully implemented until this year.

I thought that was the 400,000 cases. The second part of that order that was supposed to be really fully implemented in 2013, some of it in 2012, but the original 700,000 case order which was mentioned in Q2, I thought was supposed to start at least it was said it would be starting in the third quarter. That's why I was surprised to see the fourth quarter numbers as low as they were.

Got it.

And on fourth quarter again ,1.7 million cases, I could do the math, but if you have that as far as tonnage is concerned?

Total tons was 12.6mt, converted product was about 10.4mt.

10,400 converted okay.

Yes, 10,400, yeah.

1.7 million is actual converted cases obviously.

Yes.

Okay. Now, the additional new business you mentioned, that it'll bring it to about 9 million case run rate, I just wanted to get the particulars as far as that new business alone. What are we looking at for that alone in cases and tonnage?

Well cases would be nine million cases, right. Okay.

But nine million cases in total business – for total business, but just for that additional business, what are we looking at?

That's around – that was around 700,000 cases, I think that's about right.

Okay.

700,000 on an annualized basis, John.

Right, 700,000 annualized. So it's a significant order obviously, and if I could just ask you to convert that to tonnage while we're on the call?

Use about a 160 cases per ton.

Okay. So 160 cases of ton. I could do the math.

Yeah.

Now, if I could just get into – I know you breakup gross margins just as a total converted and parent rolls, but if you could shed some light just onto the converted product margins and the parent roll margins separately, I'd appreciate that?

The way to look at it going forward when you do the math on the additional tonnage that we're going to consume in converting with all this new business, the amount of parent roll tons that we'll sell in 2013 is going to be very small, okay.

Right.

So what you then want to look at is the effect of all the additional converted product business on our overall margins for 2013 as you know; and as you know from the work that – on that, there is a lot of fixed cost in the operation. So what will happen is that excuse me, when the – as this new business picks up, there's a significant amount of fixed converting overhead which does not go up and a significant amount of administrative overhead, which does not go up.

So the margins we will make on this new incremental business will be a lot more than the margins on our overall business for 2012.

Okay, but I was just hoping to get more of an actual number say even if you were to break out on the year or for the fourth quarter, what the converted product gross margins might have been?

We don't get into that level of detail, John, but I think if you go through year work, you can figure that out pretty quickly.

Okay. And just one final question, I know that tax rate was just a little bit off from what you had previously said, but into 2013, what are we looking at for an estimated tax rate?

For now, John, what you should use is a full 34% on federal, none for state, okay. And then when we put out our Q1 information, we'll have a better rate but this one I do anticipate the rate is going just a bit.

Okay. So no – no tax breaks or incentives currently estimated for 2013?

It'll be small.

Okay. Great. Thank you very much.

Sure. [Operator Instructions]

. The next question will come from Gunnar Hansen of Sidoti. Please go ahead.

Hey, guys. Lot of the questions have already been answered. But just for clarification purposes, could you run me through, Keith, what the year-over-year decline in fiber costs kind of helped you out contributed there in the, I guess for the full year as well as the fourth quarter?

Sure fiber costs for the full year 2012 versus 2011 was down about $5 million, okay. And then in the quarter-over-quarter, it was down about $1 million.

Okay. And...

And then...

In the outlook I guess kind of in the first quarter, you said it just increased slightly or...

Yeah. It's up a bit, we've had roughly a $10 per ton increase in both of the first two quarters of this year. And we did do a lot of work with various folks that looking to this fiber market, we use it with their services, we do anticipate both recycled fiber and craft going up this year. We're anticipating at around, let's say, $25 per ton increase in the second quarter, and then another $25 per ton increase in the third quarter. And then on the craft side of the equation, about $100 a ton over the full course of this year. Now how much it actually goes up, hard to say, right, but that is what we think.

And I guess just with some of the greater expansion of the mid-tier products, what's kind of the breakdown in terms of the recycle versus the aircraft side?

I think our – if I remember – I had the craft percentage, as we continue to add more mid-tier business, we'll hit around 10% or 15%, let's say 15%.

Of total fiber.

Yeah.

Okay. And I guess just kind of going back to parent roll sales, obviously cannibalizing some of the parent roll sales for our internal use, maybe just kind of give us a little bit more color in terms of how those parent roll sales will kind of progress for 2013?

Guys, our parent roll sales we have forecasted for 2013, I don't have that number exactly right in front of me, but they're going to be incredibly well, you're tracking probably 5% of our tons.

Okay.

By the time, we reach into the 9 million case run rate, somewhere around 9 million and 9.5 million we think that you'd have to – you'd be using all your paper, all right?

Great. Thanks so much, guys. That's it.

Thank you.

And our next question will come from John Curti of Singular Research. Please go ahead.

Good morning. I had a question on the maintenance and repair costs, up about $820,000 for the year and I think you've said they kind of returned to normal in the fourth quarter. How much of that $822,000 increase occurred in the fourth quarter if any or did they actually go back the other way and actually decline?

They declined in the fourth quarter and those costs were some pretty heavy maintenance we were doing in the paper mill side of the business.

Some of the CapEx that you're doing in 2013 will address some of that?

No, no. This maintenance cost was basically maintenance regarded to the operation of that equipment at the time and that is behind us.

But that – but none of the CapEx is being used to replace some of that equipment?

No, that's correct.

I just wanted to double check on the expected amount of shipments of converted products for this upcoming year. Did you say 8.7 million cases?

That's how it will average out, we think.

Average out.

That'd be the average for the year we think.

That'd be the full year?

Yeah, the full year, John. Not on the run rate but on the full year.

Okay, full year

The run rate improves as we go later into the year as the business gets implemented.

Okay, but it sounds like...

And there is additional business out there. There's – we may find that we picked up more business at least we're hopeful that that may happen.

But it sounds like you're first – right off the bat in the first quarter there's going to be a pretty good step up from the fourth quarter of 2012.

Yeah John. What we're expecting is the rate in Q1 and Q2 is around 8.2 million or so for the – on a full year rate, okay. And then you get into Q3, then you would expect the rate to be around 9 million on a full year rate. Did that help?

Okay. It sounded like in the fourth quarter beyond just not – beyond some of the promotional business not repeating that there was a little bit of softness there because you said you were a little bit disappointed with the numbers. So I mean you would have factored in the anticipated lack of follow through on the promotional business. So what happened there were some businesses soft?

November was a soft month. October was good. November was a weak month and then December came right back into where our expectations were and this had to do with evidently sales within various customers' facilities during that time period.

Okay because those customers who were maybe not there in November were back in in December?

That's right. A lot of times you'll see some softness in the first quarter and the fourth quarter. But this is over and above what we thought our expectations would be for November. It just – it is what happened.

Could you talk a little bit more about the $5 million of CapEx that's going to be beyond the base CapEx in terms of – I think you were talking about towel lines, improving fiber yields, that type of stuff, what's involved there?

Well, we're in the rebuild of one of our lines that we have at the facility to be able to get the flexibility of the line, upgrading the drive on the line, and to be able to make various products that – on the line that we can't currently make for our customers, which aligned well with the direction we're going with these mid-tier products, will give us more flexibility.

And then the – as far as improving our yields in the paper mill and our pulping operation, this is about fiber recovery and about not losing the fibers, and recovering them and utilize them in our paper making process, which will reduce our cost of fiber. And by not having to use as many fibers to reduce your cost from not wasting fiber, it'll improve the yield of our process.

You have converted products packaging capacity of about 12 million cases.

We really see the utilization rate is going to be more like 10.5 million, depending on if it's towel or bathroom tissue. And we really see ourselves at around 10.5 million as far as being able to keep on time service where a lot of the – and what have you and that's really about where we'd be. We think in the fourth – third and fourth quarter at this point, we're a little under 90% of utilization.

At what point do you start to think about additional capacity and the construction of additional facilities, buildings and being able to put the lines in?

We would be considering that now, it takes you probably from the time that you buy about a year and a half before you put it in. So we'd have those kind of considerations going on now and taking that those kind of projects through.

And then what about another paper making line?

I think you'd want to have more converting capacity by paper for a while and then put a paper machine some time down the road quite of what – the ways down the road after you've sold out more cases. And the timeline for a new paper machine is about couple of years from the idea that you're going to – you're ready to buy one or something like that, all right assuming you have permitting and all that kind of thing for that line, okay.

Okay. Thank you very much.

Okay. Thanks, John. [Operator Instructions]

. And we have a question from Michael Taglich of Taglich Brothers. Please go ahead.

Hi, Bob. Hi, Keith.

Hi, Mike.

With regard to the $5 million that you're spending, what do you figure is the return on that over and above what's really true maintenance? What's your ROI on that?

Return on both of those projects. They're a little different. One is quite short. I think it's about two years, the other one is about three years.

All right. That's really not maintenance. That's really a cost reduction with the payback.

Improvements, oh yes...

That's what we're saying, yep, yes.

All right. So...

It's a different bucket from a Wall Street standpoint.

Okay versus maintenance is something you really don't get return on...

We're not the ones calling that maintenance, Mike.

Okay, good. Okay, that's all I got.

All right.

And we have a follow-up question from John Curti of Singular Research. Please go ahead.

With respect to the $10 million CapEx, could you kind of give us a timeline of how that might breakdown by quarter just roughly?

I don't have it in front of me, John, but let me the top of my head. It's going to be fairly – even there is a lot of [indiscernible] (36:13) in the kind of base level that we're building on now. So I would spread it out about pretty evenly each quarter as of kind of thinking through that the timing, most of it will be done by the end of the third quarter. So let's say around 80% to the first three quarters fairly split and then the last 20% in Q4.

All right. Thank you.

Sure.

I'm showing no additional questions in the queue. This will conclude our question-and-answer session. I would like to turn the conference back over to Mr. Robert Snyder for his closing comments.

We really like to thank everybody who attended our call today, and we really appreciate the interest you have in our company. And we hope that the information you found today was really helpful. Thank you.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the conference has now concluded. We thank you for attending today's presentation. You may now disconnect your lines.