Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Keith R. Schroeder — Chief Financial Officer & Secretary, Orchids Paper Products Co.
Robert A. Snyder — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Orchids Paper Products Co.
Eric Hollowaty — Analyst, Stephens, Inc.
Howard Halpern — Analyst, Taglich Brothers, Inc.
John H. Curti — Analyst, Singular Research
Mark Ravich — President, TriStar Management Inc

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2011 Orchids Paper Products Company's Earning Conference Call. On the conference today we have Bob Snyder, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Keith Schroeder, Chief Financial Officer. At this all participants are in listen-only mode. After the prepared remarks, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]

And now, I would like to turn the conference over to, Mr. Keith Schroeder. Please proceed.

Thank you operator. Good morning and thank you to everyone for attending the fourth quarter and full year 2011 earnings conference call. My name is Keith Schroeder and I'm the Chief Financial Officer. I am here today with Bob Snyder, our President and Chief Executive Officer.

The agenda for our call today will begin with a review of the quarterly and full year's results. Mr. Snyder will then provide an update on key performance areas and initiatives in the company. After that session, we will be happy to address any questions that you might have.

And with that, I'd like to inform you that statements made during this conference call other than those that refer to past events and results are forward-looking statements and are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions in the Securities Reform Act of 1995. Such statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth during this discussion.

Among other things, these risks and uncertainties include the risks and assumptions described in Item 1A and Item 7 of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, the operating environment that involves a lot of known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could materially affect our operations. We assume no obligations to update or supplement forward-looking statements that become untrue because of future events.

With that, I will start with a few headlines.

In the fourth quarter of 2011, we set a new quarterly record in the converting product sales and shipments. In fact, converted product sales were $23.8 million in the quarter, an increase of 44% over the prior year quarter. We shipped 1.85 million cases in the quarter, also a new record. This result was a strong finish to the 2011-year as the fourth quarter of each year usually has some seasonal softness. This performance continues the trend of strengthening our converted product business.

Sales of converted products have now increased 4 consecutive quarters and on a sequential quarter basis, have increased 11%, 27% and 32% over the previous 3 quarters of 2011. In the fourth quarter of 2011, we delivered EBITDA of $5.5 million, an increase of 76% over the prior year quarter. As a percent of net sales, EBITDA was 21.4%, a 7.3% improvement over the prior year and a 5.3% improvement over the third quarter of last year.

Lastly, we delivered EPS of $0.35 per share, which is basically 3 times the level achieved in the fourth quarter of last year and $0.14 per share greater in the third quarter of 2011.

Now for some detail. In the fourth quarter of 2011, we earned net income of $2.7 million or $0.35 per share compared with net income of $940,000 or $0.12 per share in the same period of 2010.On the year-to-date basis, net income was $6.2 million or $0.80 per share compared with $5.9 million or $0.76 per share in the prior year period.

Net sales for the 2011 quarter totaled $25.7 million, an increase of $3.4 million or 15% compared to the $22.3 million of net sales in the same period of 2010. Net sales in the quarter were comprised of converted product net sales of $23.8 million and parent roll net sales of $1.9 million.

Converted product sales were favorable compared to the prior year quarter primarily due to a 46% increase in tonnage shipped. The increase in shipments was due to a combination of new product sales which were primarily in the mid-tier market and increased product distribution with existing customers.

Parent roll sales were lower by 76% due to a reduction in tonnage shipped of 70%, which was primarily due to the increased requirement in our converting plant.

On the year-to-date basis, our total net sales were $97.8 million, an increase of 6% over the prior year. Converted product net sales for the full-year 2011 were $81.9 million, an increase of $7.9 million over the prior year or 11%. The improvement was due to an 8% increase in tonnage shipped and a 2% increase in net selling prices per ton.

For the 2011 year, we shipped 6.4 million cases compared to 5.9 million in the 2010 year.

Our parent roll sales on a year-to-date basis were $15.9 million, a decrease of $2.5 million or 14% compared to the prior year. The parent roll sales were unfavorable due to the increased requirements in the converting plant, which resulted in less tons being shipped in lower margin parent roll form, which was partially offset by an 8% increase in net selling prices.

The gross profit for the fourth quarter of 2011 was $5.6 million, an increase of $2.8 million or 101% compared to the 2010 quarter. As a percent of net sales, our gross profit increased to 21.8% in the current year quarter compared to 12.5% for the same period 2010. Our gross profit and gross profit margins were favorably affected in the fourth quarter by the higher levels of converted product sales, improved converting production costs and a decrease in fiber prices. The higher converted product sales in the quarter resulted in an increased percentage of our parent rolls being diverted from the lower margin parent roll business to the higher margin converted product sales.

The higher overall volume requirements in the converting operation, combined with some improved efficiencies, helped reduce the overall per unit cost in converting during the quarter when compared to the prior year quarter. Our cost of fiber in the fourth quarter of 2011 was lower by about 7% compared to the prior year quarter, which reduced our cost of sales by approximately $350,000.

Now for a little more flavor on the fiber market. As discussed in our last conference call, recycled fiber costs hit an all-time high for us late in the third quarter of 2011. Since that time, our recycled fiber costs dropped during the fourth quarter of 2011 at a fairly rapid rate. Compared to the peak price that was paid in Q3, the purchase price that was paid for recycled fiber for December 2011 were down approximately 40%. After a flat pricing start to 2012, our prices in February moved up about 12%.

The gross profit for the 12-month period of 2011 was $16 million, which was a slight increase of $205,000 compared to the 2010 time. As a percent of net sales, gross profit decreased to 16.3% in the current year period compared to 17% for the same period of 2010. These were relatively flat performance for the year as a result of a very strong fourth quarter result more than offsetting a $2.6 million shortfall through the first 9 months of year.

Higher fiber cost and higher depreciation expense, which were largely offset by the effects of increased converting product shipments and lower converting production costs, were the main reasons for the lower gross profit percentage.

However, regarding the improved converting production costs, lower spending primarily related to the elimination of $1 million of third party warehousing costs and higher production levels due to the improved sales and improved efficiencies were the primary reasons for the improved costs result.

The cost of fiber in the full-year period in 2011 were higher by 7% from the 2010 period, which increased our cost of sales by approximately $1.5 million. Our depreciation expense has increased in the current year period by $1.4 million over the prior year period due to the 2010 completion of the converting plant expansion and waste water treatment plant expansion progress.

EBITDA for the fourth of quarter of 2011 was $5.5 million, an increase of $2.4 million compared to the $3.1 million we reported for the prior year quarter. As a percent of net sales, EBITDA was 21.4% in the 2011 quarter compared to 14.1% reported in the 2010 quarter. This brings our year-to-date EBITDA to $16.2 million, which is favorable to the prior year by $1.3 million.

Our selling, general and administrative expenses in the fourth quarter of 2011 were $513,000 higher than those of the prior year quarter, mostly due to increased sales commissions due to the higher levels of converted product sales, higher bonus accruals and higher professional fee. On a year-to-date basis, selling, general and administrative expenses were unfavorable by $192,000 mostly due to higher bonus accruals being partially offset by lower stock option expense.

The interest expense in the fourth quarter of 2011 was favorable to the prior year due to the refinancing of our credit facility in April 2011, which resulted in a lower level of outstanding debt and improved LIBOR margins which reduced our interest rate. As of December 31, our estimated – we estimate our effective tax to be 27.44%. This is lower than the 30% we estimated as of the end of the third quarter of 2011, resulting in an effective tax rate of about 24% for the fourth quarter. This favorably affected EPS in the fourth quarter by about $0.03 per share.

I would now like to make a few sequential quarter comparisons. Compared to the third quarter of 2011, EBITDA increased by $1.3 million or 31%, mostly due to higher converted product shipments, lower waste paper prices and improved converting production costs. EBITDA as a percent of net sales for the fourth quarter improved by 5% compared to the third quarter results.

I would now like to turn your attention to the balance sheet and cash flow. Our total debt outstanding as of December 31, 2011 was $17.4 million. When netted against our cash and short-term investments of $6.3 million, our net debt was $11.1 million. There are no amounts outstanding under our revolving credit agreement as of the end of the year.

As of the end of the year, our funded debt to EBITDA ratio was 1.08:1 and debt service coverage ratio was 4.16:1.

For the full-year of 2011, we generated cash from operations of approximately $15.7 million. This was comprised primarily of cash earnings and a receipt of $2.7 million of federal tax refunds and partially offset by higher accounts receivable due to the higher sales levels and lower accounts payable.

Our capital expenditures for the 2011 period amounted to approximately $5.5 million, which included a $1.5 million project to improve the structural integrity of one of our paper machine buildings, which required a 1-week shutdown in December of 3 of our paper machines.

We expect capital expenditures for the full-year of 2012 to be approximately $5 million, which include several projects to replace certain older pieces of converting equipment which should increase efficiencies.

With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Mr. Bob Snyder. Bob?

Thanks, Keith. I'm Bob Snyder, President and Chief Executive Officer of Orchids Paper Products. It's great to speak with you again.

We are very pleased to announce the results of our recent quarter's results, which included the record converted product sales. The converted product sales continues the momentum we are building and represent the fourth consecutive of quarter of increasing sales. The momentum continued in earnings per share as we experienced a third consecutive quarter increase in both of these areas.

We ended 2011 with our strongest quarter ever in converted product sales building on the momentum established here in 2011. Thus, we are entering 2012 with good tailwinds and a strong book of business. While the first quarter of each year is normally seasonally soft, we anticipate shipments to be in line with those experienced in the fourth quarter of last year.

Fiber prices abated significantly during the quarter and we are beginning 2012 at cost levels approximately 40% under the peak prices experienced during the third quarter of 2011. Regarding sales, our order book remained strong despite entering a seasonally soft quarter. We believe our sales prospects for the full-year of 2012 are good. We are currently working on new business opportunities with at least 6 major retail customers, both new and existing.

The volume from these opportunities vary by customer with a total amount in excess of over 3 million annual cases. While we are not making any predictions on the future sales, we believe our new product development work and our low cost manufacturing operations provides us with a high quality competitively priced product, which should be attractive to these customers. As a result, we are very positive about the short and long-term outlook as well as the financial performance of the company.

Now, I will turn the call back over to the operator for questions.

[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Eric Hollowaty with Stephens Inc. Please proceed.

Hi, gentlemen, thanks for taking my question. Keith, in your remarks, just wanted to clarify something you said with respect to the benefit that you received on the gross margin line from lower fiber and the numbers that you referenced were something like $350,000 and 7%, I believe, on the lower fiber. Would you just mind revisiting that to just clarify what you said there?

Yes, the cost of fiber we experienced in the fourth quarter of the current year compared to the fourth quarter of last year was lower by about 7%, which lowered our cost of sales about $350,000. The bigger effect on our gross profit improvement on a year-over-year basis was a combination of the increased converted product sales and the lower cost.

Okay. Great. And I was encouraged to see the shipments in converted product sales up so much year-over-year but was a little surprised to see the net selling price per ton decrease given that we've always assumed that the mix shift toward the product off of the new line would result in higher net selling prices and therefore overall higher net selling prices on a consolidated basis. Could you help us understand what's happening there and is that a function of promotional activity or other considerations? Thank you.

There were some of the sale promotions that affected price in the month but it's just really a mix shift entering the quarter. On a going forward basis, we would expect the net selling prices per ton to be higher in 2012 than they were in last year.

Okay. And would you mind commenting specifically on the promotional environment in the industry? Are you seeing it intensify at all or is it stable or what's your guys' read on that?

I guess, Eric the – we are seeing that, let's say, not as intense as it has been but that can vary very quickly as far as promotional. The pricing environment is different and – than it had been, let's say, more rational.

Okay, great. Thanks, Bob and thanks, Keith. Good luck.

Thank you, Eric.

And your next question comes from the line of John Noble with Taglich Brothers. Please proceed.

This is actually Howard pinch-hitting for John today. He did leave me a few questions and, of course, congratulations on the quarter and the year.

Thank you.

His first question is what should we model for the tax rate in 2012?

I would use the tax rate of 34% for 2012.

Okay. And you had talked about I guess, you've seen so far this year a 12% increase in the fiber prices, I guess based on what you see so far, would you say that should remain fairly stable through at least the first half of the year?

That market is one that's very hard to predict. So what we would say that the best source of information on predicting fiber pricing would be BC. So I would point you there. I will point out that with that price increase that we saw for the current month that puts us about 25% under the prices that we've paid in the same quarter of last year so...

So the year-over-year trend is going to work in your favor?

It should, but it depends on what prices do in the future.

Okay. I was curious with your improvement with converted product. And specifically was that driven by new mid-tier products?

To a great extent, yes, and also existing products.

Okay. And do you feel that trend will continue – that sales mix will continue so we'll see based on year-over-year trends the parent rolls come in less than in prior years?

Yes.

Yes. Yes, we believe that.

And one last one. Of the six potential either new customers or new products for existing customers, is most of that volume or could you give a percentage of the volume of mid-tier product that you're looking at?

Well, some of it hasn't been settled but that percentage is I believe we'll have a higher percentage of mid-tier products.

Okay. Well, congratulations and keep up the good work.

Thank you.

[Operator Instructions] And your next question comes from the line of John Curti with Singular Research. Please proceed.

Good morning. Congratulations on a nice finish to the year.

Thank you.

Hi, John.

With respect to the volumes of 1.85 million cases there, were there some new business wins included in that? I remember you had a contract that was beginning to ramp up that would take place over eight- or nine-month period spread into 2011, 2012, but were there some additional incremental wins there?

Yes, absolutely, and the environment we see going forward looks good.

And the opportunities that you're talking about for 3 million additional cases, I know that there has been delays in the past, do you feel fairly confident that some of these will be closed this year and we'll see some production in sales for some of these?

We're absolutely looking forward to that.

Okay. How was pricing for parent rolls that you sold to the outside again?

You're talking about the fourth quarter....

Yes.

...versus the prior year?

Yes.

They were – we had that number here somewhere – they were up over the prior year and they are a bit softer now but not by any great extent.

So would it look like that pricing for the parent rolls that you sell to the outside for 2012 likely to be higher or lower than what you received in 2011?

Over the course of the year they are probably pretty close.

I think you'd see if there is any softness it would be in the first quarters.

And then it started.

And it typically goes into the away-from-home business and considering travel might be lighter and the usage of that type of material in the away-from-home market might be less. It tends to be a little bit softer. But, we anticipate it strengthening as the year goes on.

And the shutdown that you had while you were doing your structural repairs, any way to quantify how much that penalized earnings?

It took out about 300 tons.

And CapEx of $5 million, could you go over that again what that will be for?

Well, what I said was, at the best $5 million for the year. And there are several projects in there that involve replacing older pieces of converting equipment not an entire line, just a piece here and there. But what that should have the effect on, it should increase the efficiencies of those three lines.

Now you will have anniversaried the lower warehousing costs throughout 2012 or will there been any additional benefit?

No.

Great. And the tax rate going up to 34%, I know you have got some things kind of in the tax credit area etcetera, if you could just maybe walk us through what's causing the rate to go up?

Mostly the earnings are up, so the effect of the tax credits are less.

Okay.

And your next question comes from the line of Mark Ravich with TriStar Management. Please proceed.

Thanks for taking my call, and a good quarter. I was curious what was the actual maximum capacity in cases that you could actually achieve per quarter?

Well, we think, oh, in a quarter? On a full year, we're about 12.5 million cases but the real amount of capacity that you would want to sell out of that and still hold high customer service would be around 85% to 90% of that. The would put you somewhere between 10.6 million and now 11.3 million for the year, so a fourth of that.

Depending on the mix of the products you're talking about.

Correct.

Okay. And then, do you have any guess of like what the volume of the company would be if it was maxed out? I know it somewhat depends upon price, but it's kind of a blended average price that you've been achieving if you were to ship that much?

If everything was sold as a converted case, if you will, it depends a lot on mix between bathroom tissue and towel and that sort of thing. But it would be somewhere between 140 and probably 150, somewhere in that range roughly.

So without doing the math myself, so what was the excess capacity in the fourth quarter?

We had somewhere between 65% and 70% so somewhere between 30% and 35%.

And then if I recall right, to achieve maximum capacity you would actually have to start purchasing parent rolls, right?

Correct.

So if you were purchasing parent rolls, what kind of margins do you think you had achieved on that percentage of the sales?

Margins would be cut somewhere in half. But it would still be a good earner though.

Okay. Again, great quarter and thanks for taking my call.

Thank you, Mark.

And with no further questions in queue, I would like to hand the call back to President and CEO Bob Snyder for closing remarks.

I would like to thank you all for attending today's conference call. We look forward to talking to you again in the next quarter. Have a good day.

Ladies and gentlemen that concludes your conference. You may now disconnect. Have a wonderful day.