corrected transcript


Orchids Paper Products Co.
 
TIS
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 28, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


PARTICIPANTS


Corporate Participants


Keith R. Schroeder
 
– Chief Financial Officer & Secretary


Robert A. Snyder
 
– President & Chief Executive Officer


Other Participants


Michael N. Taglich
 
– Chairman, President & Co-Founder, Taglich Brothers, Inc.


John H. Curti
 
– Analyst, Singular Research


John Nobile
 
– Research Analyst, Taglich Brothers, Inc.


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Welcome to the Orchids Paper Products Company First Quarter 2011 Earnings


Conference Call. Joining us on today’s call are Orchids’ Chief Financial Officer, Keith Schroeder;


and Orchids’ President and Chief Financial Officer, Bob Snyder. At this time, all participants are in


listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]


I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today, Mr. Keith Schroeder, Chief


Financial Officer for Orchids. Please proceed.


Keith R. Schroeder, Chief Financial Officer & Secretary


Good morning, and thank you everyone for attending today’s call. I welcome you to the Orchids


Paper Products Company’s First Quarter Earnings Conference Call. My name is Keith Schroeder,


and I’m the Chief Financial Officer. I’m here today with Bob Snyder, our President and Chief


Executive Officer.


The agenda for today’s call will be as follows: First, Bob will discuss our performance in the quarter


and discuss various initiatives being worked on within the company. I will then provide a discussion


of the results and some key financial metrics. Following that discussion, I will turn the call back over


to Bob for some closing remarks. After Bob’s remarks, we’ll be happy to address any questions that


you might have.


And with that, I would like to inform you that statements made during this conference call, other


than those that refer to past events and results are forward-looking statements, and are made


pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions in the Securities Reform Act of 1995.


Such statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially


from those set forth during this discussion. Among other things, these risks and uncertainties


include the risk and assumptions described in item 1A and item 7 of our Form 10-K for the year


ended December 31st, 2010.


We operate in an environment that involves numerous known and unknown risks and uncertainties


that could materially affect our operations. We assume no obligation to update or supplement


forward-looking statements that become untrue because of any future events.


With that, I would like turn the call over to Mr. Bob Snyder.
corrected transcript


Orchids Paper Products Co.
 
TIS
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 28, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


Robert A. Snyder, President & Chief Executive Officer


Welcome fellow shareholders. Thanks, Keith. I’m Bob Snyder, President and Chief Executive


Officer of Orchids Paper Products. It’s great to speak with you again. In the first quarter of 2011, we


achieved net sales of $22.7 million, an increase of 8% over last year’s first quarter, and earnings of


$0.08 per diluted share, a $0.10 decrease over the first quarter of 2010.


During the first quarter of 2011, some major areas of interest were: in the paper making


manufacturing plant, we had paper making production in the first quarter of 2011 of 13,691 tons, an


increase of 4.6% over the first quarter of 2010. In the converting plant, we produced over 1.4 million


cases in the first quarter of 2011. We had shipments in the first quarter of 1.4 million cases about


the same as the first quarter of 2010.


First quarter of 2011 was the time when we realized the completion of a very busy period of


constructions, which included the waste water treatment plant, the new 245,000 square foot


warehouse and the installation and startup of our new state-of-the-art converting line.


Also during the quarter, extensive product development efforts continued to take place, both in our


paper making plant and our converting plant to give us higher tier products to offer our customers.


Continuing our sales efforts to sell our newly constructed capacity is our major focus.


Now, I will turn the call over to Keith to discuss the financials.


Keith R. Schroeder, Chief Financial Officer & Secretary


Thank you, Bob. For the first quarter of 2011, we earned net income of $620,000 or $0.08 per


share, compared with $1.4 million or $0.18 per share for the same period of 2010.


Net sales for the quarter were $22.7 million, an increase of $1.6 million or 8% compared to the


$21.0 million in the same period in 2010. Net sales in the quarter were comprised of converted


product net sales of $18 million and parent roll sales of $4.7 million. Converted product sales were


favorable by 2% from those experienced in the prior year quarter due to a 7% increase in net


selling prices that was partially offset by a 5% decrease in tonnage shipped. Both variances were


primarily caused by changes in mix as the number of converted product cases shipped in the first


quarter of 2011 increased by approximately 3% over the level shipped in the prior year quarter.


Parent roll sales were favorably affected by a 21% increase in tonnage shipped and a 14%


increase in net selling prices. We had good production results on our paper making operation,


which along with the lower tonnage requirements and our converting operation provided more tons


being available to ship as parent rolls. A continued strengthening of the parent roll market favorably


affected pricing in the quarter.


Our gross profit for the first quarter of 2011 was $2.7 million, a decrease of $1.2 million or 30%


compared to the 2010 quarter. As a percent of net sales, gross profit decreased to 11.9% in the


current year quarter, compared to 18.4% for the same period of 2010.


Higher depreciation expense, higher waste paper costs, higher converting production costs, and a


higher percentage of parent roll sales of total sales were the reasons for the lower gross profit


percentage. These factors were somewhat offset by lower third-party warehousing costs. The


depreciation expense associated with our $27 million converting expansion project, along with other


capital expenditures increased our depreciation expense in the current year quarter by $605,000


over the prior year.