Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Keith R. Schroeder — Chief Financial Officer, Orchids Paper Products Co.
Robert A. Snyder — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Orchids Paper Products Co.
John Nobile — Research Analyst, Taglich Brothers, Inc.
John H. Curti — Analyst, Singular Research

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Orchids Paper Products Second Quarter 2011 Results Conference Call. My name is Karris and I will be your coordinator for today. At this time, all participants are in listen-only line. [Operator Instructions]

At this time, I would now like to turn the call over to your host for today, Mr. Keith Schroeder, Chief Financial Officer.

Thank you everyone for attending today's call. I'd like to welcome you to the Orchids Paper Products Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call. I'm Keith Schroeder and I'm the Chief Financial Officer. I'm here today with Bob Snyder, our President and Chief Executive Officer.

The agenda for today's call will be as follows: first, Bob will discuss our performance in the quarter and discuss various initiatives being worked on within the company. I'll then provide a discussion of the results and some key financial metrics. Following that discussion, I will turn the call back over to Bob for some remarks. After Bob's closing remarks, we'll be happy to address any questions that you might have.

And with that, I'd like to inform you that statements made during this conference call, other than those that refer to past events and results, are forward-looking statements and are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions in the Securities Reform Act of 1995. Such statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth during this discussion. Among other things, these risks and uncertainties include the risk and assumptions described in Item 1A and Item 7 of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010.

We operate in an environment that involves numerous known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could materially affect our operations. We assume no obligation to update or supplement our forward-looking statements that have become untrue because of any events in the future.

With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Mr. Bob Snyder

Welcome fellow shareholders. Thanks, Keith. I am Bob Snyder, President and Chief Executive Officer of Orchids Paper Products. It's great to speak with you again.

In the second quarter of 2011, we achieved net sales of $23.4 million, a decrease of 5.3% over last year's second quarter, and earnings of $0.16 per diluted share, a $0.12 decrease over the second quarter of 2010.

During the second quarter of 2011, some major areas of interest were: in the paper making manufacturing plant, we had paper making production in the second quarter of 2011 of 13,936 tons, an increase of 1.2% over the second quarter of 2010. In the converting plant, we produced 1.6 million cases in the second quarter of 2011. We had shipments in the second quarter of 1.5 million cases, up 2.7% from the first quarter of 2011.

Also during the quarter, extensive product development efforts continued to take place both in our paper plant and in our converting plant. They give us higher-tier products to offer customers.

In addition in order to maximize our efforts and analyzing the mid-tier higher quality markets, we began a process to restructure our sales and marketing organization. The first phase of this process included the hiring of a sales and marketing organization with expertise in and familiarity of mid-tier to upper-tier marketing and sales in the at-home tissue market.

By utilizing the expertise of the new sales and marketing organization along with the capabilities of our own sales organization, we believe a new business arrangement will greatly enhance our efforts to enter the higher-tier markets. Continuing our sales effort to sell our newly constructed capacity is our major focus.

Now I will turn the call over to Keith to discuss the financials.

Thank you, Bob. For the second quarter of 2011, we earned net income $1.2 million or $0.16 per share compared with $2.2 million or $0.28 per share for the same period 2010. This brings our year-to-date net income to $1.8 million or $0.24 per share compared with $3.5 million or $0.46 per share for the 2010 period.

Net sales for the 2011 quarter were $23.4 million, a decrease of $1.3 million or 5% compared to the $24.7 million in the same period in 2010. Net sales in the quarter were comprised at converted product net sales of $18.8 million and parent roll net sales of $4.6 million. Converted product sales were unfavorable by 7% from those experienced in the prior year quarter due to a 10% decrease in tonnage ship that was partially offset by a 3% increase in net selling price. Softer demand from certain customers accounted for the majority of the reduction in shipments. The increase in pricing is primarily related to a change in mix of our products.

Parent roll sales were favorably affected by a 4% increase in net selling prices which were partially offset by a 1% decrease in tonnage shifts. On a year-to-date basis, converted product net sales were $36.7 million, which was $1.1 million or 3% unfavorable to the prior year result. The net change is due to 8% decrease in the ton per product shift which were somewhat offset by a 5% increase in net selling prices. The increase in net selling prices is primarily related to a shift in mix and, to a lesser extent, lower levels of promotional pricing during the 2011 period. Parent roll sales on a year-to-date basis were $9.3 million favorable to prior year by $1.4 million due to favorable pricing of 8% and increased tonnage shipments of 9%.

Gross profit for the second quarter of 2011 was $3.7 million, a decrease of $1.4 million or 27% compared to the 2010 quarter. As a percent of net sales, gross profit decreased to 15.9% in the current year quarter compared to 20.6% for the same period of 2010. Higher depreciation expense, higher waste paper cost and a higher percentage of parent roll sales as a percent of total sales were the reasons for the lower gross profit percentage. These factors were somewhat offset by lower third party warehousing costs.

The depreciation expense associated with our $27 million converting expansion project along with other capital expenditures increased our depreciation expense in the current year quarter by $613,000 over the prior year quarter.

Our cost of waste paper in the current year quarter was 8% higher than the cost incurred in the same quarter of 2010, resulting in an increase on our cost to sales of approximately $380,000. Per unit converting production cost excluding depreciation decreased in 2011 primarily due to increased production and elimination of third party warehousing cost of $362,000 incurred in the prior year quarter.

Our gross profit for the six-month period of 2011 was $6.4 million, a decrease of $2.5 million or 28% compared to the 2010 period. As a percent of net sales, gross profit decreased to 13.9% in the current year period compared to 19.5% for the same period of 2010. Higher depreciation expense, higher waste paper costs and higher percentage of parent roll sales of total sales were the reasons for the lower gross profit percentage. These factors were somewhat offset by lower third-party warehousing costs. Depreciation expense increased on the current year period by $1.2 million over the prior year period for the same reasons discussed for the quarter comparison.

Our cost of waste paper in the current year period was 7% higher than the cost incurred in the same period of 2010, resulting in an increase on our cost of sales of approximately $707,000. Converting production costs per unit were favorable in the six-month period of 2011 compared to the 2010 period when excluding the effect of the added depreciation expense. Lower spending primarily related to the elimination of $900,000 of third party warehousing cost and, to a lesser extent, higher production were the primary reasons for the improved cost results.

EBITDA for the second quarter of 2011 was $3.7 million, a decrease of $726,000 compared to the $4.4 million we've reported for the prior year quarter. As a percent of net sales, EBITDA was 15.7% in the 2011 quarter, compared to 17.8% reported in the 2010 quarter. This brings our year-to-date EBITDA to $6.5 million, unfavorable to prior year by $1.1 million of 15%.

Selling, general and administrative expenses in the second quarter of 2011 were flat compared to the prior-year quarter. On a year-to-date basis, selling, general and administrative expenses were favorable by $180,000 or 5% and primarily due to lower sales commissions, lower incentive planning accruals and lower stock option expense.

Interest expense in the second quarter of 2011 was favorable to the prior year due to the refinancing of our credit facility in April 2011 which resulted in a lower level of outstanding debt and improved margins which reduced our interest rate. As of June 30, we estimate our effective tax rate to be at 30.3%.

I would now like to make the two comparisons between the first and second quarters of 2011. On a quarterly basis, net sales in the second quarter compared with first quarter increased 3% due to a 4% increase in converted product sales and 1% decrease in parent roll sales. Converted product shipments in tons and cases were up about 3% on a sequential quarter basis. Selling prices of converted product increased slightly at 2%. Compared to the first quarter of 2011 EBITDA increased by approximately $795,000 or 28% primarily due to the higher converted products shipments and selling prices improved converting efficiencies which have the effect of lowering per unit cost being somewhat offset by higher SG&A expenses.

I would now like to turn your attention to the balance sheet and cash flow. Total debt outstanding as of June 30, 2011 was $17.9 million. When combined with our cash and short term investment of $3.5 million, our net debt was $14.4 million. As previously announced during the quarter, we have refinanced our credit facility with an $18-million term loan and an $18-million revolving credit line. There are no amounts outstanding on a revolving credit line as of June 30. We utilized short term investments and cash from operations in the refinancing process to payout $5.9 million in term loans and repaid $2.7 million outstanding under our previous revolving credit line.

As of end of the second quarter of 2011, our consolidated debt-to-EBITDA ratio was 1.31 to 1 and our debt service coverage ratio was 5.39 to 1. For the year-to-date period, we generated cash from operations approximately $6.8 million this was comprised by mode of cash earnings and received a $2.7 million of federal cash refunds being partially offset by higher accounts receivable and inventory levels. Our capital expenditures for the 2011 period amount to approximately $1.9 million and we expect the full year of 2011 be approximately $4.75 million.

I will now turn to call back over to Robert for his closing comments before we take any questions, Bob.

Thanks, Keith. The second quarter of 2011 was reflective of our overall business expectations. Although our results were results were generally lower in the second quarter compared to the prior-year quarter, on a sequential quarter basis we delivered improved results in key areas.

Earnings per share improved to $0.16 per share compared to $0.08 per share in the first quarter and EBITDA improved by 28% to $3.7 million. Our previously announced converted profit business is on track. Additionally, we are positive about the future converted product business opportunities that continue to present themselves in the market.

Our product development efforts continue to yield positive results, with improved quality attributes of our product offerings. We expect these efforts and improved offerings will enhance our ability to penetrate new higher-quality, mid-tier business.

Now, I will turn the call back over to the operator for questions.

[Operator Instructions] . And we do have a question from the line of John Nobile. Please proceed.

Hi, good morning and congratulations. It was nice to see a turnaround from Q1 sequentially, the growth and the 4% increase in converted product sales, I believe, sequentially this quarter over Q1. I just wanted to backup. You made a comment before about – you had hired the sales organization, an outside sales organization. They were experienced in higher-tier markets. Exactly when did this happen? Was it over the quarter that you had hired this organization?

That was within the quarter, John.

Okay, within the second quarter. And how big is this organization and how many, internally, what is your sales force right now?

This is about the doubling of our sales force, which will be about four folks.

Okay. The outside sales organization is about four people?

Yes. Plus, the customer service and what have you – I'm not counting the customer service end of it in either organization, but it's about doubling of the size of the sales efforts.

Okay. Then obviously you had mentioned their experience in higher-tier markets, which I believe is a good move obviously in a competitive environment, and I'll get into that in a little bit. But if I could just get an idea of what this would add to the SG&A line going forward, or is it completely in Q2? I'm not sure exactly when in Q2 you had hired this sales organization.

This should be based on the sales. They get paid for additional case sales.

Okay, and if you could quantify that as far as that's concerned, in Q2 obviously SG&A included that, I'm not sure if that was a full quarter's work.

They have not contributed any sales at that point. It's a relatively new change, John.

Okay. Okay. So going forward we'll see that. I'm just trying to get an idea of what that might do to...

I would imagine you might see some – hopefully we see some impact of that by the fourth quarter.

Okay. Just to get an idea of the expense though on the SG&A line what that might actually if you can quantify that roughly?

John, this is Keith I think the best way to answer that is that the sales commission that they would be paid would have been in line with the sales commissions that would be paid to other folks. So, as they produce additional sales they will be paid on those sales, so if you take that sort of a change, I think that will work.

Okay. And on the last call you mentioned that your Tier 2 products would be in dollar stores in June. I am curious if this has actually happened and how do the prospects look for additional shelf space going forward?

Those products are on the shelf and it's turning out quite well and they've put that in more of the stores as that product offering was accepted well in the market. And with that they've increased the number of stores that's going into and that decision's been made. It's basically what we thought is – as we told you when our businesses on track. So...

Okay and it was in the dollar stores in June, so it did contribute somewhat to the quarter?

Yes.

Okay and you had mentioned that you are looking to actually increase shelf spaces going forward with that product, what they had, say, in June.

Could be more stores.

More stores, okay. I don't know if you can quantify that?

It's about the doubling of the stores.

Over what you had in June?

Yes.

Okay. Okay, and has there been any easing in the competitive environment over the quarter given the current price increases by the large players. I know why I think in Q1 they had mentioned that they were going to increase prices. And how does it look for increase at the grocery store placement in the coming quarters?

I think it's all the things that are going on with our – it's always a competitive market John, but at the same time we're positioned quite well. We see a lot of opportunities in front us within the dollar store business and within the grocery store business and it's, let's say, the opportunities are robust and eminent.

So, there is a quite a bit of opportunity we're in there, we have a low cost structure we have some great product offerings with some great quality attributes and we have worked hard to make a better products. And I think we've positioned ourselves in a very competitive situation and we look pretty good. And as we go into this type of season, the way we have now got ourselves structured, I feel real good about it. I feel that our opportunities are going to be right there.

Okay. And then if I could have just one more question in regard to, it was basically a 12% increase in converted product sales that you were looking at. Primarily, I think starting in the second half which were currently in this year, but some of it did start to ship in Q2, so I'm just curious if you anticipate because a large portion of this maybe did not ship in Q2 that Q3 would look even better converted product-wise versus Q2. Sequentially, we're talking.

John, I think what we've said after I would during our fourth quarter call that with the new business that we've had attained at that point in time that we'd be about 12% over the case shipment rate that we shipped in the last half of '10. Okay, and that still holds. So, the math would tell you that Q3 would be up over Q2.

Okay. Thank you very much.

[Operator Instructions] . And the next question comes from the line of John Curti. Please proceed.

Good morning. I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about the marketing efforts in terms of having products out for testing with existing customers or potential customers and maybe the timeline for some decisions to be made by those people on your ability to secure additional shipments either in the very latter part of this year or into 2012?

Well, there is always like I said there is a pretty robust environment right now as far as customers looking for opportunities or bidding the business. So we're in the – we've got a quite a few different product offerings out and some of those results are eminent and some are going to be out a little bit further. But this timing right now is we're into making a lot of different proposals and putting out quite a few different product samples. And the timing of that is determined by the customer, not by us. And some of the customers have some very big decisions in front of them. And we put some very competitive offers in front of people with some really great products. So, I'm anticipating some very good success during this time period.

So, you are somewhat dependent upon maybe the cash number, maybe having to coming to a decision about whether to continue to extend a contract with another provider. I mean because in terms of the timeline when you shift them product samples and whatever else is done in terms of maybe some sort of store placement or something on a test basis, I mean that varies based on you going to somebody who's maybe got a contract coming up in three months or somebody is coming up in six months or somebody in a year, right?

Well, yes. I mean this is all dependent on their timing, a lot of it is coming down to if the guy goes in and offers a price increase, the first thing a buyer will do is put the products up for bid. And, as you know, there's been some price increases announced, as that happens, the buyers will rather than just accept the price increase, will bid the business. And a lot of that is going on right now, which is a good thing. And if you get a low cost structure and you have great products, you have great opportunity and that's what we've been looking for.

And then just kind of a number that I'm looking for, you mentioned that I think you produced 13,936 tons of paper for 2Q '11, could you give me what it was for 2Q '10?

Yes, I'll get it John. It was 13,766.

Okay. And you shipped 1.5 million cases for the quarter versus what last year?

Last year quarter was about 1.588 million.

Okay. Thank you.

You're welcome.

And at this time, there are no further questions in the queue.

Thank you for attending today's conference call and we look forward to talking to you again next quarter. Thanks everyone.

Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect. Have a wonderful day.