Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Rodney D. Gloss — Chief Financial Officer, Orchids Paper Products Co.
Jeffrey S. Schoen — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Orchids Paper Products Co.
Philip Ng — Analyst, Jefferies LLC
Louie M. Toma — Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC
John Nobile — Analyst, Taglich Brothers, Inc.
Matthew Ford Sherwood — Analyst, Cooper Creek Partners Management LLC
Michael N. Taglich — Co-Founder, Chairman & President, Taglich Brothers, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning and welcome to the Orchids Paper Products Fourth Quarter 2016 Earnings Conference Call. All participants will be in listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] After today's presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask questions. Please note this event is being recorded. On the call today are Jeff Shane, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Rod Gloss, Chief Financial Officer.

I will now turn the call over to Mr. Gloss.

Thank you. Good morning and thank you for attending Orchids' 2016 fourth quarter and full year earnings call. I'll begin with the standard notices and my review of our fourth quarter and full year financial results. Jeff will then provide his perspective on our results and on our business. We will conclude with a question-and-answer session.

Please remember that certain statements made during this conference call are forward-looking statements within the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 as amended. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, estimates, assumptions and projections that are subject to change and actual results may vary materially from the forward-looking statements.

Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include those risk and uncertainties described from time-to-time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015, as well as our earnings release and any supplemental information. Any forward-looking statement is made only as of this date and the company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.

During our remarks, we will make reference to both GAAP and non-GAAP measures. The reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP measures is included in our earnings press release which is available on our website.

For the fourth quarter of 2016, those adjustments to net income to drive adjusted EBITDA include interest expense of $491,000, depreciation and amortization of $3.3 million, and foreign exchange loss of $401,000 and income tax benefit of $439,000 and other benefits of $124,000.

I will also be making a distinction operating cash flows attributable to changes in working capital and other operating sources and uses of cash. Management believes that changes in working capital will provide an indication of the cash invested here in or provided by changes in such assets and liabilities and therefore may indicate trends in operating performance and may identify significant sources of uses of cash.

Operating cash flow, exclusive of changes in working capital is believed to provide an estimate of the cash generated from all the operating activities principally sales, prior to investments in or liquidations of operating assets and liabilities.

I will now compare the fourth quarter of 2016 to fourth quarter of 2015 [ph] noting (03:17) financial highlights and explaining selected metrics. Net sales decreased $4.2 million, or 10% primarily due to heavy promotional activity by brand-competitors and other competitive pressures. Parent roll sales increased by $0.7 million, while converted product sales decreased by $4.9 million.

Of the $4.9 million decrease, $3.7 million is attributed to the decreased number of tons sold and $1.2 million is due to the decline in the average price per ton, which principally reflects the mix of customers buying the products. In others words, we didn't intentionally lowering the prices, the average price change should just be a function of the mix.

Cost of sales exclusive of depreciation decreased $2.1 million, or 7%. The decrease in sales volumes, contributed to the relative decrease in cost of sales, as did spreading fixed overhead over a lower volume and approximately $0.6 million in additional costs were incurred for our Mexicali operations, which reflected higher costs for fiber, electricity, and overhead that were only partially offset by favorable foreign exchange impacts upon peso-denominated costs within the quarter.

Other expenses increased $0.5 million, principally a $0.4 million of foreign exchange losses were recognized in valuation of the value added tax and income tax receivables. As the balances of these receivables have been diminished, this economic loss is not expected to be reoccurring to at least to this degree. The Company's recognition of tax credits lessened tax expense by $2.1 million in the quarter, contributing this greater amount to net income. As a consequence of these factors net income declined from $3.7 million to $2.6 million, or by 29%.

Comparing results in a sequential quarter basis, I would say that generally operating results in the fourth quarter of 2016 were similar to those in the third quarter of 2016. Revenues declined by 5%, which is not unusual within the holiday season. While net income increased 18% principally due to favorable tax credits recognized, and adjusted EBITDA declined about $0.5 million, or 8%.

Now comparing cash flows in the fourth quarter of 2016 to those in the fourth quarter of 2015. Operating cash flows excluding changes in working capital decreased $6.3 million, compared to the fourth quarter of 2015, primarily reflecting a decrease in income tax payments and to a lesser extent the decrease in net income.

Changes in working capital contributed $1.6 million to operating cash flows in the fourth quarter of 2016 versus having used $6.6 million in the fourth quarter of 2015. This largely reflects the collection of accounts receivable, decreased inventory levels, and the draw-down of prepaid expenses, partially offset by pay-downs of accounts payable.

Increased borrowings in both periods were used to finance investments in the Barnwell facility and to upgrade line 6 at the Pryor facility. In the fourth quarter of 2015 we received $12 million of restricted cash from financings, which was set aside for Barnwell project and was, accordingly included in investing activities. Dividends of $3.6 million were paid in both quarters.

I will now compare the financial performance in full year 2016 to that in 2015. Net sales decreased $4.0 million, or 2%. Parent roll sales decreased by $1 million, and converted product sales decreased by $3 million. Of the $3 million decrease, all $3 million is attributed to the decreased number of tons sold. The average selling price year-over-year remained constant.

Cost of sales excluding depreciation, decreased $5.6 million, or 4%. Overall, lower fiber costs in United States were estimated to have saved $2.5 million during 2016. We estimate that the devaluation of the peso reduced year-over-year costs by roughly $1.4 million. The company received $1.1 million of business interruption insurance proceeds in the second quarter of 2016, which are applied to cost of sales.

Cost reductions in our Oklahoma facility, product-mix impacts, and lower sales volumes are also contributed to the lower cost of sales. Offsetting these favorable cost changes to a degree, Barnwell's fixed overhead expense, before being allocated to inventory, in 2016 was $4.8 million, relative to only being $0.3 million in 2015. These were, of course, followed from the start-up and ramp-up of those operations in Barnwell.

Depreciation expense increased $2.0 million, or 21%, due to the improvement and expansion projects mentioned. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $0.7 million or 7%. Administrative compensation expenses actually decreased $0.4 million while sales compensation increased $0.3 million. Recruiting and relocation expenses increased $0.3 million. And a variety of increases in professional and consulting expenses led to the balance of the change. Interest expense increased $1.2 million, or 222%, due principally to the increased debt levels and increased financial leverage.

Other income decreased $0.5 million principally due to the recognition of a $0.4 million foreign exchange loss on the valuation of value added tax and income tax receivables.

Tax expense decreased by $1.6 million or 27%. As of December 31, 2016, our effective tax rate is 25.6% as compared to 30.9% for 2015. The effective rate is less than statutory rates due principally to Oklahoma, South Carolina, Indian Employment, and Foreign tax credits.

In 2016 current income taxes provided a benefit of $3.2 million whereas current income taxes for 2015 were $1.8 million of expense. This change was driven by accelerated tax depreciation and other timing differences recognized in 2016. The company ended 2016 with a tax receivable balance of $8.7 million. The company expects its effective tax rate for 2017 to return to the range of 30% to 34%.

Comparing cash flows in 2016 relative to 2015, operating cash flows, excluding changes in working capital, increased $2.6 million – I'm sorry, $2.9 million year-over-year, reflecting increases in cash earnings and the deferral of tax payments.

Additionally, a net increase – I'm sorry, additional, a net decrease in the change in working capital accounts of $6.1 million as compared to 2015 was principally the result of timing of trade receivable collections, increased borrowings in both periods were used to finance investments in the Barnwell facility.

In 2015, $12 million of restricted cash was set aside for the Barnwell project with investing activities, whereas $10.7 million of this restricted cash was used and applied against capital spending in 2016. Dividends of $14.4 million were paid in 2016 and dividends of $13.8 million were paid in 2015.

Commenting briefly on debt, at December 31, 2016, debt not having been netted with unamortized deferred debt issuance costs, was $142 million and the adjusted EBITDA leverage ratio reportable to our bankers was $4.3 million (sic) [4.3] (12:15). This compares with a amended covenant ratio of 5.0.

Looking forward, as we are – we are still projecting debt to peak in the second quarter 2017, but in the range of $163 million to $166 million, principally still being driven by Barnwell, South Carolina project spending.

I'll now turn the call over to Mr. Schoen.

Good morning. Year-over-year adjusted EBITDA in 2016 increased 2%; the adjusted EBITDA margin increased from 19.4% to 20.3% and cost of sales, exclusive of depreciation, decreased 4.4%, while sales declined 2.3%. As we have built our new capacity, we've also been focused on cost management, which will help create higher variable margins as we [ph] add in new (13:12) volume.

As we've been working to add new customers in distribution, we have also seen continued competitive pressures within our existing business, although it appears that promotional activity maybe starting to abate, what is also necessary is a strategic response by the private label side of the equation to recapture share. We expect the retailer strategic plan to be fully implemented in Q2, but cannot predict the outcome of that effort given all the complexities of the category.

As discussed in the Q3 earnings calls, Orchids has been active in several retailers' private label bids as part of our plan to increase breadth and depth in the Orchids' customer base. As announced in our 8-K dated January 23, 2017, we've recently won private label bids in branded business that all things being equal are expected to increase sales volumes of converted products by about 35% in the second half of 2017.

This is exciting news for Orchids and leaves us to remain optimistic about our ability to achieve our goal to grow Orchids' annual earnings per share to within the approximate range of $2.50 to $3.50 run rate by the end of 2018. Said another way, we expect 35% increase in case volume to contribute in the neighborhood of $15 million to $20 million of EBITDA on an annual basis. I'm pleased that our bankers have agreed to give us room to covenant release to focus on our paper machine startup in Barnwell as well as implement the new business.

Orchids is in year four of its original five-year strategic plan. In year one, we completed the West Coast expansion plan through our partnership with Fapsa. In year two, we completed the addition of a new paper machine and have been converting assets in Pryor. In year three, we added converting capacity in Barnwell, South Carolina, which is now fully implemented.

Now in year four, we are completing the paper machine at Barnwell. We're excited about the capabilities being created at Barnwell and believe the total project will provide Orchids with unique competitive advantages.

The paper mill is still scheduled for completion around the end of the first quarter of 2017, with the major ramp up of the paper mill occurring in the second quarter of 2017. The total projected expenditure for the facility remains at $150 million, of which approximately $119.2 million has been spent as of December 31, 2016.

Finally even though there may still be increased volatility in the first and second quarters as we finish Barnwell and prepare for new business awards to be fully implemented in Q3, Orchids believe its dividend record as part of its long-term strategy to maximize shareholder value and expect to continue it given the confidence we have and the guidance we have provided. Having said that there are no guarantees and the dividend decision will be evaluated as part of the quarterly board decision.

With that, I will now turn the call back to the operator for questions.

Thank you, Mr. Schoen. We will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] And your first question this morning will come from Phil Ng of Jefferies. Please go ahead.

Hey guys, [ph] you said (16:41) supply agreement that you won, is there any guarantees from a volume or economic standpoint in the medium or longer term? And if not what gives you the confidence you'll be able to maintain this business at the same profitability over the next few years?

There are no contracts, there are no guarantees that's common in this industry. What makes me comfortable is the extent to which these bids occurred and the complexity of these bids, the amount of time these bids took. And from our perspective, we think the new business 75% of it will be, I don't want to call it secured because nothing is ever secured, but we don't expect this to be bid out every year in this particular case. But I can't guarantee that I mean my assumptions right now is [ph] what happens for (17:34) two years as long as we execute and then we'll go from there.

Okay. And can you talk about whether you still expect to hit that 20% to 24% EBITDA margin range once the new business is fully ramped up and – or should we think about maybe some downside from that's because just the pricing dynamics?

I think when you think about end of curve, I mean, we've got startup costs still occurring in this year, but if you look at 2018 relative to what our plan currently is and it cleans up, I think, we're definitely in that range.

Okay, that's helpful. And just one last one from me, can you talk about whether you've made any progress expanding your supply agreement with Fabrica? And separately how are you thinking about this whole potential cross border tax dynamic, what kind of impact it would have in your business and would you kind of change your strategy going forward? And thanks and good luck on the quarter.

Okay. Regarding Mexico, no, we have not made any new decisions regarding gaining more capacity on the West Coast, so that's kind of where that is right now. Regarding the impact of any kind of tariff or anything like that. I have my opinions the rhetoric that I hear is basically being applied to people who build new sites outside United States where they could. I don't think that impacts our relationship with Fabrica and I don't think it would impact that even if we added some new capacity or bought some capacity that exist at Mexicali currently. I do think that if we started to talk about building a new site that would give me more concern relative to the rhetoric. But at this point, I think, we're fine.

Okay. Thanks, guys.

The next question will be from Louie Toma of Craig-Hallum Capital Group. Please go ahead.

Hi, guys. Thanks for taking my question. Just a follow-up on the Fabrica agreement, any idea on timing, I know as you get towards the end of the first and into the second quarter you have, the agreement becomes important in terms of how they structure it and their overruns. Any idea when you expect to get that worked out?

No, I don't. I mean, publically Fabrica has announced putting in a new paper machine and it's scheduled to start up in September timeframe. So I mean, we've -that's where – that's one option for us to consider as we look at both their business and our business and how we expect to load. So that's the consideration, but I can't comment on anything that maybe happening right now in that area.

Got it. Okay.

Louie, remember that the supply agreement has another 17 years left on even after this May, fiscal year end. So it's – we still have 18,000 metric tons, about 20,000 short tons available to us under the old supply agreement.

Got it. Okay. Thank you. Can you talk a little bit about your parent roll sales? I was kind of surprised to see that you had parent roll sales given the need for parent rolls at your Barnwell facility, what's driving that and what do you expect going forward for parent roll sales?

In the environment we've been in we had excess parent rolls, so we've been selling them on the open market. The plan that we currently have though looking in the second half shows us being paper shorts in terms of conventional paper and paper positive for structured tissue paper. So, overall, there is – we show net gains based on what our current volume is, however, we're actively working to get all of that sold out by the end of this year.

Got it. And what you are currently producing at Barnwell is parent rolls that you're transporting from your Pryor plant is that correct?

Yeah. All the parent rolls in Barnwell are being transported from Pryor at this point. So...

Got it.

...we will use up capacity in Pryor – at Barnwell and Pryor while we're ramping up the machine.

Perfect. Okay. And one last question can you just remind us what the seasonality is from Q4 to Q1?

I don't really – I mean, in the time that I've been here I've seen – last year at this time it was very positive, we were sold out and did $0.53 a share. And the year before that it got weaker based on coming out of Christmas. One factor we do have in our quarter is that our largest customer year end is the end of January and they tend to go through inventory corrections and stuff like that and that has impacted us this quarter.

Got it. That's all I had. Thank you very much.

The next question will be from John Nobile of Taglich Brothers. Please go ahead.

Hi, good morning. I just wanted to nail down the 35% volume increase that's anticipated in the second half of 2017. If you can put a little clarity on that, the total converted product shipped company-wide or is this going to be on volumes that are produced in South Carolina and Oklahoma only?

This is volume that will be produced in Pryor and Barnwell. So I'm trying to gauge your question a little bit, John.

Right. And I want to know like 35% increase on, including Fabrica also, if I can look at that...

Yes. Yes.

...in regards to either revenue or tonnage or am I looking at what's produced in South Carolina and Oklahoma only a 35% increase?

No, that's on the whole volume, whole company-wide volume, John.

Okay, it is, okay. But no, that's significant then. And I was hoping you might be able to quantify the anticipated increase in tonnage expected annually from these expected orders.

We are more familiar with the cases, the case range were sort of being promised 4 million cases on an annual clip, but the range could be more like 3 million to 4.5 million depending on – never know what promises are going to be delivered in that sense. But, so the guidance, I guess, we'd throw out is 3 million to 4.5 million cases.

Okay. But, say, 4 million if you had to pick a number in between an annual case increase, starting really in the second half from these orders?

Yes.

And if I could nail down margins also on this, they're larger orders; a significant increase. So what kind of margins should we expect from this new business, I don't know if you can even put out the – some of the names that we're dealing with here, but compared to gross margins that you have had in the past, so you're going to maintain this level of gross margin, do you anticipate a slight decrease. I was hoping you might be able to quantify that?

I don't know, if I feel comfortable doing that. I mean, I think we have kind of indicated through the call that $15 million to $20 million of EBITDA contribution and, Rod, just told you what the range was for cases. So probably calculated from that I would think maybe.

Okay. And how much of that is...

There is an important cost issue here that we've got a lot of operating leverage in terms of the lot of our costs are fixed. So incremental volume when positive drives our EBITDAs up disproportionally and if volume drops our earnings drop disproportionally. So the operating leverage is going to skew the results. So we are looking at very positive incremental margins because of this extra business.

Okay. And speaking of the new business, how much of that is from new customers and could you give us some insight into how Barnwell is expected to grow your market share in that area?

Well, one way to think about it, if you think about Orchids as a company, we have had a concentration risk in our company for long time. The business that we've gained reduces that concentration risk significantly, not as much as I wanted to be, but it will definitely impact an improved concentration risk.

What was your second question? Barnwell?

Yeah, I just wanted to get some insight into how Barnwell is expected to grow your market share in that area?

Well, the Barnwell is a structured tissue machine, so it has capability of making high end, our ultimate goal is to try and leverage up the selling price per ton by selling more ultra-premium product. It also has the capability to make a really darn good premium product as well. So, initially, I think our business model based on the volume will have it slanted more towards the premium side of the equation. But as we look at the excess capacity that we have with the Barnwell paper machine, our goal will be to sell as much of that as ultra-premium product as we can.

Okay.

Another positive, John, is that one of the reasons we think we won these new bids is that we will be distributing more locally, if you would, or with the decreased freight rate out of Barnwell. So to the extent that these new customers have business in the Southeast, it's an advantage.

Okay. Now Barnwell you said is going to be more high-end product. Could you still produce, say a more conventional standard product from the Barnwell or is it really geared towards the high-end?

Well, it's really geared toward the high-end. You want to try and get your highest selling price per ton, but it is capable of making the lower-end products.

Okay. So you're flexible there as far as standard, conventional or more of a high-end product.

Yeah. Absolutely.

Okay. And I just have one more question just bear with me here. You mentioned that in the fourth quarter your revenue decreased by $1.2 million because of a product mix. You said, the product mix was responsible for that decrease. I was hoping you might be able to elaborate on that a little more?

It's really more of a customer mix. It's – the average price of paper towels that we were selling dropped. We didn't actually drop or priced any of our customers. So we have to attribute it to just the searching customers who are buying paper towels or were buying a cheaper product mix or favor the customers that essentially get better pricing. But I'm not sure, but it's a combination of product and customer mix.

Okay. But predominantly customer mix not necessarily a certain product, say, paper towels over tissues was up higher, so it's a higher [indiscernible] (29:46).

It wasn't paper towels, but we had a lot of different packages, and skews and paper towels. So there is still a product mix within the paper towel category.

Okay. All right, that's all I have. Thank you.

The next question will come from Matt Sherwood of Cooper Creek Partners. Please go ahead.

Hey guys. Nice job securing some good new business here. Just had a quick questions, so the $15 million to $20 million of incremental EBITDA is that on still like the past few quarters you've been doing like $6 million to $7 million a quarter of EBITDA? Is that on top of that run rate or are you hoping to improve that quarterly run rate?

I think what I've put in the 8-K was relative to Q3. So it would be relative to that run rate.

So Q3, you did whatever like $6.8 million of EBITDA so that would be like say $27 million of EBITDA. So the $15 million to $20 million is on top of that sort of annual run rate?

Yeah. All things being equal. Yeah.

All things being equal. Then on the competitive environment, I think Clearwater just announced a new high-end machine. There is obviously a lot of capacity coming on. Yeah, I know you're trying to defend your market share as the private label industry with promotional pricing from the brands. But I guess there is also a lot of private label capacity coming in, I guess how do you think about that and just your competitive positioning?

I wish I would have brought this analysis that I did because I went through all of the math and with myself and I concluded that based on the expansion – the normal growth of the industry and the split between brands and private label and the fact that you can sell excess parent rolls across the whole space. I don't think we're overloaded with capacity, especially when you consider the fact that one of the companies is starting up this year, the next company is starting up next, then we're after that and then Clearwater starting up a year after that.

So when you think about the growth of the space and the amount of tons that are required just to support the growth, there may be a mix issue associated with too much on the East Coast, but when you think about what has to go out West, it really isn't too incrementally significant from the analysis that I did and I am happy to share the math with people if they want to give me a call because I don't have it in front of me.

Yeah. Yeah, I would love to catch up with you offline on that. Then I guess...

Then there is another cost variance there to put out, that we can compete based on having – we anticipate the lower cost of our Barnwell facility base from the new technology we're using. And remember that structured tissue is a new line for us, so anything we get is [indiscernible] (33:03) additional incremental business. So, between having – we think the cost advantage and just trying to take share away on the ultra-market, where it's not like we're going to be defending the ultra-market business and we don't have to keep prices up there and in fact we may encourage competition to get some of the business.

Okay. That's great. Then just as running through the cash flows and EBITDA and just sort of looking at the covenant math and it looks like Q2, Q3 are like a little high. I guess, just how would you respond to that and just what are your sort of options, do you look at the capital raised to sort of ease this covenant situation and get yourself in better position for some sort of better long-run outlook?

Well, I think we have very good relationship with our banks, as you've seen from the issues. We continue to develop these relationships. There is obviously options, our goal as a company though is to get our EBITDA where it needs to be so that these don't become issues, but we do have other options if we decide to take a look at shoring up something short-term, but also we've got some opportunities still long-term that we're looking at from a capital perspective. So I think we've got options [indiscernible] (34:40).

All right. Great. And then the final one on Mexico. So you addressed it a little bit, but I guess if there is this – some of the initial proposals were for like a direct tax on anything crossing the border of what, I guess is there any way for you to pass through the cost of that tax. I mean in light of the fact that you and a lot of industries, capacities in Mexico. So they're talking about passing it through. But I think tissue is more of a North American industry, sorry U.S. industry, so you might be disproportionally hit. So I'm just trying to understand this sort of puts and takes there, if it comes out as a direct border tax of whatever it is 20%?

I don't know, I mean the market is the market. You have to be competitive in the market. So I would say right now there is probably not a lot of room to pass it on. So I think it would be a negative for the company if that's the case. Now what it does is in terms of decisions for the company, I mean, I think our – I think in the future our West Coast expansion kind of becomes one of our next things that we look at. And what that would do is obviously drive us and it doesn't mean we wouldn't do this anyway to look at West Coast U.S. based manufacturing sites.

A Greenfield or to acquire?

I always say that everything is on the table. I'll operate with parallel pass, acquisitions are a possibility, another Greenfield could be a possibility, but a lot of it's going to depend on the results that we get this year. We need to harvest Barnwell and be very consistent in what we're delivering from a cash flow standpoint. And then we can start looking more seriously at M&A and another Greenfield site if we want to duplicate the model that we've developed at Barnwell.

All right, great. Well thanks so much guys. I appreciate it.

Yes.

The next question will come from Michael Taglich of Taglich Brothers. Please go ahead.

First of all, congratulations on as we march towards the rollout, guys. Couple of my questions have been asked. One of them is that, I don't know if you guys realized that there is a 1.6 million share short position in the stock?

Yeah.

Have you talked... [indiscernible]

(37:05).

...sorry. I'm sure you've talked to one, whether they're long or not. I am not sure if – I think [indiscernible] (37:14) everybody. Do you have any insight about, I guess they were expecting a distributed trial and from a cash flow standpoint, it's basically as once you turn on that mill love, things turnaround obviously, or do you have any insight on where they heads at?

I don't have any insight on the short positions that maybe out there. I think in the environment that we've been in, it doesn't surprise me that people might be speculating this way. So I think in the absence of the news that we have and that we've been delivering on, what our strategy has been, they would be right. But I don't think that anybody in this position now, I mean, they're going to take a hard look at what they're doing I guess, given the new business we have and their confidence or lack of confidence and our ability to executive will determine what they do from this point forward.

And then new business you won from the major retailer you've disclosed before, that really kicks in starting what month?

Really, it starts kicking in June.

Great. All right. Listen, keep up the good work. I am looking forward to seeing this – that your earnings get to the overall run rate that you're hoping to get to.

Yes, me too. [Operator Instructions]

. The next question will come from [ph] Dan Guager of Hardikee & Company (38:50). Please go ahead.

Hey guys. I've got a quick question on your dividends. Seems like, you all pushed it out about a month. Here I think, last year you all paid it around March 1st, this year it's going to paid about April 3rd. Is there any rhyme or reason to that?

I think we're just managing this transition over the next couple of quarters and making sure that we're doing everything we can to ensure security in as we rollout Barnwell.

Okay. And going forward do you all expect to be kind of paying your dividend more on a traditional basis, what you've all done in the past just...

I think once you get into the second half that's definitely a strong possibility. We're just concerned about making sure we manage the next two quarters properly and move forward from there.

All right, thank you guys.

And ladies and gentlemen this will conclude our question-and-answer session. I would like to turn the conference back over to Mr. Schoen for his closing comments.

Well, thanks for your time. I really believe that Orchids is at an inflection point right now and I think it's a positive inflection point for the company. So we look forward to having a very strong second half as we execute the new business and continue to execute our strategic plan. So thank you very much.

Ladies and gentlemen, the conference has concluded. Thank you for attending today's presentation. You may now disconnect your lines.