Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Keith R. Schroeder — Chief Financial Officer & Secretary, Orchids Paper Products Co.
Robert A. Snyder — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Orchids Paper Products Co.
John Nobile — Analyst, Taglich Brothers, Inc.
Eric Hollowaty — Analyst, Stephens, Inc.
John H. Curti — Analyst, Singular Research

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

[Starts Abruptly] Paper Products First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants will be in a listen only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] At this time, I would now like to hand the call over to your host for today, Mr. Keith Schroeder, Chief Financial Officer. Please proceed.

Thank you. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for attending the first quarter of 2012 earnings conference call. My name is Keith Schroeder and I am the Chief Financial Officer. I am here today with Bob Snyder, our President and Chief Executive Officer.

The agenda for our call today, we'll begin with my review of the first quarter results. Bob will then provide an update on key performance areas and initiatives in the company. After that discussion we will be happy to address any questions that you might have.

And with that, I would like to inform you that statements made during this conference call, other than those that refer to past events and results are forward-looking statements and are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions in the Securities Reform Act of 1995. Such statements risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth during this discussion. Among other things these risks and uncertainties include the risks and assumptions described in item 1A and item 7 of our Form 10-K for the year end of December 31, 2011.

We will be operating in an environment that involves numerous known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could materially affect our operations. We assume no obligation to update or supplement forward-looking statements that become untrue because of subsequent events.

Okay. First, I will start with a few headlines. In the first quarter, our converted product net sales were $23.6 million, an increase of 31% over the prior year quarter. In the first quarter, we established a new record for converted product cases shipped at 1,864,000 cases, which beat the previous record established in the fourth quarter of 2011 by approximately 15,000 cases or 1%. This represents the fifth consecutive quarter of increased converted product shipments. This result is a strong beginning to 2012, because the first quarter of each year is typically our seasonally slowest quarter and underscores the continued strength of our converted product business.

The new quality shipment record did not result in a new net sales record due to a shift in mix. In the first quarter of 2012, we delivered EBITDA of $5.7 million, an increase of 97% over the prior year quarter. As a percent of net sales, EBITDA was 22%, a 9.3 percentage point improvement over the prior year.

Lastly, we delivered EPS of $0.32 per share, which is four times the level achieved in the first quarter of last year. Now for some details.

In the first quarter of 2012, net income was $2.5 million or $0.32 a share, compared to net income of $620,000 or $0.08 per share in the same period of 2011. Net sales for the 2012 quarter totaled $25.7 million, an increase of $3.1 million or 13% compared to the $22.7 million of net sales in the same period of 2011. Net sales in the quarter were comprised of converted product net sales of $23.6 million and parent roll net sales of $2.1 million. Converted product sales were favorably affected by new product sales, primarily in the mid-tier market, and increased product – and increased distribution of products with our existing customers. This resulted in a 33% increase in converted product tonnages shipped. The increased converted product shipments and resultant effect of the parent roll requirements of the converting plant resulted in a 57% decrease in parent roll tonnage shipped.

Gross profit for the first quarter of 2012 was $6.1 million, an increase of $3.4 million or 126%, compared to the 2011 quarter. As a percent of net sales, gross profit increased to 23.8% in the current year quarter, compared to 11.9% for the same period of 2011. Gross profit and gross profit margins were favorably affected in the first quarter by the higher levels of converted product sales, an increase in fiber prices, and improved converting production costs.

The higher converted product sales in the quarter resulted in an increased percentage of our parent roll production being diverted from lower margin parent roll business to the higher margin converted product business. Our cost of fiber in the first quarter of 2012 was lower by about 25% compared to the prior year quarter, which reduced our cost of sales by approximately $1.3 million.

The higher overall volume requirements in the converting operation, combined with improved efficiencies, helped reduce the overall per unit cost in converting during the quarter when compared to the prior year quarter. In regard to the recycled fiber market, excuse me, prices have increased somewhat during the first four months of 2012 and April price is higher on average by approximately 13% from the prices paid at year-end 2011.

EBITDA for the first quarter of 2012 was $5.7 million, an increase of $2.8 million compared to the $2.9 million we reported for the prior year quarter. As a percent of net sales, EBITDA was 22% in the 2012 quarter compared to 12.7% reported in the 2011 quarter.

Selling, general, and administrative expenses in the first quarter of 2012 were higher than those of the prior year quarter, due to increased professional fees, higher sales commissions due to the higher levels of converted product sales, higher bonus accruals, and higher artwork and costs.

The increase in 2012 compared to the prior year quarter is magnified by the relatively low level of SG&A expenditures in the first quarter of 2011. We expect SG&A expenses, excluding sales commissions, to return to normal levels for the remainder of the year. We expect sales commissions to continue to increase concurrent with our increasing converted product sales.

Interest expense in the first quarter of 2012 was favorable to the prior year, due to the refinancing of our credit facility in April of 2011, which resulted in a lower level of outstanding debt and improved LIBOR margins, which reduced out interest rate. We estimate our effective tax rate to be 32.7% for the current year.

I would now like to turn your attention to the balance sheet and cash flow. Our total debt outstanding as of March 31, 2012 was $17.1 million. When netted against our cash and short-term investments of $7.8 million, our net debt was $9.3 million. There are no amounts outstanding under our revolving credit agreement as of the end of the quarter.

As of the end of the quarter, our funded debt to EBITDA ratio was 0.9 to 1 and our debt service coverage ratio was 5.23 to 1. For the first quarter of 2012, we generated cash from operations of approximately $4.7 million. This was comprised primarily of cash earnings and increases in accrued liabilities, due to higher Federal income tax accruals, which were partially offset by higher accounts receivable and inventory levels to support the increased sales levels.

Our capital expenditures for the 2012 quarter amounted to approximately $1.5 million and we expect capital expenditures for the full year 2012 to be approximately $5 million.

Before I turn the call over to Bob, I want to remind everyone that Bob and I'll be presenting in New York on Tuesday May 1, at the Taglich Small Cap Equity Conference and also will present at the Stephens Spring Investor Conference on June 5. Anyone who would like to meet us while we are in New York during either of these visits should contact me.

I'll now turn the call over to Bob.

Welcome, fellow shareholders. Thanks, Steve. I'm Bob Snyder, President and Chief Executive Officer of Orchids Paper Products. It's great to speak with you again. We are pleased to announce very solid results for the first quarter of 2012.

The establishment of a new quarterly converted product shipment record during a quarter which is normally our slowest quarter of the year is a testament to the efforts of our sales team and new product development efforts. These efforts continue to help us build and strengthen our convertible product business, as we continue to build momentum in both the value and mid-tier business segments. This is a very solid start to 2012 year and we expect to build upon the start with increased converted product sales in coming quarters. The market is very active and many opportunities still lie ahead of us for 2012. We continue to pursue the new business opportunities discussed in last quarter's call and continue to be optimistic of our future business opportunities.

While we are not making any predictions on future sales, we believe our new product development work and low cost manufacturing operation provides us with a high quality, competitively priced product that should be attractive to our customers. As a result, we are very positive about the short and long-term outlook, as well as the financial performance of the company.

Now I will turn the call back over to the operator for questions.

[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of John Nobile with Taglich Brothers. Please proceed.

Hi, good morning gentlemen and congratulations on the quarter.

Thank you.

My first question, I was curious, the percentage of sales in this quarter, what percentage were the mid-tier market?

In the quarter it was probably around 12% or so, John.

How does that compare, say, to Q4 and even going back to Q3 of last year?

I don't have those exact figures, it would be higher than Q4 by a bit and a lot higher than Q3.

Okay. And on the last call you mentioned that there was several projects to replace all the pieces of converting equipment. I was curious, how extensive those projects are planned to be and how much downtime do you anticipate from those?

Well, we're into – into those projects right now, John. And we've got – we've completed about 50% of the projects and we're starting into next month the completion of those projects.

Okay. Obviously, the first quarter results were pretty impressive and that's with 50% of replacement of all the converting equipment. Was there any downtime affecting the tonnage in the first quarter due to this?

Minimal. I mean, it wouldn't have affected the tonnage – the way we did, we scheduled it, didn't affect any-

Okay. So in another words, you were able to pick up on other pieces of existing equipment, or you replaced the older pieces?

Yeah. The downtime – the amount of time for installation is [audio gap] (12:47)

Okay, so...

...so also the work on the run.

It's not really a factor as far as any effect on your tonnage shipped?

No.

And by next month, we're looking at completion, so....

Yes.

If anything we have the new equipment and the replacement of the older equipment here. Also, on the last call, you said that you were working on new business opportunities with six major retail customers. I was wondering if there was anything new to report on those opportunities? Any progress made in that area?

Yes. We've made some progress with some of it. And there are more opportunities coming up as time is going on. It's very active market.

Okay. Are we at the point where you might be able to quantify some of these opportunities?

Not really. These are active right now.

Okay. And actually just one last question on the income statement, SG&A expenses. I looked – I mean going back into 2011, for the whole year, each individual quarter was $1.9 million or below, as well as $1.5 million. This quarter I noticed SG&A was about $2.3 million. So I'm just curious if there's any item – is there any type of one-time items in this, or is this a level that we can kind of expect going forward?

John, the quarter was a lot higher than what we normally see. It was comprised of expenses and what would be different here is we did have some professional fees that were higher than normal. Our sales commissions were up, because our actual sales were higher, and few other areas as well. What I would expect on a going forward basis for the rest of the year would be expenses for each quarter of around between $2.0 million and $2.2 million.

Okay, between $2.0 million and $2.2 million. So this one being almost $2.3 million, we could chop this up to maybe professional fees that were higher than normal, because obviously if the sales are up there, your commissions are going to be up there. Okay, that's all I have. Thank you very much.

[Operator Instructions] And our next question comes from the line of Eric Hollowaty with Stephens. Please proceed.

Hey, guys, thanks for taking my question. Having some trouble just reconciling why net selling price per ton would be down if you shifted more production from parent rolls to converted and also if you sold more mid-tier, it would seem like the net selling price ought to have improved sequentially. Please reconcile those things?

Net selling price per ton was down somewhat, because of a shift in mix. Really it wasn't pricing or anything. It was just a mix shift between bathroom towels, and things like that, sheet counts and all those sorts of things.

Okay. Okay, it was mix and not price. Okay.

Correct, absolutely.

Okay. Thank you. I'll get back in the queue.

Yep.

And our next question comes from the line of [ph] Peter Mintz (16:22), a private investor. Please proceed.

Gentlemen, thank you for having a good quarter. I appreciate it. Approximately what percentage of additional capacity – of converted capacity you still have and when do you expect that you might finally sell it out?

I would say that we've still got quite a bit of capacity to be able to sell out, probably around 2 million basis that we have opportunity for. And I would think that, we've been growing that – right now, it's pretty much accelerated, but I think maybe 10% growth in a year.

So, roughly speaking, you have about 10% to 15% more capacity in the plant.

About 20%.

20%.

Okay. Thank you very much.

Thank you.

And our next question comes from the line of John Curti with Singular Research. Please proceed.

Good morning.

Good morning, John.

Question on raw material prices. You mentioned that they were up 13% versus year-end. Prices have firmed up in the first four months of the year. How did they stack up at this time of the year last year?

We were about – like we said in the call, our cost on – the average cost that we paid for the quarter in 2012 versus prior year was down about 25%. Okay? So we are still well under last year and the – and the 13% was not the average price for the quarter.

Right.

That's the price comparing to what our price was coming out of the first quarter, compared to ending price for the fourth quarter of last year, okay?

You're saying that the April price was 13% higher of the year-end price coming out of 2011?

Correct.

Okay. Then what I'm asking, I guess, April 2012 versus 2011, where do we stand?

I don't have that with me. I'm trying to remember how the pricing went up last year. The pricing went up almost every month...

Right.

...last year. So if we were down average for the first quarter 25%, if – I guess, saying it another way, if prices were stable for the rest of the quarter, we should be at least 25% better in the second quarter this year than the prior year, because prices did go up last year almost each month.

What kind of are your expectations as we head in now into the middle part of the year? We had a little bit of a break earlier and now they seem to be firming back up, what's your sense?

I think you need to probably look at [indiscernible] (19:32) for that kind of guidance.

That's a tough market to call. I mean you can read one source and think it's going up, other sources may make it flat, it's really a tough market to read.

And the best guide, the people who are involved in that market [indiscernible] (19:55) give some guidance from that area.

The replacement of some of this converting equipment, how much of a savings you anticipate or how much of an improvement in productivity?

We are thinking that once all this is done there is – I think our capacity would move up about 0.5 million. That's about 4% overall.

I'm sorry?

To give you another answer that's approximately 4%, not quite...

Okay. And then with respect to your non-paper costs in terms of utilities, gas, anything like that, anything going on there positively or negatively?

I guess the one thing we can point to, if you look in the K and in the Q, which will be out next Thursday, I think, is when it will be filed, our gas prices will drop about a $1 per – for starting – was it – April 1, I think. So for the rest of this year our gas costs will be down. That will be roughly $120,000 a quarter.

[Operator Instructions] And our next question comes from the line of John Nobile with Taglich Brothers. Please proceed.

Just a follow-up question, I wanted to get some clarification on the increasing fiber prices. The 13% increase, this was a 13% increase starting April, not for the entire first quarter, is that correct?

Right, exactly. It was flat in – it was flat in the month of January, it went up a bit, quite a bit in February, a small increase in March and a small one for the current month.

Okay. And that's compared to the 13% increase starting April, as compared to not the fourth quarter total, but the end of the fourth quarter or leading into the first quarter?

Yes. That will be the ending price for last year.

Okay. Thank you.

Welcome.

And we have no – we do have one more question and it's from the line of John Curti with Singular Research. Please proceed.

Yeah, I have a follow-up on the amount of sales commissions. I know that you had hired few independent people again to sell your products. How is that going and is that part of the reason for the increase in sales commissions?

Well, we have brokers and they are one of our many brokers that we have and we basically pay the same kind of brokerage to many of our outside brokers.

Okay.

Hey, John, so...

And, obviously, we enjoy the increase in sales, so...

Right.

So you can tell how we enjoy that.

Would you say – and then as a follow-up on the SG&A side, with the increase up to 2 – between $2 million and $2.2 million a quarter, would you say you're returning back to what is a more normalized level to run the business compared to in 2011, 2010, when business was tough and you were obviously watching every penny?

Yes.

Okay. All righty. That's it. Thanks.

Thank you, John.

And we have no further questions.

I thank everybody for being on the call with us today and we look forward to talking to you next quarter. Thank you very much.

Ladies and gentlemen we thank you for participation in today's conference. This concludes the presentation and you may now disconnect. Have a good day.