Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Keith R. Schroeder — CFO, Secretary & Head-Investor Relations, Orchids Paper Products Co.
Jeffrey S. Schoen — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Orchids Paper Products Co.
Alexander G. Hutter — Analyst, Jefferies LLC
Louie M. Toma — Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC
Marco A. Rodriguez — Analyst, Stonegate Capital Partners
John Nobile — Analyst, Taglich Brothers, Inc.
Michael N. Taglich — Co-Founder, Chairman & President, Taglich Brothers, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, and welcome to the Orchids Paper Products Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call. On the call today are Jeff Schoen, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Keith Schroeder, Chief Financial Officer. [Operator Instructions] Please also note that today's event is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference call over to Keith Schroeder. Sir, you may begin.

Thank you, operator. Good morning, and thank you to everyone for attending our 2015 second quarter earnings call. The agenda for our call today will begin with my review of this second quarter result. Jeff will then provide an overview of the business environment and his vision for the company. We will conclude with a question-and-answer session.

I'd like to inform you that certain statements made during this conference call are forward-looking statements and are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor Provisions and the Securities Reform Act of 1995. Such statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth during this discussion. Among other things, these risks and uncertainties include the risks and assumptions described in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014, and Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2015.

Any forward-looking statements are made only as of this date, and the company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements. I'd like to point out that during my remarks, I'll be making reference to both GAAP and non-GAAP or adjusted results, excuse me. The adjusted results exclude certain charges that we believe are not indicative of our core operating performance. A reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP measures is included in our earnings press release, which is available on our website.

For the second quarter of 2015, these adjustments to EBITDA included $423,000 of non-cash stock compensation expense and for the 2014 quarter included $1 million of non-cash stock comp expense, and $1.5 million of expense related to the Fabrica acquisition in June of last year.

On a year-to-date basis, the 2015 period includes $690,000 of non-cash stock comp expense, while the prior year period includes $1.2 million of non-cash stock expense, and the previously mentioned $1.5 million in acquisition expenses. On additional note, we adjusted net income for 2015 to exclude the effects of a change in estimated state tax liabilities, which totaled approximately $500,000.

And lastly, I'd like to welcome three analysts, who are new to the Orchids coverage is Philip Ng of Jefferies, Ian Zaffino of Oppenheimer, and Louie Toma of Craig Hallum.

So with that, let's get to the results. I am pleased this way that net sales came at a $42.3 million in the quarter, a 45% increase over the prior year quarter, and a 13% increase over Q1 of this year.

We also reported strong earnings improvement, our second quarter adjusted net income was $3.6 million or $0.37 per share compared with $2.1 million or $0.25 per share for the second quarter of the prior year. Increase in net sales over last year was driven by $12.1 million increase or 43% and converted product sales and a $1 million increase or 71% in parent roll sales.

The large increase in converted product shipments was driven primarily by two factors. The full quarter effect of the Fabrica transaction, which we completed in June of last year and a 9% increase in shipments from our Oklahoma site. The increase from sales on our Oklahoma's facilities reflect a continued success of our sales and strategy.

Our net selling price decreased about 7% in the second quarter of 2015 compared to the prior year quarter, reflecting both the effects of the Fabrica's businesses lower net selling price, and part is to some away-from-home business we acquired on the West Coast and due to overall strength in mix. Parent roll sales increase was driven by both the additional capacity from our new paper machine in Oklahoma and by a higher selling price per ton.

Our parent roll shipments increased 53% and our selling price increased by about 12% to $995 per ton. That performance brings our year-to-date net sales to $79.7 million or 40% increase over the prior year, converted product net sales were up 43% again driven by the full year effect of the Fabrica transaction and a 5% increase in shipments from our Oklahoma facility. Our parent roll sales were down slightly in the year-over-year comparison, plus in the effects of the new paper machine from project in Oklahoma which had the effect of moving paper production during the first quarter of 2015. Our gross profit for the second quarter was $7.7 million, an increase of 41% over the prior year quarter. Our gross profit as a percent of net sales was 18.3% in the current year quarter, down just slightly from 18.8% in the prior year quarter.

Our gross profit margin was adversely affected by higher fiber prices of approximately $760,000, higher converting labor and overhead expenses. The consumption was approximately $370,000 of some remaining purchase parent rolls and higher depreciation, which factors were largely offset by lower paper production cost in Oklahoma upon the start up of our new machine. We are very pleased with our new paper machine's performance, and we are seeing production cost excluding the cost of fiber that are lower than the prior year by approximately 70% on a per-ton basis.

We also experienced lower margins in April and May of the current year quarter under the supply agreement due to exceeding of 20,000-ton limit – 20,000-ton annual limit on our purchase. Under this supply agreement when that limit is exceeded, we continue to purchase items under the agreement, but under the different cost metrics, which reduced our second quarter margins on those sales by about five percentage points compared to the margins realized to stay under the agreement when excluding those months. The contract tonnage limit reset on June 1 of this year.

Now on a year-to-date basis, our gross profit increase of about $1 million or 9%. Our gross profit margin of 2015 period was 15.7% which was lower than the 20.2% experienced last year, and this was mostly due to the effects of the Oklahoma's paper machine project on a result in the first quarter of this year and higher fiber prices. Again the Oklahoma project, and if we move tonnage from our capacity during construction phase, resulting the need to purchase parent rolls to supplement our converting requirements that load our fixed cost absorption and resulted in the loss of parent roll sales.

Our adjusted SG&A in the quarter was $1.8 million, and improved the 4.3% of net sales, compared with adjusted SG&A in the prior year of $2 million or 6.9% of net sale. On a year-to-date basis, adjusted SG&A was $4.1 million in both 2015 and 2014. As a percent of net sales, SG&A in the 2015 period improved 5.1%, compared to 7.2% in the prior year.

Adjusted EBITDA was $8.4 million in second quarter of 2015, compared to adjusted EBITDA in the prior year of $5.8 million. As percent of net sales, the 2015 quarter returned to more than normal levels at 19.8%. Our adjusted – our year-to-date adjusted EBITDA was $13.2 million, an improvement of 10% over the prior year.

Now we're turning to taxes; our effective rate for the full year is estimated at 33.8%. This compared to 34.4% at the end of the first quarter. Mostly, as a result of a change in our estimated state tax liabilities, our effective tax rate for the quarter was 25.3%.

Now, I'll return to the balance sheet and cash flow. We generated $4.9 million of cash from operations in the six-month period of 2015, compared with $3.1 million in the prior year.

Capital expenditures totaled $24.3 million on a year-to-date basis including $12.8 million related to the Barnwell expansion. Our expected total capital expenditures for the year in the range of $65 million to $70 million including a range of $45 million to $50 million for the Barnwell project. Our net debt outstanding as of June 30, 2015 was $31.5 million.

Fixed charge coverage ratio stood at 1.96 to 1, and our funded debt-to-EBITDA ratio was 1.64 to 1. We returned $3.6 million of cash to shareholders in the quarter, bringing the year-to-date total to $6.7 million.

I will now turn the call over to Jeff.

Good morning. Welcome to the Orchids Q2 2015 earnings call. As you know, we did not have a Q1 earnings call as we were in the process of selling stock and communicating our expansion plan. In this call, I will review the three phases of our expansion plan including our West Coast expansion the Pryor upgrade and debottleneck plan, and the recently announced Barnwell, South Carolina expansion to help you understand our long-term expectations for sales, EBITDA, earnings per share, and stock price.

My goal is to increase the value of Orchids to reflect a $50 to $60 stock price, as I am incented to do so with market-based options. To accomplish that, Orchids has needed to expand its footprint as well as upgrade its product development and cost capabilities.

In June of 2014, we announced the Fabrica transaction, which included their U.S. sales and a supply agreement to produce product for the West Coast. The results of that deal have met our expectations. Today, we are selling at an annual rate of about 25,000 tons with an average EBITDA margin of 18.3%, and are effectively sold out relative to the deal we entered into. We will however continue to work with our partner to grow sales and profitability on the West Coast.

Moving on to Pryor, the new paper machine completed its startup curve in April. It's meeting our expectations regarding paper quality and cost and contributed significantly to our Q2 results in both cost reduction and parent roll sales. The new paper machine gives us total paper capacity of between 74,000 tons and 77,000 tons annually and the ability to compete more effectively in the retail market from both the product and the cost standpoint.

The incremental parent roll capacity is being sold with multiple buyers interested due to its improved quality relative to our old assets, so we expect to be sold out as a mill with margin improvement being driven by higher parent roll sales and prices and the subsequent conversion to converting margins as we sell new retail volume. Parent roll shipments represented about 11% of our Q2 sales volume, which we expect to decrease as we add new business to Pryor.

The second part of the Pryor expansion was the upgrade of existing assets and the installation of a new converting line. The new converting line started up in June and will complete its startup curve in August. To-date, the new converting line is exceeding our expectations.

Congratulations to our operations teams for both the new paper machine and the new converting asset accomplishments. These two startups reflect the major changes in operations systems we have implemented over the past 18 months to give Orchids a competitive advantage that previously did not exist. The upgrade of two older converting assets will occur in late Q3.

At the end of this project, Orchids will have approximately 82,000 tons of converting capacity, assuming a constant mix in Oklahoma with more manufacturing flexibility on a lower cost structure to improve our competitiveness.

In anticipation of the new converting capacity coming online, Orchids has been pursuing new business to quickly fill up the new capacity. I am pleased to say that Orchids has successfully gained new business that starts shipping from Pryor in August and will improve our Pryor case sales rates almost 67,000 tons or about 10 million cases annually, leaving about 7,000 tons to 10,000 tons of excess paper capacity that equates to about another million cases of converted product capacity for future sales from Pryor using its own paper.

Please note that Pryor could have excess converting capacity after the paper mill is fully sold out that could support new sales with parent rolls purchased from outside the facility. Looking forward, the third quarter will be very positive for Orchids as we have heavy promotional activity and are rolling out new products that will be supported by the new capacity we have developed.

Congratulations to our sales team for selling in new business in a timeframe that synced up with our new capacity coming online. We expect to continue to gain additional new business as we look forward to 2016. With the new business we expect to ship in the second half as well as continued optimization of our cost structure, we expect to generate an excess of $7 million of cash flow from operations per quarter ongoing. Although it is ultimately a board decision, Orchids has paid a $0.35 per share dividend per quarter since the second quarter of 2013.

We expect our operating cash flow to continue to support that dividend level of $3.6 million per quarter as we move forward with the Barnwell expansion. As previously announced, Orchids is planning to invest in the range of $120 million to $127 million to build a world-class paper making and converting facility in Barnwell, South Carolina with converting operations, shipping products in the first quarter of 2016 and papermaking production beginning in the first quarter of 2017. To be clear Barnwell will be a converting-only plant for all of 2016 with the first line starting to ship in Q1, and a second line starting to ship in Q3, which will result in lower converted product margins since 2016 then will occur with a fully-integrated site in 2017.

The margin will be recovered however, when we start up the new paper machine in the first quarter of 2017. Even with the lower margins during 2016 for Barnwell, we expect the Barnwell products to generate sufficient cash flow by the end of 2016 to more than cover its debt service. Following the completion of the Barnwell project in 2017, we'll have over 130,000 tons of converting capacity system-wide, which we expect to yield over $280 million in annual sales when fully sold out.

Our EBITDA margin and EPS expectations, when the system is fully utilized are in the 20% to 24% range and $2.50 to $3.40 range for EPS, assuming current costs, and are based on our cost expectations from the fully integrated Barnwell facility, continued optimization of our West Coast sales mix, and continued optimization our Pryor facility.

On a final note, we will be presenting at the Jefferies Industrial Conference on August 13, and the Craig-Hallum Alpha Select Conference on September 17, both of which are in New York. We hope to see you there.

I'll now turn the call back over to the operator for questions.

Ladies and gentlemen, we will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Alexander from Jefferies. Please go ahead with your question.

Good morning, Jeff and Keith, and congratulations on a very strong quarter.

Good morning.

Thank you.

On the Pryor paper machine ramp in the quarter, can you talk about how that looked inter-quarter sequentially and whether you're running at a 100% capacity as you enter the second quarter and where you were – sorry in the third quarter and where you were in the second quarter?

Well, we're fully ramped up in terms of the quarter we're in right now. In the second quarter, I would say at the end of April, we were still optimizing, but May, June, I would say we were full production on the paper machine.

Okay, great. And then, I think you said that you sold in some new business on the converting side. I think it was about 67,000 tons, is that right? And then, can you talk about where that puts you in terms of – or where that will put you in terms of overall capacity utilization on the converting side in Pryor?

Yes. We've added new business that is incremental that needed to be supported by the new line. So, answer to that question is, yes, there is incremental business, it started to ship – partially started to ship in July, major component of it starts shipping in August. We're still sorting through – I think we believe our annual rate is about 10 million cases. The excess capacity that we have is about a million cases as well, of course the nature of our business – at this period in time, we're effectively sold out, because we're going through a surge right now, because we're building promotional volume. But after that, we believe there's another million cases of capacity in Pryor that will be focused on selling out next year.

Great. And then on the longer-term guidance, you gave I think, it was $2.50 to $3.40. Can you talk about what you're assuming in terms of parent roll sales and parent roll pricing there relative to where it is now?

The answer to that – this is Keith – is that when we get to those levels of sales that is basically all converted products sales. So that would mean that we would be converting all the paper that we make. So if there's any parent roll sales in that number at all, it'd be very, very small.

I mean, I tell people, our goal is not to be in the parent roll business, it's there as a way to cover costs, but our goal is to sell out our parent rolls as converted product.

Got it. Thanks very much. I'll turn it over, guys.

Our next question comes from Louie Toma from Craig-Hallum Capital Group. Please go ahead with your question.

Hi, good morning, guys. Very nice quarter.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Just could you talk a little bit about fiber pricing? You said that that was up in the quarter. Just what's driving that? What's your expectations going forward and how does that affect your margins going forward as far as fiber pricing?

Well, the fiber pricing side that we look at, what they essentially show for the next two quarters to three quarters is that virgin fibers are going to be down slightly in the next two quarters maybe up just a tad and basically three quarters out. And then the other grades that we buy which is the SPS grades, they are pretty much looking for essentially flat prices with some minor changes, ups and downs, and this is over the next three quarters, so in general, is to say we're not looking for any significant changes upwards or downwards from the current pricing over the next, I'd say, the next three quarters.

Right. And what was the percentage increase that you saw this quarter?

It was around 5% or 6%, I don't have that number right in front of me, but I can get that to you.

Okay. And then parent roll prices, can you talk a little bit about what you guys saw in the quarter for parent roll like this?

They were strong, the overall parent roll market started to get a lot tighter in the first part of Q2, and it's continued on, so obviously, you have looked at our numbers in the prior year, so overall pricing is up about $100 a ton this quarter versus what we experienced in the first three quarters of 2014.

I'll also add to that. I think we have driven some of that ourselves, recognizing that the parent roll market has different grades of quality, and the paper coming off our machine is higher quality than what I would say is available on most of the markets at this point in time, and so we've had several people asking us about our paper, and we have not been able to supply that demand, and we've been able to raise prices even in that environment.

Right. So, correct me if I'm wrong. I had you guys or I had the parent roll prices per ton at $900 in March. So is that- is that fair and then this quarter was it about $1,000; does that sound right?

That is correct.

That's correct.

Okay. That's all I had. Thank you very much.

Thank you.

Our next question comes from Marco Rodriguez from Stonegate Capital. Please go ahead with your question.

Good morning, guys. Thank you for taking the questions. Just really quick, I was wondering if you could talk a little bit more about the expansion plans. I appreciate all the color you provided there. Unfortunately, I wasn't able to write a lot of it down. Maybe you could kind of summarize and aggregate the total tons of capacity you have available to you currently and how you see that shifting through 2015 and then 2016?

Well, the total tons that we have out of Pryor is the 74,000 ton to 77,000 ton number that I talked about in the pre-record. We have 25,000 tons on the West Coast with the ability and we're working with our Mexican partner to grow that that capacity on the West Coast as we grow sales. So that's kind of a fluid number. It's really going to be driven by our ability to grow sales on the West Coast, but let's just use 25,000 tons now. And then Barnwell will start up in the 35,000 ton to 40,000 ton range. So what does all that add up to?

It's around 130,000 tons – depending on grade of course, 135,000 tons to 140,000-something tons total.

Got you. And the South Carolina expansion, are you expecting if you can remind me here, any production in fiscal 2016 or is it mostly fiscal 2017?

Well, we'll have converting production, converting-only production in 2016. The paper machine will start up in early 2017.

Got you. Okay. [ph]

We'll be making (25:45) converted product, but because we don't have the fully-integrated model in place, our margins will be less than they would be once we're in fully integrated mode.

Got you. And then in terms of if I heard you correctly on the guidance on cash flow from operations per quarter for the Q3 and Q4 numbers of this year, I believe, I heard you say, you'd be doing about $7 million a quarter. Can you talk a little bit about the components there, the main drivers you see impacting that number?

Well, for the most part, Marco, I'd say it's the earnings and the earnings are going to continue to grow for Q3 and Q4, that's our expectation, with the sales volumes that we expect to see during those quarters. We don't anticipate any large changes in accounts receivable balances, inventories and et cetera. So really, the main driver improvements over what we've seen over the last few quarters is primarily cash earnings base.

Okay. And last quick question and I'll jump back in queue. Can you just talk a little bit about the competitive landscape, and any sort of change in dynamics you might be seeing out there?

Yes. It's always competitive, right? That's why we're in this business, it's always competitive. There has been three competitors in the last year that have announced or starting to announce price increases, which I think is indicative of there's been a lot of cost taken out of system and I think people are running out of cost management opportunities, so that's in play. There is capacity being built from a competitor out there, who is, I'm not quite sure how to talk about that on this call, but I would say on a relative basis competitive activity, competitive threats if you want to look at that have increased.

Got you. Thanks a lot guys, appreciate it.

Thank you.

Our next question comes from John Nobile from Taglich Partners. Please go ahead with your question.

Hello, good morning. I just needed clarity, I missed the part where you talking about 67,000 tons annually from Oklahoma starting in August. Now, is this capacity, converting capacity starting in August or is this actual orders that you have received to do this on an annual basis?

That's our sales run rate. That is our expected sales run rate at this time, John.

Just from Oklahoma?

That is correct.

Okay. So, in August – starting in August, you expect the run rate of about 67,000 tons of converted product annually?

That is correct.

Okay. And as far as parent rolls, you had mentioned starting in or the end of Q2, you're at full capacity in Oklahoma where you have at least 74,000 tons that you could produce annually. Is there sufficient demand in the market to sell, fully sell all the excess parent rolls out there that are not converted?

Yes, there is, more than enough.

Okay. So, in other words starting in Q3 from Oklahoma alone, we should see at least on an annual run rate a combination of tonnage converting and parent rolls to equal or exceed 74,000 tons?

Correct.

Yes, and that range is 74,000 tons to 77,000 tons depending on whether we're making bathroom tissue or towel.

Okay. Now, I don't know what the Q2 numbers are from Fabrica, but I know in Q1 it showed an annual run rate of approximately 22,500 tons, and I know, in the first two years, you can do 27,500 tons or in other words 5,000 tons more than what you did in Q1, you currently said you're at a, what about 25,000 ton run rate?

Correct.

Obviously you anticipate continuing at a 25,000 ton run rate, till the two-year initial period is up. Do you think you can get back, because I think on the first couple of quarters, you were doing maximum tonnage from Fabrica, so it looked like it slowed down a little bit, you think you're going to be at this run rate of 25,000 tons or it can still increase from here?

No, I think it's going to increase from here. We have a lot of opportunities on the West Coast. Quite honestly, it's a capacity issue for us in terms of how fast we grow.

Okay. So the demand is there to satisfy the full capacity of 27,500 tons currently?

Oh, yes.

Okay. And if I could just get a breakout of the tonnage from Fabrica in the second quarter?

The tonnage from Fabrica in the second quarter was, I have it right here, it was around 6,600 tons or in that range.

Okay, around 6,600 tons. And with the SG&A, I noticed from Q1 sequentially into Q2 now, it dropped about $0.25 million, a little over a $0.25 million in SG&A from Q1, but this was on much higher sales, I was hoping you could shed some light on to that drop, given the higher sales rate.

Well, the amount of SG&A that is directly affected by sales is quite low, so it's really more a function of certain expenses hit certain times of the year. So, it's really not as much as driven by sales, it's mostly driven by other administrative things when certain actions hit and et cetera.

Okay. So, what do we expect going forward being at the – your current level was $2.2 million of prior year, Q1 was $2.5 million, what are we looking at a typical SG&A level going forward?

Typical SG&A going forward, I would use around $2.6 million or so per quarter.

Okay. And let me not take up too much. One – two more questions gross margin wise; now you had a purchase of 300 tons of parent rolls in the market to satisfy your converting requirements. And obviously, gross margins were impacted. I was hoping you can quantify about how much that had impacted gross margins by 300 ton purchase.

It was about – it wasn't – parent rolls that we purchased in the quarter is parent rolls that we had purchased during the paper machine project and prior to Q2 that just got consumed, it's just little bit leftover. So, it's 370,000 of costs institute a gross margin for the quarter. So, I mean it's math right here, but it's pretty easy to do, so it's about 1%.

Okay. So, without that it would have been about 1%. And just one final question, South Carolina, the converting line is going to be up and running before the paper machine, they should both be up by 2016. Paper machine comes online in 2017. Does this mean that you're going to be buying parent rolls in the market or you're going to plan to ship them from Oklahoma?

If we have excess parent roll capacity in Oklahoma, we will be shipping it to Barnwell. Absent of that, we'll be buying parent rolls with probably long-term contracts, so we get better consistency than what we had when we took the paper machine down at Pryor in the first quarter.

Okay. But from your expectations, most likely you would be buying, I believe.

Yes. Most likely, we'll be buying. I mean there is – the next phase for us is, there is a lot of mix issues that we have to sort out between the West Coast, Pryor, and the East Coast. There's product on the West Coast that technically should be made in Pryor. There's product in Pryor that should be made on the East Coast. So my guess is 75% of the parent rolls that we end up having to use will be purchased outside.

Okay. That's all I have. Thank you.

That will change as we firm up here in the next two quarters.

All right. Thank you very much.

Thanks, John.

Our next question comes from Michael Taglich from Taglich Brothers. Please go ahead with your question.

Good morning, guys. Great quarter. My question and I don't think was – is basically with this new converting machine you've got turned on now. If it was performing as well as it had in the last month or so for the whole quarter of – the whole June quarter, how much marginal additional income would the company have?

Well, I think that the best way to answer that question is, once that capacity of that line with the other capacity in Oklahoma is filled out, on an annualized basis, it would add an additional $2 million to $3 million worth of earnings on an annualized basis.

That's – okay. So that's with that converting line sold out, and with the marginal Oklahoma capacity sold out, you pick up $2 million to $3 million in additional EBITDA?

Well, let me just make it a little clear. It's with the additional capacity of the new converting lines sold out.

The new converting lines that turned on last quarter, not the new ones in January next year?

Yes. That's correct.

Okay. So you pick up $2 million to $3 million of marginal EBITDA above this on an annual basis when you get sold out. Is that sold out 100% capacity, is that sold out – because you never get to 100% capacity, is that sold out with, what capacity number do you use to define sold out?

About 90%.

90-what?

90% of the capacity.

Okay.

So it's a $2 million to $2.5 million case you're aligned, depending on the mix. So it would roughly be 90% or so of that.

Okay.

And with the new business, Mike, that we just brought on, it's more than half sold out already.

All right. Good. All right. So that's earnings power that will be more evident as you move into the second half of the year on a monthly basis, right?

Right.

Q3, Q4, what you see-

I mean, August is our trigger point for that.

Okay. So – and then next year obviously you've got the new line, you want to come in, that will be helpful cover your debt service [indiscernible] (37:04) and obviously you start making real money when the mill gets turned on.

Correct, exactly. Fair, Mike

All right. So the earnings power of this company, when you're saying $280 million of 20% to 24%, what's 22%, right, is about $61 million in EBITDA?

Yes, that's correct.

Okay. And in your, what's your peak debt going to be if you had to guess, sort of what you sold off on the road show?

Well, the peak debt that we're seeing will be about, let's say, 110 and of course it will come down. And that peak debt will be towards the end of 2016 or early 2017, and then it will drop at about 6% per year rate.

Well, if you play well, it should drop more than that, but it's the – are you looking at – you have $61 million in EBITDA, right?

Correct.

I mean you should be even with the dividend paying off monstrous amounts of debt, I mean your peak debt is a day before the converting line or the paper mill gets turned on?

Yes. Just to be clear, the number I cited is 6%, that is the bank term, so, we have excess cash. We will certainly pay down at a rate more – in advance of that.

Okay. So your earnings power picking the midpoint, your range is around $61 million EBITDA, is that also a 90% sellout of capacity kind of number?

Yes.

Okay. All right, good. Hey listen, this great, very exciting. Keep up the good work.

Thanks Mike.

Thanks Mike.

Thanks. [Operator Instructions]

Our next question is a follow-up from Alex Hutter from Jefferies. Please go ahead with your follow-up.

Hi guys. Thanks for taking my follow-up. So if I think about the Pryor capacity being sold out to 67,000 ton rate, at the end of the year I think you have another 15,000 tons of converting capacity coming online in Pryor, which I believe you're shifting production from, from – sorry, in Barnwell and you're shifting production from Pryor to fill that up. What's your line of sight on I guess filling back Pryor at the end of the year as you kind approach that deadline?

Well, we're very focused on basically over selling Pryor right now so that we can move if we need to. But it's not a requirement that we move anything to Barnwell without having this excess capacity sold out. It's not going to make sense for us to do that and take lower margins. So, we are working – we've got a couple of opportunities that we're pursuing right now that I think are better than – I put them in the 75% plus probability of getting more business to fill it out.

We also have – like I said, we have product in the West Coast that should be produced in Pryor so that will – there's really two things. There's what are we going to do on the West Coast in terms of sales and what are we going to do at Pryor in terms of sales. So, we have active programs in both of those areas depending on which ones click will determine how we rearrange our production mix to support filling up Pryor and being able to move volume over to Barnwell, kind of a complicated answer, but kind of a complicated scenario.

No. Understood and thanks for that. And have you made any hires on the sales front in South Carolina and if you have or have not, do you have any indications of potential demand there from some of your clients?

Yes. We have not hired anybody on the East Coast yet. We are using our existing force although we are looking for somebody. So, we're looking for the right person, and we haven't found that person yet. But there's three ways to think about how you sell out Barnwell. One is we have existing customers that we have good relationships with who, in discussions have said, if you have a better cost structure than other people or better quality, blah, blah, blah, you'll be given opportunities to gain additional DCs. So with existing customers gaining additional DCs is one opportunity.

The second one is new business. We – for the last year, we've been talking to people about new business. And for those people, who are concerned about the distance from Pryor to the East Coast, they said, when you have a site out East, come talk to us. We're interested in your product line, which we think is different than what other people are talking about. So there's that part of it. So you have – we have irons in the fire in both areas. All of those things obviously need to come to fruition here in the next six months, and that's what we're actually working to make happen.

Great. And then, shifting to the West Coast and your points there, how difficult would you say it's been to gain share there, relative to your expectations going into the market recognizing that you have lower cost capacity than most people there, from a pricing perspective?

I think when we got the business, we were less – we were in the – we were less than 20,000 tons. So we've grown the business to 25,000 tons. We bought it at like $35 million, I think we're in the $50 million range. So we've been able to grow the business on the West Coast. What we're trying to do though is differentiate ourselves enough that we can gain more share in the mid-tier premium market. We've been pretty successful with bathroom tissue. We've got some work to do on towel, which we're actively working on from a product development standpoint with our Mexican partner. And I think there are significant opportunities for us, which I can't talk about right now in enough detail to give you the color, but we're doing a lot of work in different types of channels right now to grow that business. And as I said, my main concern frankly is capacity to do it.

Got it. And then just the last one for me; you talked about coming up against a volume threshold with Fabrica that kind of softens your margins there. Is there an opportunity to shift some of those tons away from the away-from-home market that you're selling into there and improve mix by selling more into at-home?

Yes. And that's a scenario that we look at it. It's not one we're ready to pull a trigger or anything. I mean we do make decent margins with it. We will – as long as I am able to gain incremental capacity from Mexico, we're continuing to grow 25%, 30% we're in discussions about, how to do that. As long as we can do that, and we don't run into a big road block, that's probably the path we'll stay on.

Great. Thanks very much.

Thanks, Alex.

And ladies and gentlemen, we've reached the end of today's question-and-answer session. This time I'd like to turn the conference call back over to management for any closing remarks.

Well, those are all great questions, and I hope I have been able to clear up some of the noise that's been in the system for the last several months. I think it's important to understand that Orchid has been on a path to grow, to build – I've told the investors in my conferences that there's really three income streams that I look at, and the first one was the Fabrica transaction which allowed us to harvest cash to support the Pryor rebuild and debottleneck plant. Now that the Barnwell – now that excuse me, the Pryor debottleneck plant is 75%, 85% complete, that income stream will help support both – that income stream in addition to Pryor – excuse me, in addition to the West Coast, will help support the Barnwell expansion.

So right now, my shift in focus and my team's focus is on Barnwell. We've built a team that we believe is sustainable at Pryor. So it doesn't require 100% of our attention to be focused on the West Coast and Pryor and Barnwell. Barnwell has my attention. It's a big bite for us. But we've got the team I believe and we will continue to develop the team that will execute Barnwell successfully.

So, I want to thank my team in particular. This is – the last two quarters have been very stressful. We've come out of it. I think we're on an uptrend now. And we're very excited about the capabilities we now have in our company. Thank you.

Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude today's conference call. We do thank you for attending. You may now disconnect your telephone lines.