corrected transcript


Orchids Paper Products Co.
 
TIS
 
Q3 2008 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 30, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentleman, and welcome to the Q3 Earnings Conference Call. My name is


Anita, and I will be your operator for today. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. We


will conduct a question-and-answer session toward the end of this conference. [Operator


Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Keith Schroeder, Chief Financial Officer


and Bob Snyder, President and Chief Executive Officer. Please proceed.


Keith R. Schroeder, Chief Financial Officer


Good morning and welcome to Orchids Paper Products Company’s 2008 third quarter earnings


conference call. My name is Keith Schroeder and I am the Chief Financial Officer. I am pleased to


be here today with Bob Snyder, our President and Chief Executive Officer. This morning we will be


discussing our third quarter financial results which we released yesterday afternoon. Bob will


discuss our performance in the third quarter and the first nine months of this year and various


initiatives being worked on within the Company. I will then provide a summary review of the quarter


and year-to-date results and some key financial metrics. Following that discussion, I will turn the


call back over to Bob for some closing remarks. After Bob’s remarks, we will be happy to address


any questions you might have.


And with that I would like to inform you that statements made during this conference call other than


those that refer to past events and results are forward-looking statements and are made pursuant


to the Safe Harbor provisions in the Securities Reform Act of 1995.


Such statements involve risk and uncertainties that may cause actual results to defer materially


from those set forth during this discussion. Among other things, these risk and uncertainties include


the risk and assumptions described in Item 1A and Item 7 of the Company’s Form 10-K for the year


ended December 31, 2007. The Company assumes no obligation to update or supplement forward-


looking statements that become untrue because of subsequent events.


With that, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Bob Snyder.


Robert A. Snyder, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Keith. I am Bob Snyder, President and Chief Executive Officer of Orchids Paper Products.


It’s great to speak with you again. In the third quarter of 2008 we achieved record net sales of 23.3


million, up 21% from last year’s third quarter and record earnings per share were $0.22 per diluted


share, a $0.04 increase over the third quarter of 2007 and a 22% improvement.


For the nine months of 2008, we achieved record net sales of about 65.9 million, up 21% from the


first nine months of last year and earnings per share increased 67% to $0.45 per diluted share. Last


quarter, we told you that we hired a consulting group to help boost our productivity in the converting


operation. The consultants help to install the management operating system. The information


generated by the system confirmed our belief that we needed to temporarily increase our


maintenance spending in order to improve uptime and productivity.


During the third quarter, the Company increased its spending on maintenance and repairs by


approximately $500,000 over the amounts spent in the third quarter of 2007. In addition, the cost of


the consultant in the third quarter was $274,000. The consultant’s work was concluded in the third


quarter and we expect to reduce maintenance expenditures in the fourth quarter and beyond.


Our team accomplished some new milestones and significant improvements during the third


quarter of 2008. More specifically, in the paper manufacturing plant, we increased paper making
corrected transcript


Orchids Paper Products Co.
 
TIS
 
Q3 2008 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 30, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


production in the third quarter of 2008 to 14,163 tons, a 10.5% increase over the same quarter last


year and nearly the same as the record second quarter of 2008.


In the converting plant, we achieved record production of nearly 1.7 million cases in the third


quarter, a 9.3% increase over the same quarter last year and 19.3% better than the second quarter


of 2008. We had record shipments in the third quarter of just over 1.6 million cases, a 7.2%


improvement over the third quarter of 2007 and up 6.8% over last quarter.


In addition, we are half way through our automation project and we will complete the project by the


end of the final quarter of 2008. At the same time, we have completed 95% of the upgrade of our


Line six, towel line, enabling us to increase productivity and efficiency. The final step will be


completed in the fourth quarter, which will further increase productivity.


On August 1, 2007, Orchids received a new waste water discharge permit that requires the


company to expand its existing pre-treatment facility to reduce biological oxygen demand and total


suspended solids from its discharged water. Under the permit, the company is required to complete


the expansion and make operational its pre-treatment facility by August 1, 2009. The engineering


phase of the project has been completed and the project is expected to cost $4.3 million. Based on


the engineering work completed to date, we expect the project to be fully operational by July of


2009.


We are very happy to report to you the positive impact of the coordinated effort of our management


team in the previously discussed productivity consulting group. We have achieved significant


breakthroughs on our converting performance, with a 20% improvement on production over the last


2 months, compared to the run rate experienced in the first 8 months of the year.


Along with improving the run rates in the converting plan we have achieved the following results,


we have revised and installed the management operating system putting in place methods and


systems for forecasting and planning, assigning and executing work, monitoring production, follow-


up and corrective action and for the reporting and reviewing of results.


We have instituted management training sessions, resulting in improved awareness of goals and


responsibilities by operators and supervisors, along with improved reporting and communication.


We have improved our continuous improvement process and seeing the effectiveness of this


program.


From our management operating system, we have identified areas for further improvement,


especially in our maintenance area and in particular in the area of preventative maintenance. We


are focusing our efforts in this area, so as to maintain a consistent level of good operation. The


implementation of the management operating system and its programs, along with the continued


efforts of our team have us well positioned for further improvements and increased benefits.


Now I will turn it over to Keith to discuss the financials.


Keith R. Schroeder, Chief Financial Officer


For the three months ended September 30, 2008 we reported net income of $1.4 million or $0.22


per diluted share which was a new quarterly record compared with net income of 1.1 million or


$0.18 per diluted share in the same period of 2007. Net sales for the third quarter of 2008 were a


record 23.3 million, an increase of 21% over the 19.2 million in net sales we reported for the same


period last year. Net sales of converted products in the third quarter of 2008 increased 17% to 19.3


million, which was primarily the result of a 21% increase in net selling prices. The price increase


was primarily due to product content changes and actual price increases has taken in response to