Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Mindy Bartel — Chief Financial Officer, Orchids Paper Products Co.
Jeffrey S. Schoen — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Orchids Paper Products Co.
Michael Fawzy Malouf — Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC
John Nobile — Analyst, Taglich Brothers, Inc.
Michael Robert Grady — President & Managing Member, Chicago Capital Management Advisors LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Hello and welcome to the Orchids Paper First Quarter 2018 Earnings Conference Call. All participants will be in listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] After today's presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask questions. [Operator Instructions] Please note that this event is being recorded.

I'd now like to turn the conference over to Mindy Bartel. Please go ahead, ma'am.

Good morning and thank you for joining Orchids Paper's First Quarter 2018 Earnings Conference Call. Jeff will also provide an update on the overall state of the business and future plan. We will conclude with a question-and-answer session.

Before we begin, I'll draw your attention to the Safe Harbor statement issued in yesterday's press release. Please remember that certain statements made during this conference call are forward-looking statements within the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 as amended. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, estimates, assumptions and projections that are subject to change. And actual results may differ materially from those forward-looking statements.

Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include those risks and uncertainties described in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Forms 10-K and Forms 10-Q for recent periods, as well as in our earnings release and supplemental information. Any forward-looking statements are made only as of this date. And the company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.

During our remarks, we'll also make reference to both GAAP and non-GAAP measurements. The reconciliation of non-GAAP measures is included in our earnings press release, which is also available on our website. Non-GAAP measures we use include EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, a distinction between operating cash flows attributable to changes in working capital and cash flows attributable to other operating sources and uses of cash and to earnings exclusive of items that we do not believe are indicative of our core operating performance.

Management believes that these non-GAAP measures provide incremental information useful in understanding the cash flows and operating performance of the company. The EBITDA measurements are also required and evaluated by our lenders. The non-GAAP measure should not be construed as alternative or better metrics than the GAAP measures.

Now to begin our remarks on the first quarter's result. The first quarter of 2018 was a strong quarter, as Orchids generated revenues of $48 million, the high end of our guidance of $43 million to $50 million. This represents an increase of 37% over the first quarter of 2017 and 11% over the fourth quarter. Strong revenue growth was driven by increases in our premium and ultra-premium businesses as well as increased parent roll sales. We expect to continue to improve sales throughout this year as we improve productivity on our assets and increase the penetration of premium and ultra-premium sales.

Gross profit was $2.9 million in the first quarter up from $2 million in the year-ago quarter and $2.5 million in the fourth quarter of 2017. Gross profit margin in the first quarter was 6%, up from 5.6% in the year-ago quarter and 5.8% sequentially. The year-over-year improvement in gross profit is due to the favorable impact of the increased sales volume of $700,000 combined with higher average selling prices of $1.5 million, which reflects the change in mix of products sold due to the ramp-up of the ultra-premium retail business. This was partially offset by rising costs primarily fiber and freight, which negatively impacted gross profit by $1.3 million. We expect these industry-wide conditions to remain headwinds throughout 2018. We have seen an improvement in production cost at our Barnwell facility as costs associated with startup activities has decreased from fourth quarter by $600,000.

Selling, general and administrative expenses increased to $3.6 million in the first quarter, up from $2.6 million in the year ago quarter and $2.8 million in the fourth quarter of 2017. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses in the first quarter was due to professional and consulting fees associated with our previously announced initiative to review strategic alternative and our debt refinancing efforts.

We had a first quarter operating loss of $1 million compared to an operating loss of $900,000 in the year ago period and $500,000 for fourth quarter. Year-over-year, the change in operating loss is minimal as the improvement in gross profit was offset by the increase in SG&A. On a sequential quarter basis, the increase in operating loss reflects the consulting fees paid to our advisors.

Adjusted EBITDA in the first quarter of 2018 was $5.3 million in line with our first quarter guidance of $5 million to $6 million. First quarter adjusted EBITDA was up from $3.1 million in the year ago period and down from $5.6 million in the fourth quarter. The year-over-year improvement in adjusted EBITDA is due to the favorable impact of increased sales volume combined with higher average selling prices due to mix. On a sequential quarter basis, the decrease in adjusted EBITDA is largely due to higher production cost, as increasing input cost outpaced improvement in sales volume and average selling prices.

Year-over-year interest rates have increased from 3.51% to 7.62%. The company had a net loss of $2.3 million in the first quarter versus a loss of $900,000 in the year ago period. EPS was negative $0.21 versus EPS of negative $0.08 in the first quarter of 2017. Shares outstanding in the first quarter of 2018 were 10.7 million.

Adjusted EPS in the first quarter of 2018 was a loss of $0.11 versus a loss of $0.05 in the year-ago period. Adjustments include items that we do not believe are indicative of our core operating performance, including startup cost for Barnwell and professional and consulting fees associated with our initiative to review strategic alternatives and our debt refinancing effort. As we improve the cost structure of Barnwell and also improve absorption due to increased sales, the overall profitability of the company will improve.

Now turning to the balance sheet. Cash at the end of the first quarter was $2.8 million versus $3.8 million in the fourth quarter. Debt at the end of the quarter was $172 million, up from $169 million in the prior quarter, as we drew on our line of credit to fund capital expenditures and changes in working capital, which was primarily related to an increase in accounts receivable associated with the higher sales volume.

Our lenders continued to support us as our Barnwell facility ramps providing more lenient covenants and increasing the borrowing capacity under our line of credit by adding incremental commitments in excess of $20 million to provide financial flexibility for our working capital needs. Cash flow from operations in the first quarter was a negative $2.5 million versus positive $3.6 million in the first quarter of 2017 and $5.2 million in the fourth quarter.

I will now turn the call over to Mr. Schoen.

Good morning. As previously discussed year-over-year we have improved sales by 37%, reflecting our goal to diversify our concentration risk among a broader customer base and product channels. First quarter sales increased 11% relative to Q4 reflecting stronger premium sales, a continued ramp up of ultra-premium sales and increased parent roll sales.

Looking forward, we now have three ultra-premium customers and expect to deliver more retail ultra-premium business in the second half in the form of higher volume with existing customers as well as new customers. We continue to ramp up the ultra-premium customer we announced last fall, ultra sales for this customer are currently at 30% of its expected sales run rate due to factors outside of our control. We expect to accelerate sales however with this customer in late Q2 as product design changes are implemented and to be fully ramped up in the second half. The parent roll market is also providing another high potential channel for Orchids to sell out its capacity. At this point in time both the premium and the ultra-premium parent roll markets are tight from a capacity standpoint.

Given the increases in fiber cost and the tight capacity, Orchids has the ability to raise prices and is raising prices of parent rolls. As an additional benefit as QRT technology is being accepted in the marketplace as a comparable ultra-premium product, we also have the opportunity to increase prices further on ultra-premium parent rolls. We believe we can sell out Barnwell with a mix of retail sales already in the pipeline as well as potential contracts for ultra-premium parent rolls in Q3 with significant increases in sales starting in the later part of Q2. Total parent roll sales have increased from approximately $3 million in Q4 to $4.5 million in Q1 with continuing opportunities to sell more as Barnwell productivity improves.

From a cost structure standpoint continued inflation in pulp and freight were negative factors in EBITDA relative to Q4. The national brands and private label competitors have announced price increases although it is not clear how much and how broad the price increases have permeated the retail space. We have seen however a retail price increase in the range of 15-plus-percent observed at the store shelf in the form of account change reduction. Note this does not mean the manufacturer has raised its prices to the retailer by 15-plus-percent, as some of this margin gain may have been shared with the retailer, who ultimately determines the price of the shelf. The percentage is significant however and represents an opportunity for manufacturers to improve margins through price increases in a broad inflationary environment. We expect industry prices to increase to partially offset these inflationary pressures.

Orchids is also focused on cost management programs in all areas to improve our overall cost structure, including fiber mix optimization and fiber recovery programs. We continue to optimize the productivity of the Barnwell assets. Q1 would best be characterized as flat from a productivity improvement standpoint as issues related to training, premature part failures and small design issues became apparent as we [indiscernible] (00:10:46). We consider these part of normal startup curves and expect them to be significantly less in the second quarter as we continue to improve overall productivity.

We expect significant improvements in productivity by the end of Q2 approaching 2,400 tons to 2,700 tons per month with current demonstrated capabilities in the 1,700 tons to 2,000 tons per month. The end of the curve for capacity on the Barnwell machine is between 3,000 tons and 3,200 tons per month depending on mix.

As stated earlier, we have demand to sell out the paper machine in the form of retail and parent roll sales. Our complete focus is maximizing the productivity of the assets at Barnwell, we can currently sell what we make.

Moving on to the bank amendment, 2018 is the year for Orchids to harvest its investments. In order to accomplish that, we need the appropriate liquidity and support from the banks to provide the time necessary to start up and optimize a greenfield site with new technology. As I've stated the QRT technology is delivering a superior product compared to conventional paper and a comparable product to other ultra-premium products. At end of curve, we should have a competitive advantage from product development and cost standpoint relative to other structured tissue machines in the space.

As announced in the amendment we have gained approximately $21 million of liquidity with minimal covenants. The banks have now provided significant liquidity and covenant relief necessary for Orchids to focus on its business strategy.

I will now turn the call back to the operator for questions.

Yes. Thank you. We will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] And the first question comes from Mike Malouf with Craig-Hallum Capital Group.

Great. Thanks for taking my questions. Can we first talk a little bit about the covenant issue, it seems like they've swapped the covenants from more of a financial metrics that you have to sort of forcing you guys to do some sort of strategic move. And in the 8-K, it specifically says that you have to have an LOI in six weeks. So, I'm just getting a sense of, is that how we [indiscernible] (00:13:15) as they basically have swapped the covenants from a financial aspect to a liquidity aspect. And if so, why would you say that they've reduced the – or made it more lenient, seems like they've just swapped one for the other? Thanks.

Well, I think what they've done – I think the most important thing that they've done in the amendment was liquidity. The borrowing basis has been changed, the covenants associated with hitting certain targets have changed. There is a cash flow covenant in there that we have to meet, as well as these other deadlines. But the most important thing I think in terms of the strategic alternatives that we're looking at is that we have liquidity to properly wrap up the business, and ultimately the success of whatever scenario we go down is dependent on the results of the company.

Okay, great. And then you talked a little bit about national brands increasing prices. Can you give us some perspective on – you've obviously been doing this for a while. How large is this price increase relative to some of the price increases you've seen in the past, and how long will it take to get some sort of sense on how that will stick? Thanks.

Well, normally what happens is the folks in private label in particular will wait for the national brands to lead on these efforts that is happening. As I mentioned the price increase that we've seen was done by a major national brand; that is sticking. And there's no choice but – for it to stick. So, the question becomes now how does private label respond to this? How do the retailers respond to it? It's a coordinated effort I think, and I suspect that most people will start looking at account changes as the way to pass this price increase on, while maintaining the price points that the consumers had expected to buy against. The process itself takes several months usually with private label, and we're in the middle of evaluating how that pertains to Orchids.

Okay. And then just with regards to cost, can you talk a little bit about the freight and pulp trends that are hitting you right now. How much further do you think those could go higher from here or have they flattened out or can you just give us some perspective with regards to that impact because it's obviously having a big effect on your gross profit? Thanks.

Yeah. We have somewhat of an advantage in the company because a high percentage of our business is still in recycled fiber. And although we're seeing price increases in both, the price increases in the recycled are not as much as in the virgin. Of course, as we increase our ultra-premium virgin products that becomes more of a factor.

We're seeing, off the top of my head, I don't have the exact numbers, about 5% a quarter is what we've seen so far and we have seen further price increases in April. We do expect those to stabilize for the second half of the year, but still remain high. And I don't have any real clear intelligence about when they might start coming back down. So, we expect the strong headwinds, we expect honestly expect it to flatten out and stay where it is in the second quarter, but I can't guarantee that that will be the case.

Okay. Thanks for the help.

Thank you. And the next question comes from John Nobile with Taglich Brothers.

Good morning. I want to get back to a previous comment on the 15% price increase you say retailers have raised the price, 15%. Is this, like to get an idea of the retailers, dollar store retailers, we're looking at ultra-premium product type of sales, or just to get a sense really 15% in what tier group are we looking at?

Yeah, in this case, it's a national brand that competes in the ultra-premium space. It's with where we observed that was major retailer, I'm not going to go any farther than that.

Okay.

So, it's pretty significant...

National brands, but private label really hasn't responded yet to those type of increases.

That's correct.

Okay. So, we should anticipate I would believe the private labels taking some action on this year? If I [ph] could get it on (00:17:48) the last call, you mentioned that the ramp in the ultra-premium products was to be at a slower pace. Originally it was for Q2, now it's going to be the second half of the year, maybe more full capacity by Q4. But it was a vague statement, you said that it was slower because of external forces. So, I was hoping to get a little more detail in regard to those external forces that is causing the ramp now from Q2 really more into a possibly Q4 of this year?

Well, I can't really explain what the circumstances because they really belong at the customer level. We have acquired the distribution that we expected and sales have just been lower than expected. There are reasons for it that are being mitigated and that's why we think that we'll see based on changes that are being made, we'll see a quicker acceleration late Q2 going into Q3 for this product line.

But full ramp expected in Q4 or maybe Q3?

Yeah, I think that's a more realistic objective as in Q4. We'll see ramping in Q3 and it's somewhat dependent on where their business model takes it. But that's my expectation at this point.

Okay.

We've had pretty good of success with this customer, we continue to improve our execution, our quality, and that's very important for this particular customer.

And when you said you're currently at 30% of the run rate with this new customer, was that for Q1 or as we speak now we're at 30%?

As we speak now, it's Q1.

Okay.

It's Q1...

It was Q1 we were at 30%, so I would imagine in Q2 it should be a higher percentage? Okay. So that's Q1?

Yeah. Yeah. As I stated, we expect to see some changes executed in late Q2 going into Q3, so we'll pick up some volume in Q2.

Okay. And I believe the competition basically is really near max capacity in regard to the ultra-premium products, which is great for you guys and that's not really anticipated till another 12 months may be 18 months to be at full – well actually for them to have their expanded capacity. So I'm just curious now with this opportunity for you guys, how that's going to play into your pricing and margins of similar products?

Well, I think, I've talked about parent roll sales that we are actually increasing prices of QRT parent roll, so that's already in the system. When you think about pricing for ultra-premium products obviously we're not trying to undercut [indiscernible] (00:20:46) predatory, we want to maintain those price points as stable in the industry and then just pick up on the incremental marginal volume that other people can't supply. That's different than what's been happening in the premium side where you've seen a lot of capacity and predatory pricing driving down selling prices and that's not the case in the ultra-premium market.

Right. Okay. Actually one more question, I apologize. Now Barnwell start-up cost in the first quarter, it was $434,000, okay, which was pretty significant. I'm just curious to see what they could be going forward into Q2, what do you expect for Q2 – even beyond that at this point?

Yeah. So, that was about a $600,000 improvement versus Q4. So we expect those numbers to begin dwindling as you were on the second quarter, I don't expect to have significant start-up costs in our system in the second half of the year based on the improvements that we expect in the second quarter.

Okay. So second quarter obviously it'll keep trending down but even in the second half of the year though, there should still be a little bit of the Barnwell effect into that cost of sales?

It's possible, but I don't view it as material.

Okay. And in Q2 which shouldn't be as material as the $434,000 in Q1 I would imagine.

We should expect to see those numbers continue to go down, yes.

All right. Great. I appreciate taking my questions. That's all I have. Thanks.

Thank you. And the next question comes from Mike Ray with Chicago's Capital Management Advisors.

Yeah. So first of all guys great job of being able to grow the top line revenue while transitioning your manufacturing overheads, pretty impressive. But wanted to talk a little bit about margin improvement, it looks like the difference between profitability and where you are is only about 2.5%. That wouldn't be a significant price increase for you guys to get to profitability. Is it realistic that you might be able to get that type of price improvement over the next couple of quarters?

Given what we've seen at shelf that 15-plus-percent, I would expect to get higher than 2.5% as we roll out these types of changes, yes.

Right. Okay. And I'm looking at your current book value on the company, if I've got this right it is $139 million. Is that correct – tangible shareholder equity or total shareholder equity?

Yeah. I don't have that number in front of me and I'm not an accountant...

I'm just looking...

Probably...

...I'm sorry, I'm just looking at your balance sheet. So the company is currently trading at about half of book value. Obviously, you guys made a strategic decision to want to expand manufacturing dramatically, expand your manufacturing costs, you now have the stock trading at about 4 times what you used to pay the dividend. When you talk about strategic alternatives is one, to potentially sell the whole business, because modernizing your plant would make a lot of sense for a strategic buyer to buy you guys? Is the other to potentially sell-off certain manufacturing pieces just to get capital on the door? Have you had any discussions on this, I haven't heard anything about the potential strategic alternatives you guys are going toward?

Yeah, this is not something that I can talk about in this forum.

Okay.

I think the best thing to say is, yes, we have made strategic investments in this company. We wanted to expand it to get that position where it would be able to go and have competitive advantage and we're there. Unfortunately, the timing of competitive pressures have influenced all of this. But in 2018, our capital investments are very low, we are harvesting if you will, the investments that we've put in place. We've shown that we can improve sales. We expect to improve our profitability as we ramp up the Barnwell operation. And I think all of those things play well into whatever strategic alternative we decide to go, we decide to execute. Again, it really is dependent on how well the company performs which alternative we go down.

Right. And what right now if you were to get to maximum capacity, what kind of revenue base could you generate, when you were limited Pryor obviously that's why you expanded?

Yeah. I've always said and this is pre any price increases that would go in that the company could deliver $250 million to $300 million, and we still have data that says that that's possible. We've got 1,000 – call it, 1,000 tons of capacity at Barnwell, we have some excess capacity at Pryor. When we made the transition to the two sites, we actually moved volume from Pryor to Barnwell based on freight distribution. So we do make premium and ultra-premium in Barnwell and we focus on premium in Pryor. So between the two we have the capacity to support $250 million to $300 million of sales.

At current price levels?

At current price levels.

Right. Okay. All right. I don't have any other questions. And again congratulations on continuing to grow the business at an aggressive pace while transitioning your entire manufacturing, it is fairly impressive.

Thank you. And the next question comes from [indiscernible] (00:26:54).

Yes. My question – well, I have two questions, one has already been asked. The last one was do you think we could return to profitability by the end of the year?

Absolutely, I believe we can return to profitability by the end of the year.

Okay. That's all the question I had. All right. Thank you very much.

Thank you. At this point, I would like to return the call back to Jeff Schoen rather for any closing comments.

I just want to say thank you for your time, we'll talk to you next quarter.

Thank you. The conference is now concluded. Thank you for attending today's presentation. You may now disconnect.