Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Keith R. Schroeder — Chief Financial Officer, Orchids Paper Products Co.
Jeffrey S. Schoen — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Orchids Paper Products Co.
Alexander Gerhard Hutter — Analyst, Jefferies LLC
John Nobile — Analyst, Taglich Brothers, Inc.
Louie M. Toma — Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, and welcome to the Orchids Paper Products Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call. On the call today are Jeff Schoen, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Keith Schroeder, Chief Financial Officer. [Operator Instructions] After today's presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask questions [Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Keith Schroeder. Please go ahead. Mr. Schroeder, you may go ahead. Sir, I suppose you have your phone on mute.

Thank you, operator and good morning, and thank you to everyone for attending our 2015 third quarter earnings call. The agenda for our call today will begin with my review of the third quarter results. Jeff will then provide an overview of the business environment. We will conclude with a question-and-answer session.

I would like to remind you that certain statements made during this conference call are forward-looking statements within the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 as amended. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, estimates, assumptions and projections that are subject to change and actual results may differ materially from the forward-looking statements. Factors that could actually cause actual results to differ materially include those risk and uncertainties described from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014, and forms 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31 and June 30 of 2015, as well as our earnings release and any supplemental information.

Any forward-looking statements are made only as of this date, and the company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements. I would like to point out that during my remarks, I will be making reference to both GAAP and non-GAAP or adjusted results. The adjusted results exclude certain chargers that we believe are not indicative of our core operating performance.

The reconciliation between GAAP and non-GAAP measures is included in our earnings press release which is available on our website. For the third quarter of 2015, those adjustments to EBITDA included $87,000 in non-cash stock compensation expense, and for the 2014 quarter included $437,000 in non-cash stock compensation expense, $84,000 of acquisition expenses, and $207,000 of demolition costs related to our Oklahoma paper machine project. On a year-to-date basis, the 2015 period improved 777,000 in non-cash stock compensation expense while the prior-year period include $1.6 million of non-cash stock compensation expense, $1.6 million acquisition expenses and the previously mentioned $207,000 of equipment and demolition costs.

So with that, let's get to the highlights. The third quarter was a very solid quarter and we are pleased to announce that we established new records in net sales, adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net income in the quarter, exceeding records established in the third quarter of last year. Our net sales increased 5% to $46.8 million, adjusted EBITDA increased 11% to $10.2 million and adjusted net income increased $4.8 million. We also established a new quarterly record in converted product sales at $43.7 million, being the prior record set in the third quarter of 2014 of $43.2 million.

And now for some details, our record net sales were influenced by several factors. The continued success of our converted products selling strategy resulted in a 7% increase in tonnage shipped over the prior-year period.

Our parent roll tonnage shipped increased by 112% primarily due to the increased capacity in Oklahoma following the start-up of the new paper machine in March of this year. Additionally, parent roll selling prices were positively influenced by the higher quality of the tonnage produced and a tighter parent roll market, which resulted in a 17% increase in the net selling price per ton. Net selling prices of converted product decreased about 5% compared to the prior-year quarter which is a result of the change in mix.

Our average net selling prices per ton, our converted product were approximately $1,900 per ton in the third quarter while parent roll prices were just under $1,000 per ton. That performance brings year-to-date net sales to $126.5 million, a 25% increase over the prior year. Converted product net sales were up 25%, driven by the full year effect of the Fabrica transaction and a 11% increase in shipment from our Oklahoma facility. Parent roll sales increased 30% in the prior year-over-year comparison reflecting the previously discussed additional tonnage in Oklahoma and improved pricing.

Our gross profit for the third quarter was $9.8 million with gross profit margin coming in at a robust 21%, a 120 basis point improvement over the prior-year quarter. Strong margins under the supply agreement, increased volumes in the Oklahoma facility and higher margins in volumes on parent roll sales, all contribute to the margin improvement.

Higher fiber prices across our basket of fibers utilized somewhat offset the previous factors. Supply agreement margins were favorably affected by the strong dollar versus the peso, overall SKU rationalization and price increase in the away-from-home portion of those sales. Margins on our excess parent roll sales were favorable due to higher selling prices and the lower operating costs following the start-up of the new paper machine in Oklahoma.

Excluding changes in fiber, our operating costs decreased about 20% compared to the prior year quarter. Prices for our overall fiber basket did increase on a quarter-over-quarter basis which increased our fiber costs by about $680,000. The current forecast for recovered fiber are relatively flat pricing through the end of 2016, forecast for virgin fiber indicate relatively flat pricing for eucalyptus through the end of 2016 with minor increases in northern softwood prices.

On a year-to-date basis, our gross profit increased $2.1 million or 10%. Our gross profit margin in the 2015 period was 17.7%, which was lower than the 20% experienced last year, primarily due to the effects of the Oklahoma paper machine project on our results for the first quarter this year which we discussed in our previous conference calls and due to some higher fiber prices.

The previously discussed factors resulted in an increase in adjusted EBITDA of 11% to $10.2 million and adjusted EBITDA margin improvement of a 110 basis points to 21.8%. That brings our year-to-date adjusted EBITDA to $23.4 million or 18.5% of net sales. That is a 10% improvement over the prior-year performance.

Adjusted SG&A in the quarter was $2.4 million or 5% of net sales compared with adjusted SG&A in prior year of $2 million or 4.5% of net sales. SG&A increased due to higher professional fees and higher new product related artwork expenses.

Now turning to taxes, our effective rate for the full year is estimated to be at 33.9%, which is basically flat with the 33.8% estimate at the end of the June quarter.

And now turning to the balance sheet and cash flow. Our cash flow generation was strong in the quarter, a strong earnings and effective working capital management resulted in cash provided by operations of $8.2 million. Capital expenditures fell $35.5 million year-to-date including approximately $17 million related to the Barnwell expansion. We anticipate that our total capital expenditures for the year to be in the range of $55 million to $60 million including a range of $35 million to $40 million for the Barnwell project.

Our total debt outstanding as of September 30 was $46.6 million. There were no amounts outstanding on our revolving credit line or the $150 million delayed draw term loan for our Barnwell expansion. Net debt outstanding as of September 30, 2015 was $38.1 million.

Our fixed charge coverage ratio stood at 1.29 to 1 and our funded debt-to- EBITDA was 1.55 to 1. We returned $3.6 million of cash to shareholders in the quarter, bringing the year-to-date total to $10.3 million.

I will now turn the call over to Jeff.

Good morning. Orchids continues to execute its growth strategy while also reducing costs to make us more competitive. The past quarter was further validation that our growth and cost management strategy is creating more value for Orchids' shareholders. The new assets Orchids has employed at Pryor, Oklahoma this year continue to meet our expectations. We have developed new product development capacities within a higher quality, lower cost manufacturing platform from which to different Orchids from its competitors and to sell out our excess capacity.

The Pryor plant is currently booked at 88% utilization from a tonnage perspective, meaning we have approximately 8,000 tonnes available on an annual basis that can be converted and sold in the future as finished products. I am pleased with the company's performance during this period in what is a very competitive market.

Looking forward, the Barnwell converting plant construction is on plan to be complete by the end of the year with the first converting line starting up in Q1 2016. The second converting line is on track for start-up in Q2 and the paper machine is on track to start up in Q1 2017. And finally, Orchids continue to generate significant operating cash flow to fund our dividend having now paid a dividend for 19 consecutive quarters with the last 10 quarters paid at $0.35 a share.

With that, I will now turn the call back to the operator for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Philip Ng of Jeffries.

Good morning, Jeff and Keith. This is Alex Hutter on for Phil. Congratulations on a good quarter.

Thank you, Alex.

If I could first touch on the mix aspect of converted product, what's driving that decrease in the mix? I know you talked about more away-from-home sales in Fabrica, but I thought which started to lap that by now. Can you just talk about what's going on there?

Yeah. The change in mix, you're right, and the quarter-over-quarter comparison, we kind of lap that. So really it's just a difference between which grades of product we're selling, value, material, et cetera, and whether it's between the different product types, bathroom, tissue and towel.

Okay. But between those different product types, margin should be fairly similar. Is that the right way to think about it?

Yes.

Great. And then can you confirm that I heard you correctly, were you guiding CapEx to $55 million to $60 million this year? And if so, is that versus $65 million to $70 million previously?

Yes, that is right.

What's driving the decrease in CapEx this year?

Well, the change is just the timing. The overall project, as Jeff alluded to, is on time, but sometime it's when the contracts are led, when you expect the invoices to be received and et cetera. So the main point about that is that just guiding to what we expect the cash flow this year, the overall cash flow for the entire year, the project is still on budget and the overall start-up times are still on time.

Great. And then can we just get an update on the new converting line in Pryor, how the sell-through has gone there? I think you talked about being 50% sold out. How does that ramp go in the quarter? If you could give any guidance as to how many tonnes you sold through that new business and how that should track moving forward? That'd be great.

Yeah. The easy answer is things are moving on, as I said last quarter, on plan. We are continuing to work to sell out the rest of the line as well as get commitments for the first line in Barnwell. But right now we're on plan with what we said we were doing last quarter which is about half sold-out.

That's great. And then just the last housekeeping one from me. How many tonnes has you shipped from the Fabrica agreement this quarter?

It was about the same as last quarter, it was little over a 6,000 tonnes.

Great. Thanks very much. Congratulations on a good quarter, and good luck.

Thank you.

And our next question comes from John Nobile of Taglich Brothers.

Hi. Good morning, guys. I was hoping to get current annual run rate for converted products in Oklahoma, and what is it for Fabrica in tonnage, if you could?

Well, you're talking about the current run rate, right?

Yeah, I mean, what you currently are running at ending the quarter for both Oklahoma and Fabrica?

Yeah. In total, on a tonnage basis, we're looking at around 95,000 tons per year at this point, total.

In total, okay. Do you have a breakdown for both Oklahoma and Fabrica?

Our forecast out of the West Coast is the similar it has been which is around 25,000 tons. So the difference would be out of Oklahoma.

Okay. So Fabrica is about 25,000 tons then you said, right?

Correct.

Okay. And I wanted to get an idea of capacity only because when I break out the third quarter numbers and if I were to annualize them in tonnage shipped, it's approximately 105,000 tons annually looking at your third quarter. If I back out Fabrica, which is – it could be as high as 27,500 tons annually. It gives me an Oklahoma run rate right now at over 77,000 tons. So I know I think you put out there publicly that the capacity in Oklahoma is about 74,000 tons, but the current quarter's numbers kind of indicate 77,000 tons. So I just wanted to get an idea of what you believe your Oklahoma capacity is? Is it larger than 74,000 tons?

Okay. Are you talking about the capacity of the converting side of the operation, or the paper making side of the operation?

Well, the paper making side the operation. And I say both of the converting side was going to be a comparable or just about equal to the paper making side.

Okay. So on the paper making side, as we started before, our paper making capacity really dependent up on grade is, 74,000 tons to maybe 77,000 tons out of Oklahoma. We do have more capacity on the converting side than those tonnes.

Okay.

Closer to 90,000 tonnes, I think.

So converting, you have capacity of 90,000 tonnes in Oklahoma?

If everything, yeah, and that's very dependent upon mix, et cetera.

Okay, approximately 90,000 tons. If I can back up to a question, I just want to make sure I'm clear. Now, the decrease in selling pricing in the third quarter, it was due to a change in product mix, which I think the press release leads to that. So I was curious if this was due to an increased percentage of away-from-home products, I know that's associated with the increased Fabrica sales. So is that what primarily bought the selling price down and increased percentage of away-from-home products associated with Fabrica?

Well, John, those are a combination of two factors. There was a bit more away-from-home sales in the quarter-over-quarter, but really it's more of the at-home business and like I answered the previous question, it's a mix between bathroom, tissue and towel and the grades and et cetera, but it's not really a change in the margin on those sales.

And actually speaking about the converted growth, converted product sales growth, it seems like you're getting closer to capacity. So I'm just curious if there's anything on the horizon suggest that converted product sales are going to continue to grow forward and this is excluding South Carolina?

You're talking about continued sales growth of converted products out of Oklahoma or it's totally different?

Yes, like leaving predominantly South Carolina is going to give you a nice jump up, 30,000 tons, 40,000 tons annually.

Right.

But if I exclude that, actually looking at Oklahoma, is there anything there that suggest that we're going to get further growth in converted product sales?

Yes, as I said in my comments, we've got 8,000 tons that we can convert to finished products. So the answer is yes.

Okay. But you have the parent rolls, but is there – I'm going to find out, do you have any conversations going on with anybody that suggests that there's going to be new customers or increased orders from existing customers to maybe hit that tonnage translated into converted sales?

I mean we always have things we're working out with customers. I can't commit to anything at this point that says we've gained new customers or anything like that.

Okay. And I just have one final question. From what you currently see and with your discussions with the existing customers, how long do you believe it would take you to sell out the Barnwell converted product line? I believe the capacity is approximately 30,000 tons, and you're going to be starting to ship in Q1. So starting from Q1, if you could give us some kind of a timeframe for what it looks like in your opinion to sell out that capacity?

Well, we're very optimistic that the first line will be sold out by the end of the second quarter with the second line being sold out in 2017, some time, trying to under promise what we'll deliver here. I have certain goals of what I want to do, but it's hard for me to say exactly what's going to happen given the competitive environment and tell we actually get the products into Barnwell and we're up and running. Right now though, we have – we're in the process of getting and we have commitments on volumes for the first line. I just can't give you a firm answer on what that looks like at this point.

Okay. So commitments on the first line and that's enough of a commitment currently to feel that and actually by the end of the second quarter you said that you feel that that volume would be sold out. So the commitments are firm in that by the first half of 2016, that first volume should be sold out?

Yes.

Okay. And just to get an idea, the first line, second line, are we looking at, at least 15,000 tons per line or is there a different number?

That's a good number to use.

All right. Thank you.

Thank you, John.

And next we have a question from Louie Toma of Craig-Hallum Capital.

Hi, Jeff and Keith, nice quarter, very nice quarter. Just had a couple of questions. I was wondering if you could tell us what the percent exposure is to the away-from-home market from Fabrica and from an overall company perspective?

It's relatively small, it's that business is – the overall West Coast business is 25%, 30% of our total business and the away-from-home portion of that is, again it's around 30%, kind of maximum, it goes up and down a bit, but that's a good range.

Got it. Okay.

Less 10% or so.

Less a little percent or so.

I am sorry can I get again?

Less than 10% of the total.

10%. See, you mentioned in your press release that you had a price increase in the away-from-home business. Can you talk a little bit about that, what was driving that and what your opportunity is in terms of pricing going forward?

Well, that was part of the analysis that we did with the business when we first received it. We had some very – some pretty variable margin issues I guess. And so we proactively executed a price increase and we're successful.

Got it, okay. And your gross margins improved 270 basis points sequentially. You mentioned the strong dollar versus the peso, SKU optimization, price increase in the away-from-home and the new paper machine, can you kind of give us a little bit of sense for how much each of those just generally contribute to that 270 basis points? Is there a one or two that accounted for the majority of it, just give us some sense.

Well, the biggest ones would be the – one would be the lower cost out of Oklahoma like we had cited in the call script that our overall operating cost on the machine production, the paper machine production in Oklahoma is down about 20% year-over-year and that's across all tons, so that's huge. We do get some effect from the dollar, but that's – I don't really want to break that down, it kind of moves around. Some of the expenses that we incur [indiscernible] (24:37) are in U.S. dollars. So there is an effect, but some are not. So the two biggest would be the – or the really three biggest would be the lower cost in Oklahoma, the peso change and then any increased volume that we get on the converted side out of Oklahoma.

Like we discussed in our earlier calls, the margin on those incremental sales are much higher than the overall margins because, as you know, we don't invest much overhead and admin expenses and et cetera. So it would be only those three factors to be the largest.

Got it, got it. Thank you. And can you give us a sense of what the seasonality is for Q4?

Well, historically, what happens – I mean, third quarter is usually the quarter where we have heavy promotional activity. Last year, we also had new customers that were coming in. The fourth quarter tend to slow down, be less than the third quarter because of – when you say seasonal things, it really comes down to the retailers we're focused on more Christmas, Thanksgiving, kind of things. So we do see a little bit of a drop typically in the fourth quarter.

Got it. Okay. And last question, for the Barnwell facility, you've mentioned you have the first line coming on in Q1, the second line coming on in Q2. Can you give us a sense for, as we get closer, are we talking January, or are we talking March for the first line, and similar perspective on the...

I'm assuming margin won't shift at this point, for the first line.

Got it. Okay. All right, that's all I had. Thank you very much.

Thanks, Louie. [Operator Instructions]

Our next question will be a follow-up question from Philip Ng of Jeffries.

Hey, guys. Thanks for taking the follow-up. The commentary on selling the first line by the second quarter, does that include the shift of tons from Pryor to Barnwell, or is that entirely new business?

I would characterize it as, it could be tons we shifted from Pryor, but only because we've added tons in Pryor to offset the movement of volume there. Our goal is to sell out Pryor and Barnwell as an NP so to speak. So if we end up selling Pryor volume here which allows us to move volume to the Barnwell while we're adding new business at Barnwell, I would look at it kind of holistically that way instead of looking at it as separate things.

Got you. So to be clear, you're talking about entering the third quarter with 15,000 tons per year annual higher shipments, right?

Yes.

Okay. And then the comment on the sequential decline just based on seasonality, does that just mean more parent roll sales, or how should we think about that?

Yes, exactly. So any reduction in converted products tonnage that we'd ship in any quarter, we just transfer into higher parent roll sales, it's exactly right.

Got it. And then just lastly from me, would that be partly offset by further ramping of that new business you've got in the new converting line in Pryor?

Yes.

Yes.

Absolutely.

Thanks again.

And this concludes our question-and-answer session. I would like to turn the conference back over to Jeff Schoen for any closing remarks.

Well, I want to thank everyone for being on the call. I think Orchids has gone through basically two phases of its growth business, the first one being Mexico, the second one being the work that we're doing in Pryor. We will continue to do optimization work at Pryor. As we peel back the onion, we find new opportunities to take cost out of our system, so that will still be a theme for us in 2016. Obviously, the Barnwell plant expansion and our ability to sell out has our attention right now. But I think our record is becoming more clear that we're putting together a team that can execute.

I'm very pleased with the progress that we've made at Orchids at this point and the team that we put together. So I want to thank all the employee at Orchids, our suppliers who are very committed to helping us be successful and our customers who understand a little bit about the vision and the capabilities that we bring to them as we grow Orchids to be a national company. So, thank you. Talk to you soon.

The conference is now concluded. Thank you for attending today's presentation. You may now disconnect.