Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Keith R. Schroeder — Chief Financial Officer, Orchids Paper Products Co.
Jeffrey S. Schoen — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Orchids Paper Products Co.
Marco A. Rodriguez — Analyst, Stonegate Securities, Inc.
Howard A. Halpern — Analyst, Taglich Brothers, Inc.
Katja Jancic — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC
Michael N. Taglich — Co-Founder, Chairman & President, Taglich Brothers, Inc.
John H. Curti — Analyst, Singular Research

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning and welcome to the Orchids Paper Products Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call. On the call today are Jeff Schoen, President and Chief Executive Officer; Keith Schroeder, Chief Financial Officer. All participants will be in listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] After today's presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask questions. [Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.

I would now turn the call over to Keith Schroeder.

Thank you, Steve. Good morning and thank you to everyone for attending our 2014 second quarter earnings conference call. The agenda for our call today will begin with my review of the results, Jeff will then provide his perspectives on our results and key initiatives, we will conclude with a question-and-answer session.

I'd like to inform you that certain statements made during this conference call are forward-looking statements and are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions in the Securities Reform Act of 1995. Such statements involve risk and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth during this discussion. Among other things, these risks and uncertainties include the risk and assumptions described in Item 1A and Item 7 of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013.

First, I want to point out that our second quarter results are inclusive of the Western U.S. business we acquired through Fabrica, which acquisition was completed on June 3, 2014. Accordingly, our results for the quarter include one full month of the business acquired. As a result of this acquisition, certain expenses were incurred which were material to our results. Therefore, we are providing an adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EPS number to aid your evaluation of our results. The adjusted EBITDA calculations are available in our earnings press release that was released yesterday after the close of market.

Our adjusted numbers for this quarter include, expenses related to the acquisition and non-cash compensation expense related to stock options.

Now for the results. Our total sales in the second quarter of 2014 were $29.2 million, excuse me, flat with the prior year quarter, both converted product net sales and parent roll sales were flat with the prior year comparison. The net selling price per ton and tonnage shipped for converted products were essentially flat with the prior year, the pricing up about 1% and shipments down about 1%.

Adjusted EBITDA for the second quarter of 2014 was $5.8 million, which was lower than the prior year's adjusted EBITDA of $6.6 million by approximately $800,000 or 12%. Adjusted earnings per share for the second quarter were $0.27 per share compared with adjusted EPS of $0.42 per share in the same period last year. Our EPS calculation for the current year quarter included the effects of stock issues in conjunction with the Fabrica transaction, which increased our outstanding shares by approximately 686,000.

Our gross profit for the second quarter of 2014 was $5.5 million or 18.8% of net sales compared with $7 million or 23.9% of net sales in the same period last year. The major variance to the prior year were higher converted product production cost, lower selling prices for parent rolls, and higher depreciation expense.

During the quarter we reduced our finished goods production to a level underneath – under our anticipated sales in order to lower our finished goods inventory. This action was taken in order to lower outside warehousing costs and bring inventory levels more in line with our goals.

Resultant lower level of production negatively affected per unit production cost of converted products in the quarter by about 20%, which had the effect of increasing cost of sales by about $800,000, excluding $173,000 year-over-year reduction in outside warehouse costs. The soft parent roll market continue to affect our prices, which were lower by approximately 15%, which reduced our gross margin by approximately $255,000. Our depreciation expense increased $351,000 on a quarter-over-quarter comparison.

Fiber costs in the second quarter were slightly under the prior year comparisons. On a year-to-date basis net sales were $57 million, which was 2% higher than the prior-year period. The increase was a result of increased converted product shipments of about 3%, driven by a 2% increase in selling price per ton and 1% increase in tonnage shipped.

Parent roll sales were lower due to a 14% decrease in their selling prices, somewhat offset by a 4% increase in tonnage shipped. Our gross profit for the year-to-date period was $11.5 million, down 15% compared to the prior year. Our gross profit pet tonnage was 20.2% for the 2014 period compared to 24.2% from the prior year period and was negatively affected by lower parent roll selling prices, higher manufacturing overhead costs, and higher fiber costs.

Soft parent roll market lowered our selling prices which affected gross margins by about $480,000. Fiber costs were higher by approximately $300,000 in the current year period compared to the prior year.

Our selling, general and administrative expenses were $2 million in the quarter exclusive of $1.5 million of cost related to the Fabrica acquisition and $900,000 in non-cash compensation expense. This is favorable to the $2.3 million of SG&A exclusive of $265,000 of non-cash comp expense incurred in the same quarter last year. As a percent of net sales, adjusted EBITDA was 6.9% in the current year quarter compared to 7.7% in the prior year. Lower sales commission expense, reduced artwork, and new product-related expenses, and lower relocation expenses remain reason for the lower expense level.

Our estimated effective tax rate as of June 30 is 32% as compared to 31.1% effective tax rate as of Q1. This change in estimated rate resulted in a tax rate of 37.2% for Q2. The increase in estimated tax rate is a result of the forecasted additional taxable income from the acquired Fabrica business, which is not eligible for Section 199 tax deduction.

Our earnings in our Mexican subsidiary will be subject to the country's 40% income tax rate. The earnings in Mexico are mostly a result of the lease of equipment to Fabrica and are variable with shipment volume. The lease income is an offset to certain charges underneath the supply agreement and is reported net in cost of goods sold. Current estimates of the lease income were approximately $500,000 per quarter. For the second quarter the tax liabilities in Mexico were not material.

I'd now like to turn your attention to the balance sheet and cash flow. For the first six months of 2014, we generated cash flow from operations of $3.1 million compared to prior year amount of $5.9 million. Lower cash earnings, higher receivables and inventory levels were somewhat offset by an increase in accounts [ph] payable (07:35).

Receivables were higher primarily due to timing. The actions taken to reduce finished goods inventory generated approximately $800,000 in cash during the second quarter. However, we purposely increased parent roll inventory during the slower periods in advance of the shutdown of two older paper machines as part of the new paper machine project. This action will more than offset the effects of the finished goods reduction, however, it will help reduce our parent rolls requirement during the approximate five-month period from the time that the two older machines are shutdown in September to the estimated start up of the new PM in the second quarter of 2015.

We maintained our quarterly dividend rate of $0.35 per share in the quarter, resulting in dividend payment of approximately $2.8 million during the quarter and $5.6 million for the year.

The capital expenditures for the six month period totaled $5.7 million. We are maintaining our estimate of capital expenditures in 2014 of roughly $23 million, including expenditures related to the $30.4 million capital expansion project.

On June 3, we entered into a new credit agreement with U.S. Bank. This agreement established a $75 million credit facility, comprised of $45 million in revolving credit lines, and a $30 million term loan. Complete details were included in our Form 8-K filing dated June 6.

Our total debt outstanding as of June 30, 2014 was $33.9 million. Cash on hand $36.1 million. As a result, net debt outstanding as of June 30 was $27.8 million. At the end of the quarter our leverage ratio was approximately 1.1 to 1.

I'll now turn the call over to Jeff.

Good morning, everyone. We had a challenging quarter from a sales perspective, which I will discuss in a moment, but I want to start by saying we expect second half of the year to produce record sales and earnings, which means we expect to deliver EPS greater than the $0.89 a share we delivered in the second half of 2013. Third quarter has started strong and is on pace to be a record for Orchids, not including the Fabrica contribution.

Before I talk further about the second half, though, I want to discuss the changes we made in the second quarter that support long-term growth as well as explain the soft sales.

First, we announced the closing of a strategic partnership with Fabrica de Papel San Francisco, namely Fabrica in June. That was the result of several months of negotiations. The key points of the deal included, one, the acquisition of Fabrica's U.S. sales for $36.7 million, which was funded with $20 million of Orchid stock and $16.7 million of cash; access to up to 25 million metric tons of paper making and converting capacity at the Fabrica cost structure to support West Coast growth, a Fabrica non-compete in the U.S.; and the addition of Mario Garcia, the owner of Fabrica, to our Board of Directors.

Although we are less than two months into the alliance, I'm pleased to announce that sales and margins from the Fabrica deal are currently meeting or exceeding our expectations of sales volumes in excess of $30 million per year and operating income of $7 million to $8 million per year.

Operationally, we made significant progress on our goals to improve operating efficiencies on existing assets while also reducing finished goods inventory required to support customer service. From an efficiency standpoint, we improved our capacity on the existing assets by approximately 1 million annual cases and expect to continue to add improvement trends in the second half.

We also reduced our finished goods inventories by $800,000 from the end of the first quarter but elected to reinvest those savings in parent roll inventory to reduce the amount of outside parent rolls we will have to purchase once the paper machine conversion starts in this September. The expected savings from this investment in parent roll inventory will save Orchids approximately $500,000 in outside parent roll purchases, assuming current second half sales forecast.

The expansion project announced in November of last year is proceeding on target from both a timing and budget perspective. This project will improve our operating flexibility, improve our cost structure, and increase capacity. We expect the project to provide additional EBITDA beginning in the second quarter of 2015.

Sales for the quarter did not meet expectations due to excess inventory at our customers and a high level of branded promotional activity. As you may recall, in Q1, Orchids saw its inventory increase due to the promotional build, higher than expected productivity, and lower than expected sales due to weather.

Not only the Orchids builds inventory in Q1, but our customers also build inventory, which had to be sold down in the second quarter. This was, I believe, the most significant driver of soft sales in Q2. Additionally, branded promotional activity has been high which also negatively impacted private label sales at our customers. It is difficult to determine at this time, though, how significant or sustainable the effect that the branded activity will have on future private label sales. It is important to note that Orchids did not lose any customers, distribution centers or any individual SKUs during this period.

Moving on to the second half. Q2 sales are currently strong as it appears, the inventory sell down has been completed at our customers. In addition, Orchids has several new items and increased these new distribution that will begin shipping in August and September to support a strong finish to the year. We expect our annual case run rate in the second half of this year to be in the neighborhood of 11 million cases.

Overall, I am excited about what we accomplished in Q2 that provide immediate and future benefits to shareholders of Orchids. I am pleased with the focus of our team on the long-term goal we have set for the company. The slow period could have made us delay actions that would have made the quarter look better, but would have delayed long-term profitability improvement.

Our focus is on generating long-term value for our shareholders.

I will now turn the call over to the operator for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And the first question comes from Marco Rodriguez from Stonegate Securities.

Hi. Good morning, guys. Thank you for taking my questions. Wanted to talk a little bit more about gross margins. There are a lot of numbers that were thrown out, just want to make sure I caught everything. Obviously, margins, reported margins were pretty low, but the one aspect that I saw in your – at least in your prepared remarks, in your release, was this reduction of converted products, which had an effect of about $800,000. Was that due to the objective that you talked about last quarter where you're trying to bring your inventory closer to three weeks of sales, forward sales?

Yes, it was.

Okay. And where there any other impacts there that brought that margin down, because even if I add that back in there, margins were still low sequentially with higher revenue sequentially?

Sorry. Can you ask that last question again? Sorry about that.

Yeah. So if I take that $800,000 impact, assuming that you guys haven't done that and add it back in there, margins were down sequentially, but revenues were up sequentially. So where there any other negative impacts in gross margin?

Oh, yes. That was the biggest effect but the sales price of the parent rolls that we have mentioned as well. That market continues to be soft. So the prices that we saw during the quarter were down and that cost us about $250,000 as well.

Okay. Got it. Sorry.

...was that as well. So that was the third number that I mentioned.

What was the other third number? I missed that one.

The depreciation expense was up about $350,000 in the quarter versus the prior year.

Okay.

So those were the three main variances that I mentioned in my part.

And sequentially, was there that big of an impact on the last, on the D&A?

Frankly, that was the year-over-year comparison, yeah.

Okay, okay. And how should we got a lot of moving parts now here with the Fabrica acquisition coming online. How should we be thinking about that gross margin line now that you're bringing it in here next quarter for the full quarter?

The gross margins of the sales from that acquisition should be around 20%, even though up and down a bit, but based upon mix and other changes in costs. But they should be in the 20% range which should be close to our – same rate. So you would kind of think of those as the same as ours, but very close.

Got it. Okay. And then with the Fabrica acquisition, I mean how should we thinking now about SG&A? Obviously, if I strip out some of those, the $1.5 million in acquisition costs you're at just shy of $3 million, but you only have one month of Fabrica in there. How should we be thinking about that line item going forward?

That line won't change. In other words, there is any additional SG&A expenses through – at any great extent. So I think we've guided last quarter between about $8 million, $8.5 million, and $9 million for the year. So that would still be a good forecast.

Got it. Okay. And from the revenue standpoint, I believe you guys said, Jeff, you mentioned on the call that you'd be looking at a second half run rate on the case aspect of about $11 million. Are you expecting that to be kind of flat across Q3 and Q4, or is there some sort of a ramp there?

There is a ramp in the third quarter. You've got – right now, our third quarter is strong. It's a combination of what we believe is picking up steam from the soft sales that were result of inventory, some change that our customers have been making relative to private label, a focus rather than branded focus, the new items that will come in. And so you expect a surge, if you will, to put into those customers. And then in the fourth quarter, we'll start to stabilize at a lower level than what third quarter ends up being.

Okay. So would we expect then that run rate to exit Q4 at $11 million or – for the full year? Can you kind of clarify that then?

Yeah. That'd be pretty close. Q4 will be down just a bit from Q3. Q3 is usually a strong quarter for us, Q4 is [ph] usually (19:30) down just a bit. So I think I would look at the combination of Q3 and Q4, but Q4 should be down just a bit from Q3.

Okay. And last question and then I'll jump back in the queue. I believe in your prepared remarks, Jeff, I think you said that the second half of 2014 should have a much higher EPS than the second half of 2013? Did I hear that correctly? And is that driven primarily with the Fabrica acquisition or is there organic growth, if you will?

You heard me correctly. I mean, it's a combined number, but the Orchids part of it is also running at record levels.

Got it. Okay. Well, thanks a lot guys.

Thank you.

Thank you. And the next question comes from John Nobile with Taglich Brothers.

Hi. This is actually Howard. I'm pinch-hitting for John today. He's out of the office. I just wanted to confirm what I thought I heard you talk about. You anticipate gross margins to be at that 20% level going forward?

Somewhere in that range, yes. Again, those margins will go up and down based upon costs, but they should be somewhere in that range.

Okay. And...

Historically – what we just ended up purchasing is a business that is supporting 20% margin and continuing to see 20% margins.

Okay.

So what Keith is talking about is if pulp prices go up or utility prices go up, those costs get adjusted and our margins will fluctuate based on wherever those numbers are on a quarterly basis.

Okay. And for the full-year tax rate, did I hear correctly that should be around 32% also?

Yes. That is correct.

Okay. And are you seeing with the new items, new customers, potential new customers down the road in the third or fourth quarter?

Well, we're actively pursuing new customers. Getting new breadth in Orchids is very important to us. So I can't comment about anything that hasn't actually happened yet, but that is our focus. We have gained a lot of new distribution with existing customers. That's positive for us. But we do need to expand our breadth.

Okay, okay. Thanks guys. [indiscernible]

(22:18)

Thank you. And the next question comes from Katja Jancic with Sidoti & Co.

Hi. Thank you for taking my call. You mentioned that in the second quarter, the Fabrica revenue accounted for one month. Can you provide a number what that reflects?

Yeah, we'd rather not do that. We're trying to look at combined sales for the company.

Okay. Now, I know that, that particular operation had a huge spike in sales in the past three years. Do you see that spike continue the growth in that particular market or do you see it – the competition coming in and maybe slowing down the growth?

I think we expect to see growth continuing at the rate that it was when we bought the business. We have gained a new customer that's a pretty good size for us. So that's part of the growth for the rest of the year. And then, obviously, we're continuing to work on adding new customers on the West Coast, which we believe there are significant opportunities for Orchids to attain in the next – within the next 12-months.

You also mentioned new products. Are those in the mid-to-premium tier or ultra premium tier?

Right now, we spend a lot of time working on what we would consider mid tier and because of the partnership we have with Fabrica, we now believe we have the ability to develop products in the premium category.

Fabrica has a machine which is new technology. We're currently doing product development work and we believe we will have a product that is better than what conventional paper machines can make and will be comparable to the higher end products that are currently out there.

Okay. Thank you. That's all from me.

Thank you Katja.

Thank you. And the next question comes from Michael Taglich, Taglich Brothers.

Hi.

Hi. Jeff and Keith, hello, good morning.

Good morning, Mike.

Up and away from the very strong second half we should be expecting, you're a significant way into this CapEx program to dramatically improve the capacity. Would you walk me through how this pays off and how that gets the EBITDA to a different number? We're going to have – what [ph] pain (24:53) we have, even though [ph] it tells that you're going to (24:55) help make these transitions for second half. What's the upside after all that's in place in the back-end of 2015?

Yeah. Sure, Mike. I can do that. In that project which is about $30 million, we got about $25 million for the new PM. So that project, when completed, will do a couple of things. They will increase our overall capacity by about a net of about 13,000 tons and it will bring down our overall cost of production, because we are basically replacing two older machines with one new machine. So the energy efficiency, the actual cost to run that machine are much less than the two older machines.

We anticipate from the cost reduction and the additional sales given – selling parent rolls, that will increase EBITDA between $6 million and $8 million per year. And in the new converting line that is that the competitors are filling in, when that line is actually sold out, that line will bring in a EBITDA between around – maybe slightly $2.8 million to $3.4 million.

So the savings from the first is, which is the machine, the paper machine that will start – those savings will start to come through as soon as the machine starts up fully, and we anticipate that machine to be running fully by the end of Q1.

So we should see a full effect of that part of the cost savings fully in Q2 of next year and then the earnings from the new line will come as the sales come. Does that help?

Yeah. And, Jeff, if you would at – would you guess about how long it takes you to sell that out?

Michael.

Jeff you moved all the way to Oklahoma, okay.

Yeah. I know, I know. I am very optimistic that we will sell this line out. I'll tell you that. Keith is telling me, I should tell you two years. So I'm telling you two years, but I'm very disappointed to take this two years to fill it out.

All right, good. All right. Keep up the good work then.

Thanks, Mike.

Thank you. And the next question comes from John Curti with Singular Research.

Good morning, gentlemen. Thanks for taking my question.

Morning, John.

I wanted to follow-up on the inventory situation and the moving piece just there as we continue through the back half of the year. You're still going to continue to pull down your finished goods inventory. Where do you stand on building up your parent roll inventory for the crossover? Do you have a few more months or few more weeks of increased parent roll production to build that up and that will have an impact on third quarter gross margins as well?

Yeah. It somewhat depends on what happens to our actual sales, because they are strong. So we may be burying down some parent roll inventory that we've built. But we work – our target is to maintain 75% of what we think we'll need for the conversion and 25% of flux. So we will monitor. We are managing to a 75% number, which we already have built. What we decide to with the other 25% is going to depend on the mill production, our sales and the mix that we require to meet our needs once the conversion is down.

You mentioned that, first part of the year, there were some excess inventories in the channel that's largely cleared up and how is pricing looking now in the third quarter?

Can you ask the question again? I thought you were talking about inventory and then I heard pricing.

Okay. The channel, both the customers had extra inventory. You had some pressure from promotional pricing from brand. Trying to get a better understanding of how that is, kind of the current situation in the third quarter. Is that largely been resolved on both fronts?

Well, we believe for our customer base it has been largely resolved because our orders have come back stronger than they ever have been for this company. Now, it's a little bit more complex, I mean, depending on the customer there were some things that – there were some pricing things that we had to go in and fix and we've done that and we've seen volume come back. There was some – there was a lot of focus from the – some of the retailers on branded money being thrown at them, buying in caps and all that. We think that is, has sorted itself out now and the shift is back over to private label.

In some cases, our new items are designed to deal with some mix shifts that occurred – have occurred in the market, namely pack sizes, going from low pack sizes to high pack sizes and we have dealt with that with a particular customer as a new item, we're selling them larger pack size now.

So we still – much better about where we're headed given some of the changes that we've led in terms of working with our customers as well as this inventory draw down, and our customers appear to be more focused now on private label. So that made me – that the brands are stopping or at least stabilizing the amount of money they have been thrown at them.

I just wanted to double-check on the number that, the number that you mentioned on the Fabrica operations. An annualized rate of around $30 million in revenue, and then it was $7 million to $8 million per year. Was that an EBITDA number?

Yes.

$7 million to $8 million?

And John, when Jeff said some pricing things that needed to be fixed, what he was referring to is not our price to the customer, it was the price of the product on the shelf, okay?

That's correct.

Wanted to make sure that was clear.

It's pretty early in the process. Obviously, you're only a couple of months in with Fabrica. But what have you learned about their operations and their customers that maybe – you didn't have an appreciation for at the time the transaction was sold? What's been the positive surprises there?

Well, I mean the positives are that we are seeing the financial results that we expected and we're seeing upside to those financials. The products that Fabrica produces for the West Coast are – have given us the ability to cross-sell into other markets. So we're learning a lot about product development working with them, and them working with us. The fact that we've got Fabrica and Orchids together now means our customers are – customers that we haven't been able to work with or chosen to go after, are now asking us for products, asking us to take a look at bidding. We are being much more proactive with customers because of this partnership we have with Fabrica. So I think it's expanded everybody's way of thinking about our business because of this partnership and we expect to continue to think that way as we try to grow Orchids even further.

And, I guess, the intangible amortization number of $108,000 was for the month. So can we just multiply that by 12 to kind of get an annualized number?

Yes, John.

And then, lastly, when will your Q be ready?

Just a second.

First week of August. So it'll be the first part of August, somewhere around, probably around about the fifth.

Thank you very much. That's all I have.

Thank you, John.

Thank you. And we have a follow-up question from Marco Rodriguez with Stonegate Securities.

Hi, guys. Two quick follow-ups. What percentage of your revenue in this quarter was the mid and premium tier?

On the quarter, it was around 35% or so, something like that.

Got it. And then on the parent roll pricing, obviously, last quarter you talked about the excess inventory in the market. I'm assuming given, obviously, the pricing you saw this quarter that factor still remains. Can you give a little color on what your expectations are for the remainder of the year?

Well, the parent roll market, we've talked earlier, that has been soft and it continues to be soft. As far as the effect on us, since we will soon be going from a net seller of parent rolls to a net buyer of parent rolls for basically a part of Q3, Q4 and a bit into Q1 of next year, that's really good for us. So the prices will be down somewhat than if it was a tight market. But we would – overall, to answer your question, we would anticipate a – based upon the capacity that's come on to the market, additional machines that are starting up, that will be sloppy till, probably some time into 2015.

Got it. Thanks a lot, guys.

Sure. Thank you, Marco.

Thank you. And that does bring us to the close of the question-and-answer session. So I'd like to turn the call back over to Jeff Schoen for any closing remarks.

Yeah. Just to summarize kind of where Orchids is at, I view the second quarter as an anomaly, not because I believe there's a lot of good things that are going to happen at Orchids; rather it's because our orders have come back really strong.

We're going to have a strong third quarter. We are building on – we're building an organization that is more innovative, more focused on product development, we have significant opportunities to grow this business with the addition of Fabrica. And I think there are – I know there are lot of good things that we expect to happen here within the next 12 months.

Our earnings are complicated right now for you guys to figure out. The third quarter will be somewhat clean. The fourth quarter is going to include the conversions and all that stuff. And the first quarter of next year will be not clean as well. By second quarter of next year, we're going to have a very good idea of what the potential for Orchids is for our shareholders.

I'd like to just end by again, by thanking my team and the folks that work at Orchids who are making this happen, our suppliers, our other stakeholders; very important that that we all stay focused on what we're trying to do from a long-term perspective. Thank you.

Thank you. The conference has now concluded. Thank you for attending today's presentation. You may now disconnect. Have a nice day.