Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Keith R. Schroeder — Chief Financial Officer & Secretary, Orchids Paper Products Co.
Robert A. Snyder — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Orchids Paper Products Co.
John Nobile — Analyst, Taglich Brothers, Inc.
Michael N. Taglich — Chairman, President & Co-Founder, Taglich Brothers, Inc.
Eric Hollowaty — Analyst, Stephens, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Orchids Paper Third Quarter 2011 Results Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode and remain mute for the duration of the conference. [Operator Instructions]

As a reminder, this conference is being recorded to replay purposes. At this time, we have Mr. Bob Snyder, President and Chief Executive Officer and Mr. Keith Schroeder, Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Schroeder, you may proceed.

Thank you, operator. Good morning and thank you everyone for attending this mornings' call. I'd like to welcome you to Orchids Paper Products third quarter earnings conference call. I'm Keith Schroeder and I'm the Chief Financial Officer. I'm here today with Bob Snyder, our President and Chief Executive Officer.

The agenda for today's call will be as follows: first, Bob will discuss our performance in the quarter and discuss various initiatives being worked on within the company. I will then provide a discussion of the results and some key financial metrics. After that discussion, I will turn the call back over to Bob for some closing remarks. After Bob's remarks, we'll be happy to address any questions that you might have.

And with that, I would like to inform you that statements made during this conference call, other than those that refer to past events and results are forward-looking statements and are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions in the Securities Reform Act of 1995. Such statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth during this discussion. Among other things, these risk and uncertainties include the risk and assumptions described in Item 1A and Item 7 of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010.

We operate in an environment that involves numerous known and unknown risk and uncertainties that could materially affect our operations. We assume no obligation to update or supplement forward-looking statements that become untrue because of future events. With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Mr. Bob Snyder.

Thanks, Keith. Welcome fellow shareholders. I am Bob Snyder, President and Chief Executive Officer of Orchids Paper Products. It's great to speak with you again.

In the third quarter of 2011, we achieved record net sales of over $26.1 million, an increase of 6.5% over last year's third quarter and earnings of $0.21 per diluted share, a $0.03 increase over the third quarter of 2010.

During the third quarter of 2011, some major areas of interest were in the paper manufacturing plant we had paper making production in the third quarter of 2011 of 14,506 tons. In the converting plant, we produced about 1.6 million cases in the third quarter of 2011. Furthermore we had shipments in the second quarter of 1.7 million cases, up 12.6% from the second quarter of 2011 and 4.2% better than the third quarter of last year. Our product development efforts in our paper plant and our converting plants are yielding positive results giving us higher tier products to offer our customers. Continuing our sales efforts to sell our newly constructed capacity remains our major focus.

Now I will turn the call over to Keith to discuss the financials.

Thanks, Bob. In the third quarter of 2011, we earned net income of $1.6 million or $0.21 per share compared with net income of $1.4 million or $0.18 per share in the same period of 2010; on a year-to-date basis, our net income is $3.5 million or $0.45 per share compared with $5 million or $0.64 per share in the prior year period.

Net sales for the 2011 quarter, which were in line with our expectations were a new quarterly record of $26.1 million, an increase of $1.6 million or 6% compared to the $24.5 million of net sales in the same period of 2010. Net sales in the quarter were comprised of converted product mix sales of $21.4 million, intangible net sales of $4.7 million.

Converted product sales were favorable by 9% from those experienced in the prior year quarter due to an 8% increase in tonnage shipped and a 1% increase in net selling price. The increase in shipments was in line with our expectations and is due to our previously announced new business and stronger demand from existing products.

Parent roll sales were favorably affected by a 9% increase in net selling prices, which is reflective of the year-over-year fiber cost increases, which was offset by an 11% increase in tonnage shipped. The decrease in shipments was due to the higher demands of our converting operations. On a year-to-date basis, converted product mix sales were $58.1 million, which was $648,000 or about 1% favorable to the prior year result. The improvement was due to a 4% increase in net selling price per ton and mostly offset by a 2% decrease in converting tonnage shipped. Increase in net selling prices is primarily related to a shift in mix and to a lesser extent lower levels of promotional pricing during the 2011 period. Parent roll sales on a year-to-date basis were $14 million, which is favorable to prior year by $1.3 million due to a 2% increase in tonnage shipped and favorable pricing of 8%.

Gross profit for the third quarter of 2011 was $3.9 million, a decrease of $93,000 or 2% compared to the 2010 quarter. As a percent of net sales, gross profit decreased to 15.1% in the current year quarter compared to 16.4% for the same period 2010. Higher wastepaper costs were partially offset by the effects of increased converted product sales and lower converting production costs.

Our wastepaper costs in the third quarter of 2011 were up 22% over the prior year quarter, which increased our cost of sales by approximately $1.2 million. We were able to mitigate a portion of the increased fiber cost as a result of the higher mix of sales towards converted product sales, which carry a higher per ton margin than parent roll sales and through improved converting production costs. Our converting production cost improved on a per unit basis due to lower spending on labor and overhead and due to improved efficiencies on the converting line that went into operation at the end of the second quarter of last year.

Our gross profit for the nine-month period of 2011 was $10.4 million, a decrease of $2.6 million or 20% compared to 2010 period. As a percent of net sales, gross profit decreased to 14.4% in the current year period compared to 18.5% for the same period of 2010. Again higher wastepaper cost and higher appreciation expense were the main reasons for the lower gross profit percentage. These factors were somewhat offset by lower converting production costs driven primarily by lower third-party warehousing cost. Our cost of wastepaper in the year-to-date period in 2011 were up 12% from the 2010 period, which increased our cost of sales by approximately $1.9 million.

Depreciation expense increased in the current year period by $1.3 million over the prior year period due to the 2010 completion of a converting plant expansion and a wastewater treatment expansion projects. Lower spending primarily related to the elimination of $1 million of third-party warehousing cost and to a less extent higher production were the primary reasons for the improved cost results.

EBITDA for the third quarter of 2011 was $4.2 million, an increase of $100,000 compared to the $4.1 million we reported for the prior year quarter. As a percent of net sales, EBITDA was 16.1% in the 2011 quarter compared to 16.7% reported in the 2010 quarter. This brings our year-to-date EBITDA to $10.7 million unfavorable to prior year by about $1 million.

Selling, general and administrative expenses in the third quarter of 2011 were favorable to prior-year by $141,000 at $1.5 million. On a year-to-date basis, selling, general and administrative expenses were favorable by $321,000, primarily due to lower stock option expense, lower legal and professional fees, and lower sales commissions.

Interest expense in the third quarter of 2011 was favorable to the prior year due to the refinancing of our credit facility in April of this year, which resulted in a lower level of outstanding debt and improved LIBOR margins, which reduced our interest rate. As of September 30, we estimate our effective tax rate to be about 30%.

I would now like to make a few sequential quarter comparisons. Compared to the second quarter, our net sales in the third quarter of 2011 increased 12% primarily driven by a 14% increase in converted product sales. This is the third consecutive quarterly increase in converted product sales. Converted product shipments in tons increased approximately 16% and cases were up about 13%. Selling prices of converted products decreased slightly at less than 2% due to mix shift. Compared to the second quarter of 2011, EBITDA increased by approximately $534,000 or 15%, primarily due to higher converted product shipments, improved converting efficiencies, and lower selling, general, and administrative expenses, which more than offset a 13% increase in the cost of fiber.

I would now like to turn your attention to the balance sheet and cash flow. Our total debt outstanding as of September 30, 2011 was $17.7 million. When combined with our cash and short-term investments of $4.5 million, our net debt was $13.2 million. There are no amounts outstanding under our revolving credit line agreement as of September 30.

As of the end of the third quarter 2011, our funded debt to EBITDA ratio was 1.28 to 1 and our debt service coverage ratio was 4.36 to 1. For the year-to-date period, we generated cash from operations of approximately $10.6 million. This was comprised primarily of cash earnings and a receipt of $2.7 million of federal tax refunds being partially offset by higher accounts receivable. Our capital expenditures for the 2011 period amounted to approximately $3.9 million and we expect the full year of 2011 to be approximately $5 million.

I'll now turn the call back over to Bob for a few closing comments before we take questions, Bob.

Thanks, Keith. We are pleased that our third quarter results, which included a new quarterly sales record of $26.1 million exceeded those of the prior year despite of the very strong headwinds from increased fiber prices. Despite an increase of $1.2 million in the quarter-over-quarter fiber costs, we improved our net income and EBITDA in the current year quarter by $205,000 and $102,000 respectively. Continued improvements in sales and operations helped offset the significant fiber cost increases experienced in the third quarter of 2011. These efforts allowed us to record our second consecutive quarter improvement in both sales and earnings. As we have realized the previously announced new converted product business during the quarter, we continue to be positive about the future converted production business opportunities in the marketplace. Now I will turn the call back over to the operator for questions.

[Operator Instructions] There is one question from the line of John Nobile. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

Hi, good morning guys.

Hi, John.

Good morning, John.

I was hoping, you could tell us how well your tier 2 products are being received in both the grocery and dollar stores. I was hoping may be you could break down the sales in each area. In other words, how many dollars worth of tier 2 won at the grocery stores in the quarter, and the same for dollar stores?

Well, we're getting a pretty decent reception with the – our product development efforts have worked up pretty well, John. And, we're getting real nice reception as far as those products in the market and continue to get some real positive responses that our products were offering. Very optimistic about reception and what's going on right now with our sales efforts and with those new products along with our existing products we have prior to our development efforts, and anyway it's the key that – we figuratively haven't done a breakdown of numbers, so I really can't offer you an accurate break down of those right now.

Okay, but not even like say tier 2 overall converted products, a rough estimate you have in the most recent quarter of the sales to grocery stores versus the sales to dollar stores. Because you have about $21.4 million total converted product sales, roughly what percentage went to either grocery or dollar stores?

Boy John, don't really have that number in front of me, but the percent that would go to non grocery would be very high, it have to be somewhere in the around 90% range.

90% into grocery?

No, no, in the non

I'm sorry non-grocery, so in other words dollar stores?

No, no, no, no. The other way around

Hold on a second, 90% of your converted products really goes into the dollar stores?

Dollar stores, mass stores.

Right, right, non-grocery, okay.

And John, one thing I'm not sure where your question is going but there are lot of mid-tier opportunities in the non-grocery area.

Okay. I mean, where I am going is basically, I wanted to get a field for how much is actually being placed into the grocery stores and just to get an idea of how much more expansion of growth in that area we could see because I'm getting a feel from this that maybe grocery stores are just starting to see your tier 2 products and that there is obviously room for growth in this area versus dollar stores. And I'm not saying that no growth in dollar stores, but just to get a feel for the grocery store area.

Sure. Well, there's still quite a bit of growth opportunities there.

Okay. And last quarter, I believe you effectively doubled your sales force. I think it went up to about – [indiscernible] (15:48) and I was curious if there was anything to report as far as your sales pipeline is concerned just to get a feel for how well you feel that this has been doing for you guys?

Well, what it does is it give us an exposure to more opportunities and that's what we're after is the opportunities to be able to get in front of people, put your product and that of course is more effective because we've got very optimistic about the opportunities we have and it's always nice to have quite a few numbers of opportunity.

Okay, but do you feel...

Some of the percentage of those opportunities.

Do you feel you have seen any results from the doubling in the sales force say, I mean – I know it's only about a quarter that you've had this already but do you feel that it's definitely been worth it that the prospects seem to be better or that you have negotiations going on right now with whatever it is, dollars stores or grocery stores?

And the answer to that is yes and yes.

Okay and I believe I know at least in Q1 and Q2 competitors were talking about raising their prices and I'm curious if this has allowed you to raise your prices of converted products only because I'm looking at it sequentially. I know that you said that you had a price increase versus last year's third quarter, but versus the quarter that we ended Q2 into Q3 did we see any improvement in your converted product prices?

John, the converted product prices were actually down a bit in the third quarter, but that is not – that is mix, okay, that is not any price cuts okay.

Okay and that's sequentially from Q2?

Second quarter, correct.

Okay. Just a percentage-wise, could you -?

John, the thing is the market is pretty aggressive and we saw quite a bit of different people in the past and I'm talking over the last year or so, there were a lot of promotions, a lot of price cutting going on. And as people recover those price increases and stop the promotions that leaves opportunity we're bidding goes on and opportunity comes in front of us. Our opportunity to get to where we see is our opportunities fill up volume and new business of course we're going to price it competitively and probably at a better pricing. So we're going to tend to want to kill it, well, increase volume and then look...

Okay. In other words get on to the show and then worry about prices. But I know you did put a percentage I believe from Q3 of this year versus Q3 of last year. But the sequential drop from Q3 this year from Q2 if you could put a percentage on that?

Yeah, that was about 2%, John.

Okay, so, it was minimal.

Yeah, exactly.

Okay. And I just have one further question because we do have the comparison of Q3 this year versus Q3 last year, on wastepaper prices, obviously, they were higher, but to get a feel for sequentially from Q2, how does that stack up?

Q3 versus Q2, we are up about 13%.

Okay, so, it still went up significantly but what do you see on the horizon as far as wastepaper prices or forecast or internal feel for what we can expect into Q4 and going forward?

Okay. John, what we're seeing so far in the fourth quarter and again there is just one month of pricing that we have underneath our belt, we are down about 10% from the peaks we saw in the third quarter. We would expect another month or so of some drops, not quite sure how much after that it's probably not going to drop further but I think [ph] Reece (20:05) is the best source for that information.

Okay. But so far into this quarter as we speak, we got a 10% drop from the peaks of Q3.

Yes.

Which would indicate, at least, I'm just trying to look at it margin wise obviously that's going to help gross margin. So I mean if that continues that's a very good thing here just to see them hopefully plateau and if anything drop going forward but so far we're looking at 10% off the peaks from Q3?

Yes.

Thank you very much.

You're welcome.

Thank you.

Thank you. The next question will be from the line of Michael Taglich. Please go ahead. Your line is open.

This is Mike Taglich, hello?

Good morning, Mike.

Hi, Mike.

Okay, I wasn't sure if it's me the way she said the name. Okay, good quarter guys, a couple of questions. What percentage of your capacity did you end up running in Q3?

I'm assuming you are talking about are diverting, obviously our paper production was running full. But we're probably around about 60%.

Yeah, about 60%?

About 60%.

Yes, sir.

And where do you think you are going to be at a run rate basis by year end with orders you already have in the books right now?

At the same.

Right. So you are not expecting any growth top line in the next three months?

In the fourth quarter, now we would expect the fourth quarter shipments to be close to the third quarter.

Okay, so whatever increase we get in earnings in Q4 is all for margin expansion?

Yes.

Okay, so there is no additional sales.

Not that we know of, no.

It takes you a while once you get the order to get that out any agreements on product right now will probably take you into the first quarter of next year.

Should we expect sequential growth or growth in Q1 with orders you have now or, no, I mean, you have to have new orders to grow from here?

We see this in our existing business our customers are seeing good business in the products that we're supplying, Mike. And the other opportunities that we are very optimistic that our efforts and sales were being rewarded and we should see some opportunities realized going forward.

I'm sure you trying to sell out the 40% I know that will be very profitable because – the plant is already paid for but is there – did we do more in sales in Q1 with the existing customers in the order flow we have now or it's all going to be new orders to drive Q1?

New orders is obviously the...

Right but I should expect more sales in Q1 with the orders you have now. In other words the lag in shipments and orders you've gotten in September and August, particularly in Q4 and Q1 is not – I should expect anything more from that right or I should?

Should not, no.

Okay.

And one thing to keep in mind, the first quarter tends to be just a bit soft for some reason customers don't [indiscernible] (23:48) quite as much for products, so yeah, we would say flat from the business that we have now in the first quarter.

Yeah, we are not anticipating a drop, which is typically in the first quarter you'd see a drop from existing business. We feel that will come in probably about the same.

Right so it was trending up, which would overcome your seasonality is what you are saying but not so much that you'd say that we expect up sales in what we've already got our orders on before today?

Correct.

So it's a way to put it. Okay. So whatever additional earnings we get in Q4 and Q1 are due to margin expansion because of the decrease in [indiscernible] (24:29) price, correct?

Correct.

Okay. CapEx, you're at 60% capacity right now when converting, what are the CapEx plans going forward?

Next year we would try to be between $3.5 million and $4 million.

Is that because you're thinking bumping up, hopefully you will be bumping up the capacity or is that just is still a lot of money – when you are at 60% capacity.

Yes, but the lot of this money is used for cost reduction, maintenance of the business, sustaining the existing business, existing equipment and we are anticipating that we will be thinking about capacity concerns going forward depending on some of the outcomes of some of the business in front of us.

Well sell out this line first please.

Yeah, you don't really go too far other than improvements on existing equipment of $3 million to $4 million.

Okay, all right do you have an opinion on how long [ph] furnish (25:46) prices stay down?

No, I wouldn't suspect them to stay down for a long time compared to what [ph] Reece (25:54) is talking about. I think [ph] Reece (25:55) is probably the best people for guidance in that area; obviously, we're coming from all time high pricing for fiber and it's moderating, it will probably moderate for a while but long term you expect the pricing of fiber to go back up and typically that's kind of what [ph] Reece (26:33) is testing.

All right, good, okay good quarter guys, love to see more growth top line.

I think we all would.

But you are not seeing growth from existing customers of half a million cases here, half a million cases there kind of thing?

We are seeing incremental increases from these customers' business.

But not enough to expect the top line to go up materially in Q4 and Q1 versus Q3?

Correct.

Without a [ph] full (27:01) purchase order.

Yes, I would like to be surprised.

You'd be surprised if you saw that growth or you're...

I'd like to be surprised.

So it would be a surprise if we got a bunch of business?

Not a bunch of business, it would be the realization of some efforts, but I mean on existing business...

I'm sorry couldn't hear you, Bob.

On existing business, Mike, it all depends on consumer and what they are buying but right now that seems strong [indiscernible] (27:38) product mix.

Right, so you wouldn't say that getting new business would be a surprise?

No, it wouldn't be. I'm very optimistic about additional business...

So I should be surprised if you don't get it?

I will be surprised if I don't get it too.

Okay. All right, good. All right, thanks. I'm done.

Thank you Mike.

Thank you. The next question will be from the line of Eric Hollowaty. Please go ahead, your line is open.

Hey, guys. Thanks for taking my question. Couple of quick ones, the order that you shipped off of the new line in the third quarter, was that one-time business or is that what we should think about as being a repeat order in the sense that the 700,000 case number I think you gave back towards the beginning of the year, is that still looking like that could be the run rate going forward or was this just kind of a one-time shot and then we have limited visibility into the 4Q and beyond replenishment status on that business?

It isn't quite spot business, Eric, it's what our volumes are based on right now, we've basically worked with the customer to develop a nice mid-tier printed towel and that business went from I'd say a test to full time and probably one of the leading items on their shelves. And it seems – and I believe that will tend to continue to be a continuous business for those folks. And the other business we've accomplished has basically continued and I think from what's been indicated so far is that the business has been developed as consumers are picking that up much better and I believe it's probably because promotions on some of the national brands are lessened and so the customers are hunting for value and obviously we've got some great values.

Thanks, Bob. That's a great segue to what I was going to ask next which is the promotional environment, would you say that the promotional environment generally should remain better in the fourth quarter than it has been say in the first half of the year?

I think it's trending that way, I think once the folks have started announcing price increases, they are also inducing the promotions which is all kind of good things for us.

Right. How should investors in your business think about the increase in industry capacity that's coming obviously – virtually all of it is at the highest end of the market, which is not where you're playing, you're playing in a space that's an alternative to that but do you think that that incremental capacity will be a net benefit to you or could it be, end up being a headwind for you?

I think any time you think about additional capacity it's concerning, I think you've got it right. This isn't like a ultra premium byproduct. That's what they are going into and I think capacity tends to make you wonder where it's going. I wonder if some of the mills that are in trouble will keep the business and I'm thinking that might happen to tend to balance that all out. So I think it's good that we are playing in the part of the business the entry level type products in the mid-tiers more than the high end of the marketplace.

Right, all right. Thanks, guys, good luck.

Okay. Great.

Thank you, there are no further questions.

Thanks everybody for being here this quarter and listening to our call and asking questions. We are looking forward to seeing you again next quarter. Thanks.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes your conference call. Thank you for joining, you may now disconnect. Have a good day.