Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Keith R. Schroeder — Chief Financial Officer, Orchids Paper Products Co.
Jeffrey S. Schoen — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Orchids Paper Products Co.
Marco A. Rodriguez — Analyst, Stonegate Securities, Inc.
John Nobile — Analyst, Taglich Brothers, Inc.
John H. Curti — Analyst, Singular Research
Katja Jancic — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC
Robert H. Longnecker — Founder & Managing Director, Jovetree Capital LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, and welcome to the Orchids Paper Products Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call. On the call today are Jeff Schoen, President and Chief Executive Officer; Keith Schroeder, Chief Financial Officer. All participants will be in listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions]

At this time, I'd like to turn the conference call over to Keith Schroeder. Sir, you may begin.

Thank you, operator. Good morning. And thank you to everyone for attending our call. The agenda for our call today will begin with my review of the results for the quarter. Jeff will then provide his perspectives on our results and key initiatives. We will conclude with a question-and-answer session.

I'd like to inform you that certain statements made during this conference call are forward-looking statements and are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions in the Securities Reform Act of 1995. Such statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth during this discussion. Among other things, these risks and uncertainties include the risks and assumptions described in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013 and Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31 and June 30, 2014.

Any forward-looking statements are made only as of this date and company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.

Let me start by saying that I'm very pleased to report that Orchids achieved a milestone quarter and hit many new record highs during the quarter. First, total net sales and converted product sales increased 49% and 53% respectively to $44.4 million and $43.2 million, both establishing new quarterly records. Shipments of converted product cases from our Oklahoma facility were 2.4 million cases, which established another new quarterly record. The previous record was 2.1 million cases established in the fourth quarter of 2013.

Our adjusted EBITDA and non-adjusted EBITDA increased 32% and 22% respectively to $9.2 million and $8.5 million, both were new quarterly records. The previous records were established in the third quarter of last year.

Finally, net income was $3.8 million, a new quarterly record, and an increase of 3% over the previous record set in the same period of 2013. On an adjusted basis, our net income increased 15% to $4.3 million in the current year quarter compared to the same period of 2013.

Now, for some details. We are going to be making reference to non-GAAP adjusted numbers for EBITDA, net income and earnings per share in our press release and on this call. We have included tables on our press release that reconcile the non-GAAP information to the comparable GAAP information. The press release is available on the Investor Relations section of our website at www.orchidspaper.com.

The adjustments are comprised of $437,000 of compensation expense related to stock options, $84,000 of acquisition costs from the Fabrica acquisition, and $207,000 of equipment demolition costs related to our new machine project in Oklahoma.

The net sales record of $44.4 million includes the effects of a full quarter of sales from the U.S. business we obtained from Fabrica in June of this year. Our converted product sales totaled $43.2 million, an increase of 53% over the prior year quarter. Converted product tonnage shipped increased 57% to 21,500 tons and cases shipped increased to 3.1 million cases, an increase of 50% over the prior year quarter.

Approximately 78% of the tonnage increase was due to the business we acquired from Fabrica. Our selling price per ton was $2,005 per ton, down about 3% compared to the prior year, which was due to a mix of products sold. The business from Fabrica includes some away from home business, which comprises about 20% of the total business acquired.

In general, away from home products sell at a lower price per ton than at-home products. Our parent roll sales were $1.3 million in the quarter, down about 19% compared to the prior year on a 16% reduction in net selling prices and a 4% lower tonnage shipped. Parent roll prices remain consistent with prior years – with the prior quarters and continue to be affected by a sloppy parent roll market. We expect the apparent sloppy parent roll market to continue into 2015 and the tonnage was down primarily due to the higher requirements of our Oklahoma converting facility.

Our gross profit for the third quarter was $8.8 million, a 23% increase over the prior year quarter. Gross profit margins were 19.8% in the current year quarter compared to 24% in the prior year quarter. Gross profit margin was adversely affected primarily by higher paper production cost, higher fiber cost, high depreciation expense and lower parent roll selling prices.

In early September, as part of our new paper machine project, we shutdown and dismantled two of our older paper machines. This had the effect of reducing our paper production and thus increasing our per ton production cost.

Additionally, fiber prices in the current year quarter were higher than the previously year's quarter, which increased our cost of sales by approximately $400,000. While parent roll prices in the current year quarter were consistent with those of the first two quarters of 2014, they were lower compared to the prior year quarter, which negatively affected gross profit by about $240,000. Depreciation expense for the current year quarter increased by approximately $450,000 over the prior year quarter due to the capital projects placed into service over the last 12 months.

Our selling, general, and administrative expenses were $2.5 million in the third quarter of 2014, compared with $2.1 million in the prior year quarter. As a percent of net sales, SG&A decreased to 5.7% in the current year quarter, compared to 7.1% in the prior year quarter. The dollar increase in the current year quarter was primarily due to $400,000 of additional non-cash compensation expense related to stock options in the current year quarter being partially offset by lower commission expense, lower artwork and product packaging design.

In the quarter, we also recognized $322,000 of intangible asset amortization, resulting from the Fabrica acquisition, which was presented in the income statement just before operating income. No intangible amortization was recorded in the prior year quarter.

Our paper machine project is proceeding on time and on budget. As previously stated, we recorded approximately $200,000 in demolition costs for the two paper machines in the third quarter, which was reported in the other income and expense line on the P&L. We anticipate additional $350,000 of demolition expense in the fourth quarter of this year, which will complete that portion of the project.

As discussed in earlier earnings conference calls, we will be purchasing parent rolls on the open market to supplement our papermaking capacity during the installation and start-up. We are currently projecting to purchase approximately 4,000 tons of parent rolls during the fourth quarter of 2014 and the first quarter of 2015. This will increase our cost of goods sold by approximately a total of $1.4 million during the next few quarters.

Turning to the taxes, as of September 30, our estimated effective tax rate is 32.4%, and in line with our estimate as of the end of the second quarter of 32%. The current estimate compares to an effective tax rate for the third quarter of 2013 of 24.6%. The primary reason for the change in estimate is the lower level of stock option exercises in 2014 and the expiration of the Indian Employment Tax credit as of the end of 2013. This change in rate affected the diluted earnings per share comparison between the quarters by approximately $0.05 per share.

I'd now like to turn your attention to the balance sheet and cash flow. For the first nine months of 2014, we generated cash from operations of $15.9 million, compared to the prior year period amount of $11.7 million. Positive changes in working capital was the primary reason for the increase over the prior year. We generated $12.8 million of cash from operations in the current year quarter. This positive performance allowed us to pay for $7.7 million of capital projects in the quarter, and pay off the $3.9 million of revolving credit balance we had on hand as of June 30.

Capital expenditures for the nine month period totaled $13.3 million. We maintain our estimate of capital expenditures for 2014 of approximately $23 million, including expenditures related to the capital expansion. We maintained our quarterly dividend rate of $0.35 in the quarter, resulting in a dividend payment of approximately $3.1 million during the quarter and $8.7 million for the year.

Total debt outstanding as of September 30, 2014 was $29.3 million and our cash on hand stood at $3.5 million. As a result, net debt outstanding as of September 30, 2014 was $25.8 million. As of the end of the quarter, our leverage ratio was approximately 0.94 to 1, and our fixed charge coverage ratio was 3.86 to 1.

I'll now turn the call over to Jeff.

Welcome, everyone. Let me start by thanking the employees of Orchids for their tremendous efforts during the year to transform Orchids. I won't repeat what Keith has stated related to our financials, except to say that we are starting to see the results of those efforts in the financials, as Orchids delivered its best company performance ever in the third quarter, driven by new business, West Coast sales increases and a recovery of existing business.

As stated in Q2, we've projected sales to recover, which actually happened at a faster rate than anticipated. On top of that, we had several new products rollouts, that all started shipping in Q3. We have a lot more to do to increase our capabilities, but we're quickly improving our ability to service our customers with the appropriate product quality and cost structure required to grow Orchids.

We're right in the middle of the execution of our upgrade in the bottleneck strategy, and expect to have the converting to mill upgrades completed by Q2 2015, which will provide us more capacity to grow Orchids and equally important to service all of our customers at outstanding levels.

West Coast sales are meeting expectations, but the true value of our partnership with Fabrica, is the increased capability to grow our West Coast sales at a faster pace with better margins than we would have been able to by shipping from prior Oklahoma.

We expect to leverage those capabilities in 2015. To reiterate what I said in Q2, expect the next few quarters to be sloppy due to the cost associated with the installation and startups from the projects. In Q4, we still expect to see strong operating results in cash flow from operations.

Moving forward, the foundation for Orchids to grow is becoming more established, as we continue to focus on differentiating ourselves and developing competitive advantage.

With that said, I will turn the call back to the operator for questions.

Ladies and gentlemen, at this time, we'll begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Marco Rodriguez from Stonegate Securities. Please go ahead with your question.

Good morning, guys. Thanks for taking my questions. I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about the case volume in the quarter. If I'm remembering correctly from the last earnings call, you guys were talking about case volumes for the second half of 2014 somewhere in the 11 million annualized run rate level; obviously Q3 was about 9.5 million. Any kind of color you can provide around the volumes in Q3 and then what might be your expectations in Q4?

Let me try to answer that. This is Keith, let me answer that. We obviously had great volumes in Q3. Q4, the volumes will be a bit less than during Q3, primarily due to the fact that Q4 is seasonally lower than Q3, and that Q3 is well ahead, some foremost and that will not repeat into Q4. So, while we still expect a very strong Q4, the volumes we expect in Q3, assuming Q4 will be slightly less than Q3. But on a half year run rate basis, it will be a very strong rate.

Understood. And then, in your prepared remarks, I think I caught that you had some new business that positively impacted the quarter. Can you provide some color on that and what percent of revenue was from mid and premium tier?

Yes. The net and premium tier for the quarter was around 26%, and those numbers are obviously down from the previous quarter, [indiscernible] (14:39). It's down because, for the most part, it isn't that we've changed really the amount per se of the mid-tier premature business that we are doing. But there was a lot of promo business in Q3 that was not mid-tier, and then there was also with the Fabrica business, most of it, all of that does not fall into that group at this point in time. So the mid-tier, the premium tier business is still very strong. It's just on a percentage basis now on the graph, it will show up less.

The new business that we received, I talked a little bit about it in the second quarter, saying what's going to happen. It was new items with several customers that were incremental to our baked business, if you want to think about it that way. It was not just one customer, it was several customers. We had been focusing on that for the first half of the year to get new items. We were successfully able to get those bids and that product started shipping in third quarter.

And to clarify, some of those customers, were those existing customers that you just added for more market share, if you will, or they're new customers?

These are existing customers, new items with existing customers, expanding our breadth of offering, if you want to think about it that way.

Got it. Perfect. And then in terms of West Coast sales, I mean can you kind of help us understand, from the $44 million in revenues you did in the quarter, what was West Coast versus I guess Midwest?

We don't get into that breakdown, because what our focus is, is that we're focusing on the total business, and the West Coast should just be viewed as another site [ph] from working of the (16:40) goods. So, those customers over time will [ph] flange our (16:47) current customers that we have, that we shipped for Pryor after the West Coast, people started to ship from there.

So, it's not really a good way to look at the business now.

Another way of saying that I mean, when we say Fabrica, Fabrica is shipping products to West Coast. They are also shipping product to the central part of the country for us also. We are producing product that we're shipping to the West Coast. And what we need to do over the next several quarters is consolidate this volume and put it in the right place. We're trying to sort out that plant, this plant; it is something that we really don't want to get too complicated about.

Sure. I understand it. That's fair enough. And then just in your press release here, I believe you mentioned an incremental EBITDA due to the new paper machines of about $6 million starting in Q2 2015. Just a little [ph] nitpicking (17:55) here, but your original guidance was $6 million to $8 million. Is that kind of a change in guidance, or are you bringing a finer point onto the overall guidance itself?

Well, it's a finer point. The $8 million is something that can be achieved, but when you look at on a more conservative basis and you look at the cost aspect of it and then just look at it, is this the only thing that we would do with the excess [ph] plant, will it be (18:31) to sell parent roles, that pushes it more towards the $6 million, but it could – we're expecting it be $8 million. So we are just trying to give a guidance for us within the lower end of the range at this point in time, but our goal is to achieve the higher end of range.

Yes. And another way to say that is our guidance really hasn't changed there. If you think about the paper production in three parts, there is cost savings associated with the fact that we have a more efficient line, less people, et cetera, that's X amount of money. You have X amount of tons you are going to produce that you can sell as parent rolls, that gets sold at all as parent rolls, which is not our intent, that gets you $6 million. If you sell it in converted products, you get a number that's higher than $6 million, and conservatively that number is $8 million. But depending on what our mix business is, et cetera, what we do with that business, it could be higher.

Perfect. That's very helpful. And lastly, and I'll jump back in queue, on gross profit margin, I believe you said that in the quarter, you had some negative impacts from production levels. Obviously, the paper machines were taken down in September and you had some higher fiber costs. Can you kind of quantify or maybe put in order the impacts you saw there in Q3 and any help that you can provide in terms of gross margin expectation for the next couple of quarters, would be very helpful.

Sure. Okay. On a gross margin basis, we have three kind of major things that's in there. One was the depreciation was up, of course as we continue to invest. That's higher by about $450,000 on a quarter-over-quarter basis. Then in the overall production cost on the paper machines, the shutdown of two of the machines for the one month, [ph] at the increased cost (20:33) of about $400,000, and the parent roll pricing of course continues to be soft as we've talked about for the last few quarters, and that lowers selling price on a quarter-over-quarter basis, affected us by about $240,000. That's about $1.1 million there in total.

Now, as far as the next few quarters, I did state that we're going to buy roughly 4,000 tons over the next, let's call it, five months and consume those. And that number for us is going to be dependent on our converted product sales. So that's our best forecast right now.

And there is converted product sales, if there are more than that, we would buy more tons, and if there'd be less than that, we'd buy a few less tons. But that 4,000 tons would be an additional cost compared to the cost of internal paper of about $1.2 million or so, $1.1 million. And then at a fixed cost absorption basis, when we took down two machines, we basically took down about 40 tons a day, which is about 25% of our output. So, that sort of reduction will affect the fixed costs [indiscernible] (21:49) of our cost. That helped any?

Thanks. Yes, that's very helpful. Thanks, guys.

Our next question comes from John Nobile from Taglich. Please go ahead with your question.

Hello. Good morning. I know you're not breaking out West Coast sales because Fabrica is shipping not just there, but they are also shipping across the country, and your core sales also are to the West Coast. But, could you break out just Fabrica's contribution in the quarter to revenue?

We do have that available. It's the sales $11.5 million in the quarter.

Okay. And Fabrica, I know, it was mentioned that you were looking to produce with a new machine, NTT, I believe, it's called machine, is supposed to be something that's going to be comparable to TAD. Are you indeed -- is Fabrica producing now with that machine or is it still in the future?

No. Fabrica has that machine, had for about over a year. They're producing that type of product for the Mexican market. It's available to us in the U.S. market. We are working on figuring out how to leverage that properly at this point.

Okay. So, this machine didn't contribute to any of Fabrica's numbers for you in this quarter, was strictly in Mexico. But if this does contribute in the future, how is this going to affect your margins? I believe, you can price products higher, because it is more competitive with the higher end TAD product?

It's a product that, if we make an assumption, it's comparable to TAD, it will produce at a lower cost than what TAD produces at.

Okay. So that right there tells me, if it's comparable to TAD, meaning pricing should be comparable to TAD, if produces at a lower cost, I would imagine this should only benefit your gross margin.

Well, it should be [indiscernible] (24:07) the margins should be just as good as the margins that we exhibit now, and then if we can place it right on the shelf, perhaps the margins are a bit up over our current margins, but I think for the purposes that we are hereby trying to do, I would just assume that the margins would be the same, if you will, as are announced.

Okay. And you had mentioned in the prepared comments, the new machine you're looking to have this producing by second quarter of 2015. But, the converting line project, I think that was originally stated, that was to be completed by the end of this year. Is that still in that timeframe?

We are – we have -- upgrading the assets that we have in our plants to create excess capacity for us is on track. I don't – it's not going to be completed before the end of this year. We've moved out into the next quarter, in the first quarter, but as it relates to the prior facility, that work will be done in the first quarter of next year – by the first quarter of next year.

Okay. Okay. So, not much of a delay in that Q4 to Q1 at this point. And oh yeah, the two older paper machines that you shut down and actually demolished in September, did you actually need to purchase parent rolls in the secondary market, or you had enough inventory just to satisfy your needs?

As we talked about in our last call, the second quarter we had some parent roll inventory during that time. So as a result, we have not had to purchase any, we will start that process very soon.

Okay. And actually when in September were they shut down? At the beginning...

September 8, it was – 8th or the 9th.

Okay. So it was early September. So we had at least almost a full month of that.

That's correct.

Now, just one final question. You had, let's see, this quarter $207,000 was cost of demolishing two paper machines. I assume that was probably in the cost of goods sold affecting gross margins or...?

No, that is in the other income and expense line on the income statement.

Okay. And going forward, you've said there'll be an additional, over $300,000 of those expenses in Q4?

Yes.

Okay. Now the stock option, you had almost $400,000 in the quarter of stock options. In Q4, is there anything more we could expect as far as that's concerned and that obviously was a drag on SG&A. Is that going to be – is that all taken care of obviously in the quarter, or any more of these be expensed in Q4?

No. That number will continue out for the next couple of years, but it decreases over time. The amount for Q4 is [indiscernible] (27:26) is about $250,000, John, so it does drop down, so for Q4 it's around $200,000, $250,000.

Okay. $250,000, and going forward into Q1, we could expect even a smaller stock option?

Yes. For the full year 2015, barring any other changes, the expense from those options that's been currently issued is around $720,000. And when the Q comes out, it will be in the [indiscernible] (27:58).

Great. All right. That's all I have. Thank you very much.

Thank you, John.

Our next question comes from John Curti from Singular Research. Please go ahead with your question.

Good morning, Keith and Jeff.

Good morning, John.

The cost that you incurred in terms of higher production costs for the one month lower parent roll pricing, we should expect those costs to roll through into the fourth quarter as well?

Yes, we would expect the current price, that the pricing we currently see on parent rolls to continue, that's obvious for Q4, but we're not going to spell out any parent rolls in Q4. So, on a comparative basis, we would have parent roll sales in Q4 of last year, but we'll not have any sales in Q4 of this year. But just in terms of guidance, we talked about once the machines start that we expect to lower pricing, probably through the end of 2015. Of course that depends on a lot of things, but right now, we expect parent roll prices to continue to be [ph] strong (29:17) for 2015.

Do you anticipate having parent roll sales in the first quarter of 2015?

No, because the machine won't startup until the latter part of the first quarter, so we would not expect to have any excess parent rolls to sell until we get to the second quarter.

Then in terms of the higher production cost, you mentioned about $400,000 for the one month with the demolition of the machines, should those costs run about $400,000 a month in the fourth quarter, then?

Wait a minute. What we said was that the demolition of machine was – cost was $200,000 in the quarter, and we expect another $300,000 in the fourth quarter, okay. The $400,000 you're referring to was – is the higher fiber cost. Okay? And so, our fiber cost so far for this quarter has been fairly flat.

And if you look at prior year quarter, Q3 2013 versus Q4 2014, fiber costs were maybe up slightly. So, yes, barring any big change, the fiber costs -- the higher fiber costs Q4 2014 over Q4 2013 would be about the same. We will buy a few less tons of fiber obviously, because we are making a few less tons. So, that would bring that number down just a bit. That helped?

And then, you'll have some unabsorbed production costs with the shutdown of the two smaller machines.

Right.

And that will run through first quarter of 2015?

That is correct.

With respect to the product coming out of Fabrica, right now, a lot of that is kind of, I guess, lower tier. Over time, do you expect that mix to kind of shift a bit and end up producing more a mid and premium tier product?

Yes, we do.

Is that like maybe a late 2015 event, is it something that's kind of on a timeline, or is it kind of going to be like a hockey stick?

Well, the constraint that you have is just the selling process. What does it take to get this in front of the customer? Obviously, they have to be willing to let us do that, we have to have the right product, all that stuff. So, that cycle takes typically probably six months, with a three-month selling, shipping process. So my guess is that, we'll see that accelerate in the second half of next year. But West Coast sales is a high focus for us, because we have excess capacity on the West Coast that we could sell in right now, if we had the products laid out. So, it's a pretty important emphasis for us for 2015.

Okay. The paper cost that you're showing in the press release and in the income statement, that is only for Oklahoma City correct?

I am sorry, say that again.

The paper costs that are shown, $11.2 million total paper cost versus $11.5 million, that's strictly Oklahoma City, right? The paper costs of Fabrica are basically in the other part of cost of goods?

That is right John, yes, absolutely.

The Fabrica business, the away business, is that likely to shrink over time if you are successful in moving more of the lower tier product to mid and premium tier, or there'll always be a 10%, 15%, 20% part of the business, the away business?

It depends. There are strategic reasons for us to be in away from home. So, even though the margins are lower, there are reasons for us to be in that sector and we're evaluating what that means for us, in terms of how we grow our capacity. All things being equal though, obviously if we're out of capacity and there's incremental business, and it happens to be a – the priority will be the retail market.

And then in terms of, you mentioned it, things are going to be sloppy, you've got extra expenses, you've got startup expense. Can you kind of give us any kind of an indication in terms of projected startup expenses for the new paper machine and/or the other converting line, whether it'd be a few hundred thousand dollars of cost in Q1 to maybe spilling into Q3 of next year?

We do not expect any significant startup expense as particularly when it relates to new paper machine, because the head count really is a bit less, because we're going to be running three paper machines, and instead of four. The folks are already here. They are people that we've had running the older machines, so there's really no major additional cost. The startup curve on the paper machine we expect to be very short and very quick. So we're not anticipating any large startup cost.

Then in terms of capitalized interest expense, really over quarter four and then maybe the first two quarters of 2015 and then start expensing the full amount?

Yes. The expensing kickstarted as early as the second quarter, but it would continue into the first quarter of -- excuse me, the capitalizing of the interest would continue through the first quarter for sure, maybe a bit in Q2. But after that, we'd expect the full amount of interest expensed.

And I didn't quite catch it, on the tax rate you mentioned, I thought I heard an impact of $0.05 per share, was that correct?

Yes. And what that price -- obviously I was just comparing the rate we experienced in Q3 of 2014 versus the rate we experienced in Q3 of 2013.

Right. All right. That's it from me. Thank you very much.

Thanks, John.

Our next question comes from Katja Jancic from Sidoti and Company. Please go ahead with your question.

Hi. Thank you for taking my call. Most of my questions were already answered. Just one more. I know you previously discussed possibility for new project that could further reduce cost and improve efficiencies. Are you looking at anything right now?

Looking at – well, we're always looking at projects that will drive cost and efficiencies out of our system. So the answer to that question is, absolutely yes. We're not prepared to discuss anything publicly about what that might look like though at this time.

Can you just maybe talk a little bit what options do you have?

Well, you have -- I mean, we have continued to – we still have opportunities within our existing sites to invest in capital, to improve our overall capabilities and efficiencies. So, we will look at that as a part of our 2015 capital plan over and above what we're currently doing, to see what value is there. We'll also be doing things with our Mexican partner that could possibly drive cost out of the system for them to make their cost structure even better than what it currently is. So, we do look at these things and driving to be the low cost producer is one of our key strategic objectives.

Are the margins in Fabrica production similar to yours, or are they higher or lower right now?

Margins would be about the same as ours, which is what we expected.

That's all from me. Thank you.

Thank you, Katja.

Our next question comes from Rob Longnecker from Jovetree. Please go ahead with your question.

Hi. Good morning, guys. Just a couple of quick questions. Is that -- you gave $11.5 million as the revenue number for Fabrica. Is that a pretty good run rate number going forward?

Yes.

Okay. Great. And of the I think $7.5 million of CapEx in the quarter, can you just talk about the split between sort of regular CapEx and CapEx for this special project?

Actually I don't have that number exactly, but that would be primarily -- probably I don't know, 80% will be for the special project. We probably only do $1 million or so off of what we call normal CapEx.

Okay. And can you just talk a little about kind of what's going on, the weakness in the parent roll market and what needs to happen for that to change?

Well, the parent roll market has been soft for a while. There's a lot of new capacity that came on. It really was mostly in the [ph] path rate (39:40), which is the ultra premium rate, but there has been other machines that came on as well. That came on mostly late 2012 through 2013. So, until the market absorbs those, the market is growing around 1.5 points or 2 points a year, which is around 150,000 tons. So, it will take another year or so for that to kind of get absorbed. So, barring any new major investment in paper machines, it will take about a year for that additional capacity to be absorbed and have the [ph] timing (40:19) back up as well.

Got you. Okay. Thank you very much. Sorry, one last question. Is Fabrica running kind of fullout out of the capacity that you guys have under your agreement at this point?

No. No, we have spare capacity available from Fabrica to grow our West Coast business.

Okay. Great. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

And we have a follow-up question from John Curti from Singular Research. Please go ahead with your question.

Yeah, this question is for Jeff regarding the status of where you believe you're at in terms of getting your inventory level down to where you wanted them. You know, in the past quarters, you had talked about reducing that down.

Yes, we're there. We're there.

Okay.

We have no outside warehouse expenses, and our plan is to make sure that that doesn't happen. Although, there may be exceptions based on promotional activity where we might go outside, but our goal is to run our business within the current walls.

Were there some outside warehousing costs in the third quarter last year, do you recall?

The third quarter of last year, I don't have those...

I think they were -- [ph]

It was $0.15 (41:43) a case or something like that, I think it was.

It wasn't large.

Okay. All right, thank you.

And at this time, I'm showing no additional questions. I'd like to turn the conference call back over for any closing remarks.

I want to follow up on one question. I had a kind of a deer in the headlights question. I think Marco was the one that I answered -- he asked the question of whether we were comfortable with 11 million ship rate. And for some reason, I multiplied it by two and thought it was 22 million, and I was like, what? Did I really say that? But to answer the question, at 11 million run rate, we are very comfortable with that number. We think that's a conservative number, so just to make sure that we are clear on that.

Finally, I think I just want to say – I want to thank our team again. There's a lot of moving parts going on in Orchids right now. We are investing to give us capabilities to grow our business in a way that we believe we have competitive advantage. We will continue to look at those types of opportunities to grow Orchids. We are going to do it in a very methodical, strategically well thought out way. And I just want to say, I'm very pleased with the performance of our team to-date, even though we all know we have a lot more work to do.

Well, I appreciate your time and I will talk to you next quarter.

Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude today's conference call. We do thank you for attending. You may now disconnect your telephone lines.