corrected transcript


Orchids Paper Products Co.
 
TIS
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 29, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator; Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the review of the first quarter 2010


results for Orchids Paper Products Conference Call. My name is Mitchell and I will be operator for


today. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later we will conduct a question-and-


answer session. [Operator Instructions].


I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today, Mr. Keith Schroeder, Chief


Financial Officer. Please proceed


Keith R. Schroeder, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, operator. This is Orchids Paper Products Company’s first quarter earnings conference


call. I’m Keith Schroeder and I’m the Chief Financial Officer of the company.


I’m pleased to be here today with Bob Snyder, our President and Chief Executive Officer. This


morning we’ll be discussing our financial results for the quarter which we released yesterday


afternoon. The agenda for today’s call will be as follows: First, Bob will discuss our performance in


the quarter and discuss various initiatives we worked on within the company. I’ll then provide a


discussion of the results and some key financial metrics. Following that discussion, I will turn the


call back over to Bob for some closing remarks. After Bob’s remarks, we will be happy to address


any questions that you might have.


And with that, I would like to inform you that statements made during this conference call other than


those that refer to past results are forward-looking statements and made in pursuance of the Safe


Harbor provision of the Securities Reform Act of 1995. Such statements involve risks and


uncertainties that may cause actual results to defer materially from those set forth during this


discussion. Among other things, these risks and uncertainties include the risks and assumptions


described in Item 1A and Item 7 of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, the


operating environment that involves numerous known and unknown risks and uncertainties that


could materially affect our operations. We assume no obligation to update or supplement these


forward-looking statements that become untrue because of other events.


With that, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Bob Snyder.


Robert A. Snyder, President and Chief Executive Officer


Welcome to all our shareholders. Thanks Keith. I’m Bob Snyder, President and Chief Executive


Officer of Orchids Paper Products. It’s great to speak with you again, then a recap of 2009. We


achieved record net sales of 96 million, up 6.3% from 2008 results, and earnings per share


increased 139% to $1.89 per diluted share.


In the first quarter of 2010, we achieved net sales of over 21 million, down 11% from last year’s first


quarter, and an earnings of $0.18 per diluted share, a $0.24 decrease from the first quarter of 2009,


a 57% reduction.


During the first quarter of 2010, major areas of interest were in the paper manufacturing plant, they


had paper making production in the first quarter of 2010 of 13,085 tons, basically the same as the


first quarter of 2009. The parent roll market improved during the quarter and it still continues to


strengthen.


In the converting plant, we produced over 1.4 million cases in the first quarter, a 22% decrease


over the same quarter last year. The major reason for the decrease was the net production with
corrected transcript


Orchids Paper Products Co.
 
TIS
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 29, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


shipments, and not to build inventory. We had shipments in the first quarter of 1.4 million cases, a


17.6% decrease from last year’s first quarter.


During the quarter, there was a major softness in orders and shipments with most of our major


customers. We believe the softness in shipments is due to several factors, including significant


promotional activity by major branded producers, bad weather during portions of the quarter and


the effects of inventory destocking.


Our open orders and shipments continue to strengthen in the early stages of the second quarter.


Construction on a new 245,000 square foot warehouse is going well. It is over three quarters of the


way towards completion, and it is on track for the installation of the new converting line by mid-


2010.


As stated previously, the new warehouse will enable us to consolidate or convert product inventory


and shipping them on location, eliminate third party storage and shipping cost and optimize our


customer service and logistics performance.


Furthermore, it will free up the necessary physical space in our existing converting facility from the


new converting line. The new converting line has been checked out as the vendors plan as it is on


schedule for delivering and start off with our construction time-table.


It is quite an impressive piece of machinery, the state-of-the-art-line with the capability to produce


up to 4 million cases per year will produce both bathroom tissues and towel products as well as


enable us to provide a collateral range of product. Better product configurations and enhanced


graphics and improved embossing.


The warehouse in the new converting line products are in line with our strategy to increase sales


and profitability through all of our paper making production and the converting operation.


This has been a challenging quarter. I’m encouraged by their efforts and team work of the Orchid’s


management and work force to face the challenges to work together diligently for solutions.


Now I will turn the call back over to Keith to discuss the financials.


Keith R. Schroeder, Chief Financial Officer


Okay, for the first quarter 2010 we’ve reported net income of $1.4 million or $0.18 per diluted share


compared with net income of 2.8 million or $0.42 per diluted share in the same period of 2009. The


earnings per share calculations for the first quarter of 2010 reflect the effects of our follow-on


offering of 862,500 shares in the third quarter of last year.


Net sales for the first quarter of 2010 were $21 million, a decrease of 11% compared to the 23.6


million in net sales are reported for the same period last year. Net sales of converted products in


the first quarter of 2010 increased 16% to 17.6 million compared to the 21.1 million in the prior year


quarter. This was a result of a 9% decrease in net selling prices and an 8% decrease in the amount


of tonnage shifts.


The decrease in net selling prices of converted products in the year-over-year comparison was both


the result of a shift in mix and a higher amount of promotional activity on our branded items. The


promotional activity we commented on in our fourth quarter call continued into the first quarter, so


we could combat increased promotional pricing by national brand producers.