Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Keith R. Schroeder — CFO, Secretary & Head-Investor Relations, Orchids Paper Products Co.
Robert A. Snyder — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Orchids Paper Products Co.
John Nobile — Analyst, Taglich Brothers, Inc.
Eric Hollowaty — Analyst, Stephens, Inc.
John H. Curti — Analyst, Singular Research
Daniel Hillson Abramowitz — Founder & President, Hillson Financial Management, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning and welcome to the Orchids Paper Products Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast. All participants will be in listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] After today's presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask questions. [Operator Instructions] Please note, this event is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Keith Schroeder. Please go ahead.

Thank you, operator. Good morning to everyone and thank you for attending our third quarter of 2012 earnings call. My name is Keith Schroeder, and I am the CFO. I am here today with Bob Snyder, our President and CEO.

The agenda for our call today, we'll begin with my review of the quarterly and year-to-date results. Mr. Snyder will then provide an update on key performance areas and initiatives in the company. Following that discussion, we'll be happy to address any questions that you might have.

And with that, I would like to inform you that statements made during this conference call, other than those that refer to past events and results are forward-looking statements and are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions in the Securities Reform Act of 1995. Such statements involve risk and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth during this discussion. Among other things, these risks and uncertainties include the risks and assumptions described in Item 1A and Item 7 of our Form 10-K for the year-ended December 31, 2011.

We operate in an environment that involves numerous known and unknown risk and uncertainties that could materially affect our operations. We assume no obligation to update or supplement forward-looking statements that become untrue because of these – of any future events.

First, I'll start with some highlights. In the third quarter of 2012, we delivered net income of $2.3 million and diluted earnings per share of $0.29 per share, an improvement of $678,000 or 41% and $0.08 per share respectively over the prior year quarter. For the current year quarter, we delivered EBITDA of $5.3 million, an increase of $1.1 million or 27% over the prior year quarter. EBITDA as a percent of net sales was 20.6% in the current year quarter compared with 16.1% in the prior year quarter. Our converted product net sales in the current year quarter were $22.8 million, an increase of 6% over the prior year quarter as case shipment volumes totaled 1.76 million cases.

Now for few details, our total net sales for 2012 quarter were $25.8 million, which was a slight decrease of 1% from the $26.1 million of net sales in the same period of last year. The $1.4 million increase in converted product net sales was more than offset by $1.7 million decrease in parent roll sales. The lower overall dollar sales in the quarter-over-quarter comparison was primarily due to lower parent roll production which resulted in less excess times being available for sale as a parent roll. Converted product sales were favorably affected by new product sales primarily in the mid tier market and increased distribution of products with our existing customers.

This resulted in 8% increase in converted product tonnage shipped. We previously discussed lower parent roll production and increased converted product shipments and resultant effect on the parent roll requirements in the converting plant resulted in a 37% decrease in parent roll tons shipped. This brings our year-to-date sales to $76.8 million, an increase of 6% over the prior year period. The total is comprised of $68.7 million in converted product sales and $8.1 million of parent roll sales.

Converted product sales were 18% higher in the 2012 year-to-date period than in 2011 due to the same factor cited for the quarterly comparison. Converted product tonnage shipments were up 21% during this same timeframe.

Gross profit for the third quarter of 2012 improved to $5.4 million and 20.9% of net sales, compared to $3.9 million and 15.1% of net sales in the 2011 quarter. Gross profit and gross profit margins were favorably affected in the quarter by the higher levels of converted product sales, a decrease in fiber prices, and improved converting production costs. These effects were partially offset by higher maintenance and repair cost in the paper manufacturing operation.

The higher converted product sales in the quarter resulted in an increased percentage of our parent roll production being diverted from lower margin parent roll business to the higher margin converted product business, thereby favorably affecting our gross profit margin. Our cost of fiber in the third quarter 2012 was lowered by about 27%, compared to the prior year quarter, which reduced our cost of sales by approximately $1.7 million.

The higher overall volume requirements in the converting operations helped reduce the overall per unit cost in converting during the quarter when compared to the prior year. This brings our gross profit for the year to $17.1 million, an increase of $6.7 million or 65% over the $10.4 million for the 2011 timeframe.

As a percent of net sales, gross profit improved to 22.3% in 2012, compared to 14.4% in the prior year for primarily the same reason cited for the quarter. On a year-to-date basis, our fiber cost in 2012 were approximately 24% lower than those experienced in the 2011 period, which reduced our cost of sales by approximately $4.1 million.

I will now provide a little flavor on the fiber market. While recycled fiber prices were basically flat during the third quarter, the recycled fiber market has recently shown some softness. We experienced a 15% reduction in recycled fiber prices in October, when compared to our average price during Q3. Our expectation is that the market will remain fairly soft the rest of this year and we could see a further price reduction in the 5% to 7% range. Regarding longer term outlook and forecast, we suggest you consult sources such as RISI.

Selling, general and administrative expenses in the third quarter of 2012 were in line with expectations at $2 million, which was $521,000 higher than those experienced in the prior year quarter. This increase was primary due to increased artwork expenses due to new product introductions, increased professional fees, and higher accruals under our incentive bonus program due to our higher earnings.

I would now like to turn your attention to the balance sheet and cash flow. Our total debt outstanding as of September 30, 2012, was $16.5 million. When netted against our cash and short-term investments of $8.8 million, our net debt was $7.7 million. There are no amounts outstanding under our revolving credit agreement as of the end of the quarter. As of the end of the quarter, our funded debt to EBITDA ratio was 0.76:1 and our debt service coverage ratio was 5.93:1.

For the year-to-date period in 2012, we generated cash from operations of approximately $11.8 million. This was comprised primarily of cash earnings which were partially offset by higher accounts receivable and inventory levels to support the increased converted product sales.

Our capital expenditures for 2012 were amounted to approximately $4.3 million and we expect capital expenditures for the full year of 2012 to be approximately $5 million. During the year, we made principal payments of $864,000 on our term loans and returned $4.5 million in cash to our shareholders.

I will now turn the call over to Bob.

Thanks, Keith. I'm Bob Snyder. It's great to speak with you all again. We're pleased to be able to announce along with solid earnings for the quarter that we have landed substantial new business that will begin shipping over the next several months. This new business is a result of the continual diligent efforts of our team to bring innovative high quality products to our customers, which represents a great value proposition to the consumer. Also this new business is in the mid and premium tier categories, reflecting the continuing success of our new product development and marketing efforts. The new business is with both new and existing customers.

As disclosed in our press release last week, the expected business line for this new round of business wins when coupled with the new business announced in the second quarter earnings release is approximately 1.2 million cases, which represents approximately 70% of our third quarter annualized run rate of about 7 million cases. This brings the expected volumes for 2013 to 8.2 million cases, which is approximately 80% of our real capacity. In the fourth quarter, we expect to realize benefits from shipments of a portion of the new announced business approximately about 150,000 cases.

And as Keith previously discussed, lowered recycled fiber prices, additionally the increased paper mill maintenance and repair costs, that we have discussed in the last two quarters are expected to move towards normalized levels during the fourth quarter. Thus we expect to end the year on a strong note, and to provide a solid foundation for 2013.

The opportunities for new business are very strong, at present, we believe that our efforts in the new product and markets will provide us an excellent opportunity to continue to expand on our current estimated book of business. I want to point out, that during the quarter, we were awarded the Pride Award by Dollar General as the private-label vendor of the year. We received the award at Dollar General's Annual Vendor Summit in recognition of our innovation, dependability, and excellence in partnership. This award is a testament to the dedication of our team in achieving world-class service and innovation to our customers. We were very proud to have earned this recognition from a valued customer, and a partner such as Dollar General.

Dollar General is a leader in its field and we are honored to be in a long-term supplier to this organization. We continue to be a very positive about our short and long-term outlook as we continue to ascribe to produce high-quality competitively priced products that perform well for our customers.

Now, I will turn the call back over to the operator for questions.

Thank you. We will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Our first question is from John Nobile with Taglich Brothers. Go ahead.

Hi, good morning, Keith and Bob. I wanted to get back to the press release from last week about understandings about additional business. I was hoping you could give a little more detail of why you believe that the understandings with these retailers would result in new orders of converted business?

Because that's usually how it works, John.

Okay. But it's not concrete as we speak. You can't really say that you have the orders, but...

Yes you can.

You can? I mean, I could take it that because, I know that the press release said understandings will result in orders and I was questioning that because I said, do you have the orders or not. That's what I'm getting down to. This is actually going to materialize in Q4?

Yes.

Okay. I just wanted to make sure.

This is within I'm getting all our work done and getting back for a moment, those kinds of things, and that's...

Okay. I just wanted to...

But unusually, all our business is based on that and it's not on a contractual basis. It's basically understandings we have.

Okay.

And some people say, well, you got a contract? No, you don't get contracts in this business.

Well, I mean, not...

Well. It's an understanding, John.

Not a contract per se, but an official order.

It's an understanding. It would then be an understanding, John.

Okay. So in other words, this is going to happen in Q4?

Yeah. We're going to start getting that capacity coming through.

Okay, I just...

We anticipate probably of the capacity we're talking, about maybe a 150,000 of them will show up in the first – this fourth quarter. Of course, there is more, it'll come in as we get into the later part of the quarter.

Okay.

And the beginning of 2013, yes.

All right, and what would the tonnage be. How would you equate 1.1 million cases if you had to put it into tonnage?

That's about 7,000 tons or so, John.

Approximately 7,000 tones, okay, which is a significant jump obviously from where you are right now. And one thing I noticed sequentially, the gross margins, looking at compared to Q2, they were lower, even though overall sales were up. So, I just wanted to get into the fiber cost. So, fiber – hello? Yes, fiber cost in the third quarter versus Q2?

Yes.

I was hoping you could...

Yes, the cost or average cost of fiber in Q3 versus Q2 was basically flat.

Okay, although gross margins were down a little bit from Q2, so, there was another factor involved in that, if it wasn't fiber cost, I was hoping if you just talk a little bit about that?

Well, we made a few less tons on the paper machine, so that had an effect, anything else would have been mix.

Okay. And just one final question, I was hoping you could talk a little about how the placement of your products is progressing in grocery stores. And will it be mainly mid-tier or will lower-tier products also have some space on the grocery shelves as well?

Well, most of this – the product that we're talking about is mid-tier, premium-tier, as we said in our call here just now. So, most of it is premium type products, mid-tier type products is what we are placing on the shelves right now. There is always a place for your lower tiers, but most of what we're placing right now is the higher tiers.

Okay. So, you will have some lower tier product into grocery stores? But primarily, I understand the dollar stores is where that would end up?

No, no absolutely not. Both the dollar stores and both – and your grocery stores have entry level tiers.

Okay. And you anticipate having your products also on the – the entry level products on the grocery store shelves also?

Yes. Yes we do.

Okay, great. I just wanted to make sure of that. Thank you very much.

Thank you, John.

Our next question is from Eric Hollowaty with Stephens, Incorporated. Go ahead, sir.

Hey, good morning, gentlemen. I was just wondering if you could give a little more insight into the performance of converted product sales in the quarter. You saw tonnage go up 8%, which apparently was due to new product sales into the mid-tier market and increased distribution, and then on the net selling price side, it was down 2%? I just wondering if you could give some more color on what drove the dynamic in both volume and pricing changes in the quarter?

It's very dependent on different customers and the different opportunities you face with different amounts of volume.

Yeah. Eric, this is Keith. The overall change in price is just mix. It wasn't any price changes per se. So, the lower price per ton by what was it 2%.

2%.

That's just mix, again. So, it's a mix between towel and bathroom tissue and pack sizes and things like that.

Okay, great. Thank you for that color, Keith.

Sure.

I'll get back in the queue.

Okay. Thanks, Eric.

Our next question is from John Curti with Singular Research. Go ahead please.

Hey, good morning, congratulations on the good quarter. A question on parent roll sales, how much was pricing either up or down there for the parent rolls?

Pricing for the quarter versus – are you talking about third quarter versus second quarter or third quarter this year versus third quarter last year?

Both.

Okay. Third quarter this year versus second quarter this year, it was up slightly – do the math here real quick for you. Hang on. It was up about – if I can hit the right keys on the calculator. It was up, here we go, about 3.5% in the third quarter versus the second quarter of this year. And then on a quarter-over-quarter comparison, it was flat – it was very, very flat.

Okay. Now, with these additional shipments beginning in fourth quarter and into 2013, a lot of premium and mid-tier products, shouldn't we begin to kind of see pricing for converted products start to nudge up a little bit rather than continue to be under pressure?

Yes, on a per ton basis, we would expect going forward, because of the type of mid-tier and premium-tier products that are in this new mix of business, the per ton selling price would go up, yes.

And you mentioned also that you kind of expected fiber prices to soften up a little bit kind of for the rest of the year, what's kind of going on there? Is it just kind of the economy?

For the most part, the way we understand it, the exports to China are a bit soft and they take roughly 30% of the exports. So, if they are soft on their buying then that will ease off on the market and that is really what we are seeing at the present.

You also mentioned increased repair and maintenance on the paper equipment, does that get thrown into cost of sales and was that a significant number?

It does get thrown into cost of sales. Yes, it was fairly large. It's just been trending over what we have experienced in the past over the last few quarters. Like I said, we do expect that to drop down during the fourth quarter, but at the kind of normalized levels but yes, it does flow right through cost of sales.

And it looked like your depreciation and amortization ticked up about hundred and some thousand from the prior quarters. I'm just wondered whether additional equipment brought online or whether some additional accelerated write off things?

No, any change in the depreciation would be driven by capital spend for projects that we would have closed during each quarter. And I got to disclose, we spent three-point-something million so far this year. So as those projects close, depreciation starts to increase.

In terms of continuing to win new business, I know it's been kind of a long time coming and winning some of the new business. Now that you've gotten your foot in the doors so to speak, do you think that additional business or additional new business with new customers is likely to occur at a little faster rate than what you've achieved to-date?

We certainly hope so. We think with the new customers we've got is – will be able grow our positions with those customers as we establish the kind of rapport we have with some of our older existing customers. And, I think as people see that we make great products and we have great service and we have a good value proposition for their consumers, we will see more business from some of these new customers. And I think that will tend to be – that will tend to grow and I believe that positions pretty well right now.

So, right now as it stand with the new business that you've recently announced in the past quarter and this quarter, if you were to retain all your existing business that you now have, you would be running at an annual rate of about 8.2 million cases in 2013?

That's correct.

At that level of production, assuming no other wins, what kind of level of parent rolls would you be selling been as excess?

We'd be selling somewhere around 6,000 tons a year. That level of business will get us somewhere around 49,000 to 50,000 tons in the converted product sales. So, we make about 56,000 tons a year. So it will be somewhere around 6,000 tons.

So you'll be getting very close, you said 80% of real capacity. Is that 80% of paper capacity or converted capacity?

That's 80% of converted capacity.

Converted capacity. And you would be basically bumping up against your paper making capacity?

Yes, but then you would purchase peripherals on the outside market.

Which would kind of dampen your product or your margins on the converted products on the incremental sales, so at what point you look to replace an older machine with a newer machine, with expanded capacity or just – put in a new machine and keep your existing capacity and just further – kind of that way?

That would be down the road. You'd want to see more converted product sales, significant amount of more product sales.

You need to be in a position where you are buying a fair amount of parent rolls on the outside and it looks like that level would sustain itself and then it would make sense to put in a new machine and to bring it back in-house?

Exactly, that's exactly what you do.

And at this point, a new machine depending on the size would cost approximately how much and how long to put in?

There's different studies to do that, it's probably a two year project from the time you are ready with it, and it depends on the type of machine and that's a significant decision.

Got it. But certainly, it probably wouldn't be any less than what you put – what you invested in your machine that you bought just a few years ago?

No, it's – those investments are going to be much, much larger.

All right. Well, thank you very much.

Thanks, John.

Your next question is from the Dan Abramowitz with Hillson Financial Management. Go ahead, please.

Good morning, guys.

Good morning, Dan.

Just a – I got a few questions. On the SG&A line, the – SG&A is up about a $0.5 million in the quarter, up on an absolute basis and on a percentage of sales basis, same trend for the year. There – you mentioned a few factors that are accounting for that, including incentive accruals, I'm wondering how much of that – is incentive accrual increases and how much is the other components?

Dan, this is Keith. I don't have those numbers right in front of me, but the – the biggest component was the – was the artwork if you will, related cost. It kind of go through a bunch of new core product introductions. There is a lot of work you do with a people that design, friends design the artwork that goes – goes on to poly wrap, buying plates for the printing and et cetera that was the – that was the biggest piece.

Okay.

The other two were pretty close. I don't remember exactly offhand of what they were.

Okay. And is that – is that something that you're expecting would continue or is it largely behind you?

It will come and go. It will not be a trend that we will see each quarter. We did a lot of work the last few quarters, spent a fair amount of money in getting those things done, which of course because we got sales out of it, right. Then they would tend to back off some until more new business comes in, and then you got to spend some more. So, it would not be a trend that we would see each and every quarter.

But as sales would increase...

Yeah, the same will come back for...

It will come along. So, it's basically an indication of additional business.

So, those costs would tend to be a front runner, if you will?

Absolutely.

And, the costs come first, the sales come later?

Yes.

Okay, great. And just for clarification on the gross margin, you said that fiber costs were down by about $1.7 million in the quarter?

Yes.

Gross profit was up about $1.5 million net for the quarter. So, is it fair to look at that and say that in this quarter, gross margins actually would have been down had fiber costs remained unchanged?

Well, the – if you want to look at it that way, but I think when you look at – the other big cost component is that the – that it's the repair and maintenance costs that we experienced were up quite a bit quarter-over-quarter. So, with that, those additional cost then the overall gross margin would have been higher.

All right and that was a one quarter event?

Yeah, it's really been – we talked about it in the second quarter as well. There are just some things that we've been working on over in the mill, then we think that after the last two quarters worth of that work that we think those things are in our past now. And, we would expect the fourth quarter to get back towards a normal amount.

Okay. All right. And then, on the new business, you're saying it's about a 17% increase in the run rate on cases shipped. Does that equate roughly dollar for dollar into – on the revenue run rate?

No, It would be a little higher because all of this product – or almost all of it – is going to be the mid and premium tier. So on a per case and on a per ton basis the selling price would be more. So, off the top how much more, probably 20% to 25% more on a per case basis.

Okay. And, what kind of gross margins would you anticipate from that business?

That's a good question. The way we – I'll answer it this way, the way we look at our business and when we're costing new items et cetera, we look at everything on a fully burdened basis. We put all the overhead in, all the SG&A expenses et cetera. So, when we look at that way that the margins on this new business will be as good or more than what we have seen in the past in our total base of business. The reality of it is – is that, as you bring on – as we bring on this incremental business, we don't really incur additional overhead in the converting operation. We incur a little bit of additional SG&A expense. So, the overall margins will improve because incremental business does not incur those certain fixed costs. Does that make sense?

So you'd expect it to generate margins at least as good as what you've had sort of for the last nine months, more so than the current quarter I imagine, and most of it goes straight to the pre-tax bottom line?

Yes, we anticipate better.

I guess to say it in a different way, we would expect that the effects of the additional 1.2 million, 1.1 million cases, keeping all of their cost components the same, would increase our overall operating margin percent and EBITDA percent.

That help?

Yeah. Okay, got it. Okay. Last question, this is more of an observation, a statement rather than a question, regarding the stock and shareholder value, which we've been discussing with you guys for quite some time as you know. And the – it's now over three years since you asked investors to put additional capital into the company for expansion, that deal was done, as you know at $18.50 a share. And we've been skeptical hoping that you could prove us wrong, but skeptical that the market would reward the stock for improved earnings, which we are now seeing, and we are happy that we are and that the – operationally we are moving in the right direction. But unfortunately, we've not been proven wrong on our skepticism. And we've been pushing you to consider ways to accelerate return of capital to shareholders and explore other options for maximizing value, hiring an investment bank for example, to see if we can perhaps sell the company.

There hasn't been any movement on any of those fronts. The stock is still trading below the secondary price, three plus years ago, which is substantially below what a plain vanilla market ETF would have produced in that same period of time. So, on a relative – on an absolute basis, the return on that equity has been slightly negative. On a relative basis, it's been hugely negative relative to the 40% plus return in the market in the interim. So, we, as a major shareholder are becoming increasingly agitated that we are not seeing any action. You pretty much can open the Wall Street Journal on any given day, and you'll read about companies in anticipation of higher tax rates next year paying out special dividends to shareholders, in some cases borrowing money to do it on a larger basis, private equity firms doing the same thing with leverage free caps, we would very much like to see something similar happen with Orchids, but we've not seen any evidence that there is any movement in that direction. And I wonder if you can comment at all, on whether you have any plans to try to do something before year-end?

Our Board of Directors meets quarterly to discuss different opportunities of that nature and I'm sure we'll be discussing different thoughts this quarter.

Okay. Well, again, we'd very much like to see some movement which we've not seen and just to be perfectly frank and honest and upfront we have – we've owned the stock for seven years and we've been passive the entire time, but should December 31 come and go and rates go higher after that, of course we don't know how much higher, but we know they are going higher. And we're still in the same position that we've been in, I do not believe that we will be willing to remain passive and I really don't want it to get to that point. There is quite a bit of flexibility that the company has to return capital to shareholders in the absence of a larger capital transaction for the entire company, but we don't believe that business as usual, which has not succeeded in generating a return for people that invested in the secondary over three years ago, is an appropriate strategy going forward and we will be forced to become more aggressive if the company doesn't get more aggressive on our behalf and I just want to throw that out there.

Thanks for your input.

[Operator Instructions] Our next question is from [ph] Sharman Burgess (37:13), a private investor. Go ahead please.

Hello, congratulations on a third quarter and prospects for the future. My question really relates to your current thinking and whether or not there are opportunities to hedge against a potential fiber cost increases?

This is Keith. That's a good question. It is in the recycle market where at present most of our – most of the fiber we use is in the recycled there even though we do buy [ph] craft (37:55) to some extent and that amount will go up in the future as this new business comes on. There are really no direct hedges for that, there is some indirect hedges that one could enter into. The issue is that you have the mark-to-market those and that can create some very big exposures for us. So at present we have decided that it is not the best course for us.

Okay. Thank you.

Welcome.

[Operator Instructions] . Showing no further questions in our queue at this time. I'd like to return the call to Mr. Snyder for closing comments.

This is Mr. Snyder. Thank you for attending today's conference call. And we look forward to talking to you again in the next quarter. Have a nice day.

Thank you. The conference is now concluded. You may now disconnect your lines.