corrected transcript


Orchids Paper Products Co.
 
TIS
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 29, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the review of 2009 Third Quarter


Results Conference Call. My name is Chris, and I’ll be your operator for today. At this time, all


participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session.


[Operator Instructions].


We have Mr. Bob Snyder, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Mr. Keith Schroeder, Chief


Financial Officer, joining us today. I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Keith Schroeder.


Please proceed.


Keith R. Schroeder, Chief Financial Officer


Welcome to the Orchids Paper Products Company’s third quarter earnings conference call. My


name is Keith Schroeder and I’m the Chief Financial Officer. I’m pleased to be here today with Bob


Snyder, our President and Chief Executive Officer. This morning, we will be discussing our financial


results for the quarter which we released yesterday afternoon.


Bob will discuss our performance in the quarter and various initiatives being worked on within the


company. I will then provide a discussion of the results and some key financial metrics. Following


that discussion, I’ll turn the call back over to Bob for some closing remarks. After Bob’s remarks, we


will be happy to address any questions that you might have.


And with that, I would like to inform you that statements made during this conference call, other


than those that refer to past events and results are forward-looking statements and are made


pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions in the Securities Reform Act of 1995. Such statements


involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth


during this discussion. Among other things, these risks and uncertainties include the risk and


assumption described in Item 1A and Item 7 of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,


2008 and our quarter report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2009. We


operate in an environment that involves numerous known and unknown risks and uncertainties that


could materially affect our operations. We assume no obligation to update or supplement forward-


looking statements that become untrue because of these subsequent events.


With that, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Bob Snyder.


Robert A. Snyder, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Keith. Welcome fellow shareholders. I am Bob Snyder, President and Chief Executive


Officer of Orchids Paper Products. It’s great to speak with you again.


In the third quarter of 2009, we achieved record net sales of over 24.6 million, up 5.3% from last


year’s third quarter and earnings of $0.52 per diluted share, a $0.30 increase over the third quarter


of 2008, a 136% improvement.


During the third quarter of 2009, some major areas of interest were: in the paper manufacturing


plant, we had paper making production in the third quarter of 2009 of 13,057 tons, a 7.8% decrease


over the same quarter last year. Curtailing operations to adjust for parent roll sales is the major


reason for the decrease. With continued improvement in parent roll market, we now have all paper


machines in full operation.
corrected transcript


Orchids Paper Products Co.
 
TIS
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 29, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


In the converting plant, we’ve produced a record of over 1.8 million cases in the third quarter, a


9.4% increase over the same quarter last year. We had shipments in the third quarter of over 1.7


million cases an 8.8% improvement over the third quarter of 2008.


The company’s expansion project for the wastewater pre-treatment facility on which we’ve


previously reported is now operational. At the beginning of October, we began construction on a


new 245,000 square foot warehouse in anticipation of the installation of a new converting line by


mid-2010. The new warehouse will enable us to consolidate our converted product inventory and


shipping into location, eliminate third-party storage and shipping cost, optimize our customer


service and logistics performance, as well as free up the necessary physical space in our existing


converting facility for the new converting line.


The new converting line has been ordered. We expect delivery and start of the new line to take


place by the end of the second quarter of 2010 with full operating speeds to be achieved by the end


of the third quarter of 2010. So the state-of-the-art line with a potential to produce up to 4 million


cases per year will be capable of manufacturing both bathroom tissue and towel products as well


as enable us to provide a higher quality and a broader range of products, better product


configurations, enhance graphics, and improved embossing. The warehouse and the new


converting line projects are in line with our strategy to increase sales and profitability and to


consume all of our papermaking production in the converting operation.


Funding for these projects will come from a secondary offering of our common stock, a construction


loan from our existing bank group and cash earnings. By the way, we raised net proceeds of 14.8


million with the secondary stock offering, which was completed during the past quarter. We are


encouraged by the continued positive impact of sustained improvement as a result of the


coordinated efforts of our management team and the Orchids workforce, and look forward to


continued efforts and results in the future.


Now I will turn the call over to Keith to discuss the financials.


Keith R. Schroeder, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Bob. For the third quarter of 2009, we reported a quarterly record net income of 3.8


million or $0.52 per diluted share compared with net income of 1.4 million or $0.22 per diluted share


in the same period of 2008. This brings our year-to-date net income to 10.4 million or $1.49 per


diluted share compared with 2.9 million or $0.45 per diluted share in the same period of 2008.


Net sales for the third quarter of 2009 were another quarterly record and totaled 24.6 million, an


increase of 5% over the 23.3 million net sales we reported for the same period last year. Compared


to the second quarter of 2009, our net sales increased 426,000 or 2%. This brings our year-to-date


net sales to 72.3 million, an increase of 10% over the 65.9 million reported for the same period in


2008.


Net sales of converted products in the third quarter of 2009 increased 15% to 22.2 million


compared to the prior-year quarter, which was primarily the result of a 9% increase in net selling


prices and a 6% increase in tonnage shipped. Improved production in our converting operations


provided more converted product for sale, which aided in our improvement in converted sales.


The commitment we made last year to improve our converting operation continues to pay off and


help us on our drive toward our goal of increasing the consumption of all our internally produced


paper in our converting operation. The price increase we realized was primarily due to product


content changes and price increases taken during 2008 and early 2009.