corrected transcript


Orchids Paper Products Co.
 
TIS
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 28, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the third quarter earnings conference


call. My name is Jeremy and I will be your coordinator for today. [Operator Instructions] At this time,


I would like to turn the presentation over to your host for today’s call, Mr. Keith Schroeder.


Keith R. Schroeder, Chief Financial Officer


Good morning and thank you everyone for attending today’s call. I would like to welcome you to the


Orchids Paper Products Company’s third quarter earnings conference call. My name is Keith


Schroeder and I am the Chief Financial Officer. I am pleased to be here today with Mr. Bob Snyder,


our President and Chief Executive Officer. This morning we will be discussing our financial results


for the quarter.


The agenda for today’s call will be as follows: first, Bob will discuss our performance in the quarter


and discuss various initiatives being worked on within the company. I will then provide a discussion


of the results. Following that discussion, I will turn the call back over to Bob for some closing


remarks. After Bob’s remarks, we will be happy to address any questions that you might have.


And with that, I would like to inform you that statements made during this conference call, other


than those that refer to past events and results are forward-looking statements, and are made


pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions in the Securities Reform Act of 1995.


Such statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially


from those set forth during this discussion. Among other things, these risks and uncertainties


include the risk and assumptions described in item 1A and item 7 of our Form 10-K for the year


ended December 31, 2009.


Since we operate in an environment that involves numerous known and unknown risks and


uncertainties that could materially affect our operations, we assume no obligation to update or


supplement forward-looking statements that become untrue because of other events.


With that, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Bob Snyder.


Robert A. Snyder, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks Keith. I am Bob Snyder, President and Chief Executive Officer of Orchids Paper Products.


It’s great to speak with you again. In the third quarter of 2010, we achieved net sales of over 24.5


million and earnings of $0.18 per diluted share.


During the third quarter of 2010, major areas of interest were: in the paper manufacturing plant, we


had paper making production in the third quarter of 2010 of 14,576 tons, a 12% increase over the


same quarter last year. The parent roll market continues to be stable. In the converting plant, we


produced 1.6 million cases in the third quarter. We continue to reduce production to control


inventory. We had case shipments of 1.6 million cases in the third quarter. The new converting line


has been completed and turned over to operations in July for an on-time and on-budget completion.


This has been a challenging quarter. Orchids’ management and work force continue to face the


challenges and to work together diligently towards solutions. Now, I will turn the call over to Keith to


discuss the financials.
corrected transcript


Orchids Paper Products Co.
 
TIS
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 28, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


Keith R. Schroeder, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Bob. As we announced following the close of the market yesterday, for the third quarter


of 2010, we earned net income of $1.4 million or $0.18 per diluted share, compared with net


income of $3.8 million or $0.52 per diluted share in the same period of 2009. This brings our 2010


year-to-date net incomes of $5 million or $0.64 per diluted share compared to the net income of


$10.4 million or $1.49 per diluted share for the same period in 2009.


Net sales for the third quarter of 2010 were essentially flat with the prior year quarter at $24.5


million. Net sales in the quarter were comprised of net sales of converted products of 19.7 million


and net sales of parent rolls of 4.9 million. Net sales of converted products in the current year


quarter decreased 11% compared to the $22.2 million in net sales in the prior-year quarter, which


was entirely the result of a decrease in the amount of tonnage shipped. The lower shipments were


partially a result of a promotional program by a major customer that occurred in the third quarter of


last year that was not repeated in the current -year quarter, and continued aggressive promotional


pricing by major branded producers. The increase in parent roll sales was due to the 67% increase


in tonnage shipped and a 22% increase in our net selling prices. The increase in parent roll


tonnage shipments was due to lower production requirements on our converting operation, which


resulted in more tons being available to selling parent roll form and a strengthened parent roll


market.


The stronger parent roll market has allowed us to run all of our paper machines this year on a full-


time basis, compared to the prior year where we took intermittent downtime on some of our older


machines to match our parent roll production with our converting needs and the needs of the


external parent roll market.


For the nine-month period ended September 30, 2010, our net sells were $70.2 million, a decrease


of 2.1 million from the prior year. Converted products sales in the 2010 period were $57.5 million, a


decrease of 13% compared to the prior year. This was the result of an 8% decrease in product


shipments and a 5% decrease in selling prices. Aggressive promotional pricing by branded


competitors, which as we did for the majority of our products with certain customers is the primary


reason for the lower shipment. Reduction in net selling prices was primarily related to mix. Net


sales of parent rolls for the nine-month period in 2010 increased approximately 100% compared to


the prior-year period due to the same reasons cited in the quarterly. Tonnage increased 83%, while


selling prices increased 6%.


Gross profit for the third quarter of 2010 was $4 million, a decrease of 3.4 million or 46% compared


to the 2009 quarter. As a percent of net sales, gross profit decreased to 16.4% in the current year


quarter compared to the 30.3% for the same period of 2009. Year-over-year reduction in gross


profit as a percent of net sales was due to several factors.


First, our cost of waste paper in the third quarter of 2010 was approximately 38% higher than the


cost experienced in the same period last year, which have increased our cost of sales by


approximately 1.5. Secondly, the lower converted product shipment volumes resulted in lower


production requirements in our converting operations, which resulted in a 24% increase in per-unit


production cost. Also, the lower production requirements in our converting operation resulted in a


higher percentage of parent roll production available to sell in parent roll form. While parent roll


sales are profitable, they generally carry a lower profit margin than converted product sales, so this


mix shift negatively affected our margins.


Additionally, our depreciation expense in the third quarter of 2010 was $690,000 higher than the


prior-year quarter due to the closing of the $27 million expansion project and other capital projects


during the last 12 months. During the quarter, we eliminated the use of a third party warehouse


[inaudible] which reduced our warehouse cost by approximately $300,000 compared to the prior-


year quarter.