Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Keith R. Schroeder — CFO, Secretary & Head-Investor Relations, Orchids Paper Products Co.
Robert A. Snyder — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Orchids Paper Products Co.
Gunnar G. Hansen — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC
John Nobile — Analyst, Taglich Brothers, Inc.
Dan Trang — Equity Research, Stonegate Securities Inc.
Mike N. Taglich — Co-Founder, Chairman & President, Taglich Brothers, Inc.
John H. Curti — Analyst, Singular Research

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, and welcome to the Orchids Paper Products First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call. All participants will be in listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Keith Schroeder, Chief Financial Officer. Please go ahead.

Thank you, operator. Good morning and thank you to everyone for attending our first quarter of 2013 earnings call. My name is Keith Schroeder and I am the CFO. I am here today with Bob Snyder, our President and CEO.

The agenda for our call today will begin with my review of the quarterly results. Mr. Snyder will then provide an update on key performance areas and initiatives in the company. Following that discussion, we'll be happy to address any questions that you might have.

And with that, I'd like to inform you that statements made during this call, other than those that refer to past events and results are forward-looking statements and are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provision in the Securities Reform Act of 1995. Such statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth during this discussion. Among other things, these risks and uncertainties include the risks and assumptions described in Item 1A and Item 7 of our Form 10-K for the year-ended December 31, 2012.

We operate in an environment that involves numerous known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could materially affect our operations. We assume no obligation to update or supplement forward-looking statements that may become untrue because of future events.

First, I will start with a few highlights. In the first quarter of 2013, we established new sales records for both total net sales and converted product net sales at $26.6 million and $24.6 million. Our net income for the 2013 quarter was $3.1 million, an increase of $571,000 or 23% of the $2.5 million in the prior year quarter. Our diluted earnings per share for the 2013 quarter were $0.39 per share compared with 32% – $0.32 per share in the same period, last year.

Our tax rate for the first quarter of 2013 was favorably affected by the recognition of certain federal tax credits which had expired as of the end of last year and were subsequently signed in the law in January of 2013. As a result for GAAP, we were not able to recognize those credits in our 2012 financial results. The recognition of the 2012 cash credit in the first quarter of this year favorably affected our earnings per share calculation by approximately $0.03.

Now, for some details. Our total net sales for the first quarter of 2013 were $26.6 million, which was an increase of 3% from the $25.7 million of net sales in the same period of 2012. The increase was due to a $1 million or 4% increase in converted product net sales of $24.6 million compared to the $23.6 million in the prior year. The increase in converted product sales is due to 6% increase in tonnage shippings, slightly offset by a 1% decrease in net selling price per ton. Our parent roll sales were flat with the prior year.

Our gross profit for the first quarter of 2013 was $6.5 million, an increase of $394,000 or 6% over the prior year. Our gross profit margin improved to 24.5% in 2013 compared to 23.8% in 2012. The margin improvement is due to lower fiber prices and lower overhead costs in the paper manufacturing area and partially offset by higher manufacturing costs in the converting operation.

In a year-over-year comparison, our fiber costs were lower by about 380,000. Overhead costs in the paper manufacturing area were approximately $480,000 under the prior year costs, primarily due to lower natural gas costs, lower maintenance and repair costs and lower labor costs.

Operating costs were negatively affected in the quarter by outside warehousing costs of $175,000 and higher labor costs. Our fiber costs were lower in the first quarter of this year, compared to the prior year. Our costs did increase during the quarter. We experienced increase of approximately $10 per ton on recycled fiber for each month in the first quarter and further experienced an $18 per ton increase in the current month.

Our cost of scrap fiber, which represented about 10% of our total fiber usage in the quarter, increased about $45 per ton. Based upon the various sources that we rely upon for fiber forecasting, we do expect fiber to increase during the rest of Q2 and during Q3; anticipate recycled fiber prices increasing another $20 per ton during Q2 and another $25 per ton during Q3.

Our SG&A expenses in the first quarter of 2013 were in line with our expectations at $2.3 million, which was essentially flat with the prior year's costs. As a result of higher sales volumes, SG&A expenses as percent of net sales decreased to 8.5% compared to 8.9% in the prior year. We estimate our effective tax rate at 31.1% for the calendar year 2013. As previously discussed, the first quarter of 2013 was positively affected by the recognition of 2012 federal income tax credit. The recognition of this credit lowered our tax expense and thus our rate by about 5.3%. As a result, our P&L reflects a tax rate of 25.8% for the first quarter.

I'd now like to turn your attention to the balance sheet and cash flow. Our total debt outstanding as of March 31, 2013 was $15.9 million. When netted against our cash and short-term investments, our net debt was $5.4 million. There are no amounts outstanding under our revolving credit agreement as of the end of the quarter. As at the end of the year, our funded debt to EBITDA ratio was 0.72:1 and our debt service coverage ratio was 6.0:1.

In the first quarter of this year, we generated cash from operations of approximately $4.2 million.

Our capital expenditures in the quarter amounted to $2.7 million. During the quarter, we made principle payments of $288,000 and returned $2.3 million in cash dividends to our shareholders.

Before I turn the call over to Bob, I want to remind everyone that we'll be presenting at several conferences in New York City during May and June. First, we will present at the Taglich Brothers Small Cap Equity Conference on May 7. In June, we will be presenting at the Sidoti Conference on June 7 and the Singular Conference on June 13. If anyone would like to meet with us during our visits, please let me know.

I'll now turn the call over to Bob.

Thanks, Keith. I'm Bob Snyder. Thank you for joining our call today. We are pleased to announce record quarterly sales achievements in both converted products and total net sales. Achieving these records in the normally soft first quarter of the year provides a strong starting point to the year.

Our key shipments in the quarter were somewhat under our expectations; however, they were just slightly under the previous quarterly record of 1.864 million cases.

As Keith previously discussed, our earnings were strong in the first quarter. Our earnings per share improved over the prior year quarter by $0.07 per share to $0.39 per share and net income improved by 23% to $3.1 million.

Our paper making operations delivered a solid first quarter with strong production results and more production cost. Our shipment volumes have gotten off to a slower than expected start. During the latter part of 2012, we announced significant new business wins, most of which was to start in the beginning of this year. As it sometimes occurs, the ramp up of the new business is slower than expected.

Additionally, we have recalibrated our expectations of shipment volumes from some of our new business items following our experience in the first quarter and discussions with our retailers. As a result, our first half shipments will be under our original expectations. We have recently been awarded new businesses, which we expect to begin shipping in the third quarter of this year.

The estimated effect of the new business, when combined with the net effects of other changes in our customer base volumes, results in an estimated run rate in the second half of the year of 8.9 million to 9.3 million cases. This run rate is highly dependent on startup curve of the customer for the new business items. The new estimate is an upward revision from our previous last half estimate. This brings our full year 2013 case shipment expectations to a range of 8 million to 8.4 million cases for the year. This forecast compares the case shipments in 2012 of approximately 7 million cases, and would represent approximately 14% to 20% increase over 2012.

The new business environment remains positive. Our new production development efforts have resulted in product offerings that are resonating well with customers and providing significant opportunities in the mid and premium tier markets. This success is evidenced by the fact that almost all of our new business and the anticipated business increase of 2013 over 2012 is in the mid tier and premium markets. We continue to aggressively pursue all pertinent opportunities that adds earnings and to maximize shareholder value.

Now I will turn the call back over to the operator for questions. [Operator instructions]

Our first question today comes from Gunnar Hansen of Sidoti.

Hey, guys. Just a couple of questions. I guess the first one just in terms of the lower expected volumes in the first half. I mean, do you guys attribute that to one particular customer or just a cumulative effect from these new orders?

It's over several different customers. New customers and some of our existing customers.

Okay. And obviously, it seems like things will start to kind of pick up in the second half there. I guess how certain and I guess how long does it take for you guys to kind of fully recognize some of those new sales? What gives you confidence that the second half will kind of really turn around there?

We were establishing the business that we've won now in the first part of the year, it's coming through. And those volumes are getting established and we're bringing in new customers than new wins that we've had. And we feel comfortable with where we're going.

Okay. And I guess just you guys obviously have mentioned new products into the premium market. How different of a marketplace is the premium tier compared to kind of the mid tier stuff? And is there any difference between the timing of some of those sales orders?

Not really. As far as the timing, we fully think that we'll probably be somewhere about 40% of our business, we'll be in the higher tier business by the – near the end of the year.

Okay. And just in terms of CapEx, I know you guys were looking to maybe improve some of the fiber yields there. Any kind of update in terms of how that's progressed?

We're still into the engineering and the ordering of that equipment. We'll see that in the – maybe in the fourth quarter.

Okay. That's it, guys. Thanks.

Thank you.

And our next question is from John Nobile of Taglich Brothers.

Good morning, guys.

Good morning, John.

On this call you had mentioned the expectations, originally you thought you'll do about 8.2 million case run rate in the first half. Obviously, you're a little below that in the first quarter. So what would you say now that you expect for the first half run rate?

First half run rate? Let's see.

Well, I guess it's only getting...

Rate is probably going to be in the 7.8 million cases to 8 million cases sort of range for the first half.

Say that again, that's seven...

In the 7.8 million cases to 8 million cases range for the first half.

Okay.

Somewhere in that area.

Okay. Which is really I can back out into what you really expect for the second quarter because your first quarter was in the books.

Correct.

And I just wanted to get an explanation of, now, you have – in the first quarter converted case shipments were equal to last year's converted case shipments, but your converted tonnage is actually increased by 6%. So just wanted to get your take on that, is that just a function of maybe a higher tier or higher quality product which is causing the tonnage to increase on same amount of case shipments?

Yes, John. And that's right. It's the change from the value products, higher mix of premium tier and mid tier products versus the other tier and then somewhat of a mix change between towel, bathroom tissue, and et cetera.

Okay. So, it is also the product mix besides just, I guess a denser fall at the higher quality?

Correct.

Okay. And ...

It's a heavier weight, yeah.

Right. Okay. Yeah. How are outside warehousing costs this quarter and you expect these costs to continue in the future? What do you believe these costs would be on an annual basis? What do you think would cost you to warehouse – outside warehousing costs for this year versus the costs to expand your current warehouse capacity.

Well, our expected costs for this year based upon our current sales expectations would be around $1.2 million to $1.5 million, okay?

Okay, what you expect on your run rate now.

Yes.

Now, because I know in the past you've expanded your warehouse capacity and just to get an idea of what you believe it would cost to expand to not have to use an outside warehouse?

I don't know, Bob will you...

I think John that would be a pure guess at this point.

Any ballpark...

We have to buy some land and we would have to build a building. So it depends on the size that is something we have to look at.

Yeah. Okay. So, you really don't have even an estimate now, because I know you've done this in the past, just trying to get an idea of what that would be versus what you're paying right now?

Well, if you go back to where we spent, back in 2010 on the building we spent around $7 million, I think it was, but we are out of land here at this site. We have land that is right next to our sites. So we would have the additional cost of that land as well.

Okay. All right. Thank you.

Thanks, John.

And the next question is from Marco Rodriguez of Stonegate Securities.

Hello. This is actually Dan Trang sitting in for Marco Rodriguez. A couple of questions. Could you please talk a bit about your inventory levels. They'll be coming sequentially for the last four quarters and the growth rates are exceeding revenue growth rates. Kind of wonder what's driving this and what are your expectations next quarter and the remainder of the year for inventory levels?

Well, there's a few things there. One, we went into the first quarter with our sales expectations, obviously over what we have thought. So, as a result, we changed some shift schedules and et cetera, so we did build a bit of our finished goods inventory during the first quarter.

The other thing that has driven up a bit is that fiber costs have gone up during the quarter. So the cost of that part has gone up. So those are really the two main reasons that the inventory amount went up in the first quarter. As far as going forward, as the sales rate goes up, we would expect our inventory rate to go up as well, we only usually carry on the finished goods side of about four weeks or so, so it will go up a bit.

Okay. And wondering if you could talk a little bit about the expansion plans. In the 10-K, you mentioned that if you expand converting capacity, you need to acquire more land, may be try a little color, if you're already looking for additional land. What sort of lead time you need to get this moving and some color on the lead times for facility construction?

Well, to acquire the land in that, there is a land next door to us, but you'd have to get that and then you'll have to build. You're probably somewhere, once you make a decision, you can probably get something built in a year.

Okay.

You know the equipment, if you put equipment in there, more capacity, you're probably about 18 months.

Okay, 18 months.

If you're talking of paper machine it will be longer than that.

Okay. All right. Thank you very much.

Thank you.

And the next question comes from Mike Taglich of Taglich Brothers.

Good morning, gentleman. I was just – a good quarter. I just had one question with regard to this increased volume that we're projecting this year. Does this start in March – I'm sorry, I know it's really a second half of next year, but what month does it leg up as is a stair or is it more in July, more in August, more in September and building sequentially?

It kind of goes like that, like you were suggesting about sequentially. We have several different things going at the same time during that time period and it's very dependent on the customers, as we're seeing in the first half of the year as to how they will roll things out and do that. And what we've told sometimes is different than how they actually execute, how they want product put out. But we've got commitments, so we know that it's going to come on. It's just paid. We think it would be more sequential. Now, we think that seeing how some of these others have rolled out on us, we think it'll be more like that, more sequential through that quarter.

Will any of these start shipping in the second quarter?

A small part, not the – we see some building from the existing business that we have we see that building, but the newer wins would really be coming in the latter part of the year.

Okay. You want to talk a little bit about capacity before CapEx, where do you think it is and what's capacity after – with maybe clearing out some cheap bottlenecks on the plant that we already have? You want to give some guidance on what do you think those numbers are, those two different numbers?

Well, this is Keith, Mike. In the K, we list Orchids capacity as 11.5 million cases. So, as far as any significant change off of that without any new line, there's always things that we strive to do to increase the throughput and et cetera. But if you're going to – if we're going to expand – improve the capacity beyond that in any large way, you have to put a new line in.

Is that a conservative number based on mix or is that an aggressive number based on mix?

That is a – that is not a conservative, that is a good number based on mix.

Okay.

It's not too low, it's not too high.

That's all I got. All right.

Thanks, Mike.

And next we have a question from John Curti of Singular Research.

Hey, good morning, gentlemen. Question for Keith on the paper costs. You mentioned an expectation of the $25 increase per ton for recycled fiber in the second quarter, and $25 in the third. If those increases come to pass, would that put prices at relative to those two quarters a year ago?

Well. I don't have that right in front of me. That would be getting us closer to what they were at this time last year, in the second quarter of last year, I don't really have that right in front of me. But, prices went up obviously last year during the year. But that would be getting us somewhere closer to those costs.

Okay. And you mentioned about – repeat what you said about first quarter recycle paper prices, so they went up in each month?

Yeah. For those grades, they went up about $10 per ton for each month in Q1.

Okay.

And then in the current month, April, they went up about $18 or so, and then past that is just our forecast.

And so, the increase of $10 per ton per month in the first quarter even with those increases you were still below last year's first quarter paper costs?

Yes. That's true.

Okay. And then on the virgin fiber, you mentioned $45 a ton in the first quarter, an increase – I didn't catch it, did you specify a number for second quarter? What's your expectations were?

No, I did not. Our estimate is that softwood will continue up and hardwood will probably continue up at a higher pace. So that's our best estimate based upon the folks that we talk to and use for those things.

And what's your mix of hard to soft?

It's more hardwood, as far as that percent which I think in the first quarter is around 10% kraft, it's probably two-thirds hardwood, one-third softwood, something like that.

Okay. Right. And then I want to also clarify on the outside warehousing costs, that's $1.2 million to $1.5 million for the year?

Yes.

Versus zero last year?

Correct.

Okay. All right. And then the tax rate, I believe you said 31.1% for the entire year.

Correct.

We just have to build a higher increase towards kind of the statutory 34% for the remainder of quarters to get to the 31.1% for the entire year?

It's 31.1% was – just to be clear with that. It's 31.1% for the year, but that 2012 tax credit would actually bring that down just a tab, but on a full year basis it would probably lower that by around a 1%, probably 1%, 1.3% somewhere in that sort of range. So when you're looking at the full effective rate, including the effect of the 2012 credit, you'd be somewhere around 30%, okay.

Full year effective rate of 30%, but 31.1% on a quarterly basis?

Yes. For the Q2, Q3 and Q4. Correct.

Okay. I realized it awfully early as you've moved into the – to the mid tier and premium markets. But have you been able to gain any insight in terms of how demand either improves or maybe slows up a little bit depending on what people are feeling about the economy. When you are in the value tier, everybody is kind of maybe trading down, maybe even moves to your benefit, if there is a soft economy. But do you see maybe a little different forces playing on demand for your products in the mid tier and premium tier and what's going on also with pricing from competitors, the big guys in those other two tiers?

I think probably a little premature for us to make a comment as to your hypothesis as to how the consumers react to mid tier products in the – in a bad economy or not, I think it's more of the retailer they're looking at, all right. And you got to keep in mind that our product is a private label product, which is usually of very good value and I think what you're going to see is that on the grocery channels, private labels going to be more your value and shoppers will move to that. I think that the fact that we have private label probably far out reaches the part of which tier you happen to be in as far as our consumer looks at it and also in which retail channel you happen to be having your products. And I think at that point, their private labels is a track record of outpacing the national brands.

Our growth rate on private label has been about close to 6% and private label is growing at about 2%. Now you're about three times the growth rate in that area being in private label, which is where we happen to be. And it's a good area and I think that's true of either private label or mid tier and I think the mid tier products are, with the direction of the retailers we're working with – once you have a opening price point, they're working on the mid tier in the premium areas.

It sounds like it's more the fact that you had shipments a little bit under where you thought. It was more based on the customer, it's the – your retail customer rather than the ultimate consumer. In other words, due to their scheduling issues or cycling out of somebody else's product and cycling yours in or whatever?

I think that's more of a case, it's more of the roll out of the product at that point in time.

Okay. All right, thank you very much.

Okay. Thanks, John.

And the next question is from [ph] Peter Nits (30:32). Please go ahead.

Thank you. I've got a question that goes back to 2012 and rolls into 2013. Your SG&A costs for 2012 were 24% if I remember right over 2011 and that appears to be increasing this year, whereas the sales rate for 2012 over 2011 was only 3%, could you comment on that?

I'm not sure I understand the question, are you wanting to know why our SG&A expenses in 2012 were over the prior year.

Yeah. It was, yeah, sure, it went up 24% over the prior year and it's continuing on into this year also, where as sales rolling up last year 3% with an SG&A up 24% in this...

Our sales, those costs are expected to be in 2013, fairly flat with 2012 and to go back and to talk about 2012 versus 2011 is not really prudent at this point. So, I think the things that to focus on is that with the all increasing sales that we expect in 2013, that we don't expect SG&A to go up significantly except for maybe sale commissions over 2012.

Okay. And then we had the same thing with the inventory, and that went up 30% in 2012 over 2011 and the inventory seems to be ramping up even more in 2013 which is causing $1 million to $1.5 million in additional costs. Could you explain that, when the sales were – gross sales were not up that materially?

Are you talking in the first quarter of 2013 how it increased from the end of 2012 to the end of the first quarter or...

Well, as I said storage was up or inventory was up 30% in 2012 over 2011 with only a 3% increase in sales. Storage is up even more in 2013 over 2012, and I'm just wondering what's causing the inventory to be so substantially larger with the sales not being substantially larger.

Okay. Well, in 2012 at the end of the year, we did increase our inventory levels for a couple of reasons. We went into the end of the year anticipating higher sales volumes, which were true if you compare the first quarter of 2013 versus the fourth quarter of 2012. So, we increased our finished goods inventory in anticipation of those added sales.

In addition, we started consuming a lot more kraft fiber in our products, and something we haven't done in the past. So that's an inventory investment that we made and we'll continue to make. Fiber was at a lower end of the range, so we will always try and buy as aggressively as we can when fiber prices are cheaper. As far as the first quarter change versus the end of the year, I think we went through that, but again it was a build of inventory, a little bit – build of inventory and expectation of shipments that we expected to be over what they were. So that was a part of the build.

In the second quarter, I wouldn't expect much of a change, probably bringing that down just a tad. But as the shipments build in the third quarter and the fourth quarter, your finished goods inventory on a – in terms of number of days or weeks that you hold to keep that the same, you will need to have more finished goods. So you would expect that to go up in the third and fourth quarter.

Thank you.

Does that answer your questions?

Yes.

Okay. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

And our next question is a follow-up from Marco Rodriguez of Stonegate Securities.

Yes. I know that you briefly touched on this topic. I'm just wondering if you could provide a little more color on what specifically changed over the last two months from your last conference call and how it relates to the flow of customer volume?

I'm not sure I understand the question. Can you ask that again?

Well, in your press release, you talked about adjusting your expectations as it relates to the flow of customer volumes. So just wondering if you could provide some color on what exactly changed over the last two months from the last conference call? I know you briefly mentioned that several customers were the reason, just wondering if you could kind of expound upon that a little bit?

Well, things rolled out slower than what our expectations were is what we came out to.

All right. Right. Thank you.

Okay. Thank you.

And next we have another follow-up from John Nobile of Taglich Brothers.

I just wanted to backup with the tax question before to make sure I'm crystal clear on this. The press release talks about a full year effective tax rate of 31.1%, but from what I heard prior caller, if we're looking at 31.1% now for the remaining quarters, that's correct. So in effect you're looking at like 30% rate for the entire year, just want to make sure that – I mean, it could affect the bottom line by a few pennies, so I just want to make sure that I was correct on that

Yes, John. That is right.

Okay. And when I do the math, it looks like 29.8%. If it was 31.1% for the remaining quarters, would be the effective tax rate for the full year. So, okay, I'll make my adjustment for that and it should be favorable by a few pennies on the bottom line then. Thank you.

Okay. Thanks John.

The next is a follow-up from John Curti of Singular Research.

Another question for you, Keith. With respect to percentage of your paper used being kraft paper, as you get to the back half of the year and you hit your run rates. What percentage of your overall paper usage would you expect to become kraft paper rather than a recycled fiber?

I don't have a number right in front of me, John, but best estimate probably is somewhere around 15% or so, 15% to maybe 20%, somewhere in that range.

Right. And at that level, as the kind of the mix shifts, just a little bit more from here with the increase in the kraft, that puts a little pressure on the overall paper costs for the quarter?

It makes the – yeah, it would make the paper costs go up but the selling price goes up as well. Yeah.

Goes up as well. Okay. And overall, not a negative impact on earnings given the fact you're getting a higher price for the mid tier and premium tier product?

That is correct.

Okay. All right. Thanks.

Thank you, John.

And this concludes our question-and-answer session. I would like to turn the conference back over to management for any closing remarks.

Thank you, everyone. And we'll be looking forward to seeing you next quarter.

The conference has now concluded. Thank you for attending today's presentation. You may now disconnect.