Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Keith R. Schroeder — CFO, Secretary & Head-Investor Relations, Orchids Paper Products Co.
Jeffrey S. Schoen — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Orchids Paper Products Co.
Marco A. Rodriguez — Analyst, Stonegate Securities, Inc.
John Nobile — Analyst, Taglich Brothers, Inc.
Katja Jancic — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC
Robert H. Longnecker — Founder & Managing Director, Jovetree Capital LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, and welcome to the Orchids Paper Products Year-end 2014 Earnings Conference Call. On the call today are Jeff Schoen, President and Chief Executive Officer and Keith Schroeder, Chief Financial Officer. All participants will be in a listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] After today's presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask questions. [Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Keith Schroeder. Please go ahead.

Thank you, operator. Good morning and thank you to everyone for attending our call. The agenda for our call today will begin with my review of the 2014 results. Jeff will then provide his perspectives on our results and key initiatives. We will conclude with a question-and-answer session.

I would like to inform you that certain statements made during this conference call are forward-looking statements and are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions and the Securities Reform Act of 1995. Such statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth during this discussion. Among other things, these risks and uncertainties include the risks and assumptions described in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013 and Forms 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, June 30, and September 30, 2014.

Any forward-looking statements are made only as of this date and the company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements. We will also be referring to adjusted results, which include certain items discussed in yesterday's press release.

Let me start with the headlines for the year. I'm pleased to say that we achieved record net sales, record converted product sales and record adjusted EBITDA for the year of $142.7 million and $138.4 million and $27.7 million. We also experienced record shipments from both our Oklahoma and our Mexicali locations.

Now, let's cover the details of our results for the quarter and the full year. Net sales of converted product increased 34% to $41.3 million in 2014 quarter. There were no excess parent roll sales in the quarter, due to the new paper machine project, compared to $1.8 million of excess parent rolls sales in the same quarter of 2013.

We will discuss the paper machine project in more detail a little bit later in the call. The increase in converted product net sales was primarily due to a 53% increase in converted product tonnage shipped, which was partially offset by a 7% decrease in net selling price per ton. The decrease in net selling price per ton was primarily due to a change in product mix, which is primarily driven by the away-from-home business contained in the business we acquired in June of 2015.

As a result of our quarterly results, we achieve record full year net sales of $142.7 million, an increase of 23% over the prior year. Our full year net sales of converted product increased 26% to $138.4 million. The increase in converted product sales resulted from a 29% increase in converted product tonnage shipped, while net selling price per ton decreased 2% over the prior year.

As expected, our gross profit in the quarter was affected by the new paper machine project in our Oklahoma facility during the quarter. As discussed in our last call, we shut down in September and subsequently dismantled two of our older machines to allow for the installation of our new paper machine, which Jeff will discuss more a little bit later in the call.

As a result, our production tonnage was reduced, which resulted in lower cost absorption and resulted in our need to purchase parent rolls to support our converting operations. Fiber costs were also higher in the quarter-over-quarter comparison.

As a result, our paper production costs in Oklahoma increased approximately 15%, which mainly affected our cost of goods sold by approximately $1.6 million or about 5% of gross profit margin. In addition, our converting production costs increased primarily due to higher labor and overhead costs and higher depreciation. That affected cost of goods sold by approximately $700,000 or about 2% of gross margin.

Further, the margin of our business produced in our Mexicali facility was lower by about three percentage points due primarily to higher energy and transportation costs. The energy costs are higher in Mexico during the summer months, which flowed through the supply agreement in the trailing quarter. These costs will reduce during Q1 and Q2 to normal levels. As a result, our gross profit margin in the quarter was 15.6%, compared to 23.5% in the same period last year.

On a year-to-date basis, our gross profit was $26.7 million, a decrease of $1.1 million compared to the prior year, with gross profit margins at 18.7% compared to 24% in the prior year. As a percent of net sales, gross profit decreased primarily due to the higher fiber costs, higher production costs on both converting and the paper production operations, higher depreciation and a lower selling price for our parent rolls.

As discussed above, we are referring to non-GAAP adjusted numbers in our press release and in this call, which are included in a table in our press release. The adjustments to EBITDA for the fourth quarter of 2014 were $270,000 in non-cash comp expense related to stock options and $193,000 of costs to dismantle and demolish two paper machines in our previously discussed new PM.

As discussed, our adjusted EBTIDA was $6.5 million or 15.6% of net sales in the fourth quarter of 2014, compared to $6.7 million or 21.8% of net sales in the same period in the prior year. Net income adjusted to exclude these expenses was $2.8 million, a decrease of $573,000 or 17%, compared with $3.3 million of net income in the same period of 2013. And adjusted diluted net income per share was $0.31 per diluted share for the fourth quarter of 2014 compared with $0.41 per diluted share in the same period in 2013.

For the full-year, our adjusted EBITDA increased 4% to $27.7 million. Net income on adjusted basis for the full-year decreased 11% to $12.1 million. Adjusted diluted EPS on a full-year basis was $1.42 per share, compared with $1.71 per share in the prior year.

Our selling, general and administrative expenses in the fourth quarter of 2014 totaled $2.5 million, a slight decrease of $11,000 or less than 1%, compared to the same period in the prior year. Adjusted for the non-cash comp expense, our selling, general and administrative expenses were $294,000 lower in the current year quarter, compared to the prior year. On an adjusted basis, selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent of net sales in the 2014 quarter were 5.6%, compared to 8.4% for the prior year. SG&A expenses in the twelve-month period of 2014 totaled $11.7 million, an increase of about $2.2 million or 23% compared to the same period in the prior year. The increase was primarily due to $1.6 million of expenses related to the Fabrica transaction and increased non-cash expenses related to stock options granted in 2014.

Adjusted for the Fabrica transaction related costs and non-cash compensation expense, selling, general and administrative expenses were $762,000 lower in the current year period, compared to the prior year. On adjusted basis, SG&A expenses as a percent of net sales in the 2014 period were 5.9%, compared to 7.9% in the prior year.

Turning to our taxes, as of December 31, our estimated effective tax rate is 31.7%, compared with 32.4% at the end of the third quarter. The lower estimate resulted from a change in estimate on certain deferred tax assets and liabilities; a change in estimate on certain items related to the Fabrica acquisition, including California deferred income tax liabilities and treatment of expenses; and the recognition of the Indian Employment Credit, which was enacted for 2014 during the quarter.

I would now like to turn your attention to the balance sheet and cash flow. For the full year of 2014, we generated cash from operations of $20.2 million, compared to the prior-year period amount of $20.8 million. The year-over-year change is a result changes in deferred taxes and increases in accounts receivable, primarily due to the Fabrica acquisition, which were partially offset by higher accounts payable and increased inventories.

Capital expenditures for the year totaled $25.8 million. We maintained our quarterly dividend rate of $0.35 per share in the quarter, resulting in dividend payment of approximately $3.1 million during the quarter and $11.8 million for the year.

Our total debt outstanding at December 31 was $36.4 million, including $7.7 million outstanding on our revolver. Use of the GAAP reporting of the mechanics of a daily sweep on our revolver, we reported net overdraft position on cash of $685,000. Those are net debts outstanding Standard 37. At the end of quarter, our leverage ratio was approximately 1.26 to 1.0 and our fixed charge coverage ratio was 1.86 to 1.0.

I will now turn the call over to Jeff.

Good morning, everyone, and welcome to a new year. I'm excited about what 2015 will mean for Orchids, as we expand our capabilities to improve our competitive position in the tissue converted products space.

To get started, though, I'd like to review 2014 from the perspective of our long-term goals as we position Orchids for the future. Our goal has been and still is to grow Orchids by developing and leveraging a high quality, low cost, regional presence model.

The foundation for that model has been Pryor, which was historically a value segment, low cost papermaking converting operation. Over the past several years as Orchids has entered the mid-tier segments, the ability to grow has been limited by the capabilities of both the papermaking and converting assets to the point where Orchids really lacked the assets required to grow effectively and efficiently into different product segments and retail channels.

As such, we have invested over $30 million in papermaking and converting assets in 2014 to improve our paper quality and capacity, and to debottleneck our existing converting assets, as well as add new converting capacity to set up Orchids for future growth.

We're in the process of realizing the cost savings and positioning Orchids to take on more profitable sales in the central part of the country in 2015. We also began our expansion into the West by partnering with Fabrica S.A. to create the foundation for immediate and future sales growth on the West Coast. I'm happy with the improvement in sales this past year as that is the leading indicator for the Orchids' growth plan.

Due to these two strategic moves and the associated investments, however, we incurred temporary costs to execute these projects as we grew our sales. The fourth quarter represent the temporary, negative effect of the Pryor investments, as we incurred costs to buy parent roles at a higher cost structure, lost the impact of parent role sales from decommission of the older paper machines, incurred demolition costs, lost overhead absorption due to lower paper production volumes and incurred some start-up costs in converting as we began our debottleneck plan.

In addition, we incurred higher costs at Fabrica S.A. in the fourth quarter due to higher utility costs from the summer that are reflected in our pricing from Fabrica S.A. on a quarterly lag, as well as mix shifts, due to higher freight expenses for more products shipped longer distances. As Keith said, we expect lower costs at Fabrica S.A. in Q1 and primarily due to the normalization of utility costs.

And finally, we experienced a higher surge in orders in the fourth quarter than expected, which was positive from the sales perspective, but in the short-term caused higher production costs related to servicing our customers.

Those issues are now behind us and the upgrades in our converting capabilities will eliminate the capacity bottlenecks when we experience future surges in sales.

Moving into Q1, we still expect to have higher costs, due to continued parent roll purchases and paper machines/converting project costs, as well as some cost carryover from the Q4 sales surge. But we will start the paper machine about a month sooner than plan, which will allow us to start capturing the benefits of the project sooner than previously announced.

Historically, the industry experiences lower volumes in the first quarter for a variety of reasons, including lower promotional activity and inventory adjustments. The efforts we have made, however, to increase overall sales in 2014, particularly in the second half of the year, will position Orchids to reduce the variability in sales that we normally experience during this time.

Barring a winter storm that cripples the nation, we expect to start the year off with stronger shipments at Pryor relative to previous years with expected continued growth in our West Coast operations. Currently, Q1 shipments have started strong, relative to our plan, and are expected to stay strong based on current forecasts.

I will now turn the call back to the moderator for questions.

Thank you. At this time, we'll begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes today from Marco Rodriguez with Stonegate Capital Partners. Please go ahead.

Good morning, guys. Thank you for taking my questions. I was wondering if you could talk a little bit more in regard to the gross margin impact? If I heard you guys correctly, it sounded like about – what was it, $2.1 million total negative impact in the quarter or about 7% impact from a gross margin standpoint? Did I hear that correctly?

Yes.

Okay. And – pardon.

Yes. That is correct.

Okay. And can you kind of give us a little bit of an understanding – I know that qualitatively those expenses or some of those expenses should be in the following quarter. But can you give us a little bit better of a sense from a quantitative standpoint, how do you see the gross margins moving by quarter as we move into fiscal 2015?

Sure. I think the best way to answer that question is to kind of look at the various cost components. We talked about because of the surge that we experienced in Q3 that caused us – some of added costs on the converting side. We'll see some of that come through again in the first quarter.

The parent rolls we have to purchase, of course, because we have taken down some machines. The machines we took down produced about 40 tons per day. And on average, before we took them down, we were selling roughly, let's say, 15 tons a day of that amount. So we are buying – we'll be buying, have been buying in the first quarter up until the time the new machines starts up, around 25 tons per day. Now once the new machines starts up the amount of tonnage we will need to buy will drop in accordance with the rate as the new machine starts up. That help?

Yeah. So obviously you had a Q4 gross margin of roughly 15%. And historically, you've been somewhere in the low-to-mid 20% range. Do you think then that, next quarter you see a sequential increase in gross margin? And then as you progress through the year, you start to hit or exceed that mid 20% gross margin. I mean, how should we think about that?

In the second quarter, yes. By the time we get to this second quarter, given that we've been able to bring up the start of the new paper machine by approximately a month, the new machine should be running at full rate by the beginning of the second quarter. So the cost savings that we anticipate from that machine should be in full effect for the whole of Q2.

Okay. And...

We'll start making paper in March. So if we're doing 30 tons a day for the first two months that number will start to come down based on how fast the paper machine comes up in March.

Got it. And in terms of the expansion plan's progression, it sounds like you took a positive step here by turning the machines on about a month ahead of plan. But can you give us just a little bit more color in terms of where everything is in regard to that expansion versus your original expectations? And then can you also help us understand what's left on the CapEx standpoint?

I'll talk about the expansion. Keith, can give you the update on what we are from a capital perspective. So from the paper machine perspective, we're a month ahead of what we've been telling people. We said we'd be starting up in the second quarter. We're starting to check out the machine in mid February. So we'll be making paper in early March and start-up curve we think is going to be shorter based on our past experience with our other paper machine, which is exactly the same as the one we're putting in. So we're really positive about that.

From the converting side, I would say that our debottleneck plan and our capacity plan got slowed down a little bit, mostly because we saw higher sales in the year, and we were not able to take down the machines like we wanted to, to do the downs that we wanted to that will improve overall capacity because we needed to use basically every hour of production to do that.

So this is a problem that we've historically had in the second half. And we're effectively out of sync by about six months with what our business typically does in the first half or the second half.

The time for us to do this, ideally, would have been last year in the first half, not in the second half when we tend to experience higher sales. So now, we're in the mode now of being able to take down machines. We're actually – we're going to see improvement in productivity based on the technical skills that we've brought into this facility, who will help us improve existing assets during this time.

But we're also going to be taking down and adding in assets in the first quarter and the second quarter, to give us the ability to not only deal with these surges that we see. And they're pretty significant. And you either have to build a boatload of inventory to support them, which costs you money because we don't have the warehouse space. And we go outside, which is not a plan that I subscribe to. What I'd rather have is the ability to have flexible capacity in converting, which is what we're building right now. So that process will continue throughout the year, but the major benefits will happen in the first quarter and second quarter.

Got it.

And to answer the rest of your question on the spending side for 2015, I would use $23 million. There's about $6 million in kind of base stuff that we're doing and the rest would be the remaining expenditures on PM5 and a new line.

So $23 million for the year for fiscal 2015?

Yes.

Got it. And a real quick housekeeping item and then I'll jump back in queue. Normally, either in a press release or in your press releases – excuse me, or in your filings you disclose your cost of paper annually or your paper costs per ton. Do you have those numbers for Q4?

Yeah, we're not going to be putting that out anymore. And the reason is now that we have an alternative site or now an additional site, I mean, the numbers that we used to disclose were for the Oklahoma site. So now you'd be mixing in the numbers from another facility. And we just felt that that doesn't really help the investor.

Got it. Thanks. Thanks a lot, guys.

Certainly.

The next question is from John Nobile with Taglich. Please go ahead.

Good morning. Just a couple of questions. First one, what do you believe would be the impact on Orchids sales, given the recent approval for Dollar Tree's acquisition of Family Dollar. And that Family Dollar, at least by the last 10-K, was your second largest customer?

Well, all I can do to answer that, John, at this point is just talk about what they told the Street, which is they're going to try to operate Dollar Tree and Family Dollar as separate companies. We do do business with all three of those companies right now. And I don't – the Family Dollar model is different than the Dollar Tree model. So whether – they have said they're not going to combine or anything like that, but you never know until you actually have it happen. But based on what they said and the fact that we have been successful with Family Dollar, I expect that to continue. As long as Orchids has the capabilities to deliver at the right product, the right cost structure, I think we'll be very competitive.

Okay. And I know you mentioned that the paper machine, you anticipate that the new one is starting up in early March, but if I could get a little bit more specifics on that in regard to full production? In Q2, do you still anticipate Q2 full production? And also for the completion of the converting line project, I know it was previously stated as Q1, the current quarter we're in. But you had mentioned that it's taking a little bit longer, so if you can give us a time, a month or a quarter that you anticipate that converting line project would be finished that would be great?

Well, it's actually a variety of converting line projects that are happening. We haven't been specific because it's more confusing to people than not. But if you think about the "new line", which is really half a line, that's going to be installed in the second quarter. But between now and then, we're doing projects on existing assets to upgrade them to give us more capacity and more efficiency in the first quarter. So it's a combination of first and second quarter. We'll be completely done with all of that by June. And – but it's going to happen in increments over the next four months.

Okay. And obviously, I believe you're going to have about a 70,000 ton capacity with the new paper machine. The converting line, I just want to make sure that I understand that this is going to be able to handle to covert that much parent roll product, if indeed, you had the demand for it?

Yeah. If we are – and that's our goal is to sell out all this paper, we will have the converting capacity to do that. It will not be a problem...

Okay. What would you anticipate the actual converting capacity to be after these projects are completed?

Yeah. We'll have the ability to process more than 70,000 tons of product.

All right. Fair enough. And just one other question because I wanted to get a better handle on gross margins. Top line was great, by the way, and congratulations on that and it anticipated what I had projected. But gross margins, I just want to get a handle on that because at 15.6% in the quarter and, obviously, you purchased parent rolls. Was this 100% parent roll purchases to convert? Or would you say you had stockpiled some before you shut the plant down that you didn't have to purchase 100% of the parent rolls to do your converted products?

Yeah. I think in the model we had pre-made some parent rolls as much as we could. But then also in our model, we expected our sales to be lower than what was in that model. So we burnt off of all those parent rolls pretty quick and found our self buying parent rolls sooner than what we anticipated, based on the inventory build that we had.

Could you give a rough percentage of how many – what was the parent roll purchases in the secondary market for the fourth quarter? I mean, was it like 90%, 50%, somewhere roughly, if you could give that just to give me a feel for how that played into your gross margins?

Yeah. That number. Hang on a second. I have to look and see what the total consumption was. It was around 25%.

25% purchased, secondary market purchase?

Yeah, something like that, yeah. But just to be clear about it, John, the $1.6 million that I cited was comprised of three factors. It's comprised of buying some parent rolls, which obviously raises the overall cost of our paper. It's comprised of higher costs per ton because we make less tons, so there's less tons to absorb fixed costs. And the third part is our fiber. So it's really those three things made that up.

Okay. But I just want to make sure I understand this. Q4 out of the products that were purchased was only 25% of what you had consumed via converted product? 25% was purchased in the secondary market, roughly?

Yes.

Okay. Now, into Q1, which we're currently in and you anticipate starting up early March, maybe you'll have even some coming off in late February, what do you anticipate by current forecast for Q1 as far as parent roll purchases? If you can give a percentage of that just to get an idea of you're going to be purchasing more than 25%, 50%, something like that?

Yes. Just to go back to the figures I gave earlier, it'll be around 25 tons per day up until the time that the new machines starts up and then as the production ramps up off of that machine than the requirements to purchase paper go down. So from basically the first of the year till the 1st of March, it's around 25 tons a day.

Okay, but just if you could give your best estimate as far as like percentage-wise, what you would be purchasing for the quarter? I'm just trying to get a feel for what it was versus Q4.

I have to give then you guidance on our sales by ton, so...

No, I mean, just – well, yeah, I mean, your sales, but parent roll purchases.

Hang on, John, I have do some math. Why don't you go on to your next question, get back to that.

All right. Thank you.

Was that it?

Well, am I still on?

Yes, you are, sir. Please go ahead [indiscernible] (30:18)...

Oh, okay, I thought we were going to do another question, but even if you could – if I could rephrase it to say, do you anticipate your parent roll purchases going up or down in Q1. It sounds to me like they probably would go up in Q1 versus Q2...

They'll go up, yes...

I mean, percentage-wise?

Yes, John, they'll be up just a bit because we had the inventory that we had built going into Q4. And we were able to use that during the first part of Q4. So you have two full months in Q1 of buying around 25 tons a day or so, and then you'll have that number when you get into March start to come down.

Okay, so I can anticipate more than say 25% like you did in Q4 being purchased in Q1. So it's going to have maybe a little bit bigger effect on gross margins in Q1 than it did in Q4, if I could say that?

It could. I think if I go back and just off the top of my head, probably the quarter, half of our – we burnt off our existing inventory in the first half of the quarter. We bought all the inventory for parent rolls in the second half of the quarter. In this quarter, two-thirds of the quarter is going to be buying parent rolls, where – and maybe like two-and-a-half because the third month of the quarter is not going to be automatically turn off our parent rolls. It's going to be reflecting a start up. So you're going to have, if you say it was half in the fourth quarter, it's going to be probably 75% in this quarter.

Okay. That makes sense. I appreciate that. Thank you.

Our next question comes from Katja Jancic with Sidoti & Co.

Hi. Thank you for taking my call. You mentioned that in fourth quarter you benefited from the retroactive reinstatement of the Indian Employment Tax Credit. Will there be any further benefit from that? Or it's just reflected in the fourth quarter?

Well, that'll just reflect in the fourth quarter because that's when it was actually signed into law. It was only signed into law for 2014. So beginning in 2015, it will not be part of our tax calculation and it won't be part of it until the Senate decides to approve it.

I understand that. But just, I mean in a...

They have...

Sorry.

And the Indian Tax Credit is kind of an interesting thing that the Congress owns it. They tend to wait to the last minute to approve it. It's kind of a retro year thing. But they've done it every year for the last 10, 20 years or something.

It's part of a whole list of I think they're referred to as tax extenders. It's a very long list of items. And all those tend to get approved at the end of the year. And they usually get approved just for the one year, sometimes it's two, but most times, it's one.

What I meant is that, for example, in some cases when these tax extenders are retroactively reinstated the company receives a cash amount for retroactive reinstatement. Will that occur here or not?

No. And just so you know, I believe the effect on our tax rate, because the amount of the tax credit has remained relatively the same in terms of dollars, as an effect on a percent of our effective tax rate it's less than 1% now, I believe, around 0.7%.

Okay. That's all from me. Thank you.

Yep. [Operator Instructions]

Our next question comes from Rob Longnecker with Jovetree.

Good morning, guys. Can you break out the Fabrica results for the quarter like you did last quarter?

Yeah. I believe they're in the press release. So I have them for the year and there's about $25.5 million in sales, $4.9 million in earnings. For the quarter, about $11.2 million in sales and about $2.0 million in earnings, so [inaudible] (34:41)...

So when we [indiscernible] (34:53), you guys' pricing has been down on your converted product. And then you talk about mix being an issue there. What is it looks like if you kind of take the Fabrica assets out and kind of your original business, what does pricing look like?

Pricing on a per ton basis is pretty flat year-over-year. So on the at-home proportion of our business, the overall pricing is fairly flat.

Gotcha. And can you just maybe break out the CapEx spend – the total CapEx spend you expect for the new machine and how much of that you've spent? You've spent – some was spent in 2013, some was spent in 2014. And how much was left?

Oh, sure. I think what I gave earlier was $23 million for the year. So the actual machine itself was around $25 million project. We've got about $7 million left in 2015. The new converting line, which includes other components as well, as Jeff alluded to earlier, there's about $9.5 million left on that. And the rest of the spend for 2015 is on – we have a spread of other projects.

Gotcha. So just so I got it right, $7 million for 2015, $7 million is the new paper plant, $9.5 million is converting and the rest is sort of a grab bag.

Yes, that'd be one way to look at it.

Okay. And when you talk about – in the release, you talked about you expect the project at Pryor to generate an additional $6 million to $8 million. That's the new machine and the converting line? And the converting kind of debottlenecks and upgrades?

The $6 million is the cost savings off the machine. So any additional sales from converted product, in addition to that, would be an addition to the $6 million. Does that make sense?

So the $6 million is...

It assumes that you're selling excess parent rolls in the market, not selling converted product for the $6 million number. So it's cost savings plus selling parent rolls. If we sell the converted product, that number goes up.

Okay. And then is there additional upside in just debottlenecking and improved profitability in your existing kind of converting operations? Or is that all then captured in the $6 million to $8 million?

That's not in the $6 million to $8 million, so there are opportunities based on improving efficiencies, and the converting operation and taking additional costs out that we will be expecting to happen as well. But we haven't communicated any of those numbers yet.

The one point I think maybe a year ago when you were talking about this there was a number that you were talking about I thought that was maybe like an additional – because you were talking about total EBIDTA increases of $8 million to $11 million back in I think maybe your September presentation that you had, does that sound right?

Yes. What that was citing – that was citing a range of costs savings around the paper machine project between $6 million and $8 million, and then on converting expansion, which is the new line as I think there was a number of between about $2.8 million and $3.4 million that we cited. That would be additional earnings if we sold out those tonnages as a converted product. And there were some other sales increases in there as well due to some other things we were doing. So yes, you are correct if you go back to the press release from late 2013.

And to get to make that happen you just need to basically execute on selling more products, selling more converted products to your customers?

Correct. Correct.

Okay. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

This concludes our question-and-answer session. I would like to turn the conference back over to Jeff Schoen for any closing remarks.

Okay. Just to summarize, we're right in the middle of executing the projects and there's a lot of costs that were incurring for that, no doubt. But I believe those are temporary costs. We expect to recover quickly from that. I think if you look at our operating cash flow, we were about $4.3 million. Our dividend is about $3 million. So we're comfortable with what we're doing right now. We are executing the plan that we had in place for the last year. We expect that after we get through this project, it'll open up doors for us to do other things.

So let me just end by, again, thanking all of our employees who are working diligently. There's a lot of balls in the air. We need to improve our capabilities to make Orchids competitive and grow. And that's what we're all doing. So I appreciate your time.

Thank you. The conference is now concluded. Thank for attending today's presentation. You may now disconnect. Take care.