Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Casey Stegman — Investor Relations, Stonegate Securities, Inc.
William J. Clough — President and Chief Executive Officer, CUI Global, Inc.
Daniel Ned Ford — Chief Financial Officer, CUI Global, Inc.
Eric A. Stine — Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC
Joe Maxa — Analyst, Dougherty & Co. LLC
Andrew J. D'Silva — Analyst, Merriman Capital, Inc.
Marco A. Rodriguez — Analyst, Stonegate Securities, Inc.
James G. Kennedy — Founder & President, Marathon Capital Management LLC
Alex M. Blanton — Analyst, Clear Harbor Asset Management LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to CUI Global First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr. Casey Stegman, Investor Relations. Sir, you may begin.

Thank you, Ben. Good afternoon, everyone. Welcome to the CUI Global 2015 first quarter earnings conference call. We appreciate you joining us today. With me on the call is Bill Clough, Chief Executive Officer; and Dan Ford, Chief Financial Officer. The purpose of today's call is to review the company's financial results for the first quarter as well as provide you with some additional color on the business going forward. Following management's remarks, the call will be opened up for questions.

Many of you have seen the company's release that was issued today. If you have not, it can be accessed at the company's website at www.cuiglobal.com. Today, during the course of the presentation, we will be directing your attention to a series of slides. Those slides can be accessed during the call from the link in the press release that went out earlier today or from the Investor Relations section of our website at www.cuiglobal.com.

As a reminder, this call will contain certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such statements are subject to inherent risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to vary materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. The company may experience significant fluctuations in future operating results due to a number of economic, competitive and other factors, including, among other things, our reliance on third-party manufacturers and suppliers, the government agency budgetary and political constraints, new or increased competition, changes in market demand and the performance or liability of our products.

These factors and others could cause operating results to vary significantly from those in prior periods and those projected in forward-looking statements. Additional information with respect to these and other factors, which could materially affect the company and its operations are included in certain forms the company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

With that, I'd like to introduce Mr. Bill Clough, CEO of CUI. Bill?

Thank you, Casey. Thank you everyone for taking the time to join us on this morning's call. I'm going to start with a brief overview of the quarter, and then I'll hand the call over to Dan to go over the financials in more detail. When Dan is done with his remarks, I'll provide some additional commentary on some of the key initiatives we are currently working on at CUI Global. We will then open the call up for Q&A.

Our first quarter results were not as strong as we'd hoped with flat year-over-year revenue and greater net loss. Revenues were $16.9 million, essentially flat compared to the prior year. From a segment perspective, revenues for the Power and Electro-Mechanical segment contributed $10.7 million, a decline of 1% from Q1 of 2014. And the Gas segment, contributed $6.2 million, an increase of 2% from the prior year.

While the natural gas side of the business was stable, and has largely recovered from the biomethane issues we experienced last year, the Power and Electro-Mechanical segment experienced challenges that impacted both our top and bottom line.

For one, there were delays in receiving products associated with work stoppages at West Coast Ports due to an extended labor action of the ILWU and its affiliates. In addition, the entire electronics industry has experienced extensive supply chain delays, due to a worldwide shortage of certain raw material components that have increased some lead times to an excess of 22 weeks.

On a more positive note, however, backlog is strong for both business segments, representing $39.5 million of open customer orders as of March 31, which makes us very optimistic as we look ahead. While the numbers in the quarter were lower than we expected, largely due to circumstances beyond our control, including expenses associated with the start-up of our Houston facility and our acquisition of Tectrol now operating as CUI Canada, there were several positive events in addition to the backlog that transpired during the first quarter which leave us well positioned moving forward.

Our recent distribution agreements with Mouser Electronics, as well as our acquisition of CUI Canada were very significant events for the company. We believe that partnering with an industry icon such as Mouser will help us achieve our goal of increasing our global market share and ultimately demonstrate management's commitment to creating value for our shareholders. Much like our relationships with Digi-Key and Future Electronics, the Mouser relationship should provide access to new markets while generating increased incremental revenues.

With respect to Tectrol or CUI Canada, we remain very excited about this opportunity and the positive impact we expect to our top and bottom lines over the course of the next several years. The acquisition gives CUI a greater presence in the electronics space, expands our power product offering and capabilities, as well as further enhances our status as a well recognized manufacturer.

We continue to believe that this transaction will enable us to deliver the most advanced power solution to our customers from the AC front-end all the way to the DC point of load. We are very excited about the synergies between the companies and our advanced power technologies, Novum and Solus. The integration has already enhanced the capabilities of our Power Group and we are currently analyzing our ability to manufacture more of our product line in Canada including certain components associated with our GasPT units.

Let met turn the microphone over to Dan Ford, our CFO, so that he can run through the numbers in a little more detail. Dan?

Thank you, Bill. I'd like to now give a financial overview for the first quarter of 2015. As Bill mentioned, the company's revenues were $16.9 million for the quarter, essentially flat from the first quarter of 2014.

The cost of revenues for the quarter was $10.6 million versus $9.9 million for the same quarter in 2014. Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2015 increased to 63% from 59% during the prior-year comparative period. This percentage will vary based upon the product mix sold during the period, including the mix of natural gas systems sold during the period, contract labor necessary to complete gas related projects such as the biomethane projects, and is also dependent upon the competitive markets in which the company competes, as well as foreign exchange rates.

Additional impact to the margin during the first quarter of 2014 is related to the delivery of product that was acquired as work in process with the Tectrol acquisition and had a mark-up as part of the purchase price allocation in accordance with U.S. GAAP requirements. That impact equates to approximately 1% of the increase in cost of revenues as a percentage of revenue. This will not have a material effect going forward after Q1.

The company expects 2015 cost of revenues to remain in the 60% to 63% of revenues range during the 2015, consistent with the past three fiscal years and resulting from consistent margins on core power segment products, lower margins on gas integration related projects and higher margins on technology based product offerings in those segments.

The sales order backlog at March 31 was a consolidated $39.5 million. Of that, the Power and Electro-Mechanical segment held a backlog of customer orders of approximately $23.7 million, and the Gas segment held a backlog of approximately $15.8 million.

EBITDA for the first quarter was a loss of $3 million or $0.15 per share versus $728,000 profit or $0.04 per share for the same quarter of 2014. Adjusted EBITDA for the first quarter 2015 was a loss of $2.6 million or $0.13 per share as compared with a $900,000 profit or $0.04 per share in first quarter 2014. The EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA were impacted by the items discussed previously regarding launching of Orbital Gas Systems North America, the CUI-Canada operations, and the negative impacts to revenue associated with the increased lead times on components and delivery delays due to issues with the ports.

Gross profit for the quarter was $6.2 million or 37% as compared to $7 million or 41% in the first quarter 2014.

Both the Power and Electro-Mechanical segment and the Gas segment generated quarterly gross profit margins of 37%. This demonstrates a significant improvement for the Gas segment as compared to the fourth quarter of 2014 which have been negatively impacted by the compressed delivery schedules and related increased cost of production for biomethane projects which has since improved.

Selling, general and administrative expenses increased to $8.7 million for the first quarter compared to $6.2 million for the same period 2014. SG&A increased as a percentage of revenue from 37% to 52% in Q1 2015. The increase is primary associated with the addition of the SG&A activities of Orbital Gas Systems, North America which opened in January 2015 and accounted for approximately $1.6 million of SG&A during the period, while contributing minimally to Q1 revenues as it was in its first quarter booking orders and beginning integration projects, which similar to the Orbital United Kingdom will be accounted for under the percentage of completion method for revenue recognition purposes.

Additionally, CUI-Canada was acquired in March 2015 and accounted for approximately $114,000 of the increase in SG&A during that period. Remaining increases in SG&A are associated with the ongoing activities to reach new customers, promote new product lines including Novum, Solus, GasPT, IRIS and VE Probe, as well as the new product introductions from CUI-Canada and CUI expenses associated with the acquisition of CUI-Canada.

Operating activity generated negative cash flow of $1.4 million during the quarter ended March 31, 2015 versus negative cash flow of $88,000 for the same period in 2014. The change in cash from operations is primarily the result of the first quarter net loss before noncash expenses, offset by changes in assets and liabilities.

The company reported a net loss of $4.1 million or $0.20 per share for the quarter ended March 31. In the prior-year period, the company reported a net loss of $488,000 or $0.02 per share. Net loss for the first quarter was primarily a result of the increased selling, general and administrative expenses related to the opening of the Orbital Gas Systems, North America facility in January and the addition of CUI-Canada in March 2015.

As well as the ongoing amortization of intangible assets related to the Orbital Gas Systems Limited acquisition and CUI-Canada acquisition, in addition to previously discussed negative impacts from extended component lead times and delivery issues within the power segment, which negatively impacted revenues.

We expect the turnaround of the operations acquired from Tectrol, which was insolvent prior to CUI acquisition will be a two to three year process, as we increase efficiencies within the factory, increase and improve the sales channels to both existing customers acquired, and generate new sales through CUI's extensive internal and external power segment sales group and distribution channels.

Adjusted net income, which represents the income or loss plus the amortization expense of the intangible assets acquired via the 2013 Orbital acquisition and the 2015 CUI-Canada acquisition, plus the expenses associated with the stock options, stock equity grants and notes issued for compensation and services, plus the loss generated by the two new subsidiaries Orbital Gas Systems, North America and CUI-Canada in the first quarter, for the quarter was a loss of $1.1 million or $0.05 per share, as compared with net income of $522,000 or $0.03 per share for the first quarter of 2014.

As of March 31, CUI Global held cash and cash equivalents of $9.6 million and short-term investments of $5.5 million. Also, as of March 31, the company had 20.774 million common shares outstanding.

And now, I will turn the call back to Bill. Thank you.

Thank you, Dan. Before we begin taking questions, let's talk in more detail about some of our new technology accomplishments. Significantly, our first quarter GasPT2 and GasPTi orders based on units installed and POs received is equal revenue-wise to all of the units we delivered in fiscal year 2014. We delivered 15 GasPT units, 10 GasPTis and 5 GasPT2s, have received purchase orders for an additional four units, all GasPTis, and have another 23 units out for bid.

We are continuing to make progress with our larger GasPT opportunities, including progress with Snam Rete Gas, Dominion Compression, Energy Transfer Partners and others. Specifically, in reference to Snam Rete, as we discussed during previous calls, we had successfully completed field trials with six units and we're awaiting an independent report from the University of Milan. We did receive that report and it was as expected quite positive. A PDF version of that report is currently available on our website under News and Events.

We have subsequently been pre-qualified by Snam Rete as a supplier. We expect the formal tender for suppliers to issue sometime in June with a decision to be made by Snam Rete in July. In fact, all of these larger projects; Snam Rete, Dominion, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, and others continue to move forward in a positive manner.

Moving to the VE Technology sales, the news is also quite positive. In first quarter, we delivered an additional 25 VE sampling systems, bringing our total delivered systems to 98 units; while we delivered an additional 129 VE thermowell applications, bringing the total deliveries of thermowells to 323 units. Furthermore, we have outstanding purchase orders for another 49 VE sampling systems including almost 1 million pound order for the Gorgon LNG Project in Australia. We continue to receive inquiries and are working with numerous potential VE Technology customers, including ConocoPhillips, ABB, Statoil and others.

We are quite confident of our ability to close those deals as we're the only technology capable of providing the vortex elimination and rapid sampling time, which are unique features of VE technology, allowing us to provide a safer, high-value solution to a natural gas operator.

Additional highlights from our first quarter include appointment to GE's Preferred Solution Partners Program; opening of Orbital Gas Systems, North America in Houston which currently has a backlog as of March 31 of $1.7 million of business; launch of our distribution partnership with Mouser Electronics for the Power segment; acquisition of CUI Canada; and certification by Snam Rete Gas as a pre-qualified supplier.

In conclusion, based largely on factors beyond our control, including the West Coast labor strike and worldwide extended lead times for components affecting the Power segment, our first quarter was not as strong as we would have liked. However, strong backlog and a continued interest in traction we are seeing in our new technologies, most especially our natural gas technologies, along with our initial interactions with customers over our new product portfolio acquired with CUI Canada makes us quite confident about the year as a whole.

As the year unfolds, we also expect significant incremental revenues from our CUI Canada acquisition and the opening of Orbital North America in Houston. As those two entities begin to contribute increased revenues along with a continued impact of the new technologies and the natural delivery of product delayed in the first quarter, we are quite confident about our ability to meet and/or exceed our full-year performance numbers.

Finally, I'd like to thank everyone for your continued interest and support of CUI Global. Now, let's open the floor for questions. [Operator Instructions]

Our first question comes from the line of Eric Stine of Craig-Hallum. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Hi, Bill. Hi, Dan.

Hey, Eric. How are you doing?

Hi, Eric.

Fine. Maybe we could just start everything in the Power business. Now that the port strikes, that those are over, maybe how late in the quarter trended, what you're seeing early in second quarter? Do you anticipate making up most of those volumes in the second quarter? And then, some clarity around the supply chain issues you're seeing as well.

Dan, do you want to respond to that?

Sure. Regarding the orders, yes, we do expect those to be flowing out now. As you mentioned, the ports issue has resolved, so those delays are hopefully past us for the long term now, regarding shipping.

The delays in the industry regarding lead times are some critical components. There are caps mostly, they go on the power supplies and we're seeing lead times on those upwards of 20, 22 weeks. And that is an industry-wide shortage, right now, that we're working with our supply chain to try and resolve and get them in as quickly as we can, and looking at how we order those to try and get extra on hand in order to prevent the delays on future orders. So, it's a work in process, but that does affect the entire Power segment that we have, from a power supply standpoint.

And that's just a factor now and we're working with our customers that impact lead times as we're quoting them and they're seeing that from their other suppliers as well. So that is an issue that we're working on. Over the course of the year though, it should level itself out. Typically, that's how these lead times shortages go. They affect three to six-month period and then the supply chain is restored. So at this point, we're seeing our scheduling is starting to work out for that.

Okay. I mean, second quarter, you'll see some improvement?

Second quarter, we'll see an improvement over the first quarter, yes.

The other thing, Eric, the good news is this is a industry-wide matter, so we lost no orders as a result of either of these. I mean, there was nowhere else to go. The West Coast strike affected everybody as does this shortage. So, again, that's the good news.

Right. Maybe just turning to Snam Rete, so you've been chosen or pre-qualified as a supplier. I mean, does that basically mean, if they move forward, you'll be one of them? I mean, is that how we should read that or is there still a process to go through?

Yes. There's still a formal process to go through. The pre-qualification they do just to make sure that they don't get companies applying that can't deliver what they want. In other words, they're asking for as many as 1,000 units a year and they don't applications from three guys in a garage.

So the pre-qualification is really to authorize companies to come in and bid for the supplier process. So that pre-qualification simply allows us to get in the bidding process. However, if you look at the report and I think you may have seen this report, it's sitting on our website, you will see that the University of Milan cited only two technologies that apply in any way, ours being the optimal, and this is their language, the optimal solution and then the [ph] Elster Lab Series (18:58) being the secondary solution.

And again, as we talked about in the past, the Elster solution is one that requires pure methane gas calibration at least twice a week, which means that it will not meet the requirements that they're looking for. So, again, we're very confident that we're moving in the right direction on the project, and so far, they have stuck to the schedule that they gave us at the beginning of the year.

Okay. And it's good to hear. The last one for me, maybe just on IRIS, can you update on the National Grid, the RFP, and is that something where you're still planning to build in July per their instructions? Thanks a lot.

That's what they're telling us, as they still consider a build schedule to begin in July. They have not yet issued the Tier 1 RFP yet. However, they did come to us, interestingly, and tried to set up a situation where we could do seven of their oldest metering points.

They attempted to set this up on kind of a piecemeal basis and were told by their procurement division they can't do that anymore. They have to let out the whole 150 to 200 unit order. They can't go 6 or 7 or 8 or 10 at a time. So, I know that that's put a little more urgency onto them to get these Tier 1 RFQs out and that we again we're expecting it to come out any day. But they are telling us to be prepared for July.

Okay. That's great. Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Joe Maxa of Dougherty & Company. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Thank you and good morning.

Hey, Joe.

Hey, just a quick follow-up on the Snam Rete. You mentioned you're expecting the formal tender to come out in June, and did you say an RFP in July?

No. The RFP was about IRIS. I expect the formal tender to come out for suppliers in June. They've told us that they will make a decision on the suppliers by July. They will then tender for installers in the summer, and a decision will be made early fall, and they're still saying to us that they expect purchase orders to go out late third or early fourth quarter for deliveries to be made first quarter of 2016.

Got it. Okay. That's very helpful. Thanks for the clarification. Back on the Power and Electro-Mechanical segment, the delayed shipments sounds like that's starting to move. I'm just curious, if you take a look at the lead times and the products that have been affected by the shortages, what percent of your products would you say are affected by the shortages, and I know that will take a little bit time, but I'm just wondering if the rest of the business was picking up from the delay at the port?

Yes. So, all – our entire product offering in the Power segment was affected by the ports. It all comes to the West Coast unless it's drop shipping. So, a significant portion of our business was impacted by that.

Regarding the lead times issues, it has to do with the power supply, it doesn't have to do with the component. So, that's about 60% of the Power segment product offering. So, a significant chunk is impacted by the lead times on the caps.

I see. Okay, that's helpful. And can you give us a little color on the backlog of that segment, how much was from the delay or how much is maybe underlying business strength? And then perhaps, so what Tectrol may be contributing?

Yes. The Tectrol addition, it's in that backlog, is about $10.5 million. And then the delay, between the two delays is about $1 million and then the rest is sort of the cycling and turning over in the business there.

Are you still thinking Tectrol brings $10 million to $12 million for the year, because that's a pretty strong backlog to get you going for Q2 and...

We are. Their backlog has longer scheduling out on it. A lot of it is for significant OEM customers. So that's about a year long schedule. Obviously, we're backfilling some of that and we hope that it's a bigger number, but at this point, that's what we know is committed to the schedule for build-wise.

How is – what's the gross margin of their products versus yours? So, I'm just looking for maybe a blended. I know you did mention overall you still expect, I think what, 37% to 40% gross margin. I'm just wondering if the blend on the [ph] P&EM (23:30) segment comes down a little bit, if there's a little bit lower margin.

Comes down a little bit. However, once the factory gets fully loaded, it should start to improve again. When we account for the – their margins, when we were looking at them, were right around the 35% to 40% range depending on the volume and who they were selling to type of a deal.

So, their margins are in line with the power group that we already have, and they – where it gets tricky is the overhead allocation that gets applied into their – of the remaining factoring environment. So, with greater efficiencies, we get greater margin in that territory. So, if it's efficient manufacturing facility, we'll be hitting the high-30% margins.

Okay, great. And then on the SG&A, what should we be thinking about going forward? You added some new moving pieces in there. Is there a good baseline we should be looking at for overall OpEx, but I think we see SG&A being the biggest piece of it?

Yeah. The OpEx is going to be up probably about $2 million a quarter, maybe a little less than that between the two segments for the go-forward period right now.

And you're comparing that from which period?

To the Q4.

Right. Okay. All right. That's very helpful. Thank you. That's all I have.

Thanks, Joe.

Thanks, Joe.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Andrew D'Silva of Merriman Capital. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Good morning, guys. Thanks for taking my call. Just got a couple of questions. First one has to do with the adoption of GasPT. How do you feel your distributors are coming along, and are the majority of them up to speed with the benefits your technology has?

And then moving over to maybe a little bit of a chat about a large conversion or installation opportunities for GasPT, do you think maybe one of the major hurdles you've seen so far is that a large installation with an operator hasn't taken place yet, and do you think once a large operator does install across their pipeline that should bring more operators over to land?

Sure. First, the question regarding the distributors, we have several distributors who are doing quite a good job. I think the number one is [ph] IRIS (26:00) out of Philadelphia and they're working with the Dominion and some of the other big compression companies to place the machines on those two-stroke compressors.

But still with that being said, I think today, we still have the [ph] laboring ORV (26:14) with the company to put the technology out in the market and to really drive sales from the top down. With distributors as we've talked about in the past will never drive sales, I think, with the specific technology because they're going to sell what the customer wants.

And in follow up to that, I think that's exactly where we're at. We're at a position now where all the testing has been done. Everyone who's seen the device knows it works, knows it's accurate, knows it's durable, knows it's cheap, knows it's non-maintenance, they know all that. And it really is now an adoption curve and I think you'll see, for example, assuming that we move forward on Snam Rete as we're pretty confident we will. Even though Snam Rete will not have a big impact as an Italian operator on U.S. North American pipeline companies, the fact that we begin installing 800 to 1,000, 2,000 of these machines a year is going to make an impact on other people stepping into it.

And I think that's what we're driving in North America right now and in other European settings. We think that that's going to be a big, big stepping stone for us, because again as we've talked about in the past, this industry is one that acts in many ways like a school of fish. And if you could turn one or two of those fish, the whole industry changes, and that's really what we're doing is we're changing the way that the industry measures gas. So Snam Rete is that example. They are changing the way they measure gas throughout their entire 31,000-mile pipeline system and that is – that's a big deal for us. There's no doubt about it. Does that answer your question?

Yes. I was just trying to get a sense of what we could expect after Snam Rete. Installations at least again it seems like that could propel other pipeline operators over the line so that they start potentially installing as well, hopefully.

Yes. Just a follow-up on that, Andrew, one of the things that we have people doing right now -- understand that all of Western Europe measures their gas the same as Snam Rete. Snam is not unique that way. They all do what's called homogenized measurement where they actually estimate segments of their gas system and then bill on the lowest estimation. It's the same in France, it's the same in Germany, it's the same up in the Norway and Gasunie in The Netherlands, it's all the same.

And believe me when I tell you, they're all watching what Snam's doing. Snam is going to take a step that will hopefully allow them to bill much more accurately and recover a much more of the high end gas that they're losing right now. And assuming that that works out, which we believe strongly that it will, we think we'll have a very good shot of moving this right up through Europe.

And again, I think that you won't – Snam is certainly the biggest pipeline company in Europe, but there's plenty of other pipeline companies that are quite significant, including GDF Suez, including E.ON gas, including Gasunie and all the way up into the Norwegian areas. So there are definitely gas systems that we believe will adopt this pretty quickly, once Snam takes that step.

Got it, okay. And then just moving over to discuss some of Orbital's other segments. Previous quarters, it's been mentioned that you're trying to maybe expand internationally a little bit more into Africa and the Middle East, with some of the authorization in biomethane projects. How is that going? Are you seeing the market still ripe in those regions or for the offerings that Orbital has, or are you thinking that you'll probably going to be seeing a lot more revenue just generated out of the UK in the next few quarters than any other region?

I think UK will certainly be the most significant revenue for Orbital because they're right in the UK. And of course, I think we're going to get IRIS revenue peaking up during the last part of this year, which will be a significant addition. But on the other hand, we have some very nice projects that we're still pursuing; Venezuela, specifically several in West Africa. So I'm not going to discount those, but I think that the predominance of the revenues from Orbital UK will be in the UK.

But as far as growth goes, it will – do you think growth will still be primarily derived from UK, or do you think you're going to see growth being generated from international opportunities for you?

I think, again, not so much international, South America and Africa. I think when you talk international, growth in Orbital will come from the continent, from Western Europe. They're going to, obviously, going to run much of the Snam Rete products through the UK offices, so you'll see growth there. And then I think you're going to see significant growth, frankly, in our North American operation, all over North America out of Houston. I mean that's where we see incredible growth with the North American gas market.

Okay. And then just quickly on IRIS, what's the typical installation time horizon for that? Is it, what, six months from when you begin a project, just so we can kind of sense rev rec related to that?

It can be anywhere from 12 weeks to as much as six months. It really depends on preparation of the individual metering stages to take on the [ph] kiosks (31:28), and we'll know more about that when the bidding process comes out. But I will tell you that at least seven or eight of these stations are very, very, very urgent need of these technologies. That's why I believe that the metering engineering team from National Grid try to get us to do those piecemeal, because they know that those seven or eight installations are really on the edge of some failures that could be frankly catastrophic. And so, again, I think there will be some urgency for several of these. But again, it could be 12 weeks to as long as six months.

Okay. Got it. All right. Thanks a lot. Good luck going forward this year.

Thanks.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Marco Rodriguez of Stonegate Capital. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good morning, guys. Thanks for taking my questions. I wanted to fall back up here in regard to the delays in the quarter for revenues. I just want to make sure I heard some things correctly. On the delays, did I hear that there was about $1 million impact on the topline, is that correct?

For the Power group, yes, that's about what we saw between the two different types of delays.

Got it. Okay. And then just kind of trying to get a little more color here on the port delays, obviously, a fairly well publicized event. I'm just trying to kind of understand what sort of advance steps you had taken to kind of maybe sidestep those issues when they were starting to come up.

We did a number of things, everything from airfreighting in goods that we could get in cheaply or at an efficient price point at least to service our customers or airfreighting ones that we had to, to service our customers -- we didn't go lying down. We also pushed our facilities to get goods out sooner as much as we could. But it's a little bit difficult when on top of everything there's a capacity or lead times issue as well.

So we had a variety of options. We also tried to go through ports that have fewer problems, i.e., we've typically avoided the California ports that have longer turnaround times. And then the other aspect of, when it comes to airfreighting goods in, is power supplies depending on the supply can get quite heavy.

So that, at a certain point, becomes cost inefficient for what the goal is. So, we did a variety of activities in that, trying to condense and consolidate shipments to get them out sooner, airfreighting in where we could, all kinds of activities there.

And then on the capacitor issue, I know you said in your prepared remarks that you're working through that with your suppliers [indiscernible] (34:08) solutions out there. Can you talk maybe about a little bit whether or not that has been rectified thus far or how long do you expect to sort of an impact to hit your results?

Yes. As I mentioned earlier, no, it's an ongoing issue. The whole power industry is dealing with this. So, typically, it takes three to six months for these things to resolve. What it is is it's now been extended to the customer, so their leadtimes are extended as well. So they have that understanding, but we're looking, just like all of our competitors are doing as well, looking to bring in extra supply so that we don't have as long delays as we're seeing right now. But we're working on it and it should turn around in the next few months, but it is an issue currently.

Got it. And then just taking a look at the balance sheet, inventory kicked up probably substantially sequentially and year-over-year, I'm assuming some of that's from obviously the Tectrol acquisition. Can you kind of quantify what is extra from Tectrol there?

Yes, I absolutely can. Our inventory increase related specifically to Tectrol, about $3.1 million during the quarter.

Got it. And then last quick question, I'll jump back in queue, can you talk a little bit about the intangible impairment you took in the quarter?

The $2,500 charge, yes. It was just some patents that we elected not to continue to support, some patent applications.

And the patents revolve around?

They were around one aspect of the Solus technology, an aspect that we just felt wasn't necessary to protect.

Got it. Thanks a lot guys.

There are other areas within that product line that are protected.

Got it. Thanks.

Yes.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Jim Kennedy of Marathon Capital. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Hi Jim.

Hi, Bill. Hi, Dan. First on the electronic side, could you just spend a couple of moments and talk about the potential impact of having Mouser, how additive that may or may not be internationally? And then also could you size up, you all talk about Novum and Solus, kind of what that is and how large your market there is for those products?

Sure. Mouser is a very large one. They're one of the larger distributors in electronics industry in the top five or six. They do have a global footprint, which is helpful. So we, in the first year though, we kind of expect them to trend similarly to what we had with Future Electronics, where it's a crawl, walk, run as our product portfolio gets introduced through their catalog to customers. So, their model is more not necessarily high volume. So, it is going to – but it does have a reach that our existing distributors don't necessarily have the same customer base.

So we expect it to start to generate – it's generated some turnover already, but for the Q, it went live in March to the industry so it didn't do a ton. We would expect, I would guess, I would say smaller incremental revenues this year and then a larger turn next year like what we had with Future Electronics' launch.

And then, internationally, we really are trying to push into Europe. We're trying to push into Asia more and having three distributors that are all targeting a global market is going to help out quite a bit. So, despite the downturn in the EMEA region that has also been going on.

So, it should help quite a bit, and as you know, Mouser is a Berkshire company and they're always strategic about what they're doing. So they are going to be pushing our product line and we'll be supporting them to do that as well. So, we're pretty excited about having them on. It's one more validation that the Power group is adding the right product lines and focusing on the right technologies for our industry.

So, having those three out of the larger companies, actually all the distributors have all kind of wanted us, and we've been able to pick and choose when and where we want them so that they don't essentially cannibalize one another. So, we're pretty happy with this launch so far.

Okay. And then, Novum and Solus?

To follow up on that, Jim, actually Novum and Solus, Novum is our complex or intelligent power system which really is our ability to serve intelligent or digital power to the board level. Solus is the topology that really makes us able to deliver a very high density, very powerful power supply chip, basically twice the power or twice the density of what's available in the marketplace now.

That's one of the reasons we're so excited about the acquisition of Tectrol or CUI Canada, because what we had before that acquisition was we had everything from the power supply, the AC to DC converter, down to the board level.

Now we have everything from the wall into the blade server through and to the surface of the blade. So, it really gives us the entire intermediate bus architecture at a platinum level with a technology that's very, very unique.

As far as the size of the industry, it's hard to say, there is a report out by Darnell that does a lot of industry research, that talks about the digital power industry going in excess of $10 billion to $12 billion over the next few years, we think we're at the forefront of that. We don't know how much of that we can acquire, but we do believe that there's a significant amount of market that we can acquire. And again, I think that this CUI Tectrol – I'm sorry, the CUI Canada acquisition will enhance that ability.

Super. Hey, switching to the gas side, what can we say at this point about the Dominion trials, and I'll use the word negotiation, or where are we in the process of trying to secure a contract there? Secondly, you mentioned Mitsubishi, what do we know there, how long has our equipment been in the field, when do you expect feedback there, et cetera?

Yes. Dominion, I can tell you that the testing was completed. It successfully completed at the end of last year. It's now in their hands and it's a budgetary issue. They certainly want to roll the technology out across their entire fleet. It's a matter of them budgeting and their processes. There's not much I can tell you about that because it's not a visible or a transparent process. It's very internal to them.

They have told us very hopefully that they want to roll the GasPTi, which is the $55,000 unit out across their entire fleet, and they have been very open about the fact that they will talk to customers or other potential customers. They've already talked to Spectra for example and are offering to talk to others to confirm how well the testing went. So, but again, I can't really shed much light on their process because it's something that's not transparent to us.

Much of the same applies to Mitsubishi Heavy Industries. They've told us that they want to test these units in Thailand. I think we've talked about the fact it's because Thailand has two very diverse gas streams, one with close to 20% CO2 and one with less than 5% CO2. They have not told us their test procedure, nor have they told us a timeframe.

But again, they have indicated to us that if it works the way that we've told them it does, and frankly it's worked that way on every other device that we put it on, that they would like to roll it out, again, broadly across their fleet. But I cannot give you any insight to them either because, again, like Dominion, they're quite secretive about what they're doing and how they're doing it.

So they have not indicated a timeframe where they want to put it in for a year or six months or whatever?

They have not. They haven't told us that at all. And I'll tell you, as a note, Dominion had talked about a six-month test. Dominion took our device and put it into their system, on one of their two-stroke compressors. In December, the [ph] gas commander (42:21) that was on that same system, I guess fortuitously for us, broke down. And so the machine began running on our device whether they liked it or not, because they had nothing else to run it on, and it performed so well on that two or three week period of time that they just continued it and that was the end of the test.

So, again, while they might tell me they were going to go six months, they didn't. They went two or three weeks where they were running only our system and were very, very impressed of it. But to answer your question, Mitsubishi has not given us any indication at this point.

Okay. And then last, but not least, can you remind us, I believe that you have the authorization to do share buybacks.

We do actually – we have that and frankly, I would tell you that for the first time in nine months, for the first time all this year and like say for almost nine months, a week from today, both the company and its executive team will be cleared finally to buy some shares. And frankly, if this stock stays where it is right now, I don't want to make too many forward-looking statements, but I think you'll see some buying.

All right. Thanks a lot, guys.

Thank you, Jim.

Thank you, Jim.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Alex Blanton of Clear Harbor Asset Management. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Hi, Alex.

Hi. Good morning. Just on this – I'm going to clear up something on this capacitor lead-time issue. That has nothing to do with the ports, right?

No, that's a separate issue. That's a supply shortage within the industry.

Okay. Now, what caused that? I mean, why all of a sudden are we short with capacitors?

It could be anywhere from a shortage of different components that go into the capacitors themselves. To be honest with you, I don't have that information as to why the capacitors themselves specifically are short, but...

You don't?

...in the past, we've seen different reasons for key supply item shortages in this space.

Well, it can either be a fire in somebody's plant, it can be an increase in demand that wasn't expected, a company goes out of business, I mean, you don't know why you can't get capacitors?

I specifically have not dug into that, Alex. I'm sure that our purchasing and our engineers are well aware of what that is.

Yes. I wonder if you could find out and let me know offline.

Yes, I can do that. No problem.

Okay. Thank you. The second question is you mentioned in the remarks that you expect to meet or exceed your full-year targets. How much can you share what your targets are?

We don't do forecasting. We don't do internal reporting of – or external reporting of numbers. I mean there are consensus numbers out there that our analysts have put out and that others in the industry have put out, but we don't share internal numbers, Alex.

How do you feel about those consensus numbers?

I feel that those consensus numbers are very reasonable.

Okay. Thanks.

Sure.

Thank you. And that does conclude our question-and-answer period for today. I'd like to turn the conference back over to Mr. William Clough for any closing remarks.

Hi. Just in closing again, as we've talked about now over and over again, this quarter is not as strong as we wanted it to be or hoped it would be. I think I've talked to many of you about this. This is not a quarter-by-quarter story. We believe this is a growth story, and to grow an industry or a company like ours, you have to make investments that we've done this quarter. And we feel again, as we mentioned at the outset, that this second quarter will be much stronger and as we move through the year, this is going to be a very good year for CUI Global. We think it is a breakout year for our natural gas products and I think everyone who has been involved in the company will be quite pleased with the results as we move through the year.

With that being said, I want to thank all of you for your time and attention and obviously if you have questions or need some more information, I'm almost always available as is Dan to talk to you and we'll be happy to do that over the course of the next quarter. Again, thank you, and thank you Casey and thank you Dan.

This concludes our call. You may now disconnect. As a reminder, a replay of this call will be available until May 22. Details can be found in the press release.