Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Landon Barretto — President, Barretto Securities, Inc.
William J. Clough — Chairman, President, CEO & General Counsel, CUI Global, Inc.
Daniel Ned Ford — Chief Financial & Accounting Officer, CUI Global, Inc.
Noel Atkinson — Analyst, Loewen Ondaatje McCutcheon
Joel Achramowicz — Managing Director, Equity Research & Investment Banking, Merriman Capital, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Greetings and welcome to the CUI Global's Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year End 2012 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Mr. Landon Barretto. Thank you, Mr. Barretto. You may begin.

Thank you, [ph] Matt and good morning, thank you for joining us to review the financial results of CUI Global, Inc. for the fourth quarter and 12-month period of fiscal year 2012, which ended December 31, 2012. As the conference call operator indicated, my name is Landon Barreto with Barreto Pacific Corporation. We're the investor relations consulting firm for the company. With us on the call representing the company today are Bill Clough, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Dan Ford, Chief Financial Officer.

At the conclusion of today's prepared remarks, we'll open the call for a question-and-answer session. If anyone participating on today's call does not have a full text copy of the earnings release, you can access it on the company's website at www.cuiglobal.com. Before we begin with prepared remarks, we submit for the record the following statement.

The statements made by the management team of CUI Global during the course of this conference call that are not historical facts are considered to be forward-looking statements subject to risks and uncertainties. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a Safe Harbor for such forward-looking statements. The words believe, expect, and anticipate, estimate, will and other similar statements of expectation identify forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements contained herein are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those reflected in the forward-looking statements included herein.

These risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to the impact of competitive products and pricing, product demand and market acceptance, new product development, the ability of the company to control costs, availability of products produced from third-party vendors, fluctuations and operating results and other risks detailed from time to time in the CUI Global filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.

Participants on this call are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which reflect management's analysis only as of the date hereof. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly release the results of any revisions to these forward-looking statements which may be made to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.

With that said, let me turn the call over to Bill Clough, President and Chief Executive Officer of CUI Global. Bill?

Good afternoon and thanks everybody for joining the call. This has been – last year actually was a transformational year for CUI and CUI Global. As I'm sure most of you know, this time last year, we were in the middle of completing a money raise and really preparing to up-list on the NASDAQ. During the course of that year, we did in fact successfully completed this money raise and we are now listed on the NASDAQ.

And among those milestones, we have, I think, a number of other milestones that we've accomplished. Before I turn it over to Dan to kind of drill down on the numbers, I want to thank Dan and his team, especially for most of you have probably noticed, we have filed our 10-K this year about a month or more early. We've done that in the interest to increase shareholder communication. And I really have to give a lot of credit to Dan and his team for putting forth the effort to be able to get this filed both in a timely and actually early manner, which is what we wanted.

So, with that being said, I'm going to turn it over to Dan, let him go through the numbers a little. I have some color on those numbers afterwards, and then, we'll open it up for questions. So, Dan?

Thank you, Bill, and everyone on the call. As Bill mentioned, I'm going to run through the numbers for the year. Revenues were up 5.5% to $41.1 million over $38.9 million in the prior-year period. Our backlog of orders as of 12/31/2012 has increased to $14.1 million, up more than 50% from the $9.2 million in the prior year ended.

Our fourth quarter compared to the prior year fourth quarter, revenues increased 35% from $8.8 million to $11.9 million.

Our loss for the year was approximately $2.5 million or $0.25 a share. In the fourth quarter, however, we continued our improvement that began in the second quarter with the impact into the loss of just $0.02 in the fourth quarter.

We've raised – as Bill mentioned, we raised equity this year, we raised $13.5 million net of the company. Key uses for that were; we retired $8.1 million of debt, we finished the year with cash of more than $3 million, an increase of approximately $2.9 million for the year. Our receivables are approximately $5 million in trade as of the end of the year, largely associated with revenue growth in Q4. That's an increase of $1.3 million from the prior year ended.

Inventory is approximately $4.8 million, an increase of another $1.3 million for the year compared to the prior year. That's associated with our backlog of orders, as mentioned previously, growth as well as inventory stock for expected revenues in 2013 related to the Vergence product line.

Last, I want to mention is our strength with our bank's line of credit. We still maintain the $4 million line of credit with Wells Fargo. Our capacity out of the end of the year was $3.6 million based on our borrowing capacities within that agreement, and there were $3.1 million of that line available at the end of the year.

With that, I'm going to turn it back over to Bill.

Thanks, Dan. Before I open it up for questions, I think it is worthwhile to review some of the other milestones that we reached. We were now up-listed on the Nasdaq this last year. We also received a listing on the Wilshire 5000 and we were listed on the Russell Microcap. We were also included in the MSCI Global Microcap Indices.

We were able to negotiate and just signed, as we just noticed in a in the press release with Future Electronics, which significantly expands our phase for our core products. It gives us another distribution relationship, much like the one we have Digi-Key. And over the next several months and years, we expect Future to grow, it is important to us as Digi-Key.

Our Novum Technologies, we recognized throughout the last two quarters of the year, with both awards and design wins. We won, for example, The Electronic Product Magazine, Product of the Year. We were named as the finalists in Golden Mousetrap Award, a very respected electronics product award that we should be hearing the results of it in the next couple of three weeks.

We were named as one of EDN top 100 products of 2012 and we appeared with six SKUs with our partner Ericsson at the electronica 2012 Trade Show. In addition, to that, we moved forward on the Vergence GasPT2 metering device. We were able to complete and obtain certifications in Italy, in Poland, in the UK, and with Canada at the end of the year with our partner [indiscernible] (00:07:08). We now have infrastructure setup in 26 countries across six continents, preparing now to start delivering the product we believe that ramping up this year. In fact, [indiscernible] (00:07:18) announced today that this week, we are delivering the first of 10 units on the – drawn against the 150-unit purchase order from the EMC that we received late last year.

So, again, all in all, we believe 2012 was a transformational year for this company. It put us in a position where we think we can really launch this year and continue striving as we had in the past to increase shareholder value, increase gross revenues and net earnings as we move forward.

So, with that being said, Landon, I would open it up to questions.

Okay, [ph] Matt.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we'll now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Noel Atkinson of LOM. Please go ahead.

Hi, Bill and everybody. Thanks for taking my call. I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about the recent announcement that your GasPT2 outsource manufacturing Ingenion is going to be acquired by your – one of your distributors called Tekelek. I wonder if you have any color on the why you know Ingenion was being acquired and whether there was any past or upcoming impacts to your production as relating to the acquisition? Thanks.

Yeah. Thanks for the question, Noel. Actually, Tekelek is now one of our distributors. Tekelek is an independent third-party. But the nice thing about the acquisition is Tekelek is a very financially sound company that we did quite of their background on before the acquisition was made. They are specialists in that telemetry involving tank maintenance and tank levels for fuel oil. And so, they also have somewhat related expertise in the energy field, but more importantly, what they brings to the table is even more financial security for Ingenion. Obviously, Ingenion is an important part of our supply chain for the Vergence product, and it's always nice to have that part of the supply chain as Ingenion is, become even more financially sound.

And I think that more than anything else, that's what happened, is the Tekelek being an Irish company that is quite well-financed is bringing to the table much more financial ability than Ingenion may have had in the past. And as I say, they have this overlay of the telemetry system that may impact the implacable to the GasPT in the sense of allowing us to communicate even more vibrantly than that it does now. So again, we are quite satisfied, but they are – just to confirm, they're not in a related to CUI or CUI Global.

Okay. In terms of ramping production capacity, you folks were working with Ingenion to automate the final calibration, and how is that been going?

Yeah. That actually wasn't with Ingenion. Ingenion's capacity is quite significant. If they have to, they can produce as many as a 1,000 units a week. So, their capacity has never been an issue. The issue was with GL's ability to calibrate the units, and that problem has been resolved. In fact, what we've done now is equip that Orbital, our partner in the UK. I noticed it's an issue prepared to do that calibration and they're set [audio gap] (00:10:37-00:10:47) in fact, it will be about a six-week to eight-week trigger when we tell them to pull that trigger to start automating that process and they will be able to ramp up very quickly.

At this point though, we have 150 units, almost 200 units in inventory. So, we don't need to pull that trigger quite yet, but it is something that we can do again at any moment, because all of the practical design work, the one that has been done, it would just be a matter of ramping up the automated calibration units, which they have in place already.

Okay. And then, finally, on your SG&A, it rose quite a bit sequentially. Can you, guys, add a little bit of color on that?

Sure. Absolutely. In fact, I'll touch on it and I'll let Dan talk about it a little bit. But frankly, we actually became a much more vibrant company, much more able to focus on not only expanding our markets with new products, but also taking the products we have to market much more aggressively. And a lot of that SG&A has just exactly that feature in it. As I mentioned, we now got the basic infrastructure in 26 countries across six continents, for example, for Vergence and that doesn't come for free, it costs money. And in a sense, that's what's happened with all of our product lines. We really were able to – because of the raise, because of our positioning, we were able to really attack the market much more aggressively. Dan, would you want to add to that?

Yeah. The main – those are the main things absolutely. We had quite a bit of expenses this year associated again, as Bill mentioned, with the work surrounding equity raises, not all the costs are directly applicable to reduction in the equity received. So, we had to expense out those. We also had some investor relations costs associated, increased travel-related sales, about $370,000 travel-related sales to get those new product lines launching with distributors and new customers, getting product console for testing with customer so and so forth. Then, impairment charges taken in the second quarter related to the intangible V-Infinity brand trade mark and trade name, which is being retired and amortized over the remaining life. Those are the main costs. Again, as Bill mentioned, really the main growth in that section of our income statement, SG&A, is related to costs associated with getting us positioned for the growth here that we think – that we expect 2013 to be across all fronts.

The other thing to note, just to follow up on your question, one of the things that Dan and I are really focusing on is exactly that budgeting for this year's SG&A. We are – I would say we're tightening the valve, because we're a growth company. In order to grow, you have to spend money, but we certainly are examining all of the SG&A costs and trying to keep those as we can to a minimum and really make the biggest bang we can for our buck. Does that answer your question?

Yeah. Fair enough. Thanks.

Sure. No problem.

Thank you. The next question is from Joel Achramowicz of Merriman Capital. Please go ahead.

Thank you for taking my question. Good morning, guys. Great way to end the year. Bill and Dan, do you see that with strong backlog at the year-end progress well for the first quarter. Can you see the first quarter that sequentially up, I mean, at this point do you have enough visibility in that regard?

Joel, we don't give forecast or predict the future. I will tell you, if you look at those backlogs that would say, we are pretty – sitting pretty nice when it comes to that. I'm going to let Dan follow-up a little bit on that. But again, we want to kind of stay away from specific forecasts, right.

Yeah, right. Our typical returning time on a back order is anywhere from three to nine months depending on the customer's requested schedule date for delivery. That said, you do see our backlog was $14.1 million roughly at the end of the fourth quarter. Our revenues in the first three months of 2012 were approximately $8.5 million. Without giving too much guidance, I think that hopefully answers your question. We are pretty confident in our backlog and our 2013 forecast.

Yeah. It sounds – I mean, the backlog at this point in the fiscal year is unprecedented in terms of historically [ph] I would write any (00:14:58) which is a good sign?

It is – it very much is. We've had, I believe, over $12 million in backlog. We've have released in press releases in past periods, at the end of the year, however, those are more mid-year periods, which are typically the higher periods for the year, because this is definitely a good sign of – good indication of where the company is after with our customers and our product line.

And understand also, Joel, that would not include anything from future at this point. So, it's quite exciting.

Definitely. Going forward, Bill, you've done a lot of work in really getting this current situation of getting inventory now in place and there is – there were a number of demand pool orders that you've pulled in last year and it sounds like you are ready to shift those.

Do you have any thoughts on the target amount of Vergence products you'd like to ship in 2013 to make you happy and if you didn't meet that, I mean, particular target.

No, you're trying like, as hard as I've heard anybody giving you a forecast. If you ask me what I'd like to ship, I'd like to ship 10,000 units, but I don't know that I will ship 10,000 units. I can tell you that we're starting to see the ramp up going. I think you're going to see some revenues, especially with Vergence in its first quarter. And again I think that you're going to see a steady rise in the shipments starting from the first quarter on. I think that I can tell you without getting too far ahead of myself.

Okay. Are you continuing to see new interest in the Vergence product, I mean you closed a number of deals, but how is the funnel of opportunities in that regard?

Yeah, absolutely. In fact, I'm in the UK right now. And one of the reasons I'm over here is, I met with a large engine supply manufacturer of the CHP machines, that is looking at the use of device with those devices. And of course, that's a whole new market for us. So yes, I can tell you that unequivocally there is still a great deal of interest and we still are developing new markets, almost on a weekly basis. So I think the opportunity for that product is still quite dramatic, I think.

And is GE still working on – did they finish their trial on the Veregence product? Bill, any comments on that regard?

Yeah. We actually received some very positive remarks from them just recently. They did finish, as I think we mentioned in other calls, they did finish their initial phase of testing late last year. They're preparing to go into a second round of testing; they eliminated everything except for one other to ours and one other device. The other device is much more expensive and much more complicated. And so we expect to move forward to the second stage of testing.

I said we can't tell you how much testing GE needs to do. That's something they haven't shared with us, but we're moving forward with the second stage of testing.

Well, great. Good luck going forward into 2013.

Thanks, Joel.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] The next question is from [indiscernible] (00:17:59). Please go ahead.

Hey, guys. How are you doing?

Hey. How are you?

Doing pretty well. Definitely like with this quarter, as you guys know, given by my background, I obviously felt it's quite a bit of Vergence. But kind of wanted to touch base on a couple of other points. Just looking at sort of a core business currently, where the majority of your revenue is currently, can you maybe talk about trending there, and what that's going to be looking like obviously kind of I get projections? But talk a little bit about trending there, just I've always liked the aspect of the story that you guys have a very strong core business that you guys are launching new products off of and I'm just wondering how that base of business is looking?

Yeah. I'm going to let Dan to address that to some extent, but I want to first inform and compliment that and his team for doing what they've done this last year. I would tell you that overall, as you may know, as you follow the industry; the electronics industry is down across the board anywhere from 5% to 8%, and we saw 5.5% increase and I credit Matt and his team for really focusing on number one, products that we get to the customer and that we can give the customer that they can't get other places, and just really going after that OEM business. We've had a great relationship over the years with Digi-Key that's allowed us to let him handle our smaller fulfillment and us to really focus on that OEM business and we've done that more and more over the last few years.

So again, in a really difficult environment, an environment where again across the board, you see 5% to 8% declines in business, we're up 5%, I don't see that changing. I think, we've really developed ourselves in a great little niche market. I think we will continue to see growth in that portion of our business especially now adding a second distributor in future. So, that being said, I'll let Dan comment as well a little bit on that.

Thank you, Bill. Bill definitely [ph] hit on the head of the (00:19:52) industry has been suffering from number of years. The major competitors in the industry particularly the distribution companies, now the company's future [indiscernible] (00:20:05) large ones have had the engine layoffs and cut backs on their efforts. The industry as a whole is down to flat FX. Projections for this year are trying and make up what was lost last year or the year before, if possible. CUI, we're still looking to grow. We're still finding seas where we can do that. We believe the partnership with Future as well as continuing to grow with Digi-Key, which has really been a rocket ship partner with us and our relationship is as strong it was 5 years, 10 years ago today and then it's actually stronger.

So, we're quite happy with where we're positioned. We believe the Future Electronic partnership is going to help us out. We believe we are penetrating the right markets with our product line. And the other aspect of [ph] relevance (00:20:52) is without CUI is, is the multi-billion dollar industry. So, there is a lot of fruit there that we can start continue to cherry packing growth, while the people are doing layoffs and whatnot.

The last thing I want to add is our CUI Japan office. It's now in the 10-K, but I thought I'd bring it up here, our CUI Japan office is making a considerable traction over there with customers. They basically doubled their business last year. And so, we expect to be able to continue to penetrate that market as well as the rest of the world market. So, it's quite exciting and we're looking forward to do another improvement for this year.

Okay. So, I guess the other ...

Let me mention one more thing off, so I should say, this is really relating to the existing power on products, the [indiscernible] (00:21:39), advanced power products. This year is

Continuing to be more about product releases in the hands of customers for their designs and expected the design wins end of the year and early 2014, where that's that case for manufacturing in 2014.

Okay. That actually kind of transitions over to my next question anyway. A little bit on the Novum and Solus product lines. And I've always been focused pretty heavily on the Vergence product line. But just there is obviously been a lot of good news out of the Novum and Solus products. But wondering when you first stated that, that might actually start impacting – impacting the top line? Hope, you have any visibility there?

I think it's difficult to have visibility this far out. But I think, Dan hit it on the head. I think what we should look for this year with that product line is design wins. Getting announced to our customers, the larger customers that we're trying to attack with that product, getting design wins, and getting it in into their process, I think we could see some revenues towards the end of this year, but really I think the ramp-up, you could've seen revenues is going to be into 2014. And that's just a factor of the electronics design cycle. It's a long design cycle, 18 months to 2 years. But the nice thing about that design cycle is its evergreen product. Once you get in, you're in for a long time as well.

So, I think – once you're into their designs, it does reduce your design times. The space we're targeting is the telecom primarily and networking space. So, they're redoing designs on every nine months. However, they're not transitioning their total design every nine months. So, what they're doing is they're rolling that line forward typically with updates in certain areas.

So, we're looking at getting into the very major product line and then having to continue to roll forward from there. And that's the phase we're working in right now is getting in the face of customers, getting the right product to meet their needs and getting design wins in 2013. [indiscernible]

(00:23:39).

And I think the traction that you saw with the Golden Mousetrap Award, the EDN Award, those things, it is definitely copy industry retention again for CUI products. So, we're – are knowing the Solus group and sales team are really excited and that's the game plan [indiscernible] (00:23:56) ahead with us as well.

Yeah, yeah, Bill, that definitely does answer my question. I appreciate it. It's a last question and then I'll let you guys move onto somebody else. Just sort of building off of one of the previous questions on increased cost this year, primarily SG&A. I was just wondering, if Dan, if you back out some of the onetime sort of Vergence product launch and some of the travels associated et cetera, et cetera, some capital raise. If you back those out, do you have a ballpark number as to where we would come out for the [indiscernible] (00:24:31)?

Let me just do a little quick math in my head about some cost, so I think could be back out for 2013 going forward.

Just trying to get an idea of sort of a base number for which we should be operating going forward? And if this one is longer more in depth, I could certainly call you offline.

I think just right off the top of my head, I think there is about $1 million in expenses, they were 2013 related that were mostly ramp up expenses and maybe more [ph] and it's pulling that (00:25:05) right of the top of the top.

No, no, that's perfect. That's what I was looking for. Anyway, thank you very much, guys. I really appreciate it. Obviously, excited for what we're looking at now that you guys are starting to deliver some of these Vergence units and I'll let you guys move onto the next guy.

Thanks, [ph] Kevin (00:25:21).

Thank you. Our next question is from [ph] Morgan Frank (00:25:26) of Manchester Management. Please go ahead.

Good morning, gentlemen. Good quarter. So, I'll start from just this is at the beginning of the call, little late getting on. The backlog number that you provided, does that include Vergence units? And if so, to what extent?

It does include Vergence units and how much – it's basically the EMC order of 150 units, and I don't know if you were on, but we announced that we're delivering our first 10 units drawn against that purchase order this week. So, again, we're moving forward on that, but it does include that, [ph] Morgan (00:25:59).

Wouldn't 150 units for EMC be – I mean, wouldn't that comprise most of it? I mean ...

No, no, no ...

You just said it was units supposed to ship this year. How does that calculation work?

Hold on one second.

I mean, you're talking – are all 150 units in there, I mean is that sort of $3 million.

It's $2.475 million of the $14-plus million. It's not most of it or even a majority of it.

Got it, yeah. Okay. And then, I guess, most of I wanted to ask you covered last – one other quick question, are you through all the sort of the SiFA labeling issues at this point? [ph]

Olden (00:26:44), and those years have gone out with SiFA approved labels on them.

Okay.

So, yes, we are all done in there. It's a good question though.

So, that shouldn't be an issue going forward?

It is not an issue, that's correct.

Well, that's good to hear. Great. Thank you very much, guys. Good quarter.

Thanks, [ph] Morgan (00:27:03).

Thanks, Morgan.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And the next question is from [ph] Scott Malloy of White Fox Advisors (00:27:15). Please go ahead.

Hey, Bill. On the Vergence side, do you have a sense of where they're being installed? Is it greenfield or are they replacing some of the older, more expensive technologies, if you could just kind of comment on that?

Yeah. We're seeing in both places. I mean, we just have a retrofit order coming in for 10 units from Scotia and that's the Scottish transmission company and they're going to pick those and in essence replace five metering stations that are being serviced by old GCs now and then equipping in five others, as I understand, in new locations where they don't have monitoring.

And then, of course, there's new markets. We're in the process of taking order from Cryostar which is a company that operates natural gas tankers and what they want to do is use the burn out gas to operate the gas – the natural gas tanker turbines. So, that's a whole new area that we have not dealt with before. As I mentioned, I am in the UK, talking with the company that produces natural gas, combined heating and tower systems, these big natural gas systems that operate buildings and that operate in at some time, at some point in maritime settings as well, and when they wanted to be able to do engine controls. We've been approached by a group out of Texas as an example for a fracking group and they're using now natural gas turbines to provide the pump for the natural gas fracking. [indiscernible]

(00:28:50) hasn't even appreciated with the powers that's required for that, but these big gas turbines which are mounted on the back of an essence 18-wheel truck are bought in and they are – what amounts to a mobile pump in this fracking operation, we're not going to – instead of running them off of – what they were running them off. They're going to start running them off a natural gas from the well. So, part of the frac gas, they're going to recover. And of course, one of the things they have to do is monitor that gas for [ph] CU-level (00:29:18), so that they can properly supply the fuel to the pumps and turbines.

So, again, I think, to answer your question, it's a pretty diverse application why we're seeing. We're seeing replacements for old units and we're seeing new application as people begin to realize that they can knew what they were paying $150,000, $250,000 for with an engineer, that's calibrated over the GC. They can add a $50,000 device, that fix on a pipeline anywhere they wanted. So, we're seeing both ends of that. And I think as year goes forward, we'll see I think wider and wider applications as the industry starts to see what they can do with it.

So, are you going to have to seek out new distributors to access those new markets or can these guys go after those things?

That's what we're constantly evaluating. One of the things that we're really developing is closer and closer relationship with Andrew Ridge of Orbital. He's real expert in the gas industry and one of the things we're kind of relying on him to do is to kind of look at our distribution group and make sure that we have the right people in the right industries, in the right geographies. And that's something that's an ongoing analysis, and we're doing it constantly and that certainly as the products demand or as the areas demand, we may change, either change distributors or clients, additional distributors as we move forward, but that is an ongoing analysis.

Great. Thanks a lot. Appreciate your time.

Sure.

Thank you. We have no further questions in queue at this time. I'd like to turn the call back over to management for any additional remarks.

All right. The only thing I would say, and this is Bill, and again, thank you for your time. And for those of you that are all – that are our shareholders and I know most of you are our shareholders, we really, really do appreciate your support and your – and to some extent your patience and then your understanding. We are pushing this company very, very hard. I think, as Dan and I, both kind of mentioned and illustrated today, this last year has been transformative. This next year, 2013, we think is going to be even bigger for us in a number of ways. And as we move into the 2014 and 2015, we think that with Novum, Solus, and Vergence, you're going to really see a great return on your investment. And I think you're going to a very different company over the next few years

We're working very, very hard to in essence support the confidence that you've you given us. So, again, we thank you for your time and obviously thank you for your interest in your questions today. Landon, thank you.

Thank you, guys.

Thank you, all.

Thank you.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at this time. Thank you for your participation.