Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Landon Barretto — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Barretto Pacific Corporation
William J. Clough — Chairman, President, Chief Executive Officer & General Counsel, CUI Global, Inc.
Kevin W. O'Keefe — Senior Vice President, Financial Advisor, Morgan Stanley Wealth Management
James Bennett Liberman — Financial Advisor, Wells Fargo Clearing Services LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning and welcome to the CUI Global Third Quarter Earnings Call. At this time all the participants are in a listen-only mode. A brief questions-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.

It is now my pleasure to introduce your host Mr. Landon Barretto. Thank you, Mr. Barretto. You may begin.

Good morning. As the operator indicated, my name is Landon Barretto with Barretto Pacific Corporation. We're the investor relations firm that represents CUI.

With us on the call representing the company today is Bill Clough, the President and CEO.

Before we begin with prepared remarks, we submit for the record the following statements. Statements made by the management team of CUI Global during the course of this conference call that are not historical facts are considered to be forward-looking statements subject to risks and uncertainties. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for such forward-looking statements. The words believe, expect, anticipate, estimate, will and other similar statements of expectation identify forward-looking statements.

The forward-looking statements contain herein are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those reflected in the forward-looking statements included herein. These risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to the impact of competitive products and pricing, product demand and market acceptance, new product development, the ability of the company to control costs, and the availability of products produced from third-party vendors, as well as fluctuations in operating results and other risks detailed from time to time in the CUI Global filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.

Participants on this call are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which reflect management's analysis only as of the date hereof. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly release the results of any revision through these forward-looking statements, which may be made to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.

With that said, let me turn the call over to Bill Clough, President and Chief Executive Officer of CUI. Bill?

Thank you, Landon and thank you, everybody for attending. Let me begin by saying I was intending to have my CFO, Dan Ford attend this conference as well, unfortunately, because of an unexpected and quite frankly a very tragic death in his family, he is unable to attend. So with that being said, let me move forward.

We had a pretty interesting quarter, last quarter some significant growth in some areas and [ph] Tony (00:02:43) run over the numbers and talk a little bit about the what we saw as being impactful in that quarter. Top-line revenues were about $10.7 million, that's a 7% quarter-over-quarter increase and about comparable to 2011. Our gross margins across the board stated around 37%, so that's pretty close to our targeted 40% gross margins, which we try and keep everything [indiscernible] (00:03:08).

Our SG&A was a little high frankly for us, it was around 37% that included increase engineer engineering support for Novum and Solus and also included expenses incurred [indiscernible] (00:03:18) sales, marketing development of all of our new products Novum, Solus and Vergence. We see that coming down settling into next year.

For the quarter, we showed a $0.04 per share loss, that's actually a 40% improvement quarter-over-quarter, so we're moving in the right direction, there were significant cash and non-cash expenses for IR and other services are included in that, related to our NASDAQ listing, in fact if you remove those variable and onetime expenses associated with that and with the development of our new technology, we're actually profitable quarter-to-quarter and actually quarter and year-to-date.

So again, we're moving in the right direction in that way and we believe that those investments that we're making in [indiscernible] (00:03:57) technology and obviously in the IR related expenses are both necessary and very positive to a growth company like we are. The interesting factors and the things that are quite exciting for us in the core business, the electronic business is that we saw a record third quarter booking of $13.7 million that's up 51% year-over-year and most significantly record backorders – sale backorders right now of $14.7 million, which is a 61% increase year-over-year. There are some relatively significant and we think long-term reasons for that third quarter growth and realize that that's done in the phase of a market, the electronic component market which is across the board down, about 4% to 5%.

We've taken some very strong initiatives over the last couple of years to begin growing this business and I think we're seeing now the fruits of those labors. The first of those is really an increased relationship with our biggest distributing partner which is Digikey. In fact, Digikey's business overall went down about 5% whereas our business with Digikey for the quarter was up 9%. So, we saw a double-digit swing in that business.

The reason for that I think is primarily a joint marketing plan that we developed late last year and began implementing in this year. That marketing plan with Digikey is a very broad-based. It covers a broad swath of our products and it's once now – now that it's implemented, we believe that we'll continue to grow and increase our relationship with Digikey. In fact, we were selected as they're best-in-class, one of the top 10 performers and that's pretty impressive when you consider that they are almost a $2 billion company that this is the fifth largest global electronics distributor.

Our goal in that regard is to facilitate and obtain another relationship with a similar large or even larger scale distributor over the next couple quarters. We believe that that will significantly increase our core business and incremental revenues in that business. The second reason for the growth is our ability to close OEM business. We were able to sign last quarter several six-figure annual agreements with large OEMs, OEMS like [ph] Philips Medical, Medela, VSS Monitoring (00:06:10), all companies that we've had relationships with. But in the past they've been primarily PO relationships, in other words, transaction by transaction.

We have now entered annual agreements with those big companies and we've done that really because of the implementation of our area sales directors program. We have two area sales directors, [indiscernible] (00:06:30) directors, one based in Boston and one based in the Silicon Valley.

Those ASDs are coordinating the activities of our manufacture reps group and our distributors and really are bringing us into the process of design review much quicker with our biggest customers. That ASD program has been developed over the last year and a half. And really, the industry standard is that programs like that take one to two years to develop. And we're now seeing again the fruits of our labors in that regard with these increased backorders.

Our goal in that regard over the next couple of quarters is to actually expand those operations, the ASD operations in Europe where we have almost no current presence. We feel that there is a huge growth opportunity there and in Asia. In regards to Europe, one of the things that I'll mention is that we have now moved into Europe in one sense in that we are now this week attending the Electronica 2012 trade show in – electronics trade show in Munich, Germany where we've introduced six new SKUs in our Novum digital power module base.

And we've introduced those SKUs in Europe specifically because of our relationship with Ericsson and then increasing our relationship over the last quarter. In fact, this might be a good sign to update the Novum and Solus product lines. We have as I mentioned, dramatically increased our relationship with Ericsson. We announced that several weeks ago with the joint venture announcement. We are introducing, as I mentioned, six new Ericsson compatible SKUs in our Novum product line at Electronica.

I've spoken with our team that's at Electronica, the show has been running for two days. Our booth has been very, very busy. There is a great deal of enthusiasm for these products. And as some of you may know, they are quite unique within the industry. They allow second and third tier telecommunications companies to really start using digital power in a way that was before unavailable. And our relationship with Ericsson allows us to provide the industry with a compatible industry recognized standard [indiscernible] (00:08:33) that gives us a leg up on just about anyone else in the industry. We plan to introduce as many as six new Ericsson compatible SKUs over the next two quarter and we expect to see some pretty good design wins over those two quarters.

As far as our other technology Vergence, the update on Vergence is we're moving forward on schedule. We have – in fact I was in Mexico last week meeting with Fermaca. They are our Mexican distributors. Their testing began the week before last. The device has been operating on one of their pipelines. They had a better than 0.13% accuracy rate. They are expected to bring their regulators, the Mexican regulators to view the site [indiscernible] (00:09:10). And if there are no issues, we expect a PO from them sometime towards the end of this month or in the early December. [indiscernible]

(00:09:18) the Polish transmission company has finished their regulatory testing and are in the process of producing a formal report. We were notified last week that the initial information that they are going to put into that report has been price performed in their words quote better than expected. They have already scheduled a meeting with us in Warsaw, Poland on January 8, where they want to discuss orders for as many as 300 units.

TransCanada has produced a draft report showing a better than 0.3% accuracy report and the report recommends that the device be implemented in Canada for both fiscal monitoring and custody transfer. And in relation to [indiscernible] (00:09:59) believe it or not we finally seem to be getting some movement of the Italian government, which I think, everybody can appreciate, it's a great thing in and of itself.

They have, again, certified our device as a Class A metering device. They are expected to order 10 units initially to run next to 10 GCs for a short period of time, assuming that those 10 units work as the test unit has worked. They are expected to move forward with their implementation of 1,500 units sometime shortly thereafter. I don't have a time schedule on that but I think that's going to occur sometime next year.

So, again, I think, overall the company is moving forward as expected. We are quite happy about the back orders. The back orders, just so people understand, $14-point-something million is something that we generally are able to deliver over the next 90-day period. What that means is that we are able to deliver it and again, there'll be some dependency on supply chain and that type of things.

But if we are able to deliver that $14.7 million over the next three months, that will produce about a 8%, 10%, to 15% growth rate year-over-year in our core business. So, again, we are hitting our targets and are quite confident in our new technologies, so we'll move forward as scheduled. That is the end of my formal comments. So Landon, questions?

Okay, Dana, please open for questions.

We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]

Our first question comes from the line of [indiscernible] (00:11:55). Go ahead with your question, please. [indiscernible]

(00:11:58) thank you very much. Thanks for taking my call, Bill. It's nice to see continuing progress there and certainly in the testing area with the Vergence metering device, I've been -had two questions in particular about your efforts there. One, do you still feel confident you can ship at least 100 of those devices before the year is out?

Joe, I certain feel that we can do 75 to 100 – our issue is, as you may be aware, is not so much an order issue, because I think we're going to get – we're going to meet our goal of getting orders for between 200 and 300 of those, our issue right now is calibration.

Yes.

It really is an issue that's really concerning us, there is no doubt about it. We have calibration being done at GL right now. I have been in very intense talks with Orbital, our partner in the UK to shift calibration from GL to Orbital. Here is the status of that. I am being told by GL that they can produce as many as 6 or 8 a day moving forward, which they can do that, we can certainly deliver a 100 or maybe more. They, quite frankly, have been inherently undependable, so I hate to make any predictions at all.

In regards to that, I've already reached a agreement with Orbital, we are right now shopping for four ovens that Orbital is going to purchase. We're going to put those ovens into their facility in Stone. They have already automated and ordered the automated materials that they need to automate the ADC calibration and the other calibration of the devices. So we're going to go from what has been frankly a very frustrating method of calibrating the GL to a very automated calibration that then will allow us to produce 500 to 600 units a month, a dramatic increase over what we're getting now. And that's going to be in place, I'm told by mid January to early February at the latest.

But I'm pushing very hard to get it done by mid-January. So, again I think that we're going to deliver everything we can make and I think we're going to make between 75 and 100 units. I think we're going to have orders from many more than that and I think we'll be able to ramp up that production and ramp up that delivery schedule very early next year. Does that answer your question?

Absolutely, and basically that would put you on track with some of your early comments about solving some of this calibration issue by the first quarter of 2013. So that would be right in place with your schedule.

Yeah, and it is – and honestly, I think it's – I'll take this opportunity, since you asked the question, to make sure everybody understands, we really are ahead of the schedule. We – when we raised the capital earlier this year and moved up to the Nasdaq, so the opposition was that we would have an 18-month to 24-month penetration time for Vergence. We thought that was legitimate. And we still feel very confident that we'll meet or exceed that timeframe.

In fact I will tell you that some of our biggest partners, Orbital, Socrate and others who are experts in the gas industry are amazed frankly at how fast, we've gained traction with companies like TransCanada, [indiscernible] (00:14:56) and others. These are companies that are inherently conservative. They take literally, according to the people I've been talking to, they take years to make decisions. And in essence in a matter of months, they're all very enthusiastic, very positive about our technology. And I think that kid of speaks to the viability of the technology. But again for me and for shareholders like yourself of course it can be very frustrating because I'd like everything to be done yesterday. Unfortunately, some things are just going to take a little time, so yeah, thanks for the question.

Yeah. Just one more, Bill, and then I'll get back in queue. I've been thinking a lot about some of the current state of our infrastructure and especially in light of what happened in Indianapolis this last week. I was thinking about – just speculating how the Vergence might be utilized to may be check changes in the gas composites and various sub-gases real-time in order to help detect leaks. Is it possible somewhere to use Vergence maybe in some way, have you thought about that or your engineers?

No, it wouldn't really detect leaks. What it would – the applications that I've seen used and in fact [indiscernible] (00:16:07) in the Netherlands has done this, it will tell obviously changes and spikes in calorific value, which I don't know what happened in Minneapolis, but the thing that happens when you have a spike of a CV, if it's quite high enough you can actually have appliances that will explode. They just – it goes out the range.

And so in that sense, yeah, it is a safety factor and what we allow companies like that to do because we are so much cheaper is that they have more monitoring points. I mean the point with [indiscernible] (00:16:36) the reason they need 1,500 units is because they have 1,500 monitoring points with no metering on them at all and they can't afford to do it with gas chromatographs. With us, they can afford to, but we give them the ability, them and others, the ability to monitor more points.

So yeah, at the end of the day, I think when this device starts to become widely tested, we will see applications that all of us will be surprised about simply because it can do things that other metering devices just can't do in a cheaper fashion. Does that answer your question?

Absolutely. Thanks so much, Bill, good luck moving forward.

No problem, thank you.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of [ph] Frank Morgan from Manchester Management (00:17:12). Proceed with your question, please.

Hey, Bill. Good to hear from you. So a couple questions. You went through a bunch of these new opportunities on Vergence very quickly. Can you give us a sense of what you think the potential size would be in Poland and then also for TransCanada and if you can give us a sense what the timetable might look like there.

Sure. [indiscernible] (00:17:40) Poland is about 300-unit opportunity. They have a relatively complex but frankly a smaller transmission process. They are a transit. So they are somewhat strategic, because they are a transit for Russian gas into Europe, but they have a smaller transmission company. And I think, again, I think, 300 is what they are initially looking at and I think, that will be their – that will cover their needs.

As far as timing is concerned, I can tell you more of that after the meeting on January 8. They have avoided talking about key things, regards to timing until they've tested the device. They literally were testing a number of devices, the [indiscernible] (00:18:16). All of those devices as has happened consistently in the past failed, our device passed and it's been certified as a Class A [indiscernible] (00:18:27).

Now, I could say that the short-term timing is they are going to produce a formal report which I will actually put out probably in a press release towards – and they have to do that before the end of this year. Then they have schedule a meeting with us and their management team, as I mentioned in Warsaw, on January 8 and at that point I think I'll know much more about timing and when and how the orders will come, but I think, 300 is the market opportunity there to answer your question.

TransCanada is a little different deal. TransCanada took us for testing, because they have a problem right now, they have literally 2,000 [indiscernible] (00:19:03), but they are not metered in much like this indiscernible] (00:19:06) situation. The way that they've been resolving, that is once a month, they are sending a technician out to all 2,000 of those [indiscernible] (00:19:12), taking a sample of the gas and then building the customer base on that snapshot, that one-second snapshot if you will for that entire month. Their regulators have told them that's no longer acceptable. They have to be responsible for monitoring the gas. And I believe, it's at least on a two-hour basis of what their customer is getting and being able to report to the customer what they're actually getting and bill them accordingly.

So they have to come up with some solution to those 2,000 [indiscernible] (00:19:39). Now, I don't know if that ends up being 2,000 devices, but it certainly ends up being a lot of devices monitoring those [indiscernible] (00:19:46). They can't, again, economically afford to do it, nor can they do it effectively with gas chromatographs because some of those [indiscernible] (00:19:53) as I understand it are very, very far north, literally in places where you couldn't send a technician to routinely calibrate these devices.

Our device obviously is great for that because not only does it not need calibration but because of the telemetry feature we can actually have them remotely accessed. So they don't even have to send anybody up there. So I think it's a great opportunity.

As far as timing is concerned, the tests are done now. I've got the draft reports. Once I get the formal report, which I expect any day which is again a publishable report for which we'll talk about once we get the report in our hand, or rather which we will publish once we get the report in our hand, I'll have much more idea on timing. Again, I think it's something that's going to be in the early to mid-next year.

Got it. Then just picking on one other topic, can you give us any color what's going on with the gas turbine market, whether any progress has been made in using these to meter gas that goes into a turbine [indiscernible] (00:20:55)?

Well, as we've talked about in the past, we have been tested, we expect to get testing done in October. We did get that testing done. GE actually tested several devices in regards to the performance in relation to their turbines. Of those devices to be tested they certified two to move on to secondary testing, ours is one of those. The competitive device was one that was incredibly more expensive, about five times more expensive than ours, and more importantly, requires about 10 times as much gas pushed through a test, which of course causes about 10 times as much exhaust gas. So from my understanding we are still not only in the running but kind of leading a race here. The two, our device and the other device are scheduled for secondary testing sometime in January. That has not been formally scheduled yet. And then we'll hear back from GE.

In conjunction with that, we've now developed a contract with Rolls-Royce and MAN because one of the things that again is very frustrating to me is that some of these big companies, GE being one of them, are very slow to move. It's like dealing with the government. They move at a snail's pace. They make decisions in a very methodical manner and I'm hoping that if I can put the device in front of Rolls-Royce and MAN, two big competitors in the gas turbine industry after GE, I think it would prompt some little quicker movement and decision-making. But as far as where we're at, we're still moving forward, [indiscernible] (00:22:28) essentially the first phase of testing. We're now going to the second phase and [audio gap] (00:22:34) some idea of how that goes after January.

Great. Thanks very much.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Kevin O'Keefe from Morgan Stanley. Proceed with your question please.

Hi, Bill. How are you doing? Thanks a lot for taking my call.

No problem.

And congratulations on all your hard work. I have a couple of questions. The first is, I believe that the first quarter we lost $0.12, the second $0.07, and the third quarter $0.04. I mean when does this company go to profitability and do you see the accelerated earnings coming soon? And then the second question is, what are we doing to expand the story and the investor shareholder base as far as getting other analysts to cover the stock and/or – obviously we want you to focus on selling units and growing the business but is there any efforts been done to do that?

Well, that's a multi-part question, Kevin. So let me start with the first part. The first part, yes, we are moving in the right direction. Again, this is a growth company. And one of the things that I think that people realize is as a growth company, we need to reinvest what we make back into the company and that's what we're doing. I mean, we drive money back into the company. And while we did lose $0.04 per share, that is a dramatic improvement over the first quarter and an improvement again over the second quarter. Moreover, if you want to keep in mind that, in addition to all of the other things we do have about $3.5 million in cash and cash equivalents in the bank. So we are sitting in a very strong position as far as cash is concerned for the growth of our new products.

So, again, when will we become profitable? I'd like to think if we deliver all of the backorders of $14.7 million over this next quarter, I'd like to think that we will be profitable, breakeven or profitable this next quarter. Again, once this Vergence technology hits the market and starts producing revenues, there will be no doubt that we'll become very quickly very profitable because the margin is just so great.

So to answer your question, I don't do forecasts, I'm not, obviously, going to do a forecast on this call formally, but I will tell you that my expectation is if we are able to deliver our backorders this next quarter, I think we could be again in the black, which is what I want.

And I think once we get there, there'll be no looking back. I mean, I think at that point, we will be moving forward into profitability [indiscernible] (00:25:11). So, if that answers that part of your question.

The second question is one that again, we are very, very determined to do and that is broaden our shareholder base and we've done that in a number of different ways. We've used a consulting firm [indiscernible] (00:25:26) Southern California to introduce us to some European markets, to European investors. We still retain our relationship with the [indiscernible] (00:25:33) group out of London. And quite frankly, I've got to give Landon big props, he has done a great job putting us in front of a number of different people, who literally have never heard the story.

I mean, one of the things that we're doing next week is, I'm traveling to Chicago to meet with brokers from National Securities, but in addition, Brandon has come to table with six or seven very good meetings with new funds, new analysts, new people who haven't seen us. So along with running the business, which obviously is my primary concern and my primary concentration, as you know, Kevin, I spend a lot of my time on the road, meeting with new investors, meeting with new clients, meeting with new analysts, trying to spread the story and get people involved in the stock.

I'm very enthusiastic about this company. We are either on or ahead of schedule in every one of our product development areas and I want people to know the story so that as these products hit the market, [indiscernible] (00:26:27) profitability, there is someone there to see it, because as you well know, I did calls especially right after we went on the Nasdaq to many of my long-term investors [indiscernible] (00:26:38), wait a minute, we're on the Nasdaq, why aren't we trading for $10 a share?

Well, as you go, there is a lot of Nasdaq companies who don't trade, because again people don't know about them. I don't want this company to do be one of those companies. We are going to get out and publicize the company and we're using people like Landon, people like [indiscernible] (00:26:54) to do that.

Thanks, Bill.

Sure.

Our next question comes from the line of James Liberman from Wells Fargo Advisors. Go ahead with your question, please.

Thank you very much. So I'm very impressed with the progress you're making, William and I wanted to go back to the other question about the profitability and the past quarter profitability. So is – do you have a rough sort of breakeven or is that more of a moving target and when you say it's in the order of like $13 million or $14 million a quarter to cover everything or is that obviously going to be – as you say, you're going to be making more investments and going further. So, you're going to be bringing in also higher profit margin products in the Vergence and Novum products. But, could you comment more on that?

Absolutely. And thank you. Again, I know you are a very long-term shareholder. So, thanks for being a supporter of the company. Yes, in answer to your question, it's a little above. I think, right now, breakeven probably is around $11.5 million to $12 million something like that, but it is a moving target. There's no doubt about it. And here is why. We are in essence in a position where we're bringing some very exciting high margin technologies to the market. But in the case for example of Novum and Solus for us to capture companies like Cisco and companies like Juniper, big companies that are willing to look at our technologies, they expect really, really confident and really extensive engineering support.

Not just a phone call that they can phone and get the information from. They expect field engineers who are going to be there to help them implement these products. And so as we move forward and capture some of these big customers, which we really are confident we will do, that's going to be another expense we're going to have to lay on top of this, which is those field engineers. Literally, if you look at it, because of that, because of some of the engineering support we have to put together for Novum and Solus it is to some extent a moving target.

However, on the other hand, the Vergence technology is much different. We don't really require much engineering support there because of the way we've structured the business model. Our business model as you know is to get infrastructure companies Orbital, Socrate [indiscernible] (00:29:11) and others to be our distributors. So, they provide the engineering support. They provide the access, the calls. They provide the service. They provide all of the things that we will be providing with Novum and Solus. And because of that, I think, once you see this Vergence technology start to ramp up, which again I think is going to be in the next two quarters, that profitability will not be an issue, simply because you're not going to see the incremental need to raise SG&A in conjunction with the raised revenues because again we're outsourcing the engineering support. So, again – does that answer your question.

Yes, it does. Thank you very much.

Sure.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

No more, Dana?

No more, Landon.

Hey, Bill, you want to wrap it up and thank everybody for attending?

Yeah, absolutely, thank you. Thank you, Landon, first for arranging this and thank you everybody for attending. And thank all of you, especially those of you who are shareholders for your continued support for the company. I know because I'm a shareholder myself how frustrating it can be when the things don't happen at the time that we want them to. But I will tell you that we are moving forward very expeditiously and every single day I am concentrating and focusing as are my stuff on increasing shareholder value and improving the position of this company.

So, again I thank you for your support, and obviously all of you know that if you have questions, or need any information I am always available, don't hesitate to call me. So, again thank you to everybody, thank you, Landon.

Thank you, Bill.

Take care.

Thank you, Mr. Clough and Landon. This will conclude today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at this time. We thank you for your participation. Have a great day.