Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Casey Stegman — Investor Relations, Stonegate Securities, Inc.
William J. Clough — President and Chief Executive Officer, CUI Global, Inc.
Daniel Ned Ford — Chief Financial Officer, CUI Global, Inc.
Joe Maxa — Analyst, Dougherty & Co. LLC
Eric Andrew Stine — Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC
Andrew D'Silva — Analyst, Merriman Capital, Inc.
Marco A. Rodriguez — Analyst, Stonegate Securities, Inc.
James G. Kennedy — Founder & President, Marathon Capital Management LLC
Roger Liddell — Vice Chairman & Investment Manager, Clear Harbor Asset Management LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

[Abrupt start] the CUI Global, Inc. Q2 2015 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded.

I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference, Mr. Casey Stegman of Investor Relations. Sir, please begin.

Thank you, and good morning. Welcome to the CUI Global 2015 second quarter earnings conference call. We appreciate you joining us today. With me on the call is Mr. Bill Clough, Chief Executive Officer; and Dan Ford, Chief Financial Officer. The purpose of today's call is to review the company's financial results for the second quarter as well as provide you with some additional color on the business going forward. Following management's remarks, the call will be opened up for questions.

Many of you have seen the company's release that was issued yesterday. If you haven't, it can be accessed at the company's website at www.cuiglobal.com. A replay of this call will be available until August 22. Details can be found on the press release. Today, during the course of the presentation, we will be directing your attention to a series of slides. Those slides can be accessed during the call from the link in the press release that went out yesterday or from the Investor Relations section of the website.

As a reminder, this call will contain certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to vary materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. The company may experience significant fluctuations in future operating results due to a number of economic, competitive and other factors, including, and among other things, our reliance on third-party manufacturers and suppliers, the government agency budgetary and political constraints, new or increased competition, changes in market demand and the performance, reliability of our products. These factors and others could cause operating results to vary significantly from those in prior periods and those projected in forward-looking statements.

Additional information with respect to these and other factors, which could materially affect the company and its operations are included in certain forms, the company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

And with that, I'd like to introduce Mr. Bill Clough, CEO of CUI. Bill?

Thank you, Casey, and thank you everyone for taking the time to join us on this morning's call. I'm going to start with a brief overview of the quarter, and then I'll hand the call over to Dan to review the financials in more detail. When Dan is finished with his remarks, I'll provide some additional commentary on some of the key initiatives we are currently working on at CUI Global. We will then open the floor up for Q&A.

First, I'd like to highlight a change in the company's communication related to divulging customer names. Due to the type and size of the contracts we engage in as well as market conditions, we've recently adopted a policy not to identify parties who are selling to by name. From time to time, you may see an announcement from us identifying [ph] subsidy sale win or a (0:03:04) partnership, but in the regular course of business, we will not share company names. We hope you understand this change of practice, which will benefit our customers as well as CUI and should actually allow us to be more informative in our public announcements.

Turning to the results, there is positive momentum in CUI's business, supported by a strong second quarter. We're pleased with the top and bottom line results and believe our current business and future opportunities will lead to a solid second half of the year performance.

Revenues were $23 million, an increase of 20% compared to the prior year. From a segment perspective, revenues for the Power and Electro-Mechanical segment contributed $16.6 million, an increase of 23% from Q2 2014. And the Gas segment contributed $6.3 million, an increase of 12% from the prior year quarter. Backlog is strong for both business segments, representing $40.9 million of open customer orders as of June 30, which makes us optimistic as we look ahead.

The Power and Electro-Mechanical segment, which represented 72% of our revenues in the second quarter showed positive revenue growth both year-over-year and sequential, [ph] partly (0:04:08) due to the Tectrol acquisition, now called CUI-Canada that closed in March. We are estimating that CUI-Canada would add an incremental $10 million to $12 million in revenue to the P&E segment in fiscal year 2015, and we still believe that to be a good range.

We continue to expect the acquisition to breakeven or even lose some money this year as we move forward with increased efficiencies, improvements and sales efforts. The Gas segment, representing 28% of our revenues also showed positive year-over-year and sequential growth. We're starting to see traction developing at both the VE and the GasPT technologies. Significant progress in trace element detection, and an uptick with some significant customers. In particular, our ability to quickly and accurately detect mercury is becoming more and more recognized within the industry because mercury is highly corrosive to aluminum and therefore can create catastrophic damage to liquid and natural gas terminals. We have been very aggressive in that market and we're beginning to see significant results in Australia and elsewhere.

Earlier this month, we announced that we have received approval from one of the UK's largest pipeline operators to install and commission four of its previously purchased IRIS kiosks. We also received a purchase order from the same customer for additional IRIS kiosks to be put at our UK facility for installation and commissioning later this year.

Our integration efforts at CUI-Canada continue. This acquisition has already enhanced the capabilities of our Power group and among other things has broadened the customer base for our proprietary electronic product line. We continue to analyze the ability to manufacture more of our product line in Canada.

Let me turn the microphone over to Dan Ford, our CFO so that he can run through the numbers in more detail. Dan?

Thank you, Bill. I'll discuss not only the second quarter results but year-to-date 2015 as well. As Bill mentioned, the company's revenues were $23 million for the quarter, up 20% from the second quarter of 2014. Year-to-date revenues were $39.8 million, up 10% from the first six months of 2014.

The cost of revenues for the quarter was $14.7 million versus $11.5 million for the same period last year. Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenue for the three months ended, increased to 64% from 60% during the prior-year comparative period. And for the year-to-date period, cost of revenues was $25.3 million versus $21.4 million for the comparable period in 2014.

As a percentage of revenue, the cost of revenues for the year-to-date period increased to 63% from 59% during the prior year comparable period. The cost of revenues as a percentage of revenue will vary based upon the product mix sold during the period, the mix of natural gas systems sold during this period, contract labor necessary to complete gas related projects, and is also dependent upon the competitive markets in which the company competes, as well as foreign exchange rates.

The company expects 2015 cost of revenues to remain in the low 60s – 60% of revenues range during 2015, consistent with the past three fiscal years and resulting from consistent margins on core power segment products, lower margins on gas integration related projects and higher margins on technology-based product offerings in those segments.

The unaudited sales order backlog at June 30, 2015 was a consolidated $40.9 million, and of that, the Power and Electro-Mechanical segment held an unaudited backlog of customer orders of approximately $23.7 million, and the Gas segment held approximately $17.2 million unaudited backlog.

Moving on to the financial overview. Gross profit for the quarter was $8.3 million or 36% as compared to $7.7 million or 40% in the second quarter of 2014, and $14.5 million or 37% for the year-to-date period versus $14.7 million or 41% during the prior year. For the six – for the three months and six months ended June 30, 2015, the Power and Electro-Mechanical segment generated gross profit margins of 37% while the Gas segment generated gross profit margin of 34% and 35% respectively.

SG&A expenses increased by $1.4 million to $7.9 million during the second quarter compared to $6.5 million for the same period [ph] June (8:08) 2014. SG&A expenses increased to 35% as a percentage of revenues compared to 34% for the prior year.

For the six months ended June 30, the SG&A increased $4 million to $16.7 million versus $12.7 million in the prior year period and as a percentage of revenue increased to 42% from 35% for the same comparable period. The increase in the SG&A cost for the three months and six months versus the prior-year comparable periods are primarily associated with the addition of the SG&A activities of Orbital Gas Systems North America and the addition of the operations related to CUI-Canada. The remaining increases in SG&A are associated with the ongoing activities to reach new customers, promote new product lines, including Novum, GasPT, IRIS and VE Probe, as well as continued new product introductions.

The company reported a net loss of $504,000 or $0.02 per share EPS, for the quarter ended June 30, 2015. In the prior-year period, the company reported a net loss of $66,000 or zero cents per share. And for the six months ended June 30, the company reported a net loss of $4.6 million or $0.22 this fiscal – or this year compared with a loss of $554,000 or $0.03 per share in the prior-year.

The net loss for the three months and six months ended June 30, was primarily a result of increased selling, general and administrative expenses related to the opening of Orbital Gas Systems North America facility in January 2015, and the addition of CUI-Canada incorporated in March 2015 coupled with the ongoing amortization of intangible assets related to the Orbital Gas Systems Limited and CUI-Canada acquisitions.

Adjusted net income, which represents net income or loss plus the amortization expense of the intangible assets acquired with those two acquisitions plus the expense associated with stock and options issued for compensation, royalties and services, for the second quarter, was $101,000 or zero cents per share as compared with adjusted net income of $1 million or $0.05 for the second quarter of 2014. Year-to-date adjusted net loss was $3 million or $0.14 per share as compared to a net income of $1.6 million or $0.08 per share in 2014.

As of June 30, 2015, CUI Global held cash and cash equivalents of $5.2 million, a decrease of $6.5 million since December 31. The company had additional short-term investments of $4 million at June 30, a decrease of $7.2 million since December 31, 2014.

Operating activities generated negative cash flow from operations of $6.9 million during the six months ended versus positive cash flow in the prior year period of $49,000. The change in cash used in operations is primarily the result of a net loss for the six months ended June 30 before non-cash expenses as well as changes in assets and liabilities, particularly the assets and liabilities associated with the activities of Orbital Gas Systems North America and CUI-Canada.

Further to the overall change in cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments, the company has utilized those assets to fund the acquisition of CUI-Canada this year as well as to fund investments in property and equipment, including the construction of the new manufacturing and research facility for Orbital Gas Systems Limited in the United Kingdom, which is expected to complete during the third quarter.

As of June 30, 2015, the company had 20,793,207 common shares outstanding. EBITDA for the quarter was a profit of $180,000 or $0.01 per share versus a profit of $868,000 or $0.04 per share for the same quarter in 2014.

EBITDA for the six months ended June 30, 2015 was a loss of $2.8 million or $0.14 per share as compared with the profit of $1.6 million or $0.08 per share for the six months of 2014. Adjusted EBITDA for the second quarter of 2015 was $376,000 or $0.02 per share versus $1.3 million or $0.06 per share for the second quarter of 2014.

Adjusted EBITDA for the first six months of 2015 was a loss of $2.2 million or $0.11 per share compared with a $2.2 million profit or $0.10 per share profit for the first six months of 2014. The EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA were primarily impacted by the previously discussed items regarding operating costs associated with launching Orbital Gas Systems North America

And now, I will turn the call back to Bill.

Thank you, Dan. Before we begin taking questions, let's talk in more detail about some of our new technology accomplishments. In the second quarter, we continued to see increase demand and interest in our GasPT and VE Technology product lines. We delivered and we received purchase orders for seven GasPTis and have another 22 units out for bid. Most significantly, we have now received NMi Certification for our device, including full electromagnetic compatibility certification. It's now fully qualified. The device could be deployed across the entire European Union. We have been prequalified as a potential supplier by one of the largest pipeline companies in Europe and fully expect their significant metering project to move forward in the second half of the year with purchase orders for 2016 delivery of product.

Moving to the VE Technology sale, the news is also quite positive. In the second quarter, we delivered an additional 10 VE sampling systems, bringing our total delivered to 108 units this year; while we delivered an additional 89 VE thermowell applications, bringing the total deliveries of thermowells to 412 units.

Furthermore, we have outstanding purchase orders for another 63 VE sampling systems, representing more than £1.4 million or $2.2 million in revenues. We continue to receive inquiries and are working with numerous potential VE Technology customers.

Additional highlights from our second quarter include the reception of NMi Certification for the GasPT completing all necessary EU requirements. We received orders for 13 additional VE Mercury measurement systems for our large Australasian LNG project. We delivered 99 additional VE Probes/Sampling/Spares to a variety of new customers. We continue to incorporate CUI-Canada and new Houston offices for Orbital Gas. We successfully closed out all of the existing 2014 biomethane projects. And we began operational testing with a large UK pipeline partner of a new IRIS light kiosk.

In conclusion, we're pleased not only with a solid second quarter but also with a strong backlog, continued interest and traction with our new technology as well as our initial interactions with customers about our new product portfolio acquired with CUI-Canada. We look to build on the solid second quarter and the significant recent company developments, including new partnerships, CUI-Canada acquisition and the new Orbital Gas Systems North America operations. These together with the strength of the business and product demand place us in a strong position as we enter the second half of the year.

Finally I'd like to thank everyone for your continued interest and support of CUI. And now, let's open the floor for questions.

Yes, sir. [Operator Instructions] And our first question is from Joe Maxa from Dougherty & Co. Your line is open.

Good morning. Thank you.

Hey, Joe.

Bill and Dan, I just wanted to go through a little bit more on your thoughts on the opportunity in Italy, the indications that you're still expecting [ph] POs (15:37) to come in the second half of the year with – I think you said revenue starting in 2016. There is no changes from previous expectations on that, can you give us a little more color on the process and perhaps so where you're at in that [ph] status? (15:49)

Yeah, I think, this NMi Certification was a big deal, frankly, it's the final step that we needed to make sure that we could be deployed across Europe, which we now have incomplete. And we – every indication is that they are moving forward as [indiscernible] (16:05) They are still very committed to the project. They are still talking about multi-thousands of units, in excess of 3,000 units. They are still targeting installations to begin first quarter of 2016, which means they're going to have to start ordering sometime later this year. And so we see that the project moving forward as has been discussed previously. There's been no change, everything is very positive.

In a large part what we're doing now, frankly, Joe, as you might imagine is setting ourselves up to have the proper supply chain to give them what they need. We've got now design work being done and concluded on our calibration operation we're going to have at our new facility. We've got full confidence now in our supply chain when it comes to individual suppliers, and [indiscernible] (16:54) their ability to build, and in fact we're going to start ordering units in very short term to start filling backlogs, so we're ready to deliver as they need product. And as, I think, you know and I've talked about it in the past, we have several 100 units on the shelf ready to go, so we're very prepared to do it quickly when they want that movement to begin. So again we've seen no indications they're not moving forward as discussed previously.

And along those lines if you're building backlog and you have these big [ph] projects (17:23) coming, are you comfortable with your cash position as where it stands?

Yeah, we are – we, frankly, Dan and I keep very close eye on that because it is, obviously, something we want to take into account, but we feel very comfortable with it. There's a lot of cash still available to us, not only do we have close to $9 million in the bank, we have [ph] excess (17:48) capital once the project is done in England. We've funded that manufacturing and research facility ourselves. Obviously, there's an opportunity to take a mortgage out on that if we want to. There's also a $4 million line of credit that we have with Wells Fargo Bank that is untouched. We haven't used it at all.

And to be honest, we've talked to Wells Fargo about any purchase order that we get from a company like the [ph] Italian Group, (18:12) and they're more than happy to fund that project as quickly as we needed. There's a great deal of interest on their part, as you might imagine to put that kind of money to work. So I think we're in a very strong position, but I will tell you, Dan and I are quite – we watch that quite closely.

So two other things on the project front. So you talked about $2.2 million in backlog or purchase orders outstanding on your VE Technology. Is – those firm purchase orders and do you have a timing associated with when you may see that revenue?

Yeah. They are [ph] enhanced (18:44) right now, and we expect to see that through the rest of the year, but they are – that is revenue we should see this year.

Okay. All right. So you'll see that this year. And then this IRIS light kiosk, can you give some more color on that product? Is that to go after those 200 units to 300 units or availability with your customer in the UK or is that an incremental opportunity?

It's an incremental opportunity. That is quite interesting, it's a partnership that we are with a large UK pipeline company. They're actually funding it to the tune of about £1 million, and it started about four months ago, five months ago. Now, it's a kiosk designed to operate independent of the grid. So it's operated on wind and solar power. It will allow that company and others, for that matter, to operate valves and metering stations that are so remote that they cannot be powered by grid power.

So the opportunity is quite large in UK because you have a lot of those types of [indiscernible] (19:46) in Northern Ireland and up in Scotland. We feel that the opportunity would be bigger in North America, where you have the same situation out in some of the more remote areas in North America. It's a device that will run somewhere in between £60,000 and £100,000, and it is quite a high-tech kiosk. And what the – what we're doing right now, is we have the kiosk actually operating in our – solely in UK, we have one built and operating using, I can't believe it's solar power in the UK, but it's using solar power and wind and its operating quite effectively.

They're going to operate and we're going to operate it jointly with them for years, so it's got another [ph] seven months to (20:26) eight months or so to go. Once it operates successfully for a year, and we've got no hiccups with that at all so far. Then they're going to certify it, and want to start employing it in some of these remote locations. It's the same arrangement we've had with this entity before, whatever we produced, we owned. So it's a technology, at the end of the day, while we'll deploy [indiscernible] (20:47) probably first, it's something that we can sell to our North America offices as well. So, it's a very exciting prospect, but it's incremental and it's new to the company.

Okay. Thank you. I'll jump back in the queue.

Sure.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Eric Stine from Craig-Hallum Capital. Your line is open.

Hi, Bill. Hi, Dan.

Hi, Eric.

Hi, Eric.

So maybe just touching on – you called out a number of purchase orders and I know you announced this within the last month. But just maybe thoughts on next step now that you've got – company is going from testing to actual commercial installations. I mean do you think that this is something that is followed up by larger orders or do you believe that this is – you're just now going to be part of kind of their regular buying patterns.

You know it depends on the customer. I think, again, we talked about this in the past. We believe that the technology, especially the GasPTi is revolutionary, it has changed the way gas is measured. And certainly if we get this large order, which we're confident that we will in Europe, Western Europe, it literally moves at the [ph] behest (22:01) of the largest pipeline company in Western Europe, when they move everybody else in Western Europe moves. So in the case of those customers we think that the ramp up could be quite significant.

On the other hand, if you look at some of the compressor companies we're working with now, for example, they're going to roll out, we think tens, if not hundreds of units, but they'll do it over their timeframe, right. They'll do it as they retrofit these individual compressor units.

So again it really depends on the customer, but I think we're still very confident that once we start seeing [ph] price (22:32) develop, because the device is cheaper, because it is faster, because it is low maintenance and accurate, once it becomes the standard, if you will, I think you're going to see a [ph] fairly (22:42) dramatic increase in sales. That's what our sales people out there are doing now, is pushing very hard to now spread it throughout the industry, so we see that launch.

Got it. And then, you talked about NMi Certification and EU Certification as well for GasPTi, I mean, is that something that you think have kind of been a limiting factor to sales or is it more about, as you said, getting the opportunity in Italy rolling, having a reference customer and then that's how the market grows?

Yes, and actually it's very responsive to that large test. I mean frankly, the NMi Certification is one that is very, very important to them, although not quite as important to the rest of Europe. It is a certification that, under the EU treaties, it's supposed to be had by any metering device being used in gas or oil for that matter. But frankly, other than the large customers we're going after, often times people just ignore it. But we wanted to be clearly responsive to that. And it's a very difficult, very prolonged, quite [ph] expansive (23:50) certification to get. And that's why many entities just don't [ph] bother with it, (23:55) and we wanted to be very responsive now, and I think it's another indication, [ph] we'll be (24:00) able to go back to them and say, okay, this is something else you wanted, we've got it. And this makes it much easier for them to go forward on the project with, obviously a new technology.

Right, right. Okay. Maybe just turning to VE Probe, you called out the 13, for the large LNG project. I mean clearly that's, that project's very large, so wondering what is the opportunity for follow-on orders for that specific project. But then that project owner has a lot of LNG projects as well. So what – I mean have there been discussions with Chevron in terms of their plans across more of their LNG plants?

Well, still we're not going to indentify it as Chevron, so let me [ph] clarify that. (24:47)

All right. Sorry about that.

There is an opportunity, and frankly they have had their representatives. Actually last week, their representatives came to our UK facility to in essence inspect and do due diligence. They were quite impressed with what they saw as I understand it. I'm actually going to be back there next week to get a full report. But I was told they were very, very impressed, and understand that these 13 sampling systems for them amount to about £1.3 million of business. So they are very expensive. They are by and large mercury sensors, so they're very, very technically advanced.

And I think what we've been [ph] led up (25:25) with is that there is considerable amount of opportunity in the Australian project and in others. The Australian project, we've been told to be as much as £10 million to £15 million over the next three years. Well, again, that's a significant amount of work for us. And you're absolutely right. This is a Fortune 100 oil and gas company that has projects all over the world. They have sent senior people to our facilities to make sure we are who we say we are and then we can provide what we say we can provide. And again they couldn't actually have seen the company at a better time, because we're just opening – we're in the process of opening this brand new manufacturing research facility. So they saw a very hi-tech operation, that's obviously growing, that's obviously getting money invested into it, and I think, again, my understanding is they're quite impressed.

Okay. Good. And maybe just one last one, just a large pipeline company in the UK with IRIS, is that you're still expectation – do you still expect that that RFP comes out, I mean is that still a – I think you've sized it at a [ph] 100 units to (26:26) 200 units, is that how we should think about that starting in 2016?

Yeah. I think that's correct. And again I think I'm even more confident about that. They're beginning to order piecemeal, which is something that they said they would not do. Well if they're doing it, because they have certain units within their infrastructure that are literally obsolete and are approaching a situation where they could have catastrophic failure. So they have to get those replacements, but the fact that they're ordering [ph] piecemeal (26:54) from us makes me even more confident. At the end of the day, no matter who gets the Tier 1 contract to sell engineering contract. I believe the IRIS technology is going to be used to monitor the entire grids. So yeah, I see that moving forward. My only question is when they get that big [ph] vendor (27:13) out, it seems like a very difficult thing for them and it's a very complex process and you – to get those things done, but again they seem to be having a little bit of difficulty [ph] getting up. (27:22)

Okay. Thanks a lot guys.

Thank you. And our next question comes from [ph] the line of (27:30) Andrew D'Silva from Merriman Capital. Your line is open.

Hey, good afternoon, guys, thanks for taking my call. Lot of my questions were already answered, but just as far as the technology goes, particularly with GasPT, It's been a while since that technology was introduced to the market. And I was wondering if you can maybe give an idea on what the current landscape looks. Are you running into new technologies or is legacy gas chromatographs still really going primary competition out there for you. Any color on that would be very useful?

Sure, I'll say Andrew. And again, I've talked about this before. There was a time when I worried significantly about [ph] competing in (28:16) technology. We have seen literally nothing on the market. Interestingly [ph] ABB (28:20) actually told one of the pipeline companies we're dealing with about four months, five months ago that they thought they had a solution that mirrored some of the features that we have, they provided that solution to that company, [ph] it was tested (28:35) for one day and failed miserably, at which point they went back to the customers and said they need two more years to develop.

So we have seen nothing that comes even close to doing what we do. I think I've mentioned that one competitor that we've seen in Europe is the [ph] Elster Lab Series (28:52), which is a device that is relatively accurate not quite as fast as ours. The problem with it is that it requires daily calibration with pure methane gas. So it's got to have a [ph] pure intake (29:04) of methane gas sitting right next to it, and someone needs to calibrate it each day. And even when you automate the calibration, you're still talking about someone getting out there a couple times or three times a month to look at it and replacing that methane gas, which is highly volatile. So that's been the only device that comes anywhere near to our speed and accuracy and compactness and you still have problem with service gas.

So yeah, I would tell you that by and large the industry is still very much committed to the old technology [ph] that the gas (29:33) matters. And that has not changed and there is nothing out there that is competing with us, which I think, again, leads me to be very confident about the opportunity, because once we show, the reliability, durability, the accuracy and the acceptance of our device with some of these bigger companies, I think it becomes really a no-brainer for these companies to start changing to newer technology, which is our technology. So no indication of any type that there are any technologies out there. We just hadn't seen them. [ph]

And really (30:03) at this point, to get a new technology adopted, it would take literally two years or three years, because we've seen that cycle. We've got to get safety testing, you'd got to [ph] be in (30:12) years of field test. It's just – it's a very laborious, very expensive, very, very long process that no one [ph] seems to start (30:20) at this point.

Yeah. I guess kind of follow-up to that, do you think the reason you're not seeing new technologies is more related to the fact that it's so difficult to actually penetrate the market or do you think it's more related around the fact that your technology is that good that there isn't anything that's able to actually come out that can compete with it?

Yeah. I think it's a rocket science. I mean, I would say [indiscernible] (30:51) it is a rocket science. What Advantica did, what British Gas did in creating a GasPT was monumental. They literally were able to develop an algorithm, which the algorithm is more important than anything else, that allowed them to accurately mimic what a gas chromatograph does without any [indiscernible] (31:09), without any calibration gas.

They did that in a way that was unique to the market. And the problem that people would have now trying to catch up is, frankly, that algorithm becomes more and more accurate, the more information that we receive. As we receive more information from the field, we – our people, our engineers were able to tweak that algorithm and make it more and more accurate, so we're always approaching the accuracy of what reportedly the gas chromatograph is which is better than 0.1% accurate.

Our field units now are in the range of 0.15% accurate, so they are approaching the GC accuracy levels with none of the maintenance for gas or time delay problems, and it's just a very difficult thing to do. I mean, I think I've mentioned this before, when we first brought the new product to the market, a very senior executive at a pipeline company in North America said that market has been looking for this for 20 years. They've been working on trying to get something like this for 20 years, and just have not been able to develop it. [ph] While (32:11) British Gas, simply because they have the money, the time and the expertise, [ph] they're (32:16) able to do it. And I think it's just a very – it's a difficult problem, it is – gas especially now has become very, very changeable, it has numerous elements in it that affect its volatility, it's [ph] caloric (32:28) value, and absent the chemical analysis that a gas chromatograph provides, no one's been able to come up with a concept that approaches what we do.

Okay. And then moving over to CUI-Canada, what is a baseline gross margin we should expect out of the products that are coming out of there? Is it maybe in the low 30%s to mid-30%s, is it slightly below traditional business segments that you had prior?

Dan, you want to pick that?

Absolutely, I'll pick that up. Andrew, yeah, that's correct. So right now it is in the lower margin, lower 30%s as we're building up efficiencies there. The plant, as you know, we acquired it out of insolvency, so it's not a fully loaded, highly efficient plant yet, which means there's more overhead being allocated to the lower volumes. As those volumes increase we expect that margin to climb up into the 40% range, where the rest of Power category is. But for now, we are seeing margins in the lower to mid-30%s from a gross standpoint. And we are working on other ways to rectify that as well beyond just increasing the flow through of the factory, we're also working on setting appropriate pricing on the orders that we're [ph] lending. (33:49) So we feel some of those may have been not quite priced correctly for the current model that is in operation at that facility. So as we work with the customers on new orders, we're being quite realistic with them on pricing and coming to a win-win situation for everyone, so...

Okay. Got it. And this might not be relevant to you guys, but do you need any sort of EPA Certification or regulatory certification to mass distribute your products in any part of the U.S or any other type of standards that we should be thinking about internationally for GasPT or IRIS or anything to that nature?

No. IRIS requires no regulatory approval at all and the same holds true for – VE Technology requires no regulatory approval at all. What GasPT required, which we already have, is full safety certification, CSA for North America, IEX for Asia, ATEX and Baseefa for Europe. So the only other certification, if you will, that people look to is PRCI, which we have in North America, where they have tested and [ph] approved that (35:06) for accuracy. And as I mentioned, NMi in [indiscernible] (35:09) that one customer.

But really in North America, what you have is the industry, to a large extent, regulates itself when it comes to metering and measuring and has historically, like I say, use that gas chromatograph to measure the caloric value and then [ph] has very active flow meters (35:27) to measure the flow.

Okay. And then just last question. As far as Orbital goes, I know couple, maybe a year ago or so we were discussing international, by international, I mean outside of the UK opportunities for the company, in the Middle East Africa and parts of a South America, are those still viable [ph] what's on their (35:48) legacy biomethane [ph] orderisation (35:51) projects or are you just kind of seeing that transition to more domestic UK opportunities for them now? [indiscernible]

(36:01) they're actually [ph] responding with (36:01) a pretty significant opportunity in Venezuela, which we're working on it. It's just, again, they're long sales cycles, but they would be big projects. Their eyes are open, and they're certainly looking outside of UK. Obviously, our first commitment with the [ph] traditional (36:09) business is inside of UK with the big pipeline companies in the UK, but we are looking out, and there are projects on the horizon that could be significant.

Okay. All right. Hey, thanks a lot guys. Good luck going forward.

Sure. Thanks.

Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Marco Rodriguez from Stonegate Capital Partners. Your line is open.

Good morning, guys. Thanks for taking my questions. I apologize, I was having some technical difficulties in my phone, so I had to jump off and come back, and so if you've covered these questions, then just [ph] let me know, (36:47) I'll follow up with you later. Just kind of wanted to understand a little bit here, I didn't get a chance to write down the gross margins by segment, what were those numbers again for the quarter?

They weren't disclosed in the Q, but we do have them, I think they were already disclosed in the press release. For the quarter, the Power and Electro-Mechanical segment gross margin was 37% and the Gas segment was 34%. And then year-to-date the Power and Electro was 37% and the Gas segment was 35%.

Got you. And then the SG&A had a pretty large sequential decline here. Just trying to get a sense as far as what was going on in the quarter? Were there any sort of one-time items that might have lowered it? And what are the sort of the expectations as we go through the rest of the year?

Good question. What happened is the first quarter was more expensive as there is a lot of startup costs, including recruiting costs in the first quarter as we're setting up the new operation in Houston and then also completing the acquisition of CUI-Canada. So we feel like the Q2 SG&A is pretty stabilized now for where we believe the two new operating segments are going to require, and as well as the ongoing operation. So I think the Q2 SG&A is pretty – going to be pretty consistent for the remainder of the year.

Got you. And if you could talk a little bit about the balance sheet, receivables ticked up pretty substantially, sequentially. Can you talk a little bit about the drivers there? And then, obviously, you mentioned in the prepared remarks that this product kind of impacted your cash flow from operations and free cash flow. And also if maybe you can talk a little about the expectations of cash flow for the remainder of the year.

Sure. So the uptick in receivables is really to do with the increase in business associated with the overall growth, but really the addition of CUI-Canada operations and the related customers are going through CUI's Power group now; and then also the uptick in business through the Houston, overall UK, overall U.S. office. So those two entities and the growth in general brought in $23 million of revenue for Q2 as compared with $16 million in Q1. So that's the general increase in the receivable balance. And I'm sorry, could you repeat your first question [ph] or rest of (39:09) that question.

Yeah, just kind of how we should be thinking about cash flow from operations for remainder of the year and free cash flow as well?

In general, the balance sheet looks like it's probably going to stay in this territory from receivables inventory side standpoint. Payables should remain consistent as well. So, we don't expect the cash used in operations to be millions of dollars each quarter now. It should be more just based on the [ph] flux (39:39) for the P&L impact, and smaller changes in the balance sheet. So, it should start to see some smaller usage for the rest of the year.

Okay.

As Bill mentioned, we're not [ph] talking about (39:52) the cash balance that we've got right now, and we don't believe we're going to be burning through much of that for the rest of the year. So, [ph] thank you. (39:59)

Okay. Got you. And then – hello?

Go ahead.

Go ahead, Marco.

Okay, I'm sorry. I guess, I might be having some more problems with my phone. Then, last quick question, I just want to get clarification on one of the earlier questions, the large Italian opportunity. I believe on the last call, you guys were talking about, there should be some award announcements coming this summer, obviously the summer is not done yet, but we're almost kind of lapping that. Is that expectation still there, or is that being pushed a little bit? Can you help me understand that part?

Yeah, it's obviously [indiscernible] (40:38) we're intentionally not announcing much of anything until we actually have a confirmed form of tender out there that we win. Because, obviously I don't want to ride through it, waving red flag in front of my competitors. And, that's – we've been told that that should still be done this summer. I expected it actually by now but these EU bid processes are very complex as evidenced by the one in the UK. They are moving forward according to what they tell us and we still expect something this summer. When I say this summer, I [ph] just expect (41:11) something in some – late this month or early September.

Got you. Thanks a lot guys. I appreciate it.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Jim Kennedy from Marathon Capital Management. Your line is open.

Hi, Bill. Hi, Dan.

Hi, Jim.

Hi, Jim.

Congratulations on the progress. Couple of questions for you. I wanted to start with VE. Could you remind us what is it about that technology that you feel caused it to be selected both in Australia as well as other places globally? What is it doing that other technology cannot do?

Yeah, it's – that's a great question. And it's a little bit technical but I'll try and simplify it as much as I can, and obviously it's been simplified for me because I'm aware [ph] by trade I'm (42:00) not an engineer, but in traditional sampling systems, what you have is a very large amount of gas samples, taken up through a very large tube, it then goes into a filter system that is also quite a large compartment comparatively, where it sits for a period of time and then goes into whatever your analyzer is. That period of time from sampling to receipt of the analyzer can be anywhere from two minutes to as many as five minutes or six minutes.

More importantly for trace elements like mercury, that large tube, and especially that large filtration system creates a pocket where the mercury, which is heavier than all of the other elements, settles in the bottom. So many times the mercury has to build up to such an intense level before it gets to the detector that by the time they realize there's mercury content in the gas, it's too late or in some cases, a good example was a catastrophic failure at Statoil in the Netherlands, where you had a buildup of mercury that no one appreciates because the sampling system simply didn't get the mercury to the detector.

The VE technology because of the aerodynamics created by the cans, the helical pins allows us to take up a very, very small amount of gas. I think it's a 4-millimeter tube that brings the gas up. Reason that's important is it requires no filtration. It's not being forced up through a pressure drop like it's in normal sampling systems. So it's coming up through its own impetus. It allows the gas from the pipeline to reach the analyzer in less than two seconds. It's almost instantaneous. It comes from the pipeline to the sampling system, and there is no large filtration or other large compartments within the sampling system. It goes straight from the pipeline into the analyzer. In the case of mercury as an example, it becomes very, very accurate, because the place where the mercury settles is off the gold foil that is in fact the analyzer process.

So the sampling system is very, very accurate for trace elements like mercury, like H2S, like water, and moisture, H2O, are all things that can be very, very damaging especially in the LNG process in the liquification process of LNG. Obviously, any water in the gas or any moisture in the gas during that liquification process, turns into ice, which again can be catastrophic when you're dealing with an LNG plant.

The mercury, as I mentioned, is very corrosive for aluminum, so also potential catastrophe. And those are all very, very small trace elements in the gas pipeline. So if you have a sampling system that mixes the gas, and allows that trace element [ph] find and (44:48) get another place to hide in the filtering system, you have simply another method of not being able to detect those trace elements. So what the VE Technology does is it allows a very quick, very small, very accurate samples to be taken. On top of that, obviously, because of the helical pin, it reduces and eliminates that vortex, which causes the vibration and ultimately causes the pipeline or the probe itself to break.

Right.

So its two-fold, one is the initial invention, which is simply to try to stop the vibrations; and two is then kind of the unintended consequence of that in order to draw very fast, very accurate sample.

So Bill, the potential market here as you've described, are we talking strictly LNG projects and are they new builds, can it be retrofit?

No, it's not strictly LNG, the probe, the sample system could be used with any analyzer, anything, it makes the gas chromatograph faster as well because, obviously it's going to be taking 5 minutes or 10 minutes to get the sample, you're getting a sample within two seconds. It's obviously [ph] integral for (45:53) GasPTi because it makes the [ph] GasPT (45:56) that much quicker.

But it can be used with any sampling system or rather any analyzer to sample any form of gas. So it could be used throughout the system. And in the case of sampling systems, it's most particularly used in LNG because LNG has the most [ph] problem to (46:14) trace elements and the most danger from those trace elements because they're liquefying, actually liquefying the gas.

The other areas that we're seeing some pretty good pick-up as you can tell is in the area of thermowells, which is a much lower price point, but it's much more prevalent throughout the entire industry. Thermowells are everywhere. It's not hundreds or thousands, it's millions of pipelines all over the world. So the difference is with there, where now you have a very strict calculation you have to do. Whenever you put a thermowell into a pipeline where you have to calculate what the vibration is, when the vibration is going to cause weakness, how long that device can last, when it has to be replaced. You eliminate all those calculations, all that replacement, all that issue when we use the thermowells designed around our VE Technology and you don't have that vibration issue. So the opportunity is quite a lot.

When you went through the evaluation phase and the testing here, were you competing against other technologies or is this perceived to be the only technology that can do this or does it better than competing technologies, what was the criteria there?

Yeah, there is no – the sampling probes and thermowells have been very – they're just – basically up until we introduced this VE Technology, they were simply -you would stick a pipe into the pipeline. There was nothing technical about it. You stuck the pipe into the pipeline. It had an [ph] angled tip (47:40) on it. So you had a pressure drop as it went past, and everything went up, everything, including all the garbage, everything else we see in that pipeline would go up into that tube, that's why you have to have such large filtering because you're drawing up dirt, and mud, and crud and all the stuff that's in that pipeline. We don't do that. We only draw the gas. But again there's nothing particularly scientific about what was done in the past. We have the patents all around this helical pins, which really is a historically as a system that's been used to create this vibration elimination by smokestacks, by car antennas, anywhere you have a flow going across Asia, in essence and [ph] inserted (48:24) into a pipeline or in the airspace of any type you're going to have this problem, and these helical pins have been used to avert that problem, we simply have the patent on using that technology in the pipeline, oil and gas pipeline. [indiscernible] (48:39).

So in theory you could become an industry standard with the right adoption rates?

Yeah. I think that's correct, and I think again, it's kind of the thing where you don't have regulatory requirements. It's more people starting to look at it, and realize what it does, and how it works, and I think that's what we're seeing now in Australia, is we went down there, and I think I mentioned this before, we went down there for £280,000 or $400,000 opportunity. We went down there, we [indiscernible] (49:06) because we saw the opportunity and the minute they started seeing the results, the minute they started seeing what it could do all of a sudden, now I think we're up to somewhere around £3.3 million, almost [ph] $5 (49:18) million worth of sales we've got [ph] down there. (49:19)

Okay. Other question for you Bill and Dan. On the North American gas transport and compression company that is now starting to order PT2, number one, is this a referenceable customer? Will they allow you to share their name with others and allow people to come and see the technology in the field?

Yeah. We've got really good cooperation in that regard. They are very – as I think we've talked about it in the past there, [indiscernible] (49:50) anything to do with press releases or any of that kind of announcements but within the industry themselves, they've been very, very good about acting as a reference, they've made their engineers available to talk to other people. And yeah, we have our sales group out of North America using them quite often as a reference. And they are, in fact, opening up their facility to allow other engineers to take a look at what's going on. So, we feel that's [indiscernible] (50:14).

Do we – again, you're not going to mention the company but do we know approximately what percentage of footprint they have in the U.S.? I mean do they control 5% of the transmission, 3%, 10%?

I'd say it's probably – it's certainly less than 2% of the transmission, it's not so much that they control so much of the transmission. It's that they're very respected as very high-tech and very advanced. They're a company that is, to some extent, a dull weather in the industry, they always [ph] have been, (50:45) so that really was our take at them. So, you're talking about in the U.S., you're talking about the 350,000 miles, almost 400,000 miles of pipeline now. So, you've got some major pipeline players, the Kinder Morgan, the ETPs that are controlling a lot of their own compression. But again for an independent operation, they're very significant in the sense that the industry looks to them for direction.

Okay. And last question, your press release from July, I believe it was the 21st, mentioned Asian gas turbine manufacture. Comment on the number of systems deployed. Were they purchased? What is the ongoing relationship there?

Yeah. I think now we delivered four systems to them. I think that's delivered. The big issue was their factory acceptance. They're very particular about how and what they will take. They are in fact running those systems as I understand it now, and they are in essence conducting their own testing to see what the effects are. We are confident that they're going to see what everybody else is seeing. There is an uptick in the efficiencies and an improvement in [ph] ignitions, (51:59) but again they're not really sharing with us what it is they're doing or how long it's going to take, but they are moving forward and they have now that the devices in place. And yes, they did purchase the [ph] device. (52:09)

Okay. Great. Thank you.

Sure.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Joe Maxa from Dougherty & Co. Your line is open.

Yeah, hi. Just had a couple of modeling questions. I was looking at the gross margin and with the gas being down sequentially to 34%, I'm assuming, [ph] a little bit (52:31) color, was that driven by, I believe, these biomethane [indiscernible] (52:33) finalizing those. And with the backlog looking to include more of the VE Technology, I would expect that to pick back up in the second half perhaps back to your 37% to 40% range. Is that the right way to look at it?

So there was some down push in that from as you mentioned the biomethane. The other downturn in that are – decrease in that margin is we had an increase in integration work through the North American office. Those margins are in the mid-to-high 20% range, up to 30% range, so that pulls that down. As you know, though, the VE margins are in the 40% ranges, and so, those will help offset that. So, I think for the gas operation for what we're seeing for the remainder of the year, and given the integration work in the U.S., it's looking like probably 35% to 37% is the range target for that segment for us right now.

I see. And, similarly, on the P&EM side, 37% appears to be a – the number, well, two quarters in a row and commentary earlier sounds like that's going to be somewhere in that same range?

We're working on getting that back up to the 38% to 40% range, but 37% is pretty close there. I think, we're going to get it back up in fairly short order, but that's going to take turning through new orders that are priced differently, and just in general, continue to pump through the new facility in Canada to get more efficiencies there. So, that margin should start to turn back up over the next couple of quarters.

I see. And Dan, the depreciation and amortization, couple of moving parts of the acquisitions, what should we be modeling in the back half?

The number that you saw for Q2 should be consistent for the back half of the year.

Great. Thank you.

Yeah.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Roger Liddell from Clear Harbor Asset Management. Your line is open.

Thank you. Good morning, Bill, good morning, Dan.

Good morning, Roger.

Hey, how are you doing, Roger?

I wanted to pick up on Jim's question just couple of minutes ago on the PT technology, and thermowell, let's say, sensing capability, and with your discussion of the importance of mercury detection I had known the system could do that, I'm wondering if there is a multi-application opportunity out there with contaminants, pollutants that have nothing to do with energy per se. Can you elaborate on that?

Yeah. I'm not sure how to answer your question. The sampling system – our application of the sampling system is strictly for natural gas, [ph] that's always (55:30) used it for is natural gas. So you're talking trace elements of natural gas. And what those operators are really most concerned about in the trace element, are any elements that are going to cause damage to their facilities will obviously contaminate the gas itself. Now realize there's not going to be much that gets into the system, on a general basis, when you have a standard gas pipeline system, because at the entry point, you're going to have gas chromatographs that will give the operator a very exact chemical composition of the gas.

Even gas chromatographs have problems to get some of the trace elements, but it will be a very, very accurate chemical makeup of the gas. So then what you're trying to do after that is pickup things that get though in such minute amounts that they have to build up before they're detectable, that would be things like mercury or things like moisture that occur through condensation or you might have very, [ph] very (56:31) trace amounts of H2S, but generally would be much [ph] further upstream. (56:35) But again I think at this point, our applications are all energy related. So I'm not sure how to answer your question. It's all [indiscernible] (56:44). [ph]

Sure, (56:45) I don't want to pursue it further. We got enough opportunity to work on right here, right. In the 10-Q, in the section on the General Electric Intelligent Platform arena, you point out that, CUI Orbital was named as a premier solution partner. In that reference, you mentioned both natural gas, energy primary market and then separately there is a reference to Electro-Mechanical intelligent power applications as a secondary. I understand you might be significantly constrained by an NDA but this mention of Electro-Mechanical intelligent power doesn't sound like IRIS to me. Is there a second application that you are now designated as a premier solution partner?

I think that was [indiscernible] (57:52) and I think really we did that more because they looked at the company and what we do generally. But our relationship with them at this point is mostly IRIS based. I mean there are still other [ph] traffics, (58:03) we are working, we're still working with them on the GasPTi, with their turbine applications, so that we're still working on that. But again I think most of what that intelligence platform is about is IRIS and the IRIS systems.

Yeah. Okay. Turbine control applications, a UK transmission company has been using them for approaching three years now in turbine control. So is there anything concrete right now on turbine control versus the other applications for GasPTi?

I know [ph] these are already – (58:44) talked about already and we talked about [indiscernible] (58:46) manufacturer. We are still moving that in that market. That's a – we believe that's a very, very significant market for us and we have a great application for process control. So again we show they're still working towards that but other than what we've already talked about, there is nothing, certainly nothing [ph] to talk about. (59:06)

Okay. My final question, I note that there is something like 1.4 million shares short at the company. And are you aware of any particular short players or what pieces they're holding to be short?

Yeah. In fact it's interesting because I think we talked to some extent about the effect of the Russell 2000, I think, last year when we got under the Russell 2000. We, obviously, didn't make to Russell 2000 this year, and as a result of that at one point just before the Russell 2000 announcement was made, we had over 2.2 million or 2.3 million shares short. We now are again, as you mentioned, around 1.38 million to 1.4 million short shares, which is more in line with what we had before the Russell 2000 situation occurred. It was somewhere around 1.2 million. I can't tell you who or what that 1.2 million represents, it's obviously a bet by some people in the market that we're not going to deliver on what we say we're going to deliver on. We hope to make them very well.

Okay. Thank you.

Okay. Thanks, Roger.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] At this time, I'm showing no further questions. I would like to turn the call back over to Mr. Bill Clough for closing remarks.

Thank you, Sunny, and thank you, everyone for attending and listening to the call. Again I think it was pretty obvious from this call that we're very enthusiastic about the company and its opportunities going forward. And as always, I just want to thank everybody on this call and our shareholders generally for being supportive and patient. And I can assure you that the entire management team and all of our employees are working very, very hard to deliver on the promise that I think this company brings. So again with that being said, thank you and that concludes the call.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your participation in today's conference. This does conclude the program. You may all disconnect.