Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Sanjay M. Hurry — Head-Investor Relations, TTI Team Telecom International Ltd.
William J. Clough — President and Chief Executive Officer, CUI Global, Inc.
Daniel Ned Ford — Chief Financial Officer/Chief Operating Officer - Energy Division, CUI Global, Inc.
Eric Andrew Stine — Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC
Joe Maxa — Analyst, Dougherty & Co. LLC
Robert Brown — Analyst, Lake Street Capital Markets LLC
Amit Dayal — Analyst, Rodman & Renshaw, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the CUI Global Fourth Quarter and Full-Year 2016 Results Conference Call. At this time, all participant lines are in a listen-only mode to reduce background noise, but later we will be holding a question-and-answer session after the prepared remarks and instructions will follow at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, today's conference call is being recorded.

I would now like to introduce your first speaker for today, Sanjay Hurry, Investor Relations; you have the floor, sir.

Thank you, Andrew. Good morning, and welcome to CUI Global's fourth quarter and full-year 2016 results conference call. A copy of the company's earnings press release and accompanying PowerPoint presentation to this call are available for download at the Events and Presentations page on the Investor Relations section of the CUI Global website.

With us on the call this morning are William Clough, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Daniel Ford, Chief Financial Officer.

The purpose of today's call is to review the company's financial results for the fourth quarter and full-year, and to provide you with a look ahead to fiscal 2017. Following management's remarks, the call will be opened to questions and answers.

A telephonic replay of this call will be available until March 28. You may also access the archived webcast and the accompanying PowerPoint at any time on the Investor Relations section of the CUI Global website.

As a reminder, this call will contain certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 as amended. Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to vary materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements.

The company may experience significant fluctuations in future operating results due to a number of economic, competitive, and other factors, including among other things, our reliance on third-party manufacturers and suppliers, government agency budgetary and political constraints, new or increased competition, changes in market demand, and the performance or liability of our products. These factors and others could cause operating results to vary significantly from those in prior periods and those projected in forward-looking statements.

Additional information with respect to these and other factors, which could materially affect the company and its operations, are included in certain forms the company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

With that, I'd like to hand the call over to William Clough, Chief Executive Officer. Good morning, Bill.

Thank you, Sanjay. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us on our fiscal fourth quarter and full-year 2016 results conference call. I am pleased to be speaking with you following our announcement of several new developments this morning, in addition to reporting our fourth quarter and full-year 2016 results. These developments are but a few of the reasons why I believe that 2017 is truly a transformational year for CUI Global and its technologies.

Let me begin. Earlier this morning, we filed a shelf registration that, once declared effective by the SEC, gives us the flexibility to raise capital up to $100 million with an at-the-market continuous offering program, or ATM, of common stock in the amount of $30 million. I will discuss this strategic filing in greater detail after Dan's remarks, but in brief, we were preparing to aggressively enter the acquisition markets, specifically in the North American energy sector.

While we have no immediate plans to issue stock, this registration allows us to operate from a position of strength as we pursue our M&A strategy, and this ready access to capital ensures that we can do so in an expedited manner.

Our second announcement this morning is formation of a strategic partnership with ENGIE, the French energy giant. With this partnership, we gain access to ENGIE's customers, in not only its home country and in the rest of Western Europe, but also in North America and Asia. ENGIE is one of the titans of the energy industry, with over $75 billion in annual revenue and they have chosen to partner with us.

Now, let me provide some context on the past year. We entered fiscal 2016 with the promise of a disruptive technology, applicable to the global natural gas industry. While our GasPT fiscal monitoring solution had gained traction among early adopters, we had yet to secure an anchor customer, whose deployment would validate our solution to that industry.

In our Electronics business, the acquisition of Tectrol in 2015 enhanced our capabilities and broadened our customer base. Going into 2016, we were determined to leverage our combined capability, product offering and unmatched customer service and support to pursue partnerships with some of the largest and most recognized leaders in the electronics distribution market and further broaden our base of business.

Flash-forward to today, and we have improved our business during 2016, strategically and operationally. We enter 2017 having expanded market awareness and increased adoption in both of our business segments, setting us up for growth both in the near-term and long-term.

Let me briefly recap key developments in 2016 that set the stage for our growth in 2017. In our Electronics business, there are several positive developments to note in 2016. First, our partnership with Virtual Power Systems on the ICE Block product line has progressed rapidly since its formation a year ago. To remind you, we believe that ICE Block sets a new standard for an efficient power infrastructure, utilizing software-defined power that brings the benefits of [ph] elastic (05:39) power to data centers.

We were in the initial stages of commercializing this product line and after the close of the fourth quarter, we announced that initial ICE Block units were successfully deployed for testing with industry-leading data center operators, including a Fortune 500 company, a Fortune 100 company that is also one of the largest technology providers in the world, and also with a top-tier data center hardware provider. We have since added a fourth unit for testing with one of the largest e-commerce platforms in the world.

Second, in the fourth quarter, we secured Arrow Electronics as a distribution partner. This new partnership speaks to our technical capabilities, brand strength, and the depth of our offerings. In all, we now count four of the largest electronic distributors in the industry as partners; this partnership went live in January, and I am pleased to report that Arrow has already begun to reorder product from us.

As ours is a sell-through relationship, this evidences strong receptivity to our products by Arrow's customer base and will result in revenue recognition in 2017. In general, we are seeing improving demand trends in the electronics market; our largest distributor, DigiKey, has increased order flow for several consecutive months, order flow that we haven't seen in over a year.

Third, our direct sales efforts are bearing fruit; after the close of the quarter, we announced a $1.6-million order with a new customer that demonstrates this business segment's continuing ability to acquire new customers and close contracts of material size. The Power and Electromechanical backlog at quarter-end stood at $18.1 million.

Turning to our Energy business, for those you who have been long-time investors in CUI Global, you are aware that it took four years to overcome regulatory and certification hurdles to acquire our first anchor customer for our industry shifting technology, the GasPT. I'm very pleased to say that it has only taken one year since the addition of Snam Rete to add three more anchor customers. They are SGN, National Grid, and as of this morning, ENGIE. These new customers reflect shorter sales cycles following our Snam Rete award and is in line with our expectation of how penetrating the EU market first with its unified regulatory scheme would lead to faster uptake of our products.

Our ability to deliver accurate and reliable fiscal metering solutions to this market is uncontested. Simply put, the technology works and does exactly what we said it would, and the marketplace knows this. In fact, our GasPT solutions have not failed a single test or field trial.

With respect to Italy, the regulatory hurdle we've talked before is outstanding and there is no timetable on a resolution at this time. A number of GasPT units have been successfully installed in the field and I'm pleased to say, that Snam Rete is reporting a significant increase in revenues as a result of accurately measuring and billing for the gas being used. We still expect that Snam Rete will resume its delivery schedule of 1,200 units per year immediately after the regulatory issue is resolved.

Staying with our Energy business, the gas industry's expanding use of bio-methane-to-grid is catalyzing demand for our GasPT and biomethane skid solutions. Bio-methane-to-grid is one segment in the market, in which are Orbital subsidiary in the UK, has a commanding market presence. As more utilities adopt alternate fuel sources and green gas, demand for of bio-methane-to-grid systems that can actually measure the injection of renewable gas in the pipelines is growing. Orbital's ability to design, manufacture, deliver, and commission these systems that include our GasPT and VE Sampling solution is still in that demand.

To-date, we've successfully delivered 17 bio-methane-to-grid systems. In an interesting development, Ofgem, the government regulator for gas and electricity market in Great Britain has issued a potential regulatory request called the Ofgem letter, to change the gas accuracy level requirements on the UK network, so that they can begin to use the GasPT for fiscal metering at smaller metering stations, and particularly for metering on a bio-methane-to-grid skid. SGN and National Grid are already using GasPT on their larger off-takes; in fact, the Ofgem later specifically names our GasPT solution as a reason behind the proposed regulatory change. You can find a copy of Ofgem's regulatory notice on our website under the Media Room page. By relaxing the regulatory requirement for accuracy, Ofgem seeks to reduce infrastructure costs, specifically cost associated with bio-methane.

Once approved, Ofgem will recommend GasPTs across the board, both on bio-methane-to-grid and on smaller off-takes. What this means to CUI Global is that once approved, our European and UK customers will be able to replace gas [indiscernible] (10:23) with our GasPT simply because the economics favor our solution. From our perspective, there is no alternative product that can match our total cost of ownership, speed or efficiency. We are now awaiting official notification of the regulatory change.

The Ofgem later is another example of global trends in the gas industry to make measurement cheaper, faster and more accurate. From a business development perspective, adoption of our GasPT because of the Ofgem letter, should bolster our profile and similar opportunities across Continental Europe. Unlike fiscal monitoring in Western Europe, our value proposition in North America is centered on effective and efficient process control. Critical to our penetration in this geography is Daily Thermetrics, with whom we established a partnership for our VE sampling system.

As the manufacture of our VE-Probe and reseller, Daily Thermetrics is short-circuiting our path to the region's major gas operators. Very shortly, we will be collaborating with Daily Thermetrics on a joint test at a Scotia Gas facility that is designed to record data that evidences our superior probe design relative to what is currently available to the industry. We believe this data will make a very effective sales tool to Daily Thermetrics' installed customer base. In fact, we've already attracted the attention of a multinational operator, the very same Fortune 100 operator with whom we have previously worked in Australia, who asked to be on site at the testing grounds to evaluate our solution with the Daily Thermetrics. The opportunity with this one operator alone could be material to us.

We're also moving to penetrate big gas operators in North America with our GasPT solution. Our efforts to secure certification and move forward with a major Canadian operator is moving more slowly than we would have liked, still, our GasPT is forcing a change in the institutionalized method of measuring gas, and while we got to control the timing of that change, it is our expectation that based on the cost, efficiencies, speed and accuracy of our GasPT solution, this will happen.

Newer awards in the quarter to our Energy segment drove segment backlog to $12.1 million. From a strategic perspective, you can see that we have made a lot of progress over the past year. Operationally, we've also made significant progress. Our calibration and testing center, at our Orbital facility in the UK can deliver GasPT devices, at volume, to support our growth goals. Further, our new office in Houston, gave us the infrastructure to further our penetration of North America.

Subsequent to the close of the quarter, our energy subsidiary in North America was awarded the prestigious ISO 9001:2008 Quality Management certification. This accreditation expands our addressable market and enables us to bid on larger opportunities in the sector.

Dan will review our financial results in a moment, but I want to offer a few highlights of the year.

In 2016, we made tremendous strides in executing our strategy to drive growth. For the year, we reported revenues of $86.5 million, essentially unchanged from last year. This top-line performance however masks the underlying broadening of adoption of our GasPT solution, that has, in just one year, moved well beyond Italy into the UK and now for those who have seen this morning's ENGIE press release, further into Western Europe and quite possibly Asia, with the backing of one of the global energy icons.

We have also made tremendous strides in working capital. We improved cash flow from operations by $5.6 million and are now just under $1 million negative compared to a negative $6.4 million in 2015. We exited the fourth quarter with a cash on hand of about $4.6 million.

I'll now turn the call over to Dan, our CFO, to review our financial results for the quarter and year in greater detail. I will then conclude the call with a look at the fiscal 2017, after which I'll open the call for Q&A. Dan?

Thank you, Bill. Let me take you through the financials for both fourth quarter and year-end December 31, 2016. We are reporting total revenues of $19.4 million for the fourth quarter of 2016 compared to $21.9 million fourth quarter of 2015. Power segment revenue for the fourth quarter of 2016 was $13.8 million compared to $14.4 million during the same period last year, which -representing a 4% drop in the fourth quarter in 2015.

The drop in revenue was due to lower revenue from CUI-Canada related products compared to the previous year. Revenue from the Energy segment for the fourth quarter of 2016 was $5.6 million compared to $7.5 million in the fourth quarter of 2015. The decline in the Energy segment revenue compared to the fourth quarter of 2015 was due to the ongoing regulatory issue in Italy that resulted in no shipments of our GasPT solution to our customers in Italy and the continued lower foreign currency translation in Orbital-UK due to the drop in value of the British pound following the Brexit vote in June.

Revenue for the full year ended December 31, 2016 was flat at $86.5 million compared to $86.2 million in the same period 2015. Revenue breakout by business segment for the year was $58.4 million for the Power and Electromechanical segment compared to $58.0 million in 2015. The Energy segment revenue was $28.1 million in 2016 compared to $28.2 million in 2015.

Using the same foreign currency translation rates in 2016, the Orbital-UK results would have been improved significantly, approximately $2.8 million higher, and our consolidated net loss would have been approximately $75,000 lower had we used constant-currency exchange rate in 2016 as in 2015.

Revenue for the three months year ended December 31, 2016 are attributable to continued sales and marketing efforts, sales through the distribution channel customers with CUI-Canada related product line additions and revenues generated since the January 2015 opening of Orbital Gas Systems, North America.

The cost of revenues for the three months ended December 31, 2016, was $12.9 million compared to $13.4 million in the same period last year. As a percentage of revenue, the cost of revenue increased to 67% in the fourth quarter of 2016 from 61% during the prior year competitive period.

As a reminder, this percentage will vary based upon the Power and Electromechanical product mix sold, the mix of natural gas systems sold, contract labor necessary to complete gas related projects, the competitive markets in which the company competes and foreign exchange rates.

The cost of revenue for the year ended December 31, 2016, was $54.2 million compared to $53.9 million in the same period last year. As a percentage of revenue, the cost of revenues remained constant at 63% in 2016 and 2015. The cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue reflects improved product mix, including an increased volume of higher-margin GasPT sales within the Energy segment, offset by lower margins in the Power and Electromechanical segment.

As a result of the improved product mix in the Energy segment for the year ended December 31, 2016, the cost of revenues as a percentage of revenue dropped 5 percentage points from 63% to 58%. This improvement helped to offset lower margins incurred in the Power and Electromechanical segment, as that segment's cost of revenues as a percentage of revenue increased slightly to 65% from 63%.

Gross profit for the quarter ended December 31, 2016, was $6.5 million or 33% compared to $8.5 million or 39% in the same period 2015. For the year ended December 31, 2016, gross profit was $32.3 million with a gross margin of 37% unchanged from last year. During the three months and year ended December 31, 2016, the Power and Electromechanical segment generated gross profit margins of 32% and 35% respectively, while the Energy segment generated gross profit margins of 36% and 42% respectively.

For the three months and the year ended December 31, 2016, SG&A decreased $0.6 million and increased $1.2 million respectively compared to the prior-year comparative period. The decrease for the three months ended 2016 was largely due to decreased corporate SG&A due to lower employee incentives, including bonuses and severance and lower professional fees. The Energy segment also decreased in the quarter due primarily to lower translation rates at Orbital-UK as the average translation rates of the British pound in the fourth quarter of 2016 dropped 18% compared to the average translation rate in the fourth quarter of 2015.

The increase for the year is largely due to $0.6 million of severance costs incurred in the Power and Electromechanical segment for the transition of the R&D team to CUI-Canada and for various positions with the Energy segment.

Increased audit and accounting fees in the year ended December 31, 2016 of $0.7 million contributed to the increased SG&A. Other increases in SG&A during the year were associated with the ongoing activities to reach new customers, promote new product lines, including Novum, ICE Block, GasPT, IRIS and VE-Probes as well as new product introductions, partially offset by a foreign currency translation decreases at Orbital-UK.

Further, [ph] sort of (19:16) partially offsetting the increased SG&A was a $0.3 million decrease in non-severance-related SG&A associated with the activities of Orbital Gas Systems, North America, which opened in January 2015 and had increased start-up related costs in first three months of operations. SG&A increased to 40% of total revenue compared to 38% of total revenue during the year ended December 31, [ph] 2016 (19:36).

The company reported a net loss of $2.6 million or $0.12 per share for the quarter ended December 31, 2016, compared with a net loss of $1.3 million or $0.06 per share in the prior-year period. For the year ended December 31, 2016, the company reported a net loss of $7.3 million or $0.35 per share compared to the loss of $6 million or $0.29 per share in the prior-year period. The increase in the net loss for the three months ended December 31, 2016, compared to the three months ended December 31, 2015 was due to lower revenues and resulting gross profits in the three months ended when compared to the prior period.

The increase in the net loss for 2016 compared to 2015 for the full year was primarily the result of increased selling, general and administrative expenses and increased tax expense. Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization or EBITDA for the three months and year ended December 31, 2016 were a loss of $1.8 million and $3.9 million respectively. EBITDA for the three months and year ended December 31, 2015 was a loss of $0.5 million and a loss of $2.7 million respectively.

Adjusted EBITDA for the three months and year ended December 31, 2016 were loss of $2.3 million and $3.2 million respectively. The prior-year adjusted EBITDA for the three months and year-ended December 31, 2015 were a loss of $0.3 million and $1.3 million respectively.

Adjusted net income or loss, which represents net income or loss plus the amortization expense of the intangible assets acquired via the 2013 Orbital acquisition and the 2015 CUI-Canada acquisition plus the expense associated with the stock and options issued for compensation, royalties and services, for the fourth quarter of 2016 was a loss of $2.6 million. This compares to an adjusted net loss of $0.7 million for the fourth quarter of 2015. For the year ended December 31, 2016, adjusted net loss was $5.2 million compared to an adjusted net loss of $2.9 million in the comparable prior-year period.

At December 31, 2016, CUI Global held cash and cash equivalents of $4.6 million, a decrease of $2.7 million since December 31, 2015. Operating requirements generated negative cash flow from operations of approximately $0.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2016, which was a $5.6 million improvement from negative cash flow from operations of $6.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2015.

The use of cash from operations in 2016 was benefited by improved account receivable balances in both business segments at December 31, 2016 compared to 2015 as a result of improved collections in both segments and the transition of Tectrol customers to CUI-Canada that had delayed some payments at the end of the prior year.

CUI-Canada's cash from operations improved significantly from 2015, while Orbital Gas Systems, North America, continued to use more cash than it produces due to the cost of establishing the Orbital brand in the U.S. As that business matures, we expect [ph] this (22:33) to contribute cash, but not in the short term.

Orbital-UK's cash from operations improved significantly in 2016 compared to its use of cash in operations in 2015. Overall, the change in cash used in operations is primarily the result of the net loss in 2016 before non-cash expenses affected by changes in assets and liabilities.

During 2016, in addition to the change in trade accounts receivable, significant factors that impacted the cash used in operations included cash used for inventory purchases that increased approximately $1.7 million associated with timing of customer orders and ongoing projects.

Changes in costs in excess of billings and billings in excess of cost were a combined approximate $1.3 million use of cash in the period related to the billings on projects in the Energy segment and unearned revenue increased $1.2 million, primarily in relation to increases in deferred revenue from distributor activity within the Power and Electromechanical segment.

CUI Global also recorded two non-cash entries of $0.3 million for inventory reserves, partially offset by $0.1 million of an unrealized gain on derivative.

Finally, with regards to the filing of our S-3 and [ph] 8-K (23:39) this morning, we expect that our 2017 capital needs will be financed through available liquidity as well as capital commitments that we have already secured through the line of credit and the opportunity to borrow against a facility in the UK if necessary. While we do not have any near-term requirements for equity capital, we believe we are [ph] prudent to see if these are (23:56) available to us as we continue to manage and grow business going forward.

This concludes my prepared remarks. I will turn the call back over to Bill. Thank you.

Thank you, Dan. As I noted at the start of this call, our strategy in 2016 was to build awareness and increase adoption of our energy solutions to drive growth. In 2017, we intend to continue along this same path while confronting opportunities borne out of our efforts last year into revenue this year. Our opportunity set in 2017 shows clearly the progress we've made in just a year's time.

Let me spend a few minutes articulating our priorities and our opportunities this year. To begin, we will continue to drive adoption among the top-tier of gas operators globally. The ENGIE opportunity we announced this morning is truly remarkable in terms of its scope and its potential impact to CUI Global.

Our agreement spans our GasPT and VE sampling technologies for deployment in natural gas and green gas opportunities within ENGIE's installed customer base and especially in Asia, where it has a significant presence, and to prospective customers. As a thought and technology leader and an active proponent of sustainable energy, our partnership with ENGIE validates our solutions as a means of physical monitoring that is far more efficient and cost effective than those currently deployed by the gas industry.

The opportunities with and through ENGIE are considerable. Through its integration subsidiary, Endel, ENGIE expects to deploy as many as 1,000 biomethane-to-grid skids over the next several years. Use of our GasPT device and our significant expertise in that market silo will only enhance ENGIE's ability to deliver on that commitment.

ENGIE operates one of the largest LNG supply chains in the world, including a fleet of 14 LNG tankers. Our LNG applications developed in conjunction with the Cryostar Group several years ago is perfectly suited to analyze pressurized natural boil-off gas and provide composition data that will enable ENGIE to use LNG as a fuel source for its fleet of natural gas tankers.

With our five-year £30 million framework agreement with National Grid in place, we have an opportunity to penetrate National Grid in a much more significant way than we have achieved to-date. Our framework agreement encompasses products and services, including IRIS, GasPT and our VE system, so that there is tremendous opportunity to up-sell and cross-sell our energy product offering to them. With SGN, our project to bring GasPT down to the retail level for residential customers in conjunction with DNV-GL is progressing.

ENGIE has also shown strong interest in deploying GasPT at the retail level. It is early days, but the opportunity with both SGN and ENGIE could be a substantial one for CUI Global.

Next, we are focused on our continued penetration on North American market. In addition to our opportunities in North America, now afforded us through ENGIE, who owns and operates among other facilities, the longest operating LNG terminal of its kind in Everett, Massachusetts, we are also leveraging our leadership position in biomethane-to-grid in the UK to take advantage of similar business trends [ph] state side (26:58). Our competitive advantage is our ability to deliver a biomethane-to-grid solution cheaper because of the GasPT. No one else can offer this solution. We have bids out for biomethane skids in several U.S. states and Canada.

Our third priority is to penetrate new geographies for our energy products. By way of example, our relationship with ENGIE may yield our first foray into the Asia Pacific energy market. ENGIE has discussed taking us into China, where ENGIE, among other things operates a 30 million customer pipeline in Chongqing, entered into a four-year contract in 2013 to deliver 2.3 million metric tons of LNG to China over a four-year period and is developing in conjunction with PetroChina six underground gas storage sites with a combined capacity of 10 billion cubic meters of gas. To put this project in perspective, this is equivalent to the total storage volume available in all of France.

To conclude, as we enter fiscal 2017, we are beginning to see results of our relentless pursuit to drive market awareness and adoption in both of our business segments. This is especially evident in our energy business where momentum continues to build and we look for this traction to positively contribute to both top and bottom-line moving forward into 2017 and beyond.

We are a company borne of technology acquisitions and new product introductions to new markets to drive growth. With growing adoption of our disruptive energy solutions and an expanding roster of blue chip operator customers [ph] filing a number of (28:28) Form S-3 this morning reflect our belief that the time is right to leverage our success today to accelerate our growth tomorrow.

We seek business that will, one, offer technology and/or services that are synergistic to our current product offering; two, complement our existing operations; three, add strategic or competitive value to our operations; and four, are profitable. Having the financial flexibility afforded us by the shelf registration is good financial housekeeping and allows us to act on an opportunity without delay at a time of our [ph] choosy and from a (29:03) position of strength.

This concludes my prepared remarks. Operator, please open the call to questions. Thank you.

Ladies and gentlemen, the question-and-answer queue is now open. [Operator Instructions] We'll be taking our first question from the line of Eric Stine from Craig-Hallum. Your line is open.

Hi, Bill. Hi, Dan. Congrats on the ENGIE announcement this morning. Maybe just wanted to start with that. I mean are there – I know it's early days, but are there some next milestones that we should look for as part of this agreement? I guess that would be part one. And then, part two, can you just talk about specific plans in France? I know, in the past, you've sized it at 2,500 units. They'd be the full analyzer. So, any details on both of those would be great.

Yeah, I think the next milestones as with any customer is getting POs, getting a purchase order, and we are in the process of negotiating that right now. So, they are moving forward in that regard. I still see the opportunity. As we've talked about in the past, they are primarily a high-pressured operator. So, we are looking at GasPT, ICE, the integrated units, which is the higher-priced units. And I still think the volumes are where we talked about, a little less volume than you'll see in Italy, but a larger priced item, obviously more than just the analyzer.

The other [ph] element though as (30:29) I think it's a much broader, much bigger potential customer than Snam Rete. I mean it's a company that is huge in comparison. They've run the entire energy grid in France as opposed to just a pipeline. So, obviously, we have opportunities in biomethane-to-grid; we have opportunities at the retail level; we have opportunities at the distribution level. This is a much larger opportunity. And, obviously, from the press release, I think you got it from our comments, there is opportunities outside of France. They have a huge presence in Asia, specifically in China with PetroChina and others, and they are a big player in that regard and they are quite impressed with what we've done in their [ph] test lateral (31:13). So, I am quite excited about their relationship and think it's going to be a very big one.

Is there any way to think about size, I mean obviously, extremely large, but when you talked about the six underground storage sites with PetroChina, I mean any thoughts on number of GasPTi units or VE-Probes that would be involved for one of those storage sites?

No. And I'd be guessing at this stage. I mean, really, there's no way to quantify that opportunity, I mean, other than – we always know that China was a huge opportunity. Our fear moving into Asia is always protection of our patents and of our proprietary information. One of the nice things about this relationship is that we move into that area of the world with a partner like ENGIE that to some extent protects us from what we might otherwise see here, because they are so big, so respected and so embedded there, but, again, I couldn't tell you the opportunity at this point. It's very early stages.

Okay. Fair enough. Maybe just trying to understand [indiscernible] (32:14), I mean, any – I know it's very difficult to predict, but I mean, noticing any progress in getting through some of the regulatory hurdles, anyway to think about potential timing that that's cleared up or is that up in the air at this point and when it happens, their view is unchanged, you just don't know when it re-engages?

I think, it would be difficult to say, there are not hurdles, total hurdles, there is a hurdle It is a...

Okay.

...one issue hurdle, which is to get through this regulatory tariff issue. And I can tell you, having talked to them, they are moving as quickly as they can. They've got a team of people who are dealing with the regulator, they've got a team of people who are writing the regulations, the tariff scheme, they've done this before. So, they know how to do it.

They told me that they thought they would have it done by the end of last year that obviously didn't happen. So, they're telling me they're moving as quickly as they can and that they have every intent of moving forward the project as quickly as they can get it resolved. And I don't think anyone can really put a timeframe on it, because, again, you're dealing with a very large, slow-moving bureaucracy.

On the other hand, I have received information that those units that have been installed have been quite effective. They're working 100% and they are showing what they expected, some relatively significant revenue increases. So, I know they are quite motivated to move forward, but, again, if I can give you a date, Eric, I would definitely give you that data, just don't have it.

All right, right. No, I get that, okay. Last one from me, just you mentioned the Ofgem letter, is that something that is in consideration now? It sounds like that's something that you expect to get – put in place in the somewhat near term?

Yeah and we expect it to issue any day now actually. We were told that it was going to come out at the beginning of this week and we didn't get it, but we expect it any time now. We've been expecting now for a couple weeks. They closed the comment period on January 6 and told us that we have something by the end of February and obviously that hasn't happened either, but, again, we're back dealing with regulators, but I do expect something any day and we will not make a secret of it and it will be – once we hear about it, we'll put it out.

Okay. Thanks a lot.

Sure. Thanks, Eric.

Thanks, Eric.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Joe Maxa from Dougherty & Company. Your line is open.

No. Thank you. Talking more about the Ofgem letter, once that comes out, can you give us a little color on the regulatory process and what it has to go through and perhaps how long that might take realistically?

What we'll issue is the regulation. The regulation [ph] will come (35:00).

No, I...

This is the process. We've gone through extensive testing behind the scenes. Just so you know, Joe, we've gone through extensive testing behind the scenes with Ofgem and a testing facility that they have. We've done all of that. The letter – the comment letter is the last phase of that. They've put that out, [ph] because (35:16) I mentioned, closed that comment period on January 6, the next step is the regulation.

There will be a regulation that we'll issue. And at that point, we become applicable across the board to all of their off-take sites, small and large, and more importantly to the biomethane-to-grid application, which means, we can – I mean, it's a real basic thing. We can undercut anyone else in that field by as much as [ph] £150,000 (35:40), while that makes us really the leaders in the industry. It will be very difficult for anybody to compete with those on a bidding basis for those [ph] tests of devices (35:50).

So, how quickly before you would expect to see some revenue once this happens?

I think there are bids in place right now that we would be able to revise and lower that we could get almost immediately. You would see projects awarded very quick, I mean in the amount of weeks.

Okay. That sounds very promising. Back on the ENGIE – ENGIE piece of it, have they committed to using your GasPT both on their network and these biomethane-to-grid systems?

Yeah, we're in negotiations right now to develop and decide on the size of the project. They're actually committed. In fact I [ph] shout in (36:28) front of them one of the nicest things that happened during the course of negotiations, sitting in front of them in Paris, is one when an issue came up from one of their subsidiaries that, well, we'd have to do some durability and accuracy testing and their lead engineer, lead test engineer stopped them and said, no, no, no, we've done that, we know the device works, we know it's durable, we know it's accurate, that's not necessary.

So, again, I think we have accomplished what we've wanted in Western Europe. We finally have the major player in Western Europe in essence adopting or accepting the accuracy and durability. And, yeah, I think we're going to have some nice news over the next short period of time. They are definitely committed to the technology. They're very, very green-gas oriented, they're very, very efficiency oriented and they really looking to roll out a large number of both the biomethane-to-skid – the biomethane-to-gas skids rather and the devices across our network.

Right. And, Dan, one for you. So, the gross margins were lower than typical both segments or than they've been in awhile, little more color on that please. And what are you looking for as we move forward?

Sure. The gas segment was lower really, because we had just a few GasPTs in the quarter compared to the previous quarter. And the GasPT is really – the GasPTs and VEs really drive up margin in the Energy segment. When the Energy segment is more based on projects, large project skids, those kind of things, the margins are more in the mid-30s range. So, that's why the Energy segment margin was down. We are looking for that margin though to stay up around that high-30s to low-40s percent for the short term and as Snam Rete picked back up, we'll expect it to be in 40s again or it went on to ramps up their project as well, we would expect that to happen.

The Power and Electromechanical side is still in a competitive time where we're being impacted by lower margins out of the Canadian facility projects just due to continue to work to get that fully ramped up. It is improving, but that has impacted the margins there. We're also seeing a turnaround the last several months and our distribution sales are beginning to pick up. The distribution sales are where we do fairly well with margin a lot, because of how the product mix is sold to customers. We're able to achieve good pricing on that and good margins versus higher volume direct sales usually have mid-30s to higher-30s margins, but if we can sell in the distribution, we do very well in that business.

So, as the distribution network picks up, its sales activity, that's improving as well. We'll expect to see the Power segment margins head back up into the high-30s this year.

Okay. That's helpful. And, lastly, the backlog is down a little bit sequentially. So, would we be looking at Q1 being similar to Q4 and then how would you frame the year, Bill, going forward? I mean just kind of a pick-up each quarter type as more and more of these projects start getting accepted and you've obviously announced a lot of positive opportunities come in, I just want to see what you're thinking about as the year progresses?

Yeah. We think that first quarter is going to be similar to fourth quarter, which we were fairly upfront about that we thought that would be soft, but we though now see strengthening as the quarter has continued, we've had some fairly nice enhancements and we'll continue to have nice enchantments. We think that both segments, on a core basis, are growing, are beginning to grow again, we think that the Electronics division will be high single-digit growth this year and we think the Energy division, just on its core business will also be growing.

The X factors are obviously Snam Rete when that picks up, ENGIE how quick they can gear up, and then in the Power and Electromechanical areas, the ICE Block technology, we have several units out in field trials, they're doing quite well, and that's another end of the industry that could get picked up. So, again, I think we are – we still see this as a growth year and we think that as the quarters develop, we'll see sequential growth quarter-over-quarter.

Thank you.

Sure. Thank you, Joe.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Robert Brown from Lake Street Capital Markets. Your line is open.

Good morning, Bill. Could you maybe characterize the ENGIE rollout kind of structure, what's your sense and how they rollout? Do they do it over multiple years, is it to be determined, I guess, the rollout thinking they're in ENGIE?

Sure. I will tell you that the – what we announced this morning was a collaboration agreement. So, the rollout is going to be over many years. They are actually looking to partner with us, they are taking us to their customers as a partner, as part of their new technology portfolio. So, they're bringing us in as a partner with them. So it's a more than just a customer, if you will, vendor relationship, it's much closer than that. Now it's two individual rollouts, I think that we have already been introduced and are currently negotiating with their integration unit, which is the company called Endel.

Endel is the ones who do all their infrastructure work inside France, and those are the ones who will be building and deploying these bio-methane-to-grid skids that are going to be used in the green gas area. They've talked to us about significant project in that regard, that project is a multi-year project to rollout as many as 1,000 of these skids, and it will include our VE technology, our GasPT technology, and more importantly I think our expertise in that type of deployment.

Again, it is a multi-year situation where we'll see that over the course of several years, five or more. The same thing with the movement into their network. The network is a project that they think about in terms of five years, 10 years, 15 years, 20 years out, they're very progressive, they're very forward-thinking. But again, we're early days right now negotiating this, as far as specific timing, it's hard for me to say. We are already talking to Endel, so we are already talking about the bio-methane-to-grid skids. So, if that answers your question.

That's great, thank you, that helps. And then on Italy, how many units – I know you've delivered, I guess, how many you've delivered, how many you actually installed and operating at this point?

Yeah. We've delivered 400, I don't know the exact numbers simply because they're not sharing that. They have been installing though. We finished deliveries in October of last year and they have been installing small numbers. I can't tell you how many, but there are a number of units installed and I know that because they have told me the results on those units. But again, I couldn't put a number on it. I can tell you though, they're very, very committed to the project and have told us that they're all geared up and ready to go, back to 100 units a month of installation.

One of the reasons they've been installing even though they haven't yet resolved the tariff issue is because they've used the Tier-1 installation company to get themselves ready. So, they know they can install them quickly and efficiently. They've got a commissioning process set up with our distributor [ph] SOCRATES (43:49), and they've done that on a number of occasions to make sure that everything sets and goes.

So, they're ready to do a 100 units a month as soon as they get this resolved, but I do not have a number, an exact number of what they've installed.

Okay. Thank you, I'll turn over.

All right. Thanks. [Operator Instructions]

We'll be taking our next question from the line of Amit Dayal from Rodman & Renshaw. Your line is open.

Thank you. Good morning Bill, good morning Dan.

Good morning.

Congrats on the ENGIE agreement. Just in that context, we saw sort of a larger framework of agreement with National Grid. Given that we have so many touch points, sales touch points with ENGIE, could we see somewhat of a similar agreement potentially with ENGIE as well?

Absolutely, I think that's something we will be working towards, frankly. Again, as I mentioned, this is early stages, we just signed this collaboration agreement and we have a meeting with them, I have a team meeting with them on a weekly basis. So we're exploiting all sorts of alternatives in what we can do to help them. They're really seeing in a big way the multiple applications to these technologies. If they can really control the grid and monitor that entire grid, they can much more actively deliver gas and they think obviously obtain more revenues from the same gas; that's their big key, all of Europe. But again, we think that that's a very strong potential. The difference being, as I mentioned, is that unlike National Grid that really operates just the high pressure pipeline, ENGIE operates the entire energy network for France, and so it's a much bigger operation.

Understood. Thank you for that. And just in relation to the bio-methane opportunity, could you give us some context in terms of how large this market is potentially for you?

Yeah, it depends on the geographic area. We are probably reaching the tipping point with UK, where they're won't be a whole lot more. I think there may be – we have 17% out there, I think we have three in process, so we will have 20 out there and I think honestly, there's probably no more than 35% or 40% that are going to be done and there are other vendors. In the case of France, they're talking about 1,000 units. In the case of U.S., certainly at one point when the EPA was talking about expansive bio-methane-to-grid solution, there's as many as 11,000 potential intake points in the U.S. We don't think that will be quite as large simply because the new administration has less emphasis on alternative energy.

However, we do have seven bids out in North America right now, several in California and I think two or three in Canada. So we do have bids out there. Again, it's really geographically based and it depends obviously on the attitude, the political environment in each of those geographies. In Europe, green gas, biogas is very, very popular. In fact, as you may know, many of the countries have set up a program where they expect to get 20% of their energy from alternative sources by 2018, 2019. So there's a big push there. So it really depends geographically, but it is a large opportunity.

Understood. You mentioned in your commentary, potential acquisitions. I mean, has there been something identified that you may pursue in the near-term?

Yeah. We have several specific targets that we're looking at frankly, none of which that I would identify publicly because we're in again early stages. But we are always looking and we feel that there are things available now, certainly in the North America energy market that would be synergistic, profitable and would fit with our product portfolio.

So there are several areas that we're looking.

Got it. And maybe, just one last one from a higher strategic level I guess, and from a product development view, both for the CUI Global part of the business and then the CUI Inc., I mean, are there any new offerings that we are looking to launch in 2017?

Yeah. I think, one of the things we touched on earlier and I think, it's something that we're really working towards now is along with the collaboration agreement, we are now talking to ENGIE about a very unique and differentiated method of odorizing the gas, it's a micro-odorizer that we think could be quite – quite industry-shifting when it comes to odorization of the gas.

So there are products that we're looking at and of course, in the Electromechanical area, this ICE Block technology could be a huge play for us simply because it has such broad applications across the [indiscernible] (48:35) market.

So we're always – we're always looking for new technologies that we can launch.

Awesome. Thank you so much, guys.

Thank you, Amit.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Joe Maxa from Dougherty & Company. Your line is open.

Yeah, hi Bill, a follow-up on the potential acquisitions. Could – maybe, a little more color on what you're looking for; I mean, is it more product-specific to fit into your existing channel or are you looking for more of a distribution or a geographic presence? Just hopefully a little color and then also, what multiples are you seeing, or are you willing to pay for potential acquisitions?

Yeah. The multiples is – that's a difficult question to answer, it really depends on what the company is. I mean, we're seeing everything from 4 times the EBITDA to as much as 10 times, 12 times EBITDA, depending on what it is that we're looking at. We're looking at primarily – the companies that we would be looking at are, number one, the companies that are not broken, that are profitable, that are in fact making money, that have management teams in place that are working, and that are working well. We don't want to go in and try and fix something. That's something that we're not looking for at all.

In regards to this the type of company, we're really looking in the Energy market, that's where we're looking and we're looking for companies that either expand our product base or expand our customer base or preferably do both. So, we'll be looking at companies that are involved in metering, involved in analysis, involved in really doing what we do now, which is the monitoring and metering of the gas pipeline system. That means, we can look at companies that provide meters, provide applications that we don't have, and then expand us into customers that we don't have. So, again, that's where we're looking, expanded product, expanded customer, and again profitability, that's really where we're headed for.

Thank you.

All right.

Ladies and gentlemen, that's all the time that we have for questions this morning. So, I'd like to turn the call back over to the management team for closing comments.

Thanks, Andrew. I appreciate it. Thank you, everybody for your time and attention, and obviously for your patience and your support of the company. We feel that this is going to be a very transformational year in a many different ways and we obviously are available to you if you need to talk to us. We – again, thank you for your support and thank you for your time. Thank you, Andrew.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this now concludes today's program. Thank you again for your participation. You may now disconnect.