Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Casey Stegman — Investor Relations, CUI Global, Inc.
William J. Clough — President, CEO, Director & General Counsel, CUI Global, Inc.
Daniel Ned Ford — Chief Financial & Accounting Officer, CUI Global, Inc.
Eric A. Stine — Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC
Andy J. D'Silva — Analyst, Merriman Capital, Inc.
Alex M. Blanton — Analyst, Clear Harbor Asset Management LLC
Dan D. Trang — Analyst, Stonegate Securities, Inc.
Evan C. Richert — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC
Jim G. Kennedy — Founder & President, Marathon Capital Management LLC
Morgan Frank — Portfolio Manager, Manchester Capital Management LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the CUI Global, Inc. Q3 2013 Earnings Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we'll conduct a question-and-answer session, and instructions will be given at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this call is being recorded.

I'd now like to turn the conference over to your host for today, Mr. Casey Stegman, Investor Relations. Sir, you may begin.

Thank you and good morning. Welcome to the CUI Global earnings call for the third quarter of 2013. We appreciate you joining us today. With me on the call is Mr. Bill Clough, Chief Executive Officer; and Dan Ford, Chief Financial Officer. The purpose of today's call is to review the company's financial results for the quarter as well as provide you with some additional color on the business. Following opening remarks, the operator will provide instructions regarding Q&A.

As a reminder, this call will contain certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 as amended and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as amended. Such statements are subject to the risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to vary materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. The company may experience significant fluctuations in the future operating results due to a number of economic, competitive, and other factors including, among other things, our reliance on third-party manufacturers and suppliers, government agency budgetary and political constraints, new or increased competition, changes in market demand, and the performance or reliability of our products.

These factors and others could cause operating results to vary significantly from those in prior periods and those projected in forward-looking statements. Additional information with respect to these and other factors which could materially affect the company and its operations are included in certain forms the company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

With that, I'd like to introduce Mr. Bill Clough, CEO of CUI.

Thank you, Casey, and thank you everybody for joining us. I'm going to start off with a few comments and then turn over to Dan for some details and then come back and update some of the new technologies. We're pretty excited about this quarter, frankly. We think that it shows that our acquisition of Orbital was very positive and very accretive acquisition.

Our revenues year-to-date are up over 55% year-over-year; compared to last year, they're over 70%, if you look quarter-to-quarter, year-over-year. Even the electromechanical CUI company is up $460,000 in top line revenue if you look quarter-to-quarter, year-over-year. Our quarter-to-quarter comparison is $17.2 million this quarter compared to $10.7 million a year ago at this time.

Most significantly, we have increased our cash position. Our now cash and cash equivalents amounts to about $29.6 million which means we are up about $1.5 million quarter-over-quarter. Again, it demonstrates that we are now earning money and are profitable, which is obviously something that's showing up in the quarter.

Most significantly, our cash from operating activities this year is about $2.37 million, up from a loss last year same time of just over $1 million which is an increase of almost $3.5 million. Again, we've turned the corner in that regard.

The other end of it is if you look at our margins, they've increased dramatically, in fact, from about 34% – I'm sorry, SG&A has increased dramatically from about 34% down now to about 29%; year-to-date, about 39% down to about 31%. So the SG&A as a percentage of sales is dramatically lower. The margins over the course of the period have stayed pretty consistent. As I think we've said in the past, we shoot for between 37% and 40% margins, gross margins, and we're right in that 38% ballpark.

So, again, we believe it's quite a good quarter and a quarter that we're very proud of, and that is showing the company is moving in very much the right direction. Probably the most significant thing I would say at this point is for the first time in its history, this company is profitable for the year, which is quite a dramatic change. And again, that's something that Dan and I talked about with the Orbital acquisition that we felt we would turn the corner profitability-wise, and we have, in fact, done that.

So, with that being said, I'm going to turn it over to Dan to go through some of the numbers in detail, and then I'll be back to talk about the new technologies.

Thank you, Bill and everyone on the call this morning, I appreciate it. I look forward to sharing the financial figures and chatting through that and then handing back over to Bill to talk through more of the operational activities going on. Some of this Bill has already touched on, but I'll go into a little bit greater detail.

For the balance sheet, the cash and cash equivalents balance is $18.7 million. Short-term investment is $10.9 million. That is a new line item for us as we have [indiscernible] (04:58) investments. That combined is about $29.6 million, which as Bill mentioned, is $1.5 million increase since June 30 of this year.

Some of them we spoke about on the last call but is a question that comes up from time to time is what are our plans for cash. I just want to reiterate the intention of the cash and investment balances to maintain that in order to fund growth opportunities and needs surrounding that growth that we see coming in down the pipe, things like funding, accounts receivable, inventory needs and other areas that are for strategic items.

One strategic item that we identified, that we saw an opportunity to potentially improve the bottom line on a go-forward basis was acquiring our CUI Global headquarters facility in Oregon. That was a subsequent event. That's projected to save us several hundred thousand dollars in cash, expenses annually, and resulted in an increase to the bottom line going forward.

Of note, that acquisition was financed by Wells Fargo. Along with that, we also secured improved terms on the line of credit. So strengthening cash and cash equivalents, and short-term investment balance for the company. Overall, our current assets are about $45.8 million and total assets are $92.1 million roughly. That includes the other key item that was added in the quarter was the July 2013 acquisition of the VE-Probe, exclusive global technology rights, and that is recorded as an amortizing intangible asset.

Total liabilities is about $20.5 million and as the acquisition of the headquarters facility was a subsequent event, neither the assets nor the liabilities include that on the statements for this quarter.

Bill mentioned the cash flow has generated $2,370,000 from operating activities during the year-to-date period as compared to using $1.1 million in the prior year. Some of the key items for that was the company generated a year-to-date net income compared to the prior year loss. We had decreases in accounts receivable which was associated primarily with two large payments from customers, one in CUI, one in Orbital. They totaled about – [indiscernible] (07:09) $3.2 million just having to do with timing of projects and receivables, and then one large increase of about $0.9 million from an Orbital customer.

Similarly, we had increases in inventory associated with customer orders and projects in progress, increase in prepaid expenses for the year-to-date, which is largely associated with prepaid royalties on the GasPTi as well as annual insurance premiums. We had an increase in accounts payable. It just had to do with timing of payables to vendors largely associated with inventory and projects,

Decrease in accrued expenses. Most significant portion of that was related to an accrued balance on the books of Orbital at the date of acquisition. A decrease in accrued tax payable, also similarly related to Orbital and it had to do with a large payment on VAT.

Increase in unearned revenue and billings in excess of costs which is related to timing of projects and sales to customers' activity. And this cash flow from operating activities contributed directly to the quarter-to-quarter increase from June 30 of $1.5 million in cash and short-term investments. Pretty exciting cash flow for us.

The other items on there, we did invest about $400,000 to acquire the [indiscernible] (08:24) VE-Probe otherwise it was pretty consistent with the June 30 report. The P&L for the year-to-date, I'm pretty excited about the results so far. Revenues for the quarter were $17.2 million this year and then year-to-date was $45.4 million. Of the quarterly revenue, the power and electro-mechanical group generated $11.2 million and the gas group generated $6 million.

For the year-to-date period, which is $45.4 million again, the power and electro-mechanical group generated $33.4 million, which is an increase on the year-to-date period of $4.2 million, compared to prior year or about 14.5%. And the gas group contributed just under $12 million for the year-to-date. Of that $12 million for the gas group or the Orbital contribution was $11.6 million during the year-to-date period. The power and electro-mechanical increase is attributed to a variety of factors including a continued growth through the existing distribution channel, as well as the addition of Future Electronics for the distribution channel.

Continued sales and marketing efforts specifically targeting OEM manufacturers and projects in that regard, as well as continued product introductions during the year related to the CUI Inc. electro-mechanical business and CUI Japan I just mentioned as well. We've introduced over 500 new products this year, many of those going straight through distribution, as well as targeting OEM markets.

Backlog. CUI's backlog is $13.8 million at the end of the quarter, and Orbital is $23.9 million. Something that's come up in the past is how much of Orbital backlog is National Grid related. As of the end of the quarter it is about 70% – it is a little more than 70%, but the total backlog for the combined business is $37.7 million.

Gross margins. Bill mentioned this earlier, but I want to touch on it as well. The quarter was 38.3% this year versus 36.7% in 2012. It's an increase of 1.6%. For the year-to-date period, it was 38.9% compared to 37.7% in 2012, an increase of 1.2%. The power and electro-mechanical group for the quarter contributed a gross margin of 39.9% and the gas group contributed 35.4%, both of which are right in line with the sort of the targets for those business models. The Orbital team is largely targeting 35% or better margins, and the CUI group is targeting in that 37% to 40% margin group.

Both those are obviously subject to opportunities. Larger opportunities will go below those, but on our mix basis, we've been maintaining that 37% to 40% margin historically at both businesses on a combined basis. And then the year-to-date power and electro-mechanical group contributed 39.6% gross margins; and the gas group, 36.9%. So pretty good margins for the company.

SG&A, Bill mentioned also, but for the quarter was roughly $5 million compared to $3.7 million in the prior year; it's an increase of $1.3 million. However, that represents a decrease to 29.2% of revenues versus 34.9% in the prior year quarter, which is about a 6% reduction. And of that amount for the quarter, Orbital accounts for $1.4 million.

For the year-to-date, the SG&A was $14,250,000 compared to $11.4 million; it's an increase of $2.85 million. Again, similarly, a decrease as a percentage of revenues. Bill mentioned the decrease to 31.4% compared to 39.1% or a 7.7% reduction. Of the overall increase for the year-to-date period, Orbital accounted for $2.5 million of that. And then another contributing factor was the acquisition and expansible cost surrounding the equity raise were in excess of $200,000 at year-to-date.

Depreciation and amortization is up for the year and the quarter. Largely, it has to do with the amortization of acquisition-related intangibles. For the quarter, depreciation and amortization was $1 million as compared to $225,000. That's – of that amount, $735,000 in the quarter related to the amortization of Orbital acquisition intangibles. Year-to-date, it was $2.2 million compared to $522,000. For the year-to-date period, the amortization of intangibles accounted for $1.47 million.

Taxes for the quarter were $116,000. The provision for tax was $116,000, and the year-to-date was $318,000, due to primarily UK-related taxes. The UK does not allow for the amortization of intangibles from the acquisition when calculating taxable income. And the blended rate in the UK for the year-to-date period is about 21%.

Net income for the quarter was $214,000. This year, it's compared to $463,000 loss. Just under $700,000 improvement from the prior-year's quarter. The year-to-date was a profit of $47,000. Again, as Bill mentioned earlier, we're pretty excited about that. It's a year-to-date profit, even considering all the amortization – almost $1.5 million of amortization related to the acquisition of intangibles. And that compares to a loss in the prior year of $2.25 million, a very dramatic improvement of nearly $2.3 million, even with the amortization.

EPS was $0.01 for the quarter compared to a $0.04 loss from prior year. And year-to-date, EPS was a breakeven compared to $0.23 loss, pretty dramatic improvements.

EBITDA. Another figure that we're really excited about and I think it's an important measure for the company largely due to the amortization of the intangibles from the acquisition. The quarterly EBITDA was $1.45 million this year as compared to a loss of $50,000 last year. So it represents an EBITDA per share of $0.07 this year for the quarter.

And then the year-to-date, EBITDA was $2.9 million compared to a loss of $1.2 million in the prior year. That's an EBITDA per share of $0.17 compared to a loss of $0.12 last year. Again, we feel those are a good measure of the progress of the company and signaling contributors to the quarterly amortization with $735,000 in the amortization of intangibles and the $1.47 million from that same thing for the year-to-date.

Going to the pro forma statement, in there, let's look back at what the company would have looked like, had the acquisition acquired January – Orbital acquisition occurred January 1, 2013 and January 1, 2012. Again, the pro forma is, does not necessarily indicate what would have happened had the companies been together, but [ph] is a look-back, comparative (14:58) for purposes of simply giving analysis in that regard. 2013 revenues would have been $49.99 million compared to $47.9 million, it's an increase of about $2 million. Of that, Orbital accounted for $16.2 million in the current year and $18.7 million in the prior year.

It's important to note the Q1 2013 revenue was lighter than Q2 and Q3. Q2 and Q3 have been where we expected the company would be from the date of the acquisition forward. Q1, they did about $4.6 million. Since the acquisition, however, they've done $11.6 million, which is in line with what they did in prior years. Management expects continued performance somewhere in Q2 and Q3 for the rest of the year, related to systems integration business.

Another key item to highlight there is, as part of the acquisition, we've gotten them on a U.S. GAAP standard. Part of that review included reviewing how they completed percentage of completion in the current year and the comparative prior year. The prior year, as a result of that review, moved some revenues from 2011 actually into 2012 for the comparison just to make it appropriate under U.S. GAAP. In general, the company is on target for what we expected them to be doing, bringing it through the net loss on a pro forma schedule.

For 2013, the net loss would have been $1.5 million compared to a net loss in 2012 on a pro forma basis of $1.9 million. The 2013 loss includes a $1.5 million bonus approximately. That was approved and expensed during Q1 at Orbital prior to the acquisition and it was approved by the prior owner. So that was a one-time event. Exclusive of that, the pro forma would have shown a breakeven for the year-to-date as well.

Finally, I just want to say thank you again to everyone for being on the call and I want to reiterate that we're pretty excited about the results including the increased cash and short-term investments, generating cash flows from operating activities, solid backlog customer orders, maintaining and actually improving gross margins. Truly excited about the swing to profitability for the quarter and the year-to-date, two quarters in a row of profitability, EBITDA of nearly $3 million for the year-to-date period and just the dramatic opportunities for the newer technologies that Bill is going to speak more about.

Thank you very much.

Thanks, Dan. So let's talk a little bit of update of where we're at especially in the gas technologies. Let me start with the GasPT unit. As of the end of third quarter, we had sold 62 units. As of today, we've now sold 75 units. We're still quite confident in our ability to reach to 95 to 100, maybe a little bit more this year. We've signed 14 distributors. We are actively negotiating with eight more. Have had very strong response from those distributors.

Many of the sales, frankly, have been distributor sales, but we – it is our plan over the course of the next couple of quarters, probably if not the first quarter – if not next quarter, first quarter of 2014 to be able to tell you those sell-throughs. In other words, how many units the distributors actually sold to end users. We have had a good uptick in direct sales, however. As we announced, National Grid is in the process of converting their 60 gas turbines to use our GasPT device. We've already delivered eight of those for them. So that's included in that number. We have, again, had a great deal of interest from a number of different sources actually that are now coming to us as opposed to them coming to – as opposed to us going to them.

As far as Snam Rete is concerned, I have had two meetings now at the very highest level with them. We are still the only technology they are looking at. They have two additional projects they want to put us into. They are in the process of issuing another purchase order for devices for just standard motoring within their system. They're still, they tell me, on track to complete this 1,500-unit upgrade in the next 15 to 16 months. It is Italy, though. And again, I won't kid you, there is no urgency there. They are moving at their own speed, and that's kind of how they are going to move.

In regards to IRIS, we've had some really dramatic news in the area of IRIS. We are actually today meeting with United Utilities in the UK, because they would like to apply our IRIS technology to their water monitoring systems, which really is very much the same as gas, it's just a different form of liquid, if you will. So again, that's quite exciting for us.

As far as the IRIS project with the UK, we've installed about 65 of those units. They do have a total of 390 stations that they want done. They are in the process of putting together a large bid for that work under the EU treaties that they belong to. They have to put that bid out broadly. We are quite confident that we're going to get the bid though, because we're really the only ones with the technology.

And then finally, the VE-Probe, we're seeing a good uptick on that, and we're talking now with ConocoPhillips and Statoil about placing the VE-Probe both in its thermowell application and as a sampling system.

We announced, last week, I think it was, a new relationship with Yokogawa Electric which is a very, very large metering company out of Japan. We are going to be their sole representative in the UK. And it looks like now that we're going to be able to translate that into their sole representative throughout Europe. And in conjunction with that press release, one of the things that you probably also noticed is we announced for the first time our ability to export another one of our technologies, the odorization systems that we designed for the UK to a West African company. That's a big deal for us. Not only it's a big deal because there is some good dollars attached to it, but it is the first time that Orbital as an entity is really starting to export its technology.

And then, I guess, one of the most exciting things that I have to update you on, I can't say much about frankly, as most of you know, we were scheduled to have a conference or a meeting with GE on Tuesday of this week. Last week, due to their – some issues they had, we changed that meeting from a tactical meeting to a commercial meeting. I spent the day with them on Tuesday. I can tell you that I'm now operating under a very comprehensive NDA that limits me from saying much of anything other than to tell you that there is a great deal of urgency to this deal, and we hope to have something to announce before the end of the year.

With that being said, I think I will throw it open for questions, Casey.

Operator? [Operator Instructions]

Our first question comes from the line of Eric Stine. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Hi, Bill. Hi, Dan.

Hey, Eric.

Hey, Eric.

So first question from me just on the distributors, and you gave where you stand now, who you're in discussions with. Just a thought where you might end up end of this year, how that's tracking towards your plan. Also, on that front, just some thoughts on how long you think it takes those distributors to get up to speed?

Yeah. I think two things. One is, I think we're still targeting 35 to 40. I don't think we'll hit that by year end. I think we'll be somewhere north of 20, 25 by year end. And one of the reasons for that is simply, to be frank with you, I pulled some of my sales guys off of going after distributors and I pushed them to really go after end users, particularly in the UK, where we've got some pretty good traction with board gas. National Grid has got some projects in the hopper that I wanted to get involved in. So again, I redirected a couple of people from the distributors to direct sales, which I thought was something we needed to do. But again, I think to answer your question, we'll be north of 20 maybe 25 by the end of the year. And I think we're still targeting 35 to 40.

Started to getting up to speed, it really depends on the distributor. I will tell you that we've already had Ives out of – out of Philadelphia and Kontram and Norsk out of Norway and Sweden who have come in for training. So we need to get that two-day training done. And then, they're up and ready to go. I mean, Norsk in particular is dealing with Statoil. And they're already starting to place units. So Ives is another one, they've already start to place units with some LNG terminals that they're looking at. So it really – but it does depend on the distributor.

The difference though and as we've talked about this in the past, the difference with these new distributors that we're getting is these are companies that are already in the industry that are already selling metering units that in the case of Ives for example has their own installation set up, they are – they can service. These are companies that are already up to speed. So really it's just getting them familiar with the technology, which the whole idea of that technology is it's simpler and easier to install. So it's not an issue, that's not an issue for them. So again, pretty quick uptake.

Got it. And clearly, I mean you were probably the first to admit that the timing of adoption has been frustrating. Is there anything in working with these distributors that can help you get a better read on the market, just as far as planning your business over the next few months and over the next few years, just better visibility into the opportunity.

Absolutely. That's the exact reason, Eric, to your point. That's the exactly we're going with these more sophisticated distributors. We have pushed them, we don't have it yet but we have pushed them to do just that, to do forecasting, to figure out what they're going to need, and how they're going to move forward, because they know their industries, they know their geography better than we do, and these guys are very capable of doing that. That's exactly what we're pushing them to do. Part of the distribution agreement is a rolling six-month forecast and every one of them is fully prepared to do that. Obviously, they want to get to their customers first so they can get a handle on it, but that is exactly why we're doing it, so we can get a much more transparent view of what's happening going forward.

I mean, we, as you well know, we do not and really are not in a position right now to give any guidance, simply because we're bringing new technology to the market and it's very difficult to figure out sales cycles.

We also know that in the next three or four quarters, certainly sometime next year, we're going to have to start giving some forecasting and that's something we're prepared to do, but only when we have the data available, and that's the whole reason for these more sophisticated distributors.

Got it. Okay. Maybe just turning to IRIS, you touched on the new opportunities there. In the past, you've talked about National Grid, that they have a smaller program this year, so maybe an update on where that stands. And then a larger project which again has to go out to a larger bid, but that's something you think you win next year.

Yeah. Actually – and the one thing I didn't mention with IRIS is, interestingly and I don't think particularly coincidentally, GE is also very interested in IRIS. We have a team of GE representatives coming to meet us in the UK actually on November 26, next week, because they would like to rep IRIS in North America. They think there's a huge opportunity there. And, of course, they do all the hardware. We've designed the software, but they're actually – it sits on their platform. So we'll be talking to them as well.

But yes, to update on National Grid, National Grid really wanted to give the contract out piecemeal but unfortunately, their procurement says they can't do that. They have – because it's 300 – well, now, about 320 – 310, 320 units that they're going to need to install. They have to, under their processes, put this out to bid throughout the EU, throughout the European Union. It's part of the treaty, as I understand it, that formed the European Union. So they are fully intending to do that.

That process will take – it's going to take a couple of months. There's no doubt about it. They've already told us that. They're looking for something first quarter, early second quarter next year to put that bid out. But the fact is there's no one else who does what we do. Their entire platform is set up now, since we've installed approaching 70 units, their entire platform is set up to work with our technology and our software. So we feel quite confident that we're going to get the – we will get the larger contract.

The issue, though, is instead of giving in out piecemeal, they're going to have to do it under a larger contract. So that's something we're waiting to get. And as soon as we get it, we'll be bidding on it. And it will be a publicly-available contract, so the moment it comes out, we will announce that we're bidding on it.

Right. Got it. And maybe this is a GE question and maybe this is one that you can answer. But just thoughts on if they were to rep in the U.S. any thoughts on the market opportunity whether overall or annual or if it's too early to say?

It's too early to say. That's IRIS you're talking about, right?

Yeah. I'm talking [indiscernible] (28:09).

Yeah, IRIS. It's – all I can tell you is, as I mentioned to you, the National Grid system is relatively smaller compared to the U.S. There's 390 metering and their compressor stations they would be applicable to. If you look at the UK, it's about 16,000 miles of pipeline. If you look at Kinder Morgan in the U.S., it's 81,000 miles of pipeline. One pipeline operator, 81,000 miles of pipeline, 700 compressor stations, I don't know how many metering stations.

So, I mean, you can see that the opportunity in the U.S. is much more – is much larger and much more dramatic. But it really is too early for me to say what anything with GE would look like. And I'll tell you, if it's anything like the – what we're doing with the GasPT right now, they're going to clamp a NDA on until we have a finalized agreement. So again, I can tell you that we're meeting with them next week, I could tell you that they're sending people to us and that I'm spending my Thanksgiving with them there, and we'll see what comes about from that.

Okay. This maybe the last one from me, on Yokogawa, just curious how that relationship came about whether it was from the petrochem client or not and then can that expand to the GasPTi? Thanks.

Yeah, it can. It would be a smaller market though, because it is really more of an industrial user. But yes, it will expand to the GasPTi. And the way it came about is Yokogawa has been looking for a representative. They tried to penetrate the UK market themselves. They actually have a UK subsidiary and they just have not had much success.

They were looking to partner with somebody who is respected in the industry in the UK who could give them the entry that they need, and they chose us. They came to us. It's been about, I'd say, a three or four-month negotiation process now, and we were quite happy to bring them on board. So they'll, in essence, we will be rep-ing them like I say immediately in the UK, and we think it's going to be a Europe-wide, at the end of the day, Europe-wide relationship.

Okay. Thank you very much.

Sure. Thanks, Eric.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Andrew D'Silva of Merriman Capital. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Hey, guys. Thanks for taking my call. Just the first question right up about what's the seasonality like with Orbital UK? [indiscernible] (30:27 – 30:36) third?

Yeah. Let me, I'm going to let Dan answer that, specifically about the first quarter. Dan, go ahead.

Their business, it doesn't necessarily have seasonality, but it is project-based. So it comes down to the timing of when projects are coming through and how long they're scheduled to take for completion. The Q1 period, again, it was before we had them, their annual target that was right in line with what they had projected for the year to us and internally. It's less seasonal but honestly, it is – for example, next year, we went out to contract for 320 IRIS systems, that would be spread over a period of time, and it could be spread over, say, it's nine quarters. That's going to go two-year plus, plus one quarter.

So that's the type of impact from a seasonality standpoint is, but it's not – there aren't like peaks and valleys in the ordering scheme for them. National Grid is their main – is their largest customer, I should say, and they're continually doing systems projects. It's not seasonal based on an upswing or there is not a Christmas holiday season to prepare for.

They do deal with weather impacting some of their projects, but that's more of a week or two week delay. If you've got to pour a concrete pad, you've got to wait out the rain. But it's not – seasonality is less in their business and we've looked at it. Historically, it's not a seasonal business but it is impacted frankly by timing of project schedules. And those are project-by-project deals so. [indiscernible]

(32:17)

And then I should say also too, that is something that we're trying to, obviously, be able to even out. That's a big reason why we're focusing on global markets with the technologies. It's a big reason why we've got product technologies in the gas platform, now with the GasPT, the IRIS and the VE-Probe.

So six months into it, we're working on essentially making that an easier thing, an easier item to look at and see what's going on going forward, which is why Bill and I are hopeful to have a history and sufficient understanding of our markets from our customers to be able to give some better guidance, or actually not better, to be able to give guidance to the market sometime next year.

Good, [indiscernible] (33:06). And then kind of sidetracking the Snam Rete, what or when was the subsidy coming from Italy? I mean, you were talking about $80 million subsidy expiring in 2015 sometime. I mean is that still on and I know they're kind of lackadaisical with the way they do things. But I mean, is there a firm timeline for them or it's just kind of [indiscernible] (33:28).

No, it's not a subsidy. It's a bond. Then, the bond has been fully funded and it is €80 million, that's exactly right. And as I understand it and in terms of their law, if they do not spend that money on that project within the next 15 months – I think it is 15 or 16 months. So yes, early 2015, then that money goes back to the bondholder. So they do have a drop-dead deadline, but for them that's just 15 months away. So there's just – there is not a lot of urgency. I'd like to say – I'd like to tell you that they were very urgent. They weren't.

But they are moving forward with our technology. There is no other technology they're even looking at. And like I said, they are now talking about plug-ins into two other relatively large projects. So I think it's a matter of they're just slow movers. There's no doubt about it. But there is absolutely no negative in any way from anybody at the very highest level down to the engineering team.

Then, I mean, for them to get the bond intentionally, is that 15 months they have to start placing orders or they have to start construction? I mean, what's the actual deadline mean for the 15 months now [ph] as I say (34:37)?

As I understand it, they have to spend the money. They have to have finished the project. So they have, in essence, 15 months to finish the project.

So I mean, it could be that you guys could recognize orders in sometime in nine months from now because the project could take six months to complete at least.

Exactly. I think that's a very fair statement. Yes.

Okay. Good. Good. And then, can you elaborate on the IRIS opportunity? As we all know, the GasPT2 is such a large robust opportunity. Everybody kind of needs it. How is IRIS compared to that as far as total market and total sales?

Yeah. IRIS is – and again, just a reminder, IRIS is a method by which the gas – or not just the gas pipeline but any fluid pipeline can be controlled remotely. What it does is, is it – it allows the operator – the pipeline operator to control valves, meters, compressor stations all remotely, and instead of doing it through a relatively non-dynamic almost a [ph] DOS-based (35:45) system, which is state-of-the-art right now, it gives the operator the ability to operate this system on a platform that they own, basically, a server platform that they own that could be accessed by anyone who has the password from anything, from a laptop to a tablet, to a smartphone for that matter.

And they cannot just ascertain that there's a problem at the station, they can actually look at the problem. It has a diagnostic function where you can tell them what the problem is and allow them to diagnose the problem. And they can actually control the device or control the station from remote. They can open valves, close valves. They can turn on compressors. They can do any number of things that they're not just capable of doing now.

And literally, it's a – for the more complex station, it's £100,000 unit per station. And as I mentioned, in the UK there's 390 such stations. We've been installed, I think, 65 to 70 of them at this point under an initial contract. They're all working perfectly, frankly. We haven't set up on a server that we designed and put into their – to National Grid's facility. And now we're translating that in the UK from gas with United Technologies or United Utilities to water because, again, you have the same issues with water as you have with gas, the same flow, same station, the same metering. Obviously, you're looking at different things, but it's the same general idea. And so, we're going to apply that IRIS system to the water system as well. And so that dramatically broadens the market.

Now, what's the size of the market? Well – and I mentioned that before. If you look at the UK, there's 390 of these potential stations on the transmission system, the big network. There's 1,800 of these stations that would be on the distribution system or the network that actually goes direct to consumer, and that's in a very a relatively small market, the UK. If you take that and move it into the U.S. or into Continental Europe, the numbers are exponential. I mean, the issue is, well, how do we move it into those markets? That's one of the reasons this meeting with GE is so interesting because they are quite interested in rep-ing it. They are – they obvious – they do have the platform. They are the hardware producers for what we use, and so they would be rep-ing our software, basically, in the U.S.

So I hesitate to give numbers because, I mean, they are huge, but before I have some handle on what they want to do, it'd be a little premature, I think, for me to jump into that.

How about, okay, so the GasPT2, how many stations are there or metering box in National Grid in the UK? Is it over 390? I mean, I'm just trying to get a sense of a...

Yes. For GasPT2 now?

Yes.

For GasPT2 as a comparison, although it's not apples-to-apples, obviously. As a comparison, the National Grid has said – has told us that they need as many as 400 of the GasPT2 devices. That would be 60 – they've got 60 gas turbines for compressor turbines, and then other metering points that they have. So in that regard, they're looking at 400 roughly, GasPT devices, and there's 390 metering stations. But there's no – that's not an apples-to-apples comparison. You wouldn't find that necessarily on, for example, another pipeline. That just happens to be their ratio.

Got it. Okay. And then shifting gears, going to your electrical components business, I mean, what do you see is being the next big catalyst there? And then what was – I mean, I know the kind of [indiscernible] (39:16) so why was there such a sequential decline in that business as well?

Yeah. It – there is no next big catalyst in the electronics industry. The electronics business is a very mature commodities-driven business. I think the reason for the sequential decline, and we talked about it last quarter. Last quarter was a historically very high quarter for us. It was great. We had seen a lot of uptick from some of our efforts to go after OEMs. We had seen a great degree of uptick from our relationship with Future. And that's all continued. But, again, I think this quarter is much more in line with what we expect to do in the electro-mechanical business.

Now, the only proviso I'd put on that is there will be, I think, some significant ramp-up in that business as Novum and Solus has come to market. We've been real clear on that, too. That's a late-2014 into 2015 timeframe. We're starting to introduce it. We've got some nice design wins. We've got some good customers looking at it. But the design cycle in the electronics business is 18 months to 2 years. That's just a fact.

So, there's no real catalyst. What it is is, it's a very nice commodity business that grows at about 9% to maybe as much as 12% year-over-year. We've had a great – we had an 18% growth in the first quarter, 22% of growth in the second quarter. And really, that was – that came from the initiatives that you saw with us going after OEMs and with Future.

But we were very clear about the fact that we didn't expect that to continue. I think I've heard Dan say any number of times that we expect the growth rate in the electromagnetic – sorry, in the electromechanical business to be somewhere in the high-single to low double-digit areas. And that's been very open. And so, again, I think what you saw is you saw a great second quarter and a third quarter was more in line with what we expect. Dan, would you want to add to that?

No, I would say that's exactly what I have – what we've communicated in the past and just now as well. The business pipeline is still full. It's going really well. There's been no change with our distributors, distribution channel other than they're still progressing and doing very well. The Future relationship has continued to be very strong. And we're continually looking at how we expand the channel reaching new OEMs and getting growth both through Digi-Key and Future.

But no, the sequential quarter-to-quarter growth or decline this year is just as Bill mentioned, the Q2 was significantly higher, and we did mention that on the call. That had to do with the very large backlog from the end of the year and the continued growth during the first six months of the year in the ordering. So, the Q3 was right in line with where we were expecting it and – for the year as Bill mentioned, his analysis is spot on. So...

Okay. Thanks for that info, guys. And, I guess, the last thing I got for you is just how is the acquisition going? I mean, is everything going to plan, morale good everyone? I mean – or synergy is rising that you thought everything going to plan with Orbital UK?

Yeah. I will tell you – it's Bill. It's been much I think much smoother and much more pleasant than I ever expected. I will tell you that I've been spending a significant amount of time over there. And to my pleasant surprise, the management team is much deeper than I've ever thought. We've restructured that management team somewhat because we obviously are plugging a product company on top of what had been a contractual company.

They've really, really come to play with that. The morale is very high obviously because I mean, I didn't even think about it at that time. We've taken a company that's historically have been run by one guy. First, the father, Peter Clews and then the son, Andy Clews. And it puts an automatic glass ceiling on everybody.

No one is going to get very high or above a certain level in that company because, really at the end of the day, up until we took over, it's a company that was dedicated to putting money in one guy's pocket. We've changed that philosophy markedly obviously. We're now talking about profit sharing and maybe getting them involved in some of the equity in the company. So all of a sudden, these guys all feel an ownership interest in this company. And we've expanded their horizons.

And with the addition of the product company, we've opened up assignments that they never had access to before, so there's some real, real, real exciting things happening over there and some great enthusiasm. They really are moving very, very, very well. I'll also let Dan talk briefly because we are obviously continuing to implement checks and balances, but let me let Dan talk about that.

Sure. From the financial aspect, the integration has been going very well. They have a solid team over there that were continually working on. They're obviously learning U.S. GAAP standards as compared to the UK GAAP. They've done a good job of that adjustment. The most significant, I think, change for them is how to do percentage of completion revenue recognition on project-based work that they do and that's been – they've handled that very well.

The other piece that we're doing is working on Sarbanes-Oxley work for internal control or financial reporting. That's an ongoing project. Their control systems that they had in place when we acquired them were very good. It's just a matter of more getting them to where they need to be for us. But in general, we've got solid controls in place over there and not just – it's a work in progress, but ICFR is an ongoing project. It's going very well. And the team is working – they're meeting expectations very well, so we're pleased.

Perfect. Good to hear it, guys, and thanks for taking my call, and good luck going forward.

Thanks, Andrew.

Thanks.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Alex Blanton of Clear Harbor Asset Management. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Good morning.

Morning.

Morning.

I think this is partially covered, but you went over numbers so fast I did not get. Did you break down the third quarter revenues into Orbital and old CUI?

Yeah, I did, and I can do that again. The Q3 total revenue was $17.2 million.

Right.

The power and electromechanical group generated $11,172,000 of that. And the gas group generated $6,042,000 of that.

$6,042,000.

Right.

Okay. Yeah. You're calling a gas group and electrical mechanical instead of old CUI.

Right. Yeah. The segments we've given, basically the power in electromechanical is what would have been old CUI, CUI Inc. and CUI Japan, and the gas group is in the past was the GasPT2 under CUI but the system integration and gas work at Orbital plus the GasPT2, VE-Probe, IRIS, those things.

So you covered the reason for the electromechanical decline and I see Orbital is pretty much – is up $400,000, $442,000 from last quarter, $492,000. But you really haven't seen an acceleration as a result of these new products, of course. And let me just check on the numbers you gave, 62 units through the second quarter?

Correct. We have purchased orders for 62 units – I'm sorry, no, through the third quarter. Second quarter is 50 units. That's purchase orders.

I think you just gave a number of 62 units for the second quarter and 75 units to the third quarter, and 100 units target for the year.

No. Second quarter was 50 units, that's already reported. At the end of the third quarter, we had 62 units, purchase orders for 62 units. What I said is as of today, we have purchase orders for 75 units and we're...

Okay. At the end of the third quarter it was 62 units.

Correct.

And today it's 75 units. All right.

Correct.

Okay. So we're not talking about it very much here. I mean through the third quarter, it was only an increase of 12 units. So that's why basically the sales are flat. The pro forma numbers you mentioned, where are they?

Excuse me?

You've mentioned a bunch of pro forma numbers in your opening remarks, but I didn't see those in the release.

The pro forma is in the 10-Q.

10-Q.

Yeah. It's a comparative analysis and they're just to compare what the acquisition would have been like...

Okay.

...had it happened January 1, 2012 and 2013.

Okay.

And it's as though it had happened, there's no guarantee that that would have been the exact results, but that's...

Yeah, I know.

... a look back.

Right. Okay. And finally, on the subject of guidance, I know you said you were not giving guidance. But the consensus for what it's worth for the quarter was $0.05, you did $0.01. So the consensus for the year has been $0.10. So to make that, you'd have to do $0.09 in the fourth quarter, but that doesn't look like it's going to happen. Is that correct?

Here's how I'll address that... [indiscernible]

(48:44) expectations is what I'm saying.

Here's how I'll answer that. I saw the consensus and I will tell you that that consensus is based on at least three analyst reports from analysts who've never talked to us.

Is that right? Okay.

Sidoti has never talked to us. Merriman talks to us, but hasn't talked to us about their model in, I would say, a year, year-and-a-half. So, again, I can't speak to projections that I had no input into. None. I will tell you that the most relevant and I think the most accurate analysis that we've seen is Craig-Hallum and frankly Stonegate, and they're the only two analysts who were talking to us on a regular basis. And even then, I mean, in the case of Craig-Hallum, I think they put us at $7.9 million, and we hit $7.2 million this quarter, so pretty accurate. And I think at the end of the day, they have us at $7 million – it was $64 million, something like that for the year...

What are you talking – $7.9 million what?

$17.9 million.

$17.9 million, I'm sorry. $17.9 million for the quarter, and we hit [ph] $17.2 million. (49:48) [ph]

17 (49:48), okay.

Let me address to you, when we – because we are not giving guidance, the analysts are building their models based on historical projections and what they see as the opportunity. We're giving as much input as we can, but right now we are not giving guidance. And a big reason for that, and I'll just address this quickly, is we just acquired Orbital in April. We've now got six months under our belt with them. We're implementing a lot of initiatives over there to reach a global business running now, as well as continue to penetrate their existing market.

And more so than that, we are launching new technology in an industry that is very conservative, and we are targeting reps so we can get better input into what the market look like. But quite frankly, our sales team is whale hunting, if you will. They're going after significant business that are going to have huge opportunities right now. And that's, I think, why this opportunity is so fantastic is because of those opportunities. [indiscernible]

(50:55)

So we're not looking for 5 or 10 units. What we're working on is opportunities like the GE opportunity, planning the Snam Rete opportunity, and continue to penetrate customers that were working. But we're addressing a new market with the technology that is new to them.

Is the Craig-Hallum analyst – has he asked a question on this call yet?

Yes, Eric Stine. He was actually the first one on.

Eric Stine. Okay. And you've mentioned there were three estimates in the consensus but you mentioned four companies. Which one doesn't have an estimate?

They all have estimates.

You mentioned Sidoti, Merriman, Craig-Hallum and Stonegate. Which one is not in the consensus?

I think they're all in the consensus. I'm not saying...

Okay. Four.

I can address. We don't build the consensus either. [indiscernible] (51:47) on whose consensus you're going off of and who's building the consensus, but the consensus that we've been told about is around the $90 million consensus which means the outliers are the high ones. So...

But there's no way anyone can make a forecast for next year, given the fact that it depends so much on stuff that hasn't happened yet. So those consensus numbers really don't mean a lot except for maybe the current quarter. All right, thank you very much. Appreciate it.

You're welcome. Sure. No problem. Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Marco Rodriguez from Stonegate Securities. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Hello. This is actually Dan Trang sitting in for Marco Rodriguez. Regarding the GE testing, noticed you mentioned in the MD&A that the GasPTi has gone through its second phase of testing. Can you provide some more color on feedback you've received and what's the timeline for – regarding GE for approval?

I can't provide much of anything. I will tell you – I mean, here's what I can tell and you take this for what it's worth. We were scheduled to have a technical meeting last Tuesday. Last week, they contacted us and said they would like to change that to a commercial meeting. We knew the test went well because – I can say that because we had people there. I mean, there were people at the test. The test went incredibly well. But so, to answer your question, now, we were told that they wanted to change it to a commercial meeting. They sent us a very comprehensive NDA. We negotiated that NDA back and forth because there were some things in there we were not prepared to sign. We executed the NDA and had a full day meeting with them on Tuesday.

Under the terms of that NDA, I can say nothing other than there is a great deal of urgency, on their side especially, and we are hopeful that we can release – we will be able to release something publicly before the end of the year. So, I mean, I can't say much more than that, frankly.

Okay. A follow-up regarding the GasPTi system, I'm wondering if there's any other updates you can provide as it relates to customers that are testing the...

I think we've been pretty open about where we're at. I mean I think that we talked last time a little bit about the fact that we're putting a test unit into a turbine in New Jersey for Kinder Morgan. They approached us on that. So that's pretty exciting and the fact that we've been able to have such an interest from these distributors in North America has been obviously quite exciting for us.

We're still in negotiation with Benchmark Engineering out at Calgary, Canada for the distribution through Canada into TransCanada. We think that's a big opportunity. But again, Dan hit it right on the head. We're really focusing on whale hunting, if you will. We're looking at the big customers. We believe that it's very, very important that this device be adopted by a large-scale customers, Snam Rete, GE, TransCanada, Kinder Morgan.

And once that happens, we think there'll be a pretty dramatic ramp-up of the technology and that's where we're out. We're out on the one hand hunting the whales and on the other hand, still getting these distributors on board so we have more transparency into the market and frankly so that when we get one of these bigger customers, we have people on the ground who could service them.

So for example one of the great things about signing up a company like Ives out of Philadelphia is they deal with Kinder Morgan, so we can go with Kinder Morgan, get them on board, and have somebody who are familiar with to deal with them on – in their locations. So other than that there's not much more I can tell you.

Okay. Can you provide an update as far as you're standing regarding to bringing the calibration of GasPTi in-house?

Yeah. We did that. We actually did that the last quarter. We talked about that. It's done. We have – we got four facilities, we've already made the capital investment, we have the labs created, we're ready to do that. We simply haven't started. I mean we have done it on a test basis. We simple haven't started doing it because we don't need it yet. I mean we have 300-some-odd units sitting on the shelf that are already calibrated, so there's no need for us to begin that.

But if we were to land on these bigger accounts or to land an account that needed a number of units quickly, we have the ability to do as many as 500 units a month at our facility, so we could ramp up very quickly. But it's there. It's all set up. It's been tested. We can do it. Literally, we can pull the trigger on a momentary basis. We just haven't done it because we don't need it at this point.

Okay. And last question regarding the VE-Probe, can you talk a little bit about what efforts you may have made in selling the device into other measurement industries or applications, other applications?

Sure. As I mentioned, we are in negotiation right now with ConocoPhillips and Statoil. Statoil wants to put the device, the thermal well actually and the – which is our VE-Probe application into one of their high-end fuel processing plants. That would be a very large order. ConocoPhillips wants to look at it both for offshore and onshore applications. So we're moving forward on the VE-Probe. We think at the end of the day while the ASP is much lower, I think we've talked about this. The VE-Probe runs from around $7,000 in its most basic format.

A thermal well up to as much as $23,000, $24,000 for a complex sampling system. Even though that it's a lower ASP, we think that there is a much broader application for it across the industry. So, again, we are definitely working with the companies, getting it out there. And as I think we've talked about in the past, there are more than 150 of them – of the VE-Probes in the National Grid system right now. And they've been out there for as long as in some cases, two years. So, again, they're working, and they're working quite well. And we think it's going to have quite a broad application as we move forward.

Okay. Thank you.

Sure.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Evan Richert of Sidoti. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Hey. Thanks, guys. Most of my questions have been answered. Just one question on the segment reporting. I saw in – between Q2 and Q3, obviously, you had a pick-up in the gas business on revenue, but you reported – I think it was an $80,000 loss versus an $80,000 profit. Is that just increased sales or is there any other cost that go into that?

No. It has to do with cost to sales. You noticed that the gross margin in that business went to – hang on one second. Let me go back to that number. The gross margin moved slightly back to 35.4% for the quarter compared to 36.9% on the year-to-date, which the year-to-date number is basically the Q2 and Q3. So slightly lower gross margin for that business. 35% is the target for them generally. I think a big factor on the result when looking at that that was just – all of that acquisition amortization impact that expense line. So for the quarter that was $735,000 of amortization of intangibles that impact that bottom line right there. So...

Okay. Sure. And then as far as the orders of the PT, I mean, based on the numbers Bill gave for both the quarter and then 75 to-date. Pretty safe to say increasing by 12. I think he wants to get – adding more by the end of the year, obviously. It's safe to say we've got a sequential gain in revenue from the gas side of the business from the third quarter to the fourth, just like we did from two to three?

Again, we don't give guidance in that regard. I'm not going to say whether it is or isn't. I think we're going to hit this 95 to 100. I think that's what we're going to hit with the GasPT. And we'll see what comes in contractually. But yeah, again, we're two quarters into this business, and I'm not prepared to start predicting what we're going to have at the end of the next quarter.

Okay.

Yeah. One thing about this business is it's not a quarter-to-quarter business right now, it's an opportunity. We've got two really great underlying operating companies with Orbital and CUI doing great in their individual segments, power and electromechanical for CUI and systems integration at Orbital. The homeruns that we're working on are the technology launch, and that's the big opportunity, that's what we're all working towards.

So quarter-to-quarter, we expect the business to do well. We're looking to maintain profitability for the quarter and the year-to-date. We're looking to continue to grow as much as we can for the annual comparisons. But what we're also striving towards is landing the technology business and getting that going. So we're putting resources into that and that's our focus.

Okay. Great. And then could you just provide some color on the odorization units? First, what are the ASPs on those and then any additional markets you think you can penetrate?

Yeah. Actually we're starting to work on that already. They're a pretty big ticket item. They're about £500,000 for odorization skid, so about $750,000. They are designed to, in essence, do exactly what they say. They put the sulfur smell, if you will, into gas, in the natural gas. We designed the systems originally for the UK.

When they changed their philosophy, they were odorizing at the transmission level which no one else on earth does. And when they decided to start transferring some natural gas back to Continental Europe, they were talking about stripping the sulfur out. So the gas is odorless because in Europe, like everywhere else, they don't odorize the transmission level.

As opposed to putting in, I think at the time it was £12 million or £14 million pound sulfur-stripping station at their interconnect. Orbital talked them into doing individual odorization station at the transmission level which is what, again, what everybody else in the world does. And in conjunction with that, they design these odorization skids which is really a unit that's put together and odorizes the gas in a very efficient manner.

And odorization of gas, obviously, is very important. And the level in which it's done is very important because if it's over-odorized, you'll have hundreds and hundreds of false reports of leaks because you'll have gas smell everywhere. Obviously, if it's under odorized, you can end up with a catastrophic problem with gas leaking and not know it. So it's a very specific way that it has to be done.

And again, what we've been able to do with this West African deal is take our odorization technology the way that we do at the skid that we have which is proprietary to us is – and sell it outside. There is obviously a great opportunity for it. It's not something that we've started to pursue in a big way. But it is something that we're going to start moving to Continental Europe and outside. It is – it would be – in the case of Africa, it's new because they don't have anything – we're actually doing what we did in the UK. We're replacing not – we're actually creating the system.

In Europe or other places that had gas odorization already, it would be more of a maintenance issue, so it would be something that would be a limited market. But, again, in Africa, it's quite a big market. And we're going to keep pushing in that regard. We've got a general contractor there that does a lot of work in Africa and they really like what they've seen. And so, we'll push it.

I do not have the market quantifier at this point. I couldn't tell you what the size of it is or really anything more than the fact that we are now working on exporting technology though.

Okay. Great. And then, I obviously understand the NDA with GE. So, setting them aside, I was wondering if you could talk on any expectations you have from some of the other big customers as far as what inning they're in for trials? I mean, I know you mentioned Kinder Morgan and Benchmark. But any of the other big customers outside of GE for any feedback you've gotten as far as what else they'd need to kind of make up their minds on PT?

Sure. Again, I think, the other big one is Snam Rete and I think I've talked about this in the past. What we're seeing on the other areas is really orders of 4, 5, 6, 8, 10 units at a time, all project driven. I mean we're still in negotiations with a number of different big companies. We just – talked about this last quarter, we provided six units to Alliance Pipeline. Alliance is now building a sub line from the Bakken to their Northwest pipeline and they expect to use our device on that. Then that could be as many as 20 units.

But again, they're just in the beginning phases of planning that and start to build it out. I met Tuesday when I was down in Houston, I actually did meet with ETP again. They're very happy with their – the devices that they've had on their line testing. We're going to do a couple of tweaks to the screen. They want a little different display.

Then we're going to do for them. And so we're still talking to them, but, really, I think, as far as the big orders are concerned and you're really looking at either GE or Snam Rete when we're talking numbers. Everyone else is really – it's going to be a project-by-project driving that business out there and I think that's where we really get the assistance from these distributors, local distributors.

Okay. Great. And then just housekeeping item, any expectations for SG&A, just the cash expenses for the fourth quarter and into 2014, setting aside depreciation and amortization?

No. We actually feel... [indiscernible]

(01:05:46)

No. We were pretty well set up with SG&A. So from that percentage of revenue standpoint, we see it being – we're kind of right around this neighborhood and getting better. Especially as revenues ramp, we expect an improvement in this. We've already got a team built out for the gas technologies for IRIS, VE-Probe and GasPT, and that business is in early phase of revenue. So that team though is fully built, so it's an expense-line item that has future growth attached to it. So we feel that the teams are pretty well in place right now.

Okay. That's it for me. Thanks, guys.

Thank you.

Thanks, Eric (sic) [Evan] (01:06:32).

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Jim Kennedy of Marathon Capital Management. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Hi, Bill. Hi, Dan.

Hey, Jim.

As you can probably imagine, my questions have been asked. I just want to say congratulations on your financial management and building for the future.

Jim, thank you so much.

Thank you Jim.

I really appreciate it. Thank you.

Thank you, guys. Thanks.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Morgan Frank of Manchester Management. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Hey, guys. Just one quick question. Can you talk about the progress in finding distributors for Poland?

Yeah. Actually, we have interviewed three and frankly, they did not work out and primarily because we're coming to find that in Poland. If you want somebody to distribute your product, you better be prepared to pay them a very large and healthy bribe, which we don't do. So we're in the process of betting another two we've been directed to – we just – unfortunately, it's – apparently, it's the way the world out there.

These guys have wanted some pretty excessive under-the-table cash payments that were obviously not only are we not prepared to do, we legally cannot do. And so we're still looking for the right partner. And until we get that right partner, there's not much we can do about it. It's just – it's one of the issues of doing work worldwide. We have not frankly seen that anywhere else but in Poland. It's obviously a very strong part of their economy and a quite – apparently, a quite normal thing to be asked of.

Got it. Thanks.

Thanks, Morgan.

All right, Morgan. Anything else? Listen, I just think – yes?

I'm sorry. I was just going to say that that concluded our Q&A for today's session. And I'd like to turn the conference back over to Mr. Clough for any closing remarks.

Thank you. And again, I just want to thank everybody for their time and attention and again, for your continued support. I can tell you that we have some very dramatic things I think you're going to see in the very near future. But that being said, I also feel very strong that we came in with what we see – Dan and I certainly see as a very strong quarter.

We expect the profitability to continue. We expect the two companies to keep running as they are running, very well managed and creating new and new opportunities. And we do feel quite strongly that it's a new technology that is trying to grab some traction and that we'll all be quite happy as we move on. So, again, thank you for your time, attention and support. Thanks to everybody. Thank you.

Thank you.

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your participation in today's conference. This does conclude the program and you may all disconnect. Have a great rest of your day.