Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Landon Barretto — President, Barretto Pacific Corporation
William J. Clough — Chairman, President, CEO & General Counsel, CUI Global, Inc.
Daniel Ned Ford — Chief Financial & Accounting Officer, CUI Global, Inc.
Eric Andrew Stine — Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC
Joel Achramowicz — Managing Director, Equity Research & Investment Banking, Merriman Capital, Inc.
Aaron Martin — Analyst, AIGH Capital Management LLC
Lenny Dunn — Investment Adviser, Freedom Investors Corp.
Jeff Neal — Managing Director, Client Advisor, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Greetings and welcome to CUI Global's First Quarter of 2013 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all the participants are in a listen-only mode. A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

It is now pleasure to introduce your host, Mr. Landon Barretto from Barretto Pacific Corporation. Thank you, Mr. Barretto. You may begin.

Thank you, Diana. Good morning. Thank you for joining us to review the financial results of CUI Global for the first quarter of fiscal year 2013 which ended March 31, 2013. As the conference call operator indicated, my name is Landon Barretto with Barretto Pacific Corporation. We're the investor relations consulting firm for the company.

With us on the call representing CUI today are Bill Clough, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Dan Ford, Chief Financial Officer. At the conclusion of today's prepared remarks, we'll open the call for question-and-answer session. If anyone participating on today's call does not have a full pack copy of the earnings release, you can retrieve it from the company's website at www.cuiglobal.com.

Before we begin with the prepared remarks, we submit for the record the following statements. Statements made by the management team of CUI Global during the course of this conference call that are not historical fact are considered to be forward-looking statements subject to risks and uncertainties. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides the Safe Harbor for such forward-looking statements.

The words believe, expect, anticipate, estimate, will and other similar statements of expectation identify forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements contained herein are subject to certain risks, uncertainties, and important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those reflected in the forward-looking statements included herein.

These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the impact of competitive products and pricing, product demand and market acceptance, new product development, the ability of the company to control costs, availability of products produced from third-party vendors, fluctuations in operating results and other risks detailed from time to time in the CUI Global filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.

Participants on this call are cautioned that not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements which reflect management's analysis only as of the date hereof. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly release the results of any revisions to these forward-looking statements, which may be made to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.

With that said, let me turn the call over to Bill Clough, President and Chief Executive Officer. Bill?

Thank you, Landon, and thank you, everybody, for being on the call. Thank you especially to some of the people I see on the call, who are participants in our equity raise we just completed, our new shareholders, and we really like having you on board, and again, very much appreciate your support.

This has been quite a good quarter, quite an interesting quarter for us in a number of different ways. As you see from the press release, we saw a pretty dramatic uptick in our gross revenues, up 19% year-over-year, and of course, that is in an economy in the electronics industry where generally speaking across the board, the companies are seeing a downturn in businesses and struggling to just maintain what they have.

So, we're quite proud of our management team, our distributors, and of course, our directors – our sales directors, who really gone out and gone the extra mile to acquire OEM business and really to push forward on our core business. We credit some of that, of course, to our new relationship with Future, which is turning into quite a positive factor, and of course, our continuing relationship with Digi-Key, one of our best and biggest partners.

We have a sales backlog right now of $15.7 million. I'll talk more about that at the end of the call, but frankly that's a historic high for us. It ensures us a pretty robust second quarter and moving into third quarter. And during the course of the quarter, we were able to reduce our SG&A by about 6% from 47% to about 41% of our gross revenue. So, again, we're moving in the right direction in that regard as well, and I'll let Dan talk about some of the reasons that has occurred.

As far as our EPS, we lost $0.04 last quarter, which is about 70% improvement quarter-to-quarter. And as most of you know, I think with the acquisition of Orbital, and moving forward in the next quarter, we expect that to change dramatically over the course of the next several months.

We also had quite an interesting, obviously, group of occurrences during that last quarter and immediately thereafter. We completed an equity raise, where we grossed around $48 million, netted around $45 million. We were able to pay off $2 million in long-term debt as a result of that. We completed the Orbital transition and the acquisition. Thereof, where we now have a very, very dynamic patent portfolio and product portfolio of gas and gas-related products, we'll talk again a little bit more about that at the end of the call.

You're mostly all familiar with the GasPT product, we want to talk just a little bit about IRIS, and give you an overview of what that is. But before I go into that, and I'll breakdown a little bit more on the backlogs. Why don't I turn it over to Dan, as he'll go through the numbers, the balance sheet, and the P&L.

Dan, do you want to take that?

Thank you, Bill. I appreciate it. Yeah. Just to bring it on the feel on where we finished the quarter from March 31 compared to the prior-year quarter on the P&L and the balance sheet at December 31, we'll start there with the balance sheet. Cash position remained healthy at $2.5 million at the end of March, and it's even healthier today because of the – as a result of the equity raise. The trade receivables decreased about $1 million from December 31 to $3.8 million. That had to do with timing of when invoices go out and in terms of the customer count. Both March 31 and December 31 receivables are very current and are in excellent position with regard to credit.

Otherwise the prepaid expenses was the other major change during the quarter and they were up about $700,000, and the primary result of that increase was prepaid interim savings for the next annual period, as well as thoughts that were predicted in association with the equity raise and the Orbital acquisition. Beyond that, the liabilities decrease, the primary reason for the decrease there was we repaid during the quarter the line of credit balance of $459,000, and then the current liability decreased slightly otherwise.

Moving on to the profit and loss statements in operations, as Bill mentioned, our revenues increased about 19% year-over-year for the quarter to $10,059,000 as compared to $8,470,000 roughly or about $1.6 million increase. That increase is due to a number of factors: the continued product introductions during 2012 and Q1 2013; the addition of a second distribution partner during the first quarter of 2013 with Future Electronics.

Something we're quite excited about on the power side of having two distribution partners, particularly it's a combination of Digi-Key and Future Electronics. And that implementation has gone very well. We're seeing excellent opportunities coming through the pipeline as a result of that. We also had organic growth from our rep channel and our sales – and area sales directors penetrating new manufacturing customers.

The next exciting change was we increased our gross profit margin about 1% on a year-over-year comparison. That has to do with the product mix and the customer mix, potentially generating better margin out of our product lines. And there's not one particular sale or one particular product that resulted in that, it had to do more with looking at who and what we're selling, and increasing our volumes in that regard.

As Bill mentioned, our sales and operating expenses decreased as a percentage of our revenues to about 41% from 47.5% during the prior-year quarter. The result of that is due to the efficiencies achieved during the quarter, particularly related to generating revenue from the same sales team and rep team. So, we were leveraging our sales channel more as well as managing our cost structure. We expect our sales group to continue to generate revenues and continue to achieve greater facilities without significant cost increases there. We expect to see the SG&A continue to be strengthened.

We had loss from operations of about $378,000, a decrease from $904,000 in the prior-year, and an overall consolidated net loss of $452,000 down from $1,072,000 the prior-year, which resulted in EPS loss of $0.04 compared to $0.13 during the prior-year period, something we're quite pleased with and we expect to continue to improve particularly with the acquisition of Orbital and continue to grow on the power side as we move through the year.

[Technical Difficulty] (00:09:08-00:09:14) just wanted to note, we have positive cash from operations and we continued the investment in property and equipment, primarily related to ongoing things like computers and servers, as well as test and measurement and design equipment for our engineering team. And we – as noted previously, we paid off the line of credit [Technical Difficulty] (00:09:33-00:09:40) from the year-end of [ph] $410,000 (00:09:42). So, we used cash during the quarter of about $522,000.

With that, that's the financial highlights for the quarter, and I'll turn it back over to Bill.

Thanks, Dan. A little bit on the backlogs. We have $15.7 million in backlog, as we mentioned about $2.4 million of that is the GasPT device. Looking at Orbital's current numbers, they have £16.6 million in backlog or about $25 million in backlog business. Of that about £475 or about $710,000 is separate GasPT orders. So, again, we're quite excited about where we're at and where we're going.

This next quarter we should see a number of different developments including a really increased sales and marketing effort on the Vergence GasPT device, including those seminars that we planned to conduct in North America and in Mainland Europe regarding the value of the device and really the reasons that device should be implemented quicker sooner rather than later.

We also expect to see some fairly significant revenues from this IRIS device that we have talked about on the road show, but not a lot to the public in general. The IRIS device is a very unique method of remotely controlling gas transmission systems through satellite telemetry. It's £100,000 product that is installed on a pumping station. As an example, in the UK, there are 390 of those pumping stations. We've actually installed it on 32 of the oldest pumping stations, and they have all operated above and beyond expectations. The device is 40% net operating margin piece of equipment. So, really about – almost $60,000 per unit that comes back to the company.

So, again, a lot of existing things are occurring, and we think that this is the beginning of a real dramatic change in this company. As I told those of you that participated in the road show – I'll tell everyone else – this is an inflexion point for this company. This is a very, very dynamic quarter in the last quarter for our core business. We were very, very happy to see that. It shows that, I think, the initiatives we put in place over the last year, year-and-a-half is starting to really take hold and we're starting to see a growth, a ramp up in the electronics industry. We believe that the same will be true with our participation with Orbital in the gas industry.

So, with that being said, again, thank you for your participation. And now, I'll open it up for questions. Landon?

Okay. Diana?

Thank you. We will now be conducting a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Eric Stine with Craig-Hallum. Go ahead with your question, please.

Hi, Bill. Hi, Dan. Thanks for taking the question.

Hi, Eric.

Just wondering could you provide just a look at Orbital, either Orbital's results in detail there in the first quarter or maybe a pro forma?

Eric, I can't hear what you're saying. Can you speak a little louder?

Yeah. Is that better?

It's a little better.

Okay. I'm just wondering if you could provide a pro forma or just some details on how Orbital performed in the quarter?

I'm going to – I'll let Dan talk a little bit to that, but really what we're focused on in this call and on this quarter is what happened at CUI. Obviously, we're in the process of incorporating and consolidating the Orbital material into our company right now. And so, again, I'm not sure how much of a breakout he has on that. But Dan, do you have any details at all you can provide?

Yeah. I have it. I'd rather not provide it on the call, other than to say, we had a very good quarter both in terms of the revenue [indiscernible] (00:14:06) and in terms of bookings. There which you can see in the backlog, as Bill mentioned earlier, of about £16.6 million backlog. They're right on track with everything that we've expected, and it's similar to the prior-year. I don't want to dial out the numbers just yet, because I am going through them – with them similar to the due diligence we did for – over the [indiscernible] (00:14:32) U.S. GAAP conversion. So, we're working out all those sort of what we did in the Q2 [indiscernible] (00:14:39) as well as the pro forma for the six months, which will be the case in the Q2 release, but it's dialed properly for U.S. GAAP, and that we're all on the same page. But I'd rather not be jumping on that other than to say they had a great quarter, so.

Okay. And then maybe just sticking to results then, can you give us some details on the [ph] GasPT2 (00:15:01) units that you sold in the quarter, and what the revenue contribution was there, just for bookkeeping? And then, just an update on some of the opportunities that you're pursuing in key markets and kind of what's the next thing we should look for?

Yeah. You're still breaking up, Eric. I think I'll take a shot at that question. The increase was broadly seen across all of the electronic markets. There was really no one particular market that stood out above any other. I'll talk about the opportunities that we're seeing now with GasPT. We've had pretty dramatic inquiry from [ph] Alliance Pipeline (00:15:35) and from ETP, Energy Transfer Partners. They're both looking to implement. We've had some significant looks up in Canada from TransCanada. So, again, we think that this next quarter is going to be a really nice quarter.

Okay. Can you hear me better now?

Yeah. Now I can hear you. What was the problem there?

Okay. Technical issues, I don't know.

But I now hear you well.

Okay. And so, the [ph] GasPT2 (00:16:01), I mean just number of units, just for kind of bookkeeping purposes in the first quarter?

Last quarter was – we sold about 24 units. The ASP on those 24 units was [ph] $16,005 (00:16:13), and they included units to our distributors, units to SNAM RETE, units to National Grid, to Scotia, and I believe to [indiscernible] (00:16:25). So, that was the – as I think we discussed in other calls, the pricing on that was our volume discount, because we wanted to get those out into the marketplace, about $396,000 to CUI, which of course will go up dramatically now that we have capture the margin that Orbital gets as well.

Okay. That's helpful. And then last one for me. You talked about the IRIS, good color there. I'm curious if you could just talk about the probe, because I know that Orbital as a probe has a lot of applications outside just inclusion in the [ph] PPI (00:17:04). So, any thoughts there would be helpful. Thank you.

Yeah, absolutely. That's a whole new marketing division we're going to start working on it. It is the VE Probe, and basically it's a probe that sheds the turbulence which is generally find in fluid flow when you put something into a flow like a gas pipeline, it sheds that flow and it prevents vibration and subsequent damage of the pipelining on the probe. It is, we believe, in very revolutionary a patent technology.

And unlike the GasPT, where the IRIS, it's not – it is something that you actually have on a pipeline every several kilometers, because when it is you have these thermal wells, what they call thermal wells, which is where they measure the temperature of the gas. And those are in fact required every several kilometers on a pipeline. And right now, if you're having a real problem with those thermal wells, which is in essence a probe in the pipeline that has a temperature sensor in it, they're breaking up and they're causing a great deal of damage. In fact you don't have to go – a National Grid [indiscernible] (00:18:02) was killed when he opened up, what he thought was a seal probe and found that it was unsealed, and that the ensuing explosion of gas, not a fireball explosion, it's just an explosion of pressurized gas killed him.

So, the industry is very sensitive to this. We feel there is a great opportunity there. And I could say that the way Andy Ridge describes it is, if there are applications for thousands of GasPT devices on certain pipeline transmission systems, there is tens, if not hundreds of thousands of opportunities for the thermal well. So, it's a different product. It's also about a 40% net operating margin product for us, sale price is around $7,000, so around $3,600 – roughly $3,600 comes into the company.

Did that answer your question?

Yes. That was very helpful. Thanks a lot.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Joel Achramowicz with Merriman Capital. Go ahead with your question, please.

Thank you very much. Hey, Bill. Are you still on track for your – you're talking about 300 or 400 units in the current year. You still feel good about that for the complete current year?

No. I think what we're going to – we're looking at now I think the latest reports, at least the research reports are going around 150, 200 units. I am not going to predict how many we're going to sell frankly. I think we're going to sell that or more. I was in the prediction mode last year and I was pretty wrong about that. And I think I was much more optimistic about the implementation than it actually was. I think we're going to sell a number of units this year. I think again, that 150 to 200 units is very doable, and I think that the year after that, we're going to receive even bigger, more dramatic ramp-up, but I'm not going to predict how many we're going to sell. Again, I think I'm going to leave that in the hands of Andy Ridge, who's really the expert in that, and let him really implement what he wants, which is a great sales and marketing program, and really direct his attention up to decision-makers, people who actually will buy this. I'll tell you that his opinion is, this will become state-of-the-art very quickly and will become new way how the gas and energy is measured in any gas pipeline. I think if that occurs, you're going to see many, many, many units being sold.

And currently right now, in the inventory side, you don't have any problem there, right?

Not at all. We have about 200 – something over 200 units prepared to deliver. So, we can service ahead of delivery. And at this point, we are all, but ready to start calibration at Orbital. It's just a matter of really pulling the trigger, and we'll do that as we move down the line, and start to yield that some of that inventory.

And I know its early stage too, but as far as the integration efforts that must be underway now that the two companies are together, you're feeling no issues there? You're feeling good about putting the two cultures together and managing that?

Yeah. It's amazing. It's a good question, Joel. It's amazing how similar these two companies are in management style and culture. There have been, at this point, no issues whatsoever. Dan has done an incredible job consolidating the accounting which really was, I would say, the most difficult thing to do, because we're doing in two different countries. We have to take the English GAAP and convert it to U.S. GAAP. But other than that really, there has been no difficulties whatsoever.

Andy Ridge and I work really, really well together. Dan has done a great job of really integrating himself into their accounting systems. And so, now I can tell you that, at this stage, things are going quite well and actually going over and going to be there starting at the end of this week for probably a couple three months. Solid to really get a handle on that business, but it's going very, very smoothly at this point.

That's great. And last question, Dan, so it sounds like in the second quarter, we'll have quarter-over-quarter comparisons at least for the second quarter and the first half on a consolidated basis?

Right. So, what we'll have in the 10-Q, we'll have – Orbital will be part of our Q2 number. We will also have a separate disclosure in the 10-Q which would show how the year would have looked if we had Orbital been part of the company for full six months period during 2013 and compared to 2012 as well, so...

Okay. That's great. [indiscernible]

(00:22:17) year-over-year looking at both the pro forma and the actual results during the quarter for us.

Well, that's great. We'll look forward to that. That's all I have for now. Good luck, guys.

Thanks, Joel.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Aaron Martin with AIGH Investment Partners. Go ahead with your question, please.

Hi, guys. How are you doing? I started [indiscernible] (00:22:41) book of the backlog, you've now coming from the GasPT.

Aaron, you're – Aaron, I can't hear you at all.

So, he was asking – I heard it. He was asking what the backlog is from the GasPT that we have at March 31, backlog of orders.

Yeah. Backlog of orders for us, for CUI, right now is $2.4 million worth, and the back order definitely from Orbital is £475,000 or about $710,000.

Okay. Fine. I'll go to the next question.

Okay.

And then, what was the backlog for complete CUI at year-end, December 31st?

What was what?

What was backlog like at the December 31st for CUI?

Let me to pull that up for you. Hey, we'll have another question [indiscernible] (00:23:40) data right now, and I'll...

Okay. And then, I have the same question on Orbital, if you have that number as well.

I do not have the year-end number. I believe, for Orbital, I can give a round number. I think it is about $14 million to $15 million around at the end of the year.

Okay. Got it. [indiscernible]

(00:23:57)

Yeah. It's okay. I know you're not looking to give guidance for the amount of GasPT. But for those numbers that are out there, 150 to 200 units, how many do you have actually contracted as of today's date?

Give me that question again. I'm sorry [indiscernible] (00:24:18)

Sorry. You talked about 150 to 200 units this year not coming from you and you don't want to do the prediction. The question is how many of those units you actually have contracted to this date?

We have about – let me think about that – not including SNAM RETE, which of course will be a game-changer, because they want to order 500 at a shot, so that we don't have that. I have about – just down 100, about 95 of those units contracted, and that would be broadly across National Grid, Scotia, I have [indiscernible] (00:24:57), I've ETP. Yeah, so just under 100, about 95 units contracted.

Okay. And in terms of the breakdown of how many of those are full systems versus just the probes?

I'd say, it's about 60%-40%, about 60% full systems and about 40% analyzers right now.

Okay, got it. And typically what's the sales cycle life there? How – once you need to have those contracts on hands, get them end license for a year, what is that typically like?

Yeah. I can't give you much detail on the sales cycle yet, simply because we haven't had a lot of experience in that. I can tell you that it's never an emergency device that they have to have right away, but I guess maybe the best update I can give you is National Grid, National Grid needs as many as 400 of them, that's what they are telling us, they ordered an original six, they just ordered 10, they got another 20 in the process. So, again, it goes like that. It's not something where they order 200 or 300 at a time. Generally speaking that would be an order that a distributor would use for having inventory and whatnot. But as far as the actual implementation, it appears to be something that they do over a period of weeks or months. So, it would be difficult for me to give you actual sales cycle though, because again we're new at it and just getting that experience.

Okay, great. Have a good trip next week.

Thank you.

For the December backlog for CUI business, it was about $14,150,000 roughly. Of that about $11.5 million to $12 million was related to power and components, with the rest being GasPT devices.

Got it. All right. Thanks.

Sure.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of [ph] Morgan Frank with Manchester Management (00:26:48). Go ahead with your question, please.

Hey, guys. Couple of sort of accounting questions here. One, what was gross margin on Vergence for the quarter?

The gross margin on Vergence fully loaded with the licenses was about 48%.

48%? Okay, got it. And then second, I am just to pick up what you guys were just talking about with the 95 units contracted. My read on 95 units with 60% full and 40% just the probe, and those ASPs leads to a Vergence backlog that seems larger than the combination of the one you just announced between CUI and Orbital. So, what was the disconnect there? That looks like a considerably higher number.

Think about this [ph] Morgan (00:27:44), we also have that purchase order outstanding with EMC for – it's still 140 units to be delivered on that, and they just started installing units in these small gas turbine operations in South Texas. So, we don't know when they'll start ordering, but that includes – that would be included in that backlog.

Your backlog number is less than the 95. So, that's included in the backlog, kind of it seems like it's clearly [indiscernible] (00:28:09)

Correct.

It looks like 95 units should add up to something like $3.8 million, $4 million, where is your backlog which you consider – backlog was considerably lower. So, I'm just trying to get those two numbers to square.

Correct. That includes backlogs – part of that is backlog to Orbital, which we did not include in our numbers. So, it would be – our numbers will include the numbers from EMC.

Okay. We can take this offline. Thanks.

Do we have another question?

Our next question comes from the line of Lenny Dunn with Freedom Investors Corporation. Go ahead with your question, please.

Yeah. Good morning. I have a pretty good understanding of business and I have a...

Again, I'm not hearing that. I'm not hearing him well.

I have a good understanding of your business from reading over the 10-Q, and I had a couple of like housekeeping items I'd like to see you do. Clearly, the Green Shoe was exercised, but you didn't put a news release out. We have to read through the 10-Q to get to it. And it looks like your balance sheet is in very good shape with the additional money from the Green Shoe, and also the fact that you now have $5.3 million in debt, that 5% only extended out to 2020. So that, you're in a pretty good shape between the long-term debt and with the extra cash you got from the Green Shoe. And to make things a little easier for retail investors to understand and I'm not a retail investor, but it would be nice to have news releases on things like the Green Shoe, and the update on the debt included in the news releases you put out.

Yeah. I will take that under advice, and I appreciate the advice. One of the things we're cautious now is we obviously want to make our press releases quite meaningful. And so we want to make sure that we just don't give press release after press release after press release, and while you're probably right, the Green Shoe might have been something that we could have released. We had already just released the results of the [indiscernible] (00:30:27) itself. But again, we'll certainly take that under advisement [indiscernible] (00:30:32).

Well, it's material, and it's not something we're going to – we're going to do anyhow. And extending out paying down a couple of million, and extending out the remaining $5.3 million at 5%, 15%, 20% is also material. So again, I'm not interested [indiscernible] (00:30:49) press releases, but material than what we I think is helpful.

Sure. And it is, it's kind of material that we are better than a $1 per share of free cash right now [indiscernible] (00:31:00) CUI.

Okay. That's all. Just a housekeeping thing that I was thinking about. Thank you.

Good point. Thanks. [Operator Instructions]

Our next question comes from the line of Jeff Neal with Deutsche Bank. Go ahead with your question please.

Good morning, Dan. Good morning Bill.

Good morning, Jeff.

I have two questions. The first question is, and you may have talked about this earlier in the call, I apologize, I got on the call late. But the gross margin assumption in your core electronics business, obviously you've been trying to grow that business, you've probably been spending at a greater level than what you would on a sustainable basis. What would you estimate to be your sustainable gross margin on that business?

Dan, do you want to take that one?

Yeah, the gross margin [indiscernible] (00:32:00) cost of sales net, it's been about 40 points for, as long as I've been part of the company which has been 10 years. And that's the target that our sales staff is directed to train. So far we obviously don't always get that with regards to whatever the product mix maybe in the volume that we're offering. But historic range has been in that 37% to 41% typically on the gross margin or regarding power and electronic components. So we expect that to maintain fairly well. There may be some erosion, but not significant percentages as we continue to target larger manufacturing contracts. But that's the typical window there. When it comes to the SG&A and cost associated with that, yes, we have been investing in that, and that's where the efficiency will come particularly in the Q1 this year versus Q1 last year.

We increased our regional sales people, particularly we added the area sales directors. Their performance has really taken hold, and driving the [indiscernible] (00:33:04) network and reaching customers out in the field. And then also with regards to our advanced power technologies, our engineering team has been built up to support those products and the related customers that we're working with on those. So all-in-all, I don't expect really much growth in the SG&A factor regarding the power and electronics group going forward, and we do expect a significant growth cycle. Organic growth coming in 2015, and then starting to ramp up we're going to advanced power technology in 2014-2015. I hope that gives you the answer.

That answers the question. My second question relates to back to [ph] CT-2 unit placements (00:33:50) placements. Bill, rather than trying to predict the number, it's a different question, how many units in your mind must you guys sell to suggest market adoption? What do you think the critical hurdle is?

Yeah. I understand what you're saying. I don't think it's a number of units, I think it's a number of units to certain customers. In other words, I think if it's going to happen, and again, after lengthy discussions with Andy Ridge and others in the industry, I think what's the real signifier of the technology being adopted is, one or two of these large transmission companies adopting it whether that be [indiscernible] (00:34:28) whether it be an energy transfer partners, whether it be 00:34:30. One of these large transmission companies, either U.S. or either in North America or Europe will begin we believe the cascade effect being adopted. And the reason for that is simply once one of the larger transmission companies adopted and starts to recognizing the technology, we then open up the secondary market, the large consumers, the power plants, steel mills, the ceramic big factories, the glass factories, those huge users of natural gas that can then use it to monitor their own gas usage, and actually affect their own billing rates with that. So I think at that point, we'll see, like we say the cascade effect, and then it will I think move downstream to the distribution system.

So I think, it's not necessarily a number as much as it's a number to one or two of these big transmission companies. And I think we have several right now on the line that are starting to adopt it, and are really we're starting to see some real traction [indiscernible] (00:35:27) national grid that as I mentioned we're talking [indiscernible] (00:35:29) pipeline, energy transfer partners to finish their testing, they're moving forward. And as I mentioned [indiscernible] (00:35:34) is always in that position of if they do fulfill this 1,500 unit project that they are confident and set to do, that would be a huge milestone for us. So I think that answers your question. It's not so many. It's just a number of units because we could sell – one of the velocities that we're starting to incorporate now with these [indiscernible] (00:35:55) is to really increase dramatically our distribution network. We're targeting 38 to 40 distributors by the end of this year. When we get 38 to 40 distributors and each one of themselves can, the numbers are real simple. You've got 380 units to 400 units being sold. But I don't know if it's just that, if it's done that way, I don't know if you really have market adoption at that point, which you would have if you had that 400 unit sold into energy chains of a partner or into TransCanada or into the national grid. So I think that more closely I think answers your question.

Yes. It does. Thank you.

Sure.

Thank you. There are no more questions in the queue. Actually, one more. We have another question from the line of [ph] Craig Corringer with Wealth Capital (00:36:44). Go ahead with your question, please.

Yeah. Hi. Good morning. Any update on test down with the GE on your gas turbine [indiscernible] (00:36:52)?

Yes. There, the only update is what we talked about in the past. They are in the process of buying two units, which we are now tweaking to fit their criteria. They have little bit of different criteria they want. And there is supposed we're going to go take those two and put them on a mainframe or two mainframe test devices in Houston, in the Houston facility and do what they call secondary testing. So yes, to answer your question, they're still moving forward. Yes, we're still really the leader of the pack, there's only one other device that you've been looking and it's much less attractive to them, and ours is, they are still moving forward. I have not heard of a test date yet, which is something they [indiscernible] (00:37:33) around the availability of these machines, I think they're quite difficult to get a hold of I guess. Most of them are billed for specific projects and are shipped right out [indiscernible] (00:37:42), and they can keep their two or three in period of time. So I think that's what is the scheduling situation. But they're still moving forward.

All right. Great. Thanks.

All right. No problem [ph] Craig (00:37:52). Thanks.

This is Dan. I would like to circle back to [indiscernible] (00:37:59) question just briefly because I think I can answer where the confusion was on that. The overall quarters related to [indiscernible] (00:38:07) we have, those are portfolio populated units, meaning in the boxes with all the developing vessels, the probe included to go on the line directly. The EMC order currently is just for the analyzers, but the expectation is that as they [indiscernible] (00:38:26) distribution customer, the expectation is that a good number of those, which is where the 60%-40 % split that Bill mentioned, the expectation is that many if not most of their customers will be purchasing the full boxes as supposed to just the analyzers. Currently our backlog includes just the analyzers for the bills that I assume [indiscernible] (00:38:44).

Thanks, Dan.

You're welcome.

Thank you. We have a question from the line of Eric Stine with Craig Hallum. Go ahead with your question please.

Yeah. Just wanted to sneak in a few more. Just related to IRS, you mentioned that you've done I think 30, little over 30 of those, and 390 pumping stations in the UK. I mean, is it realistic to think that you may get most or all of those over time? And then the second thing would just be, could you comment on what other competitive devices are out there that would go against the IRS? Thanks.

Yeah. There are other devices out there, by-and-large, they're all third-party hosted, almost if you can compare it to an SAP or an Oracle system where a third party hosts it. You then buy licenses for each and every one of your engineers, each computer they will have it, and it's updated 2 or 3 times a year at a cost. So you don't know, the IRS system was unique in the sense that it's web-based, and really it sits on your own system. So you manage it. It is owned by you. You don't need licenses. Literally, any engineer with a smartphone or an iPad can use the password, get on and get access to a really vibrant, quite dynamic schematic of each and every [indiscernible] (00:40:04) which is done, and you can control valves, you can isolate brokerage systems, you can do any number of things that again are unique to the system.

And that's the differentiator, its ability to actually control the system remotely as opposed to the other systems which are primarily providing data feedback.

And then, as far as your question about how many we expect to get, Dan and I actually were in the UK during the initial stages of the acquisition, and meeting with National Grid, because obviously we went to National Grid to know that what was happening and our commitment was to really increase rather than decrease the relationship with them. They were quite happy about that. And in fact, gave us an initial report on the 32 that had been installed. At that time, [indiscernible] (00:40:45) contract to do 60 this fiscal year which ends in July for them. During that meeting, they extended that to 90, so added 30 more, and what they're now doing is putting together a contract that they will be offering to us, and it is RIO system that they have over there which is a method by which they are going to reduce cost of identifying what they call preferred vendors.

That RIO system, in the contract, they want to put together will be an 8-year proposal ensuring us a minimum of 30 units per year over the course of 8 years. So not only do we expect to get most of those pumping stations, we actually expect to get all of those pumping stations. Literally, the Irish system is so dynamic and so differentiated that they're now demanding at the boot level, if you will, the engineering level have seen what it does, and they want it on all of their pumping stations. So we think it's going to be quite a dramatic product. Now, this is only the UK obviously, but we think that once we can leverage that into the U.S., we can see some pretty dramatic revenues there as well. That answered your question?

It does. Thank you.

Thank you. There are no further questions at this time. I would now like to turn the floor back over to Mr. Clough for closing comments.

Yes. Thank you, Diana, thank you, Landon, thank you much, Denis, obviously great working with you, and to everyone who participated on the call, we appreciate your support and your interest. I think you're involved in a company that's in the beginning of some really, really dramatic change, some pretty dramatic growth, and a different company all-in-all the ones you've seen over the last few years. So again, we're quite excited. And obviously, Dan and I are very available. You can get in touch with us through our email addresses, which will be on our website, or you can call us if you have any questions. But again, thank you all for your support, your time, and your interest. That's it. Thank you, Landon.

Thank you, Bill. Thank you, Diana.

Thank you. This will conclude our teleconference for today. You may disconnect your lines at this time. We thank you for your participation. Have a great day.