Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Landon Barretto — President, Barretto Pacific Corporation
William J. Clough — Chairman, President, CEO & General Counsel, CUI Global, Inc.
Daniel Ned Ford — Chief Financial & Accounting Officer, CUI Global, Inc.
Eric Andrew Stine — Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC
Morgan C. Frank — Director, Manchester Explorer, L.P
James Gordon Kennedy — President, Marathon Capital Management LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Greetings and welcome to the CUI 2013 Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] As a remainder, this conference has been recorded.

It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Landon Barretto. Thank you, sir. You may now begin.

Thank you. Good morning. Thank you for joining us to review the financial results of CUI Global Inc. for the second quarter of fiscal year 2013 which ended June 30, 2013. As the concall operator indicated, my name is Landon Barretto with Barretto Pacific Corporation. We're the investor relations consulting firm for the company.

With us on the call representing the company today are Bill Clough, President, Chief Executive Officer; and Dan Ford, Chief Financial Officer. At the conclusion of today's prepared remarks, we'll open the call for a question-and-answer session. If anyone participating on today's call does not have a full text copy of the earnings release, you can retrieve from the company's website at www.cuiglobal.com.

Before we begin with the prepared remarks, we submit for the record the following statement. Statements made by the management team of CUI Global during the course of this conference call that are not historical fact are considered to be forward looking statements subject to risks and uncertainty. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides the Safe Harbor for such forward-looking statements.

The words, belief, expect, anticipate, estimate, will, and other similar statements of expectation identify forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements contained herein are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those reflected in the forward-looking statements included herein.

These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the impact of competitive products and pricing, product demand and market acceptance, new product development, the ability of the company to control costs, availability of products produced from third party vendors, fluctuations in operating results and other risks detailed from time to time in the CUI Global filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.

Participants on this call are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which reflects management's analysis only as of the date hereof. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly release the result of any revisions to these forward-looking statements which may be made to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.

With that said, let me turn the call over Bill Clough, President and Chief Executive Officer of CUI. Bill?

Thank you Landon, and thank you everybody for attending. This is quite an exciting time period for the company, for Dan and myself and I think for everybody who is involved in this company. Dan and I when we went out and talked originally about the acquisition of Orbital, we talked about the fact that it would be immediately accrete, in fact we promised that it would be immediately accretive and I think we delivered quite handsomely on that promise.

I'm going to turn over to Dan in a few minutes and have him go through the numbers in much more detail. But just a top-line looking at it, quarter-to-quarter revenues were up 80%, year-to-date revenues were up almost 80%, and it's not just Orbital, Matt and his team at CUI have done an incredible job this year, really, really growing the business, up almost $4 million, up 20% year-to-date. So really, really nice action by CUI as well and we'll talk more about that when we talk about operationally.

We've done that by and in conjunction with that reduced our SG&A as a total percentage of our gross revenues from 43%, down to 36%. And as Dan will explain when he takes over a lot of that SG&A has to do with amortization of intangibles. So, really non-cash items that we're kind of forced to approve because of the GAAP accounting rules. So again, really, really nice in that regard as well.

We managed to maintain close to 40% gross margins, just under 40% gross margins even including Orbital. So again, both companies hitting really nice margins. As far as the EBITDA is concerned, up quarter-over-quarter from a loss of $0.04 last quarter up to a EPS of adjusted $0.08 this quarter, a $0.12 improvement and year-to-date up from a loss of $0.12 last year up to a gain of $0.10 this year or up $0.22.

So again, overall, some really nice numbers I believe and I think as we talked about in the past, this was a inflection quarter, this last quarter was an inflection quarter for CUI Global. We have now crossed that profitability threshold. We think that we have some really, really exciting things going on now that are going to really increase the value of this company as we move forward.

I'm going to turn over it to Dan and let him go through the details of the numbers and then come back and talk a little bit about our operational update. I'll give you some idea of where we're at and where we're going. So with that, Dan, you want to take it away.

Yeah. Thank you, Bill. Hi, good morning, everyone, and also thank you for attending this morning. First things I want to touch on is some of the lead transactions for the quarter and that obviously starts with the equity raise. We issued 9.6 million shares roughly, 9.6 million to 9.7 million shares and netted proceeds of $45.1 million, a dramatic change to our balance sheet right off the gate that allowed us to repay $2 million principal on a long-term note payable. That was extended to May 15, 2020 due date and the interest rate was reduced to 5% per year. Bigger than that there was obviously the acquisition of Orbital Gas Systems for $26.2 million. With that acquisition, we obviously got the balance sheet related assets. We also identified through the purchase price allocation, the intangible assets that came with that and goodwill,

verified the intangibles with amortization lines from anywhere from 2 years to 12 years of that, and goodwill of $5 million. The amortization of those intangible items contributed to the quarter, $730,000 of expense roughly which hit SG&A directly. Again, that is non-cash expense, and is a $730,000 of the SG&A total.

Within that though is one of those amortizing intangibles has the two-year life, that's the most expensive for the quarter and that contributed $429,000 of expense to the quarter, and that will be completed after two years, so in April 2015 that will have successfully amortized out.

From there, [indiscernible] (00:06:43) I will talk through the financial statements and some of the key items. The balance sheet obviously has a strong cash position now from the equity raised after paying for the acquisition and the debt repayment. We have cash of $28.1 million. We've repaid the line of credit balance, we have a zero balance as of June 30, and we continue to maintain that line of credit of $4 million with Wells Fargo. Current assets of $44.5 million, total assets of $89.9 million, current liabilities of $14.6 million and total liabilities of $19.95 million. So, we have a very strong asset position compared to liabilities, very healthy balance sheet.

Moving on to the P&L, out quarter two revenue was $18.151 million, the year-to-date revenue was $28.2 million. Of the quarter two revenue, approximately $12.6 million related to the CUI Power and electromechanical component products and $5.6 million related to gas industry products. The year-to-date figure is $22.25 million related to the CUI electromechanical and power products and $5.95 million related to gas related products.

As Bill mentioned earlier, CUI's revenue was an increase of nearly $4 million, it was actually $3.7 million increase for the six months comparative period. Overall, contribution to the increased revenue for the year-to-date period was $5.6 million roughly as previously discussed. The increase from CUI is largely related to product introduction, continued market penetration by the sales and marketing efforts, several new and existing customer engagements that have added new orders, the addition of Future Electronics which is discussed in Q1 as well but continues to perform better than expected.

The increased backlog in the beginning of 2012 and has actually continued through the six months ended, for CUI, customers received is up 2.2 million as compared to the prior year six months ended for CUI, that's a 10% increase.

Bill mentioned earlier that the gross profit margins remain consistent. They were at 38.93% as compared to 39.27% and that's consistent even after adding the acquisition of Orbital, kind of demonstrating that their business model is setup very similar to CUI's as it was before.

SG&A, this one I know everyone asks about. So I want to talk through this obviously. SG&A increased $2.5 million roughly for the year-to-date period. Of that increase, Orbital accounted for $1.9 million. But as a percentage of sales, it actually improved in the quarter and year-to-date period compared to the prior comparative period and it did include that $731,000 (sic) [$730,000] (00:09:25) of amortization expense related to intangibles.

As a percentage of revenues, it was 34.6% during the quarter compared to 39.3% in the prior year, an improvement of nearly 5% and for the year-to-date period, it was approximately 36.9% compared to 43% which is a 6% improvement. That's associated with the increased sales to CUI and the efficiencies gained through that as well as the addition of Orbital and their ability to focus the GasPT sales efforts.

In addition, there is one other significant addition to that SG&A other than the intangibles and the ongoing activities of Orbital and not just acquisition related expenses, those totaled approximately $240,000, [indiscernible] (00:10:13) interim legal fees and filings and professional services, financial services and so on.

An item that you may notice on the P&L is the provision for taxes has increased, that provision is largely related to the UK activities, at the U.S. we have the net carry forward losses to allocate against income but in the UK we are taxable and the amortization of intangibles does not affect that tax rate.

The Q2 [ph] number (00:10:40) was $294,778 for an EPS of $0.02, that improved the year-to-date income to a loss of $167,000 roughly, which was at Q1 it was a $462,000 loss. The year-to-date EPS is $0.01 loss. As Bill mentioned previously, the improvement of EBITDA but the EBITDA total for this quarter was $1,575,098 compared to loss of approximately $418,000 prior year, nearly $2 million improvement. And for the year-to-date period, the EBITDA is approximately $1.5 million as compared to a loss of $1.1 million in prior year, dramatic improvement there as well.

In the quarter, we present the pro forma results, as though Orbital has been acquired on January 1, 2013 and 2012. That pro forma shows that had we acquired them at the start the year, we would have generated $32.8 million roughly in revenue compared to $31.5 million in the prior year pro forma period and generated a net loss of $1.7 million compared to $1.9 million. Both of those comparative periods include the amortization of those intangibles previously mentioned and the pro forma statement that presents with approximately $1.5 million of amortizing expense.

Additionally in the 2013 period, there was a large bonus granted at Orbital by the former owner during the period that he owned the company at the start of this year, and that approximately had $1.5 million of expense. So taking that into account, as well as the amortization of intangibles, that net loss for the current year would've been that dramatically different – but not taking into those accounts. That bonus, I should mention also is a one-time event, and that will not be hitting again going forward.

The cash flow statement, there was net cash provided by operating activities for the period ended, $602,701 as compared to the $751,000 roughly used in the prior year. That improvement is associated with the net income for Q2, as well as, the couple of key items, a large collection of receivables in Orbital from a single customer, approximately $2 million, offset by some increases in inventory related to customer order schedules, increased prepaid expenses, payments on accounts payable, and a large Orbital related to liability of that, existed prior to the acquisition of about $1.5 million, and payment [indiscernible] (00:13:13) and a few other key items, but those are the main ones. Also note that we repaid $2 million in long-term debt and the line of credit this year-to-date period. The overall increase in cash position is $25.1 million approximate for year-to-date.

The segment reporting is included. We now are showing three segments, which include Power Electromechanical, which is really the CUI, you can see our Japan product lines, and then a Gas segment, which represents the [indiscernible] (00:13:44) Orbital including GasPT, and there is another segment, which combines all of the activities within our – operating as individual segment. The Power Electromechanical for the year-to-date contributed $22.25 million, and the Gas revenue contributed $5.95 million in revenue.

With that, I'll turn it back over to Bill to discuss more of the operating activities of the company. Thank you.

Thank you, Dan. I appreciate it. Again, I think let me start with CUI and CUI is as we talked about the past is really doing well, quite frankly well run by Matt and his team, they've sort out and really aggressively attacked new markets consistently. As Dan mentioned, the Future Electronics relationship as they put together has turned out to be much better than any of us thought it would be. Future has introduced us to OEMs that we would never have seen before. And quite frankly, they're not only excited about the core business products that we're providing to them, but they're looking forward to distributing our Novum products as well.

The Ericsson partnership continues to move forward very positively. We've introduced more SKUs and have our Novum product out for testing. And as Dan mentioned, we have a historically high backlog in CUI of $14.6 million. So, really, really nice work by his Matt and his group. I can only say the same thing for Andy Ridge at Orbital, I've now spent significant time at the Orbital and I can tell you and I have told some people already that the management team, especially the mid management team at Orbital, is much deeper, much stronger, much better frankly than I even imagined, really, really great team there, very enthusiastic.

We've had historic increase in contractual work. Again looking at the backlog, so Orbital has a historic backlog right now of $23.6 million. So roughly, one year's revenues in backlog, which is really nice for us to have. For a total backlog for the two companies about $38.2 million almost $40 million in backlog, ensuring us some pretty dynamic sales in the next quarter as we begin to deliver on that.

Breaking out the new technologies at Orbital, I really want to talk about all three technologies, because I know that everyone has a great deal of interest in GasPT and obviously that's where a lot of our efforts are.

So we're no longer a one-trick pony here when it comes to gas. The acquisition of Orbital has given us much, much wider, much broader product line and I think many of you probably saw the press release for example on the VE Probe, which really expands our market in that regard.

So let's talk about the three segments or the three new technologies, first is IRIS. IRIS, as some of you know, is a remote telemetry control system that we're just now introducing into the UK market through National Grid. We are installing the units currently, somewhere north of 40 units now, around 45 units have been installed. They're quite dynamic, quite unique and the National Grid is quite impressed with what they've seen.

The initial contract of 60 units has about 15 units more to go and we have been informed by National Grid that they will probably be letting out a small contract of 25 to 30 more units to give them the time to operate tender for as many as 200 units. Those units, again, to remind you, sell for about £100,000 a piece, about $150,000 and have a great margin associated with them. So IRIS is quite exciting in moving forward.

I mentioned the VE Probe during the last several weeks, we were able to acquire worldwide exclusive rights to the VE Probe and all of its iteration. So we did have exclusive rights to the VE Probe and it's used with GasPT, but now we have that probe technology in any of its iterations, which means we can sell it as sampling systems for everything from mercury sensors to GCs, to any number of different applications. And most exciting of all, we can now really penetrate the market with the VE Probe into thermal wells, which are really ubiquitous in the systems throughout the world. They are in essence temperature centers that are placed throughout pipelines, thousands – literally, hundreds of thousands of them. And the VE Probe technology allows the operators to put those probes in and not worry about the vibration and fracturing that they get with standard technology. So again, we think that's going to be a huge market for us.

And then again, GasPT, as many of you know, we talked about it in the past. With the acquisition of Orbital, we've changed our philosophy and strategy with GasPT. We identified originally once we took control of the Orbital, the top echelon of distributors that we felt we could get to sell the products into the market. These are distributors who are all built, with networks, selling metering devices into the natural gas industry. And we targeted, we looked originally at 400 of those potential distributors. Culled that down to what we thought was the top 35 to 40 of those distributors.

And about two months ago, now started really attacking those distributors and looking for contracts for them to distribute the product. I would tell you that we've now have 14 contracts either signed or out for signature. We expect that as many as 29 distributors signed up by the end of the September and we're well on our way to hitting the number that we hoped for which is 35 distributors to 40 distributors by year-end.

We believe that that's the way that we're going to get significant traction with the device and really bring it into the market. I will tell you that myself, my team, Andy and his team have been out traveling around and the feedback has been remarkably positive both in pricing and in what the device could do. We expect to meet the numbers that are out there this year, but we expect again to see those numbers increase as these distributors come on board. We had approximately 50 of the units sold and installed as of the end of June. That would include there are two test devices for GE, they expect to do secondary testing in October. We are getting an order for eight of the devices from National Grid that they're going to use specifically for engine controls on some of their large turbine compressors, so again quite a great use for the device. And we've now installed two and have two more going out to [ph] Alliance Pipeline (00:19:58) for installation on their North American pipeline. So again starting to get traction and they're really pushing towards the distributorship.

So all in all, when I look at both companies CUI [indiscernible] (00:20:09) and Orbital and Andy's team, they're hitting on all eight cylinders. We have some very exciting things coming forward. And again I think that this is – as I mentioned and have mentioned repeatedly was an inflection for this company and I think we're going to see some, some great growth in the future and again in all these product lines.

So with that being said, Landon and I open it up for questions.

Thank you.

Thank you. We'll now be conducting a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Eric Stine from Craig-Hallum.

Hi, Bill and Dan. Thanks for taking the questions.

Sure.

Maybe we can just start with backlog, just where the backlog currently stands for the GasPTi? And then also, last quarter you talked about kind of a list of firm indications, I think the number was approximately 95%, just maybe where that stands and how that breaks down amongst the different opportunities?

I think that still stands where it was last quarter. In other words, we have very good indications that we're going to meet those numbers. We've delivered on some, others we're waiting for purchase orders. But again I think that as we talked about last quarter, we have now a sales team of five sales guys who are assigned to this and they're not only working on distributorships, but we have specific people assigned to the UK and to Europe to work on sales there.

So again I don't think that's changed. I think as I mentioned, we expect to meet the numbers. And again, I think the more exciting factor now is that the distributors that we're trying to sign up will change those numbers and as they come on board. We are requesting that they begin to give us forecasting. So I think as they come on board, we'll get more visibility. And obviously Eric as you well know as we move into a new technology that's always the issue is real visibility on how many sales are going to be done and I think that's where we're going to be looking for direction from those distributors because they're going to know their customers better than anybody.

But again, as far as the 95, I think it was actually around 110 now that we've got, I think those are still moving out the door or purchase orders are expected momentarily. So again, I think we're going to hit those numbers and I'm pretty confident that we'll also hit the numbers when we talk about having 35 to 40 distributors [ph] lined up (00:22:54).

Okay. That's helpful. Maybe be just then moving to the opportunity with Snam Rete, I'm just curious to where that stands. And I know it's tough to predict as it's the Italian government being involved but any thoughts there would be helpful?

Yes, I have a dinner scheduled in London actually on the 29th with Daniele Gamba, who is the third highest ranking executive at Snam Rete. He actually is in charge of their fixed assets. And hopefully I'm going to have some visibility. I know they did meet with their energy minister just recently. The dinner is specifically for me to – in essence, drill down on him as to what scheduling looks like. So I will know more as we move forward. But yet, you're right. It's that the funding is there, they've already ordered the field units they're trying to take delivery on those. So again it's one of those things where we hope to get information any day, but have not heard anything yet. I will tell you this though, their five-year plan is now about I think 20 months or less away from mandatory completion.

So they've got to make some moves pretty quick because they – under the Italian law, if they don't use that money the €80 million which is sitting there in that timeframe, then it goes back to the bondholders. So it's not something that they can really play around with. So I suspect something's going to happen in the short-term, okay.

Okay. Okay. And just – I mean no change that your devices is kind of the one that's targeted for -

No, no – no change at all. Not at all actually, quite contrary, I mean it's very solid that and they are doing today to our distributors [indiscernible] (00:24:28). But it is still – it is the device of choice it's not that about that.

Okay. And maybe one last one for me, just thoughts on timing and moving calibration of the GasPT over to Orbital from GL how long it takes once that starts to looking at what do you need to see in terms of demand to do that? Thanks a lot.

Yeah. Thanks for asking that question. That's a great question, we have actually gone ahead and built the lab out. So we're set to go. Actually we could move that calibration over in a matter of days. It's now just a matter of demand. We have the units available right now and inventory to deliver we believe this year's allotment. If that should change for example, if Snam Rete should come through with a big order or somebody else who comes with a big order we can literally have our calibration effort running within a matter of two or three days at Orbital. So we would not have made that investment, we've built out the lab, and actually it's quite a nice facility for those that' you've been out there and maybe saw that the build out as we're going through, is now ready. It' up and ready to go. All we have to do is pull the trigger.

Okay. Thanks a lot.

Sure.

Thank you. Our next question comes from [indiscernible] (00:25:36).

Good morning. Thanks very much for taking my call.

Yeah, no problem.

I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about the gross margins that you achieved in Q2 in your two different segments?

Sure. Dan, do you want to take that one?

Yeah, I can pull that up. CUI stayed in the kind of the typical range where they've been at. Let me open up the details for the individual segments and I'll run that specifically for you.

Okay. So while you're doing that, maybe I'll just continue here. Can you talk as well about the probe technology that you've acquired? Are you able to go-to-market now in a greater way and start marketing into for thermal well applications or does it take some time for you guys to get your feet around it and get the products optimized to go-to-market for that?

No, it's in the market already. In fact, there's 150 of them in the National Grid system already in depth the company we acquired it from had been doing some sales. They've got – in essence, because of their issues with funding and other things, they weren't able to focus on the sales as quickly and as really and broadly as we can, but it's already in the market. There's no time to market here, it is a product that's fully setup, it's certified through OFGEM obviously it's being used in National Grid and others. So now we're in market right now. In fact, part of the package that we're taking to these distributors which is so excited for them is not just the GasPT and GasPTi, but the thermal well and other applications of the BE technology and really it is quite unique. So now it's ready to go, there is no – there is nothing more needed, it's actually out in the market and we're just going to expand the market base, okay.

Yeah.

Sorry, go ahead, please.

To answer the question regarding margins. The Power and Electro-Mechanical group had gross margins of 39.14% for the quarter and the Gas segment had margin of 38.45% for the quarter.

Okay. Great. And so in terms of Orbital, the IRIS, the probe you guys are doing a lot in the UK about the sounds of it was – this was National Grid, and two questions related to that, what is the total backlog share that National Grid accounts for as of the end of June?

And then secondly, what is your, what is your efforts ongoing to sort of take those product lines and go out beyond the UK and into other markets?

Dan, can you break out National Grid, that's bigger, and then I'll answer the other part of the question.

I don't have the details of backlog, but I can tell you that there's significant concentration for the company. So from a revenue standpoint, [ph] they (00:28:33) were a concentration for three months end of 21.6% revenue line. So they're a big, a big piece of our company.

I'll [ph] of total reps (00:28:44) or Orbital reps.

[ph] Both total (00:28:47) revenues.

Yeah.

I loved what you guys did this on a slide, it's great.

We can't anticipate every question.

On total revenue is more like 70% to 75% of just Orbital revenue business.

[indiscernible] (00:29:09)

So to answer your question, Orbital right now, if you look at Orbital right now, it's about 80% contractual, for the large amount of that as Dan mentioned coming from National Grid and about 20% product, with almost all of that being done in the UK. Our job, our execution here is to take that Orbital – that company, maintain what its doing with National Grid because we think that relationship is so important, expand that relationship and in the meantime, expand their product portfolio after the rest of the world. And what we've done is, literally taken a group of their own salespeople and brought in three new salespeople, which we are going to expand I think even more as we move forward and set up a separate product company, that's what we're doing. We're setting up a separate product team that is focused on really marketing the products that they have the really unique products that they have to the rest of the world and we're doing that in a number of different ways.

One way is, obviously, we're out getting these distributors and going through a distributed network system. The other is, Andy Ridge and I have made it a real effort to increase our relationship with National Grid at a much higher level because what we want to do is use National Grid as a resource. I mean, quite frankly National Grid has a great presence in North America on the Eastern Seaboard. They run power, gas, electric on that eastern seaboard and we're trying to set up a relationship whereby we can use their North American facilities as incubators, if you will, for the product and selling it into North America on an even quicker basis that way.

And frankly, those efforts to increase our relationship have been quite successful. We have moved up the ladder. We're now talking to people at the very highest levels of National Grid about partnering with them and it's really, I guess, a matter of timing more than anything else. National Grid is under a very strict mission statement to decrease their cost by as much as 23% over the course of the next few years.

They're doing that through a number of initiatives including developing very good relationships with some of their bigger vendors like Orbital, but they also want to do it through partnerships and so we're going to use these technical partnerships to really like you say bring some of these product to North America in even quicker method. But really our job in an execution phase is to do just what you talked about. We've got to – on the one hand, maintain and really keep that relationship with National Grid on the contract level which we're doing by really leading the team in place that handles that and forming this new group, the new team that is doing international marketing for the product line and we're bringing engineering support to that, we're bringing sales support to that, bring a whole team to that and they're the ones who are now initiating these distributorships. So does that answer your questions?

Yes. That's great. And then finally back to the IRIS again, so could you guys talk a little bit about what the competitive environment is for that particularly outside of – what you're trying to do with National Grid, so what are the – what are you trying to, what problem are you trying to solve there?

Yeah, it's actually quite unique and here's what it is. What the remote telemetry units are like almost without exception today the gas industry generally is they're very non-dynamic. So you have a guy sitting in a room basically monitoring the entire system whether it's Kinder Morgan system, whether it's Williams Pipeline, whether it's National Grid. He's sitting in his room or he has a big schematic lit up on the wall, looks like something out of NASA, where he is monitoring that entire system and there is a huge psychology around alarms. I mean what they want to avoid is a cascade of alarm so that that guy sitting and monitoring that all of a sudden has a board that's all red and he doesn't know what do that, that filtering system generally gives him an alarm if something goes off at a station or substation, metering station or pump station. He then gets on the phone could be 1 o'clock in the afternoon or 1 o'clock in in the morning, he gets on the phone and calls a technician who's close to wherever that alarm occurs.

That technician gets in his car or truck he drives out to that station to get to that station, what he sees almost without exception now is a [ph] DOS type (00:33:12) print out of a text that says fault at valve 17. He will go out to valve 17 wherever that happens to be, he'll pull that apart, he'll figure out what's wrong with it and hopefully he has a part within and then fix it that's pretty much is the way that the remote telemetry is done in the industry right now.

What National Grid did is, they came to – [ph] or they said (00:33:33) there's got to be a better way. There's got to be a way that we could put together – that's more dynamic that allows our technicians more access to what's going on in that station whether it would be a pump station, metering station, compression station whatever that to be. What these historic systems have been is they're usually third-party vendors who really lease the systems to the gas company. So they are licensed to individual computers much like an SAP system or a Oracle system would be in an [ph] EPC (00:34:03) sense. So again they're very – again standard within the industry.

What Orbital went out and did is change totally the situation and made it a web based system that was owned and operated by National Grid. So the system sits on their server secured to them. There is no licensing, there's no anything, it's web based. So that any technician who has the password, when they get that call from that room, can pick up a tablet, pick up their computer, pick up their iPhone, put in the password and what they see when they hop on that website is a schematic of that specific pumping station, metering station, compression station and on that schematic are little – what looks like little [ph] bow ties (00:34:47) which actually represent individual valves from their house without going out to the location. They can close the valve, they can open the valves, they can check the valves and even do a diagnostic on the valves that will tell them what's wrong with the certain valve. So they can isolate [ph] the valve (00:35:04) for example that's broken, they can move gas around that. They can call back and say look, I've set this up. So that valve is out of play now. I'll go out in the morning and fix it and now with that, because I have the diagnostic I know sitting in my house what it needs to get it there. So I go out there with the part. So you avoid the cost and the hazards frankly of sending guys out in the snow or rain or whatever at one, two, three, four o'clock in the morning to replace something when they can sit in their house and literally do it at home, it's that dynamic.

We began installing those at National Grid. And really the concentration and the little tough part now is mapping. We have to map each stage and it's a pretty long laborious task. What we're doing right now is our team is designing, in essence, plug-and-play method of mapping. And once that design is done that's when we feel we can take that out of National Grid and move it to the rest of the world. And it really is truly dynamic. It's something that is just not available right now in the gas industry. But that's what it does and sorry for the long answer but that is really what it does.

Thank you.

Does that answer your question. Okay. Go ahead.

Our next question comes from [indiscernible] (00:36:19-00:36:22).

Thank you very much. Good morning, guys. Bill, another may be follow-on on that question, how many of those valve or pumping station, I think you've mentioned this before, but it's pretty extensive network isn't it?

It is, actually if you look at National Grid which is really a small operation quite frankly. It's just right around – of 350 as it just at the distribution level and as many as 2018 – I'm sorry as the transmission level and as many of the 1,800 at the distribution level. So, yeah it's quite an operation when you start looking at it. If you look at some of the major U.S. operations, Alliance, Kinder Morgan, Williams, you're talking in the thousands of units that you really are. So, again at small just to give you an idea like to say National Grid which is a relatively small transmission set up to just the UK, about 350, 360 total at the transmission level and as many as 1,800 at the distribution level.

And those are pumping stations?

They're everything from pumping stations to metering, say – pretty much anywhere you're dealing with the gas that moves through that pipeline.

I wanted to maybe go into the probe question because you talk about the focus of using the VE-Probe with the GasPT2, then you talk about basic opening up of all these additional opportunities or you call them [ph] iterations (00:37:40), could you maybe just give us some color on what they might be in the maybe the size of some of those opportunities?

Yeah, well, let me just explain. What the VE-Probe does for those of you don't know, is there's big issue right now in all pipeline constructions and is just fluid dynamics. When you put in essence a vertical tube into a flow, into a gas flow, you're going to get just because of the fluid dynamics, a vibration. That vibration will tend to cause that vertical probe to crack. And so what's happened is over the course of years to prevent that cracking, the industries began to strengthen or stiffen that probe, they literally make it bigger and bigger and stronger and stronger.

Well, they're starting to discover now that doesn't stop the vibration and it doesn't stop the damage to the metal. It just transfers that damage to the pipeline itself. But now instead of having probes crack, they're actually finding microscopic cracks around the probe, where they're connected to the pipeline. We took a different approach with that. Literally what we did is took an approach where we took the fluid dynamics to reduce and you see this often times in – for example, in car antennas or on big industrial pipe stacks.

You see this flared, circular system that goes around the outside of the pipe or around the outside of the antenna, it stops it from vibrating. It simply sheds, if you will, turbulence, which is exactly what it does. We apply that proprietary patent and we apply that to the probe that goes into the pipeline. As a byproduct of that, what we were able to do is sample or take a sample of gas, a much smaller sample much quicker and much cleaner. If we didn't use what's – what's typical probes or sampling systems [indiscernible] (00:39:23) sampling system. We simply use the fluid dynamics to draw at the end. So, now, what we have is a sampling system that can provide gas to anything from a gas chromatograph to obviously the GasPTi, to a mercury probe to any number of things, we can have – supply anything that takes gas out of that pipeline, we can put our sampling system on. And what we do now is instead of taking 10 or 15 minutes, which is what standard sampling systems take to decompress the gas, keep the gas, make sure it's still [indiscernible] (00:39:58) particles out of it, do all the things you have to do in that 10 or 15-minute time period, we can draw that gas out clean and supply it in less than two seconds.

So, you're getting actual real time gas out of that pipeline very, very quickly that you would not be able to get. That supplies not just for GasPT, now obviously with the GasPT, we give them three seconds analysis. So, the total package is less than five seconds from sampling to analysis. But it works just as fast on anything else that needs sampling. And then, if you take that fluid dynamics, that vibration that applies just as well to thermowells and all of thermowell is a probe that goes down into the gas pipeline where you drop a temperature probe, so that you know what the temperature of the gas is, which is very important to gas travels that that temperature stay consistent and that operator know it.

So, again, if you got a pipeline, I mean – if there are hundreds of sampling systems and hundreds of gas chromatographs and hundreds of GasPTs online, there are thousands of thermowells. Because those temperature sensors are much more ubiquitous over the course of that transmission or distribution system, so that's why the opportunity for us with the VE-Probe now, now that we own the entire package, it's just so dynamic, it really is, it's added markedly to what we can do as far as distributors and sales end of the market.

And all of these thermowells will be connected into the IRIS system. Right?

No. They actually connect directly to the SCADA system to whatever the monitoring is, they would go into the monitoring of the pipeline quality. So, again, think about this, the SCADA system controls the actual pumping, valve, metering station, so it's right out there. But all of those stations, the metering stations, the thermowells, they are all reporting to a SCADA system generally or some type of computerized system that's actually telling the operators what the gas is doing in fact through that pipeline. So, they are two different systems.

Okay. Regarding long-term margin expansion potential, I mean, with the IRIS product, you talked about having a solid or maybe even higher historical margin than your historical margins along with some of the improvements in the margins related to the new agreement you have for the VE-Probe technology. Dan, do you have any indication of maybe what kind of long-term model we might look at in terms of margins, gross margins in the months ahead?

[indiscernible] (00:42:33) I think for modeling purposes I'd stay at around that 38% to 40%. We're going to do everything in our power to maintain that. And you may see some expansion as we get into some of the newer products. If you look at CUI for example, there will be quite a bit of expansion when we talk about [indiscernible] (00:42:49) sales going to ramp up because those are obviously new technologies that [ph] now been commoditized and will be (00:42:52). And so, again, I think you may see some expansion.

But on the other hand, [ph] let's face it (00:42:58), we go out and grab more OEM business on the CUI side, you're going to see some contraction of margin because bigger OEMs are going to order bigger orders, but obviously are going to expect better pricing. So, I think in that regard, I think the 40% – 38% to 40% is a pretty good model.

The same thing on the Orbital side, I think we're really pushing to keep the margins where they are or obviously increase them some if we can. I think, as GasPT becomes more of a part of the revenue, you're going to see obviously an expansion of those margins, because it is a bigger margin. But, again, I think for modeling purposes, I would stay at that 38% to 40%.

Great.

[ph] I couldn't have said that better (00:43:40), Bill. Thank you.

And, again, it's coming from you, that's great. Thank you.

Again, do you see or – are you considering any seasonality perhaps in the Orbital area because of the Europeans, the summer in the current quarter, is there anything we should be thinking about there?

No. The Orbital business is not seasonal, they are impacted by weather, obviously, because they're outlaying concrete passaging and some civil work at some of their installations. But, it's not necessarily a seasonal aspect as much as just timing of when customers are doing their project. So, we've looked at it, actually been fairly consistent on a quarterly over the years basis. So, now, there is no seasonality we're looking at, they do occasionally passaging and we've got a week delay or two-week delay due to weather issues, but I don't think – that's not really a seasonality issue, so.

Okay, great. And one final question that you've got a bunch of cash now on the books, could you consider [indiscernible] (00:44:43) buying back stock is where you use that cash going forward?

Let me jump in and answer that. Here's what Dan and I are doing quite dramatically. We are acting as if we don't have that cash in the bank, frankly. We're trying to maintain ourselves really be conservative and hold that cash tight to our vest. We will look at a lot of different options as we move forward. Obviously, we think that there's a great opportunity here with this company and where we're going now if we see the opportunity to reinvest in ourselves that may will be something we think about.

But at this point really, we want to keep that cash close to our vest, we think that at this point we're in a very strong position in that regard. I mean, I know we get the question all the time, oh, you got all this cash, what are you going to buy next? That's not where we're looking at all. We believe at this point this is an execution story.

What Dan and I really have to do from the CUI Global level is make sure we allocate resources to Matt and Andy in such a way that they can maximize their businesses. They're both incredibly good at what they do. We now have the resources to give to them to make them even better at what they're doing and that's our key. Our key is sales, revenue and generating money to the bottom line, that's what we're going to be doing. And, again, treating that cash, it's a luxury obviously to have especially in this day and age, but bottom line is we want to treat that cash as what it is, precious.

So, again, Dan, do you want to add something to that or?

Yeah. Just one key factor to what that cash allows us to do is it allows us to finance our growth ourselves rather than paying a bank to do that in the form of covering our receivables as they grow, covering our inventory and work in process, those increase with our revenue. So that cash balance, so it is a nice number there, it allows us the flexibility for the growth that we see coming down the pipe. So, that's the intention and Bill mentioned today, act as we don't have it, but it is a luxury, it is going to provide us with potentially the ability to grow [indiscernible] (00:46:39) for that benefit.

And, hopefully, these new distributors really drive sales going forward and provide operating leverage?

That's the plan.

Exactly.

Thanks, guys.

All right.

Thank you. Our next question comes from [indiscernible] (00:46:53) who is a private investor.

Good morning.

Yes, good morning.

Hi.

I wanted to ask you about Orbital's base business. It looks to me, please correct me if I'm wrong, that there was a $3 million to $4 million year-over-year decline in Orbital UK's base business excluding any contribution from gas product PT sales, that's a 30% plus decline in sales year-over-year through the first half calendar 2013. Should we extrapolate that decline through the rest of the year, it seems that not likely because of the large backlog? So, could you...

[ph] Fred (00:47:48), let me stop you right now. There is no decline. They are on an increase. Dan, do you want to address that. I'm not sure where that's coming from.

I'll tell you where it's coming from. You're showing pro forma revenue numbers in the 10-Q of $32.8 million of which CUI is $22 million, round numbers. And at least $10.8 million for Orbital UK for the first half, in the first half of last year, they did $13 million. And this year's first half, it includes some revenue numbers from the GasPT product, $400,000 in the first quarter. I don't know how much in the second quarter.

And the net result is we're looking at about somewhere between $9 million and $10 million sales from Orbital's base business for the first half of the year, $5.6 million of which was reported in the second quarter. So, I'm just looking at the pro forma numbers you guys put up in the 10-Q, subtracting out CUI's numbers and the rest has to be Orbital. So, there is a sales decline.

We're not looking at a sales decline for the year.

Okay. Thank you, with that big backlog, I would think not, number one. Number two, just – I'm sorry, I'm new to your story, you said at the [indiscernible] (00:49:22), Bill, that analysts were estimating GasPT unit sales of between 150 and 175 units for the year. You sure had a number of 95 early on the call, was that number a projection for the year or was it additive to the units you've already sold year-to-date?

Yeah, the number – the 95 number is something that Eric had asked on the last quarter call and what that really was, at that time, he asked for numbers that we had that we were 90% sure.

Okay.

[indiscernible] (00:49:59) our internal sales force yes is 75%, 80% and 90% share certainly that's our sales guys do that.

Got you.

[ph] We did talk about (00:50:07) last call, that was – that 95% was part of the one that we've always hit the 150 or close to it, so that was 95 and what he asked like [ph] believe (00:50:17) what I was answering is, is that 95 still coming in, yes, it is, and it's a 90% of better insurance, so...

All right. Got it. So any overage above that is that just somewhat lesser degrees of visibility, but still reasonable expectation, okay. And then, is it the Energy Management Consulting Group that distributes for you in the U.S. I think you said given your 150 unit purchase order, I think I read that in the 10-K, that order was received in December last year, are you shipping to EMC against that order yet or not?

We shipped – we have shipped 10 against that order, but that's always shipped at this point...

Okay.

I think they've installed either three or four of those and they believe they will get installed, but again, [indiscernible] (00:51:16).

And you booked sales as soon as they're shipped to them.

We've booked sales when they're shipped, correct.

Okay. So, they don't have [ph] greater return on any units that's up (00:51:24).

All right.

Okay. Great. Thank you very much. Appreciate it.

No problem. Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Morgan Frank from Manchester Management.

Hey, guys. Couple of quick housekeeping questions. So with the Orbital in Q2 for the whole quarter, was there any sort of stub of revenues that's not included in Q2 or did that start from April 1?

Started April 1.

Okay. Second question on GasPT2, what was the ASP for the quarter? I guess what I'm sort of trying to get at here is what was the mix of just probes of the whole box or was it all whole box [indiscernible] (00:52:08) combined entity or can you just kind of walk us through what sort of ASP assumption you use on those going forward?

Do you have that – do we have that broken out Dan?

You have better answers than I or from [ph] Andy (00:52:20). Typically though, we were selling primarily the whole box PTIs. And Bill, I believe those are in the $50,000 range.

That's correct. $55,000 and actually I will tell you, yes, most of them were full box. I think the only ones that were not were the 10 that we delivered to EMC, now you mentioned it, because all of the ones that went to alliance were full box, all the ones that went to GE, and all the ones that have gone to national grid and the UK group. So I believe that, let's say, probably 80%, 90% of them were the full box $55,000.

Of those 10, that have gone to EMC, how many were in Q2?

I think six were in Q1 and four were in Q2. And those were all just the devices, just that $16,500 devices.

Got it. So last question I have, as we look at the new distribution network, you've got 14 guys up you're hoping to be signed by the end of September, are there any stocking orders for those guys or what sort of timing...

Yeah.

...does it take for signing a guy up and having them become active and selling product [indiscernible] (00:53:34) trying to figure out how to anticipate the ramp that will be associated with those kind of things.

Yeah, it's really tough for me to answer that right now, simply because we're in the middle of signing on. I know that we are insisting that they take at least two of these, one for demo and one for stock and that we are in fact pushing for sales forecasts as they sign up. But again, until I get some of the sales force guys, until I start seeing those, it's going to be tough for me to tell you how fast they're going to ramp. I will tell you this though, every one of them are in the industry, selling into the market, selling metering devices, and they're not in it to sit on stock.

So I know that the people we've had so far, mostly European at this point, are really quite eager to get the product and get out the market, but I just – I don't have the visibility to be able to tell you what numbers we're going to look at.

So do any of the – any of the 14 that you've currently signed taken on those two units yet? Was any of that included in Q2?

None of that was included in Q2. We have had some in the third quarter, but none in Q2.

Got it. Okay great. Thank you very much.

Sure.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Jim Kennedy from Marathon Capital Management.

Hi, guys.

Hey, Jim.

Hey, Bill. Just wanted to drill down a follow-up on that distributor question from the last caller. Could you just kind of describe the profile of your distributor class, if you will? Are these large companies? Are these what we might consider to be manufacturer's reps? You've already said that they are in the market selling metering products. What is the typical size of these firms? And where do you think you'll fit within their scope of product offerings?

Sure. It's Dan. In Europe, what we're seeing is anywhere from $7 million to as much as $25 million and $30 million in revenue a year these companies make, so it's really, really smaller companies but that's how Europe is broken up. Very prestigious though, Kontram, for example, K-O-N-T-R-A-M in Norway is one of the first we signed up. They're very respected in that entire area up in there and so they are quite excited about it. They are representatives of other metering devices, gas chromatographs and others.

And again, I can't really tell you what part of their businesses will be, I can tell you that our hopes are that we are going to take a very strong part of the market from gas chromatographs. And if that's true, then obviously, we'll be a bigger, bigger part of their operation.

In the U.S., we are looking people like Benchmark up in Canada, a very, very large distributor. And these are by and large, large distributors of metering processes, everything from flow meters to gas chromatographs, to any number of metering devices, and they are selling into the industry as I mentioned now. So it really depends like, say, in Europe most of the distributors are smaller. In the U.S., I have a team right now as we speak in the U.S. In fact, they just presented at a big gas show in Pittsburgh and they're meeting with U.S. distributors right now. So I can't really give you a take on who they talked to or what the size of those distributors are, but I know they are bigger just revenue wise in the U.S. than they are in Europe.

Okay. And then, your direct sales force, are they selling to the distributors or are they going directly to the end customer?

In the UK, they're going directly to the end customer, and then, we're keeping some customers is what I would call house accounts. For example, GE, we're keeping as a house account, because we feel that it's a huge opportunity; plus, there's a lot of engineering support that GE is needing. So we're actually we're giving that [ph] in half (00:57:21).

Snam Rete, while we're dealing through Socrate, we're really more direct with Snam Rete than anybody else, because again, we see that as a big opportunity. But like you say, other than Snam Rete, GE and the UK where we're selling direct, the rest of it will be through distributors.

Okay. And so, what it's worth, I love your cash comments earlier and I echo your sentiments about regarding it as best you can.

Thank you, Jim. And by the way meeting with [indiscernible] (00:57:48) just so you know.

Good. Good. Last question for you. In the Q, you talked just briefly about TPI, Testing Products International, and that's about $6 million, $7 million of revenue. Is that a strategic part? Why are we – it's a handheld test and measurement equipment market...

Yeah. And actually, we're minority ownership in that company and it was CUI had that ownership interest when we acquired. So it's something that came with the acquisition. We own, I think, it was 10%, I think it's down about 8% now just due to some dilution. So it's just a very small investment that we have. It's not something where are operationally involved at all.

Okay. And it's not cost you any money?

No. No. No. Actually, yeah not at all. And I will tell you that's actually how we got, as you probably will recall. That's how we got the GasPT device. It's through that relationship.

Okay. All right. Very good, guys. Congratulations and wish you much success.

Thanks, Jim.

Thank you. Our last question comes from [indiscernible] (00:58:51).

Hi, [ph] David (00:58:55).

Hey guys, how are you doing?

Good.

I was, unlike some on the call, I actually have been involved in this story for longer than Bill have been involved in the story. And I have to tell you that sort of all things considered and adding it all together, I sort of view this quarter as [indiscernible] (00:59:14) for the company. I think it's pretty remarkable what you've done actually. So that said, I just had a – most of my questions have got – I did have a couple of questions. Can you just give me that number on the pro forma Orbital bonus again?

It was that – it's not pro forma though. It was an actual bonus, right. It's $1.5 million.

Right. But I mean, it's from the prior quarter, right.

Yeah. Correct.

Correct. Correct.

Correct. $1.5 million.

I'm sorry, how much?

It's about a $1.5 million U.S.

Okay. Okay. The other thing is did you give us some kind of a price point on the probe?

The probe, it depends on the iteration. It's going to be – it depends on whether we make it for a GC, whether we make it for just the thermal well. It's going to be somewhere between $7,000 and as much as $22,000, $23,000. So somewhere between $7,000 and $23,000 depending on what the application is.

Okay.

And that includes the size of the pipe as a factor in that as well, because you got 24-inch pipes and smaller pipes and so.

Sure.

So all factors into it.

Okay. The other – the last question is, can you give us some sense of kind of what the – kind of the rollout or how we should look at the backlog in terms of what that means or just some color on how to model or how to use that backlog number in trying to determine what's going to happen tomorrow.

Sure.

Sure. Dan – yeah, Dan, do you want to talk to that?

Absolutely. [ph] Dave (01:00:47), the CUI, the power and electromechanical backlog, that typically turns in six to nine months and that's – and it's continually getting replaced. The Orbital backlog or the gas backlog I should say as it stands now is more dominated by some large contracts and then smaller contracts. Smaller contracts turn quicker and they replace quicker.

So that large order backlog is – it represents about a year's worth of turnover. Some of that will turn faster and some of that will take a year-and-a-half to two years depending on the term of the contract. What we're looking at Orbital though is its consistent projections for this year with what it's done in the past, and then, the growth factors that kind of come into that will be the GasPT and VE probes. So I think to answer your question, the way to look at the Orbital backlog is [ph] more than (01:01:41) an annual backlog type of a return rate on a [indiscernible] (01:01:46) looking at that. The CUI turn log is six to nine months.

Great. Perfect. Thanks, guys.

Thank you, [ph] Dave (01:01:54).

Thank you. At this time, I will turn the call back over to Bill Clough for closing comments.

Thank you, [indiscernible] (01:02:00). I appreciate it. Jus again, thank you all for attending. And again, thank you for your support and continued support of the company. Again, this has been an inflection point. I think as some of the callers mentioned [ph] David (01:02:13) particularly, we brought this company I think to an incredible point right now, but we both realize, Dan and I did the hard work, it's just beginning. Now, we have to execute and that's [indiscernible] (01:02:23) we're going to execute. We have the team, we have the resources, we really are going to move forward now, I think, with [ph] all that (01:02:30). So with that, thank you and Landon, anything further?

No, Bill. Thanks very much.

Thanks, guys.

Take care.

Take care. All right. Bye-bye.

Thank you. This does conclude today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at this time. Thank you for your participation.