Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Sanjay M. Hurry — Vice President, LHA Investor Relations
William J. Clough — Chairman, President, CEO & General Counsel, CUI Global, Inc.
Daniel Ned Ford — Chief Financial Officer & Chief Operating Officer-Energy Division, CUI Global, Inc.
Eric Andrew Stine — Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC
Liam Burke — Analyst, B. Riley FBR, Inc.
Rob Brown — Analyst, Lake Street Capital Markets LLC
Michael Scott Wallace — Analyst, White Pine Capital LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Q2 2018 CUI Global, Inc. Financial Results Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time. [Operator Instructions]

I would now like to turn the call over to Sanjay Hurry, Investor Relations Counsel. You may begin.

Thank you. Good morning, and welcome to CUI Global's second quarter 2018 results conference call. A copy of the company's earnings press release and accompanying PowerPoint presentation to this call are available for download on the Events & Presentations page of the Investor Relations section of the CUI Global website.

With us on the call today are William Clough, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Daniel Ford, Chief Financial Officer. The purpose of today's call is to review the company's financial results for the second quarter and to provide you with management's perspective on the second half of fiscal 2018. Following management's remarks, the call will be open to question and answers. A telephonic replay of this call will be made available until August 21. You may also access the archived webcast and accompanying PowerPoint at any time on the Investor Relations section of the CUI Global website.

As a reminder, this call will contain certain forward-looking statements made within the meeting of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to vary materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. The company may experience significant fluctuations in future operating results due to a number of economic, competitive, and other factors, including, among other things, company's reliance on third-party manufacturers and suppliers, government agency budgetary and political constraints, new or increased competition, changes in market demand, and the performance or reliability of its products.

These and others factors could cause operating results to vary significantly from those in prior periods, and to those projected in forward-looking statements. Additional information with respect to these and other factors, which could materially affect the company and its operations, are included in certain forms the company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

With that, I'd like to hand over the call to William Clough, Chief Executive Officer. Good morning, Bill.

Thank you, Sanjay. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us on our fiscal second quarter 2018 results conference call. I'll begin this morning with a brief overview of our performance for the quarter. After which, Dan will review our financial results in greater detail. Following Dan's remarks, I will conclude the call with some commentary on our business trajectory for the second half of this year.

To begin, our consolidated revenues for the second quarter reflects strong demand in our Power and Electromechanical segment that offsets slow uptake in our Energy segment as compared to the prior period. As Dan will discuss in his prepared remarks, net loss for the quarter includes a further $1.3 million goodwill impairment charge against Orbital UK. It also includes approximately $400,000 of foreign exchange loss and $200,000 of marketing costs associated with our well-attended Open House event in the UK and our participation in the World Gas Conference in Washington, D.C.

Our Power segment was again a standout performer in the quarter, with momentum sustained by strong end markets and increased distribution. We continue to see strong demand and broad growth across our entire product portfolio. Segment revenues increased approximately 12% over the period – prior period that was driven by higher distributor sales volume, new distributor partners, such as Master Electronics last quarter and Arrow last year, are driving greater order flow as these relationships mature and expand.

Power segment backlog at quarter end was $26.5 million, up slightly as compared to $26.1 million at March 31 and up 31% from $20.2 million at December 31. Strength in Power backlog is being largely driven by our distribution channel customers, and we anticipate this momentum to continue to translate to the segment's quarterly revenue performance.

In our Energy segment, we anticipated a soft quarter and first half as the bulk of Orbital UK's projects are scheduled for the second half of the year due to customer schedules and associated delays in the RHI approval taking place in late May for biomethane project incentives. And expected stronger second half performance is built into Energy backlog which has increased 34% since the start of the year and has done so without the benefit of new orders from our Italy contract. Energy segment backlog stood at $16.9 million at quarter end.

Our Energy segment performance also reflects slow uptake of our products across the many avenues of growth we've cultivated over the past two years as we await a restart to our Italy contract. We continue to seed the market with customers that can scale their orders, as they're confident in our innovative gas products builds. In the second quarter, we saw signs of traction with a series of orders for biomethane applications in the UK following the recent broader certification of our GasPT analyzer by UK energy regulator, Ofgem.

After Dan's review, I'll have more to say on how the UK's commitment to move further away from traditional fossil fuel energy and towards more environmentally friendly alternative energy sources together with Orbital UK's long-standing relationship with energy operators in country positions us to benefit from tailwinds in this market.

Now, let me turn the call over to Dan Ford, our CFO, who will take you through our financial results in greater detail. Dan?

Thank you, Bill, and good morning, everyone. Before I review our second quarter results, as a reminder, CUI Global has adopted the new revenue recognition standard known as ASC Topic 606 for fiscal 2018. All financials presented today, as well as those found in the PowerPoint presentation that accompanies this call, are based on these new revenue rules unless otherwise stated. As such, our financial results for the second quarter are not directly comparable to those of the year-ago period that are reported under the old revenue rules.

To give you an apples-to-apples comparison, we are also providing, for your convenience, what our second quarter and year-to-date results for 2018 would have been as reported under the old revenue rules. The financial results presented under the old revenue rules are directly comparable to 2017 and can also be found in the PowerPoint presentation. I refer you to Notes 2 and 3 of our condensed consolidated financial statements found on our Form 10-Q for the quarter-ended June 30, 2018, for a detailed explanation of revenue recognition under both the old and new rules and its cumulative effect on our results.

Turning to our consolidated results for the quarter, total revenue was $23.1 million as compared to $22.5 million for the second quarter of 2017, reflecting a $2.1 million increase in revenues from the Power and Electromechanical segment offset by a $1.5 million decrease in revenue in our Energy segment. Largely as a result of lower contribution from our Energy segment, consolidate gross profit margin was 350 basis points below last year at 33% for the quarter ended. As a reminder, our Energy segment experiences improved margins when it sells more of its leading technology solutions, including GasPT and VE sampling systems, which offset lower-margin integration-type work.

Resulting from the lower margin, consolidated gross profit decreased in the second quarter of 2018 to $7.6 million compared to $8.2 million in the prior-year period. Consolidated selling, general, and administrative expenses for the second quarter were $9.2 million, an increase of $0.5 million or 6% compared to the prior-year Q2, reflecting higher exchange rates contributing to higher translated costs at Orbital UK and increased activities in support of the increased revenues and marketing efforts across both segments during Q2 2018, including our attendance and booth presentation at the recent World Gas Conference as well as the Open House held at our UK facility.

While SG&A expenses increased in absolute dollar terms as a percentage of revenue, SG&A increased 1 percentage of revenue for the quarter end and improved approximately 2 percentage of revenue for the year-to-date period. Adjusted EBITDA loss for the second quarter was $2.4 million compared $0.8 million in the second quarter of 2017.

For the second quarter, we recorded a $1.3 million goodwill impairment charge associated with our Orbital UK subsidiary to reflect the ongoing and longer-than-expected temporary halt in shipping of our GasPT devices under our contract with the Italian customer and a generally slow market in the UK related to Brexit, including a slowed biogas industry symbolized by an extended delay in UK's approval of the Domestic and Non-domestic Renewable Heat Incentive scheme until late May.

As you are aware, we also incurred an impairment charge in the fourth quarter of 2017. We test for impairment in the second quarter of each year and when events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of goodwill exceeded fair value and may not be recoverable as was the case in Q4. The remaining goodwill related to Orbital UK amounts to $3.2 million. As a result of this impairment charge, net loss for the quarter was $4.8 million, or $0.17 per share, compared to a net loss of $1.6 million or $0.07 per share for the same period last year.

Turning to our segment revenue and gross margin, I'll start with our Power and Electromechanical segment. Revenues for the quarter were $20.3 million compared to $18.2 million last year, an increase of 12%. On a sequential basis, Power and Electromechanical segment revenues increased 19%, reflecting continued strong orders within the segment and their associated deliveries as well as normal seasonality in the industry that typically troughs in Q4 and peaks in Q2 and Q3. We continue to benefit from the electronics market up cycle, the broader base of business we have established over the past several years with new distribution partners, as well as from new design wins and new product introductions.

Gross profit for the second quarter was $7.3 million or 36%, essentially the same gross profit percentage on higher revenues than the prior-year period.

Our Energy segment produced revenues of $2.8 million, down from the $4.3 million we reported last year. The year-over-year variance reflects the timing of customer project schedules and the generally slower UK market that has continued into 2018. Bill will provide some commentary shortly on the passage of the RHI incentive program in the UK that we expect will result in improved order flow in the second half of the year.

In our Energy segment, revenues for the quarter were more heavily weighted toward lower margin integration projects. As a result of the decreased revenues and lower margin mix, gross margin for the quarter fell to 14% from 39% last year. Further, increased integration volumes spread fixed costs that impact gross profits in the second half of 2018 is forecasted to have a significant increase in these type of projects, particularly through the UK operations, as the current customer backlog demonstrates.

Consolidated backlog was $43.4 million at quarter end compared to $32.8 million at December 31, 2017. Backlog for the Power and Electromechanical segment was $26.5 million, an increase of $6.3 million compared to $20.2 million at December 31. This increase reflects the inclusion of the ICE Block order received in Q1 2018, as well as the continued uptick in the power market. The Energy segment backlog at quarter end increased $4.3 million to $16.9 million, compared to $12.6 million at December 31, 2017.

For the first half of the year, we generated consolidated revenue of $45.1 million compared to $40.3 million in the same period last year, with increased Power and Electromechanical segment revenue offset by slightly lower Energy segment revenue. Power and Electromechanical revenue grew 17% to $37.3 million from $31.8 million in the prior period.

Energy revenue was $7.8 million compared to $8.5 million last year, a 9% decline. Consolidated gross profit for the six-month period was essentially even at $14.2 million compared to $13.9 million in the prior period, reflecting unfavorable segment mix associated with lower sales of higher margin products in our Energy segment and the decline in Energy segment revenues. Likewise, consolidated gross margin fell from 35% to 32%.

On a segment basis, Power and Electromechanical deliveries delivered a gross margin of 33% or 100 basis points below last year's 34%. This decrease in margin for the Power and Electromechanical segment was primarily the result of the approximately $900,000 Q1 royalty expense to Virtual Power Systems included in cost of revenues. The Energy segment reported a gross margin of 22% compared to 35% in the prior period, reflecting the mix of lower margin integration projects during the quarter and delays on higher value integration products to the second half of 2018.

SG&A increased $1.2 million in the six-month period to $18.4 million from $17.3 million in the prior period, reflecting increased costs in both our Power and Electromechanical and the Energy segment that were primarily due to higher selling expenses on higher Power and Electromechanical segment sales and higher professional fees in the Energy segment. We expect SG&A expenses over the balance of the second half of 2018 to decrease slightly, especially with various initiatives and the completion during Q2 of the World Gas Conference and Open House events and the related cost in the Energy segment.

Research and development was relatively flat at $1.4 million compared to $1.2 million in the prior period. We expect research and development over the balance of the year to continue at its current rate. As a result of the increase in SG&A, the adjusted EBITDA loss widened to $5.2 million compared to $4 million in the first half of 2017. Net loss for the year was $8 million, or $0.28 per share, compared to a net loss of $5.4 million, or $0.26 per share, in the prior period. As a reminder, net loss for the first half of the year includes a goodwill impairment charge of $1.3 million.

In terms of our balance sheet, we ended the quarter with cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash of $7.8 million. This compares to $12.6 million as of December 31, 2017. Supplementing our cash balances, we have borrowing capacity available to us in the form of our undrawn $4 million line of credit with Wells Fargo and about $1.2 million left available of an approximate $2 million overdraft facility, also with Wells Fargo, maintained by Orbital UK.

This concludes my prepared remarks. I will now turn the call back to Bill.

Thank you, Dan. As we move past the halfway point of the year, our strategy remains unchanged namely, to pursue large addressable markets with disruptive technologies found in our two segments to deliver higher and sustainable growth to our shareholders. In our Power segment, we continue to move to expand the market footprint and promote our ICE technologies in the marketplace following the receipt of UL and TUV certifications.

We are in the marketplace today with channel partners to drive awareness and adoption of the ICE Switch and ICE Block, and our message is a compelling one that is resonating with the datacenter operators namely, that the ICE technology can provide datacenters with the ability to embed intelligent visibility and control automation instantly unlocking previously unusable power capacity for major operational and bottom line benefits.

Staying with ICE for a moment, we strengthened and extended that partnership with Virtual Power Systems or VPS subsequent to the close of the quarter. To an amended agreement, we substantially de-risked the partnership with VPS while also positioning us to benefit from secular trends within the datacenter marketplace to utilize Software-Defined Power infrastructure to simplify the deployment and management of resources. Separately, we've made an investment of $500,000 in a convertible note receivable with VPS to support the two companies' continued collaboration and development of industry-transforming SDP technologies.

In brief, we renegotiated and extended the exclusive agreement through 2024 with an automatic renewal provision. We also eliminated a $1.4 million [ph] buyout (00:15:48) provision and strengthen the agreement to increased protections around our use of the VPS software and technology in our hardware applications. The amended agreement enables us to benefit from the datacenter markets adoption of our ICE technology over the long-term.

Of equal significance with our investment in VPS, we are supporting VPS's development of Hyper-Converged Power Infrastructure solutions. Hyper-Converged Infrastructure is a software-defined solution that simplifies the deployment and management of datacenter resources; compute, storage, networking and power. The IT industry views such a solution as a paradigm shift, given their ability to create significant operational and economic benefits for datacenter operators. According to a January 2018 report by market research firm Stratistics MRC, the global hyper-converged infrastructure market is expected to reach $17 billion in 2023 from $1.5 billion in 2016.

Turning to our Energy segment, I noted earlier that we're seeing traction in the UK market for biomethane applications and those orders coincide with the broader certification of our GasPT. Over the past several years, the regulatory, statutory, and CapEx environments in the UK have been driving towards an acceleration in the pace of adoption of renewable energy sources, such as biomethane.

On May 22 of this year, the UK passed its Domestic Renewable Heat Incentive, a feed-in tariff designed to incent biomethane production. As a consequence, we have seen the RHI catalyze the incremental demand for both our integration expertise and energy products. You have likely seen that the bulk of our recent press releases have been UK biomethane related, attesting to strengthening order flow for our products, with numerous biomethane facilities planned over the next several years in the UK alone. We are well-positioned to benefit from the UK's evolving energy policy.

I'd draw your attention to one of our recent announcements, which we make – take as a significant development in the industry's adoption of GasPT. We recently secured an award for the UK from one of Europe's leading manufacturers of biomethane-to-grid solutions for use of our GasPT technology as a direct replacement for its gas analyzers. In the second half of 2018, we expect to make additional announcements regarding the use of our GasPT and VE Technology as replacement for the legacy gas chromatograph technology as operators across the UK recognize the advantages, both from an economic and accuracy perspective, of our GasPT analyzer.

Staying with Europe for a moment longer, let me update you on our Italy project. With the recent formation of an Italian government, our partner, [ph] Socrates (00:18:26) has made operational inquiries to us in support of a restart of the re-metering project. Discussions around build schedules and lead times have taken place. However, I want to stress that no timetable has been communicated to us. This is, nevertheless, a positive development. Though we are cognizant of the fact, Italy had been without a government for several months, and the new government has a backlog of business to which it must attend.

From our perspective, we are ready to begin Italian deliveries immediately upon notification from [ph] Socrates (00:18:55). I would, however, remind everyone that [ph] Socrates (00:18:58) has approximately 350 GasPT units. Some portion of which will need to be progressed through installation before a second purchase order is issued to us. As a further reminder, the Italian re-metering project is fully funded, and given the advantages of GasPT from an [ph] overlay (00:19:13) technology standpoint, our device remains integral to the gas operators' infrastructure plans. A restart of the Italy project remains a when and not an if, and when it does, it will have a significant positive impact on our future revenues, earnings, and cash flows.

Our efforts to seed the market with customers that can scale their orders led to the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding with SAMSON AG subsequent to the close of the quarter. SAMSON, with its more than 4,000 employees and facilities in 66-plus countries, is a leader in flow control solutions to the energy market. Its reputation for innovative technology is peerless and its reach global. With this MoU, we established our first global sales and distribution for our GasPT, VE Technology, and combined GasPTi analyzer and gain access to previously untapped large gas markets, such as Russia, China, Africa, and South America. We anticipate signing a definitive agreement to formalize our partnership in the next 60 days with an agreement that will include SAMSON's unit commitments for 2019.

Turning to North America, our newly opened user facility is the focal point for our efforts to drive awareness and adoption of our energy products in that geography. We are pursuing preferred vendor status with all major gas operators in North America. The securing of which will drive more project work to us, given our much larger facility, and increase the opportunities for higher margin integrated sales, project [ph] end (00:20:38) product to these prospective customers. We are also on track in securing North American certification for our GasPT2 measurement to Canada and are still progressing field trials with a large Canadian energy operator.

To conclude my remarks this morning, I hope to have given you a sense of the breadth and depth of our opportunity set across both of our business segments. Momentum is building in our Energy segment with clear catalysts ahead and as we develop new geographies for additional opportunities. Our Power segment is seeing sustained demand for strong end markets and as we progress, the initial roll-out of our ICE solutions.

Together, our two segments put us on the path to growing and sustained revenue growth and ultimately profitability. Thank you for your time and attention this morning. Operator, please open the call to questions. [Operator Instructions]

Our first question is from Eric Stine with Craig-Hallum. Your line is now open.

Hi Bill. Hi Dan.

Hey Eric. How are you doing?

Hi Eric.

All right. Maybe just, I want to start with SAMSON in that MoU. It sounds like optimistic that you get something done here pretty quickly, but just curious – I mean, how do you view that playing out? I mean, is this something where – it sounds like it's pretty detailed, they're very familiar with your technology, is this something that you expect to be a contributor even in 2018 more meaningful in 2019 or. I mean, is this one where it's similar to some of your other distribution agreement where it's a wait-and-see before you know that it's going to be successful or not?

I'm pretty enthusiastic about SAMSON. They're a big operator. They are very familiar with the technology and they came to us to put this deal together. We're actually tentatively scheduled to announce the formal agreement at the Gastech in Spain, in September. So, they're pushing hard to get that agreement in place by then. If that does occur, I expect to see some impact this year, towards the end of this year. Certainly, the big impact will be in 2019. But again, I think we could see units rolling out later this year. They want to, in essence, take over our distribution network [ph] absent (00:22:56) North America and the UK, we would keep that. If they want to take over the worldwide global distribution of the product, and they are quite well-positioned to do that. So, I think that this could be a very exciting opportunity for us.

Got it. Maybe just turning to Orbital and specifically North America with the new facility, I know the energy, the order levels were where you wanted in Q2, but just curious, I mean, now that you've got that bigger facility, what the pipeline is looking like, but also when you look at that pipeline, is that one that includes integration work but also, your gas products, or maybe you can just give the mix of how you think that plays out going forward?

Yeah. The backlog right now is [ph] up (00:23:44) 34% from the end of last year to today. And that's 34% frankly is largely the UK because we've had a delay in their biomethane projects because of that RHI delay. The usage facilities continue to grow at a pretty good pace. They're – they haven't slowed down at all and we've seen a bigger uptick in projects as the new facilities come online. Very little of that, frankly, that backlog is the new technology.

There are some GasPTs in there associated with the biomethane. There's also a project in there for National Grid to replace a bunch of low-end gas chromatographs with the GasPT. So, there is some GasPT revenues in that backlog. But predominantly, it is all integration work. So, any of these bigger projects, any of the commitments by SAMSON or obviously the restart of the Italian project will dramatically shift, the backlog and the mix of products going out.

I mean, conversations you're having with the market out of the Houston facility, I mean, is that something that you anticipate changes over time that it does include those gas products? Or should we think of that as that really is going to be an installation hub for you?

No. No. There are some...

I'm sorry, integration. I apologize. Integration.

Yeah. They're definitely pushing products sales. In fact, they're the ones dealing almost exclusively with Canada, for example. So, they are – they're definitely pushing product sales and they are seeing some demand starting to ramp up. We've had reorders as we mentioned in couple of press releases. We've got reorders from the big compressor group that we are dealing with in the Northeast. So, again, the all North – North American product sales go through Huston.

Okay. Maybe last one for Dan. I know that you – last call you had talked about your expectation that you'll be cash flow positive in the second half. Just wondering if that's still your plan?

That's what we're still pushing for, yes, that we're working towards that. And as you all know, the Energy segment is significantly back half weighted, so that's really going to improve the position of the company's operating and cash [indiscernible] (00:25:54). So, that's what we're pushing towards, yes.

Thank you.

Thanks Eric.

Our next question is from Liam Burke with B. Riley FBR. Your line is now open.

Thank you. Good morning, Bill. Good morning, Dan.

Hey Liam.

Hey Liam.

Bill, could we talk a little bit about the ICE system? You talked about a lot of interest from the large providers. How's the deployment going with existing commitments and could you give us a sense as to how close you are to looking at new orders from new customers?

Sure. We're under fairly restricted NDAs about naming customers. I can't tell you because VPS has named them. Then SAP is now rolling the product out. They were going to do a proof of concept, then instead of doing a proof of concept, they're actually rolling out initial deployments to one of their smaller datacenters. So, we have SAP.

We've talked in the past about Intel, they're on board. We have another probably seven or eight beta testers, if you will, although it's a product, not a beta product, that's out there. And we're seeing good adoption. These are a very new technology but it addresses a very significant problem in the datacenter market, which is energy and energy usage. So, I think that as time goes on, we're going to see more and more traction to develop. We expect to see orders developing towards the last half of this year, with delivery starting the first and second quarter of next year.

Great. And getting back to SAMSON, the commitment would be to be your exclusive distributor globally. And are they more of a systems integrator or a [ph] strict (00:27:44) distributor or is there technology sophistication on their part?

Yeah. They are 107-year-old German manufacturing company. What they do is they manufacture valve arrays, large pipeline components and analyzers for the oil, gas and petrochemical industry. They're very, very well-known, particularly in Europe and South America. They're very, very effective in what they deliver. And what's happened is over the course of the last year or year and a half, they've changed their philosophy. And instead of being a component provider, they want to now be a systems provider. They want to provide entire solutions. And the GasPT fit directly into that change in business and that's what they're working towards. So, they have already 4,000 employees across 66 countries, so they're very much worldwide.

They have manufacturing facilities in India. They have actual manufacturing facilities in China and in Russia and then, of course, their largest manufacturing operation is in Germany, in Frankfurt. But what they're looking to do – what they would like to do is be [ph] a (00:28:45) worldwide exclusive distributor. We have basically told them they're going to have to earn that, and the earning is going to be showing what they can do taking over the distributor network outside of North America and the UK where we're already very present. And that's why I think that the agreement that we come up with and that we hope to announce will have unit commitments, will have things that they're going to have to meet, milestones they're going to have to meet if they want to move forward and become the kind of partner that we hope they will be.

Great. Thank you, Bill. [Operator Instructions]

Our next question is from Rob Brown with Lake Street Capital. Your line is now open.

Good morning, Bill. Good morning, Dan.

Hey Rob.

On the SAMSON deal, if you get orders, are those stocking orders for them, or those orders that go into systems that they're deploying?

They'll be stocking orders for them, in other words, they'll go to them as a sell-through not to a sell-to, but they will be generally used as components for systems they'll be selling on to their customers. They have a large array of customers that we have no contract with now. Things like Nestlés where they use huge amounts of gas to roast coffee beans, they are big representatives in the glass and ceramics businesses throughout Europe. So, they're going to have the ability to enter into systems that we would not have any focus on at all. And again, I think that largely those stocking products will be used for their end users.

Okay. Good. Thank you. And then on the UK biogas market, you received certification. I guess, can you just give us more color on how that market is developing now that you have certification? You said there was a bit of a delay. What's kind of the next steps? And is there anything more to do on the government side or just a matter of the market developing at this point?

Yes. It's the market developing. We've already got, and we've announced this as we've got them. We've already got – there's around, I believe, seven or eight units that we're putting together right now. They're about 0.5 million pounds apiece, about $750,000 apiece. We're also getting offers from other entities who are building the skids for our GasPTi which is being used now because of the Ofgem's certification.

But really, the delay was getting the approvals through the Parliament. As you remember, Theresa May called for a new government, which ended up late last year, causing the UK Government to, in essence, take a pause for three or four months. And they're now catching up with all sorts of things. RHI was one of those things. They passed it in May 22. So, now you have a bunch of people, big companies and really major companies who were all putting together skids and what we've done is really gone out to the market with our expertise and incentivize people to place orders.

We think there'll be as many as 21 to 24 units let out before the end of this year. I think we've already gotten bids on 14 or 15 of those. I think, like I say, we've already captured probably 8 to 10 of those. We think we'll get the large majority of them. And then, the build start. But again, everything was contingent on the RHI being passed, and that has passed. And now, it's just a matter of getting the individual projects going.

Okay. Thank you. I'll turn it over.

Yeah. [Operator Instructions]

And we have a question from Mike Wallace with White Pine Capital. Your line is now open.

Hi. Good morning, Bill. Good morning, Dan.

Hi Mike.

Good morning, Mike.

I'm thinking about Energy margin second half 2018 here. How do you see them progressing as you increase utilization in Houston and UK?

Back out to the low-30s, this quarter was exceptionally lower due to this lack of volume going through out of the UK office due to the scheduled customers. So, we should see that returning quite significantly back to the 30s.

Or the mid-30s [indiscernible] (00:33:01) what are you thinking? [indiscernible]

(00:33:01-00:33:05) expecting to see. And then, as GasPT – should GasPT ramp up, then that'll have a bigger impact on it.

Okay. So GasPT could add to the below 30s? Hello?

Yes, that is correct I said. Sorry. It must not have come through.

Off to the agreement – the new agreement with VPS. Does that agreement change the margin structure with them?

It doesn't change the margin structure. It does increase the term of the agreement exclusivity. It increases our rights to retain some of the IP that we've developed on our end and protect our developments there, even beyond the term of the agreement. So, it's more about extending the exclusivity and protecting IP but the economics are more or less the same.

The investment you made, tell us a little bit more about that.

Basically, what we did is we got involved with them. It's a convertible note that would give us an equity interest in the company. It allows us to have, we believe, more input into what they do and where they do their sales and whatnot. And I think it also – it creates a stronger partnership. It was the way that we got them to agree to withdraw the provision regarding the potential release of us. It also, as Dan mentioned, protected us in the [ph] year of our (00:34:49) IP. And basically, it created a much bigger and stronger partnership.

Okay. Good. Thank you.

And I'm showing no further questions. I would now like to turn the call back to Bill Clough for any further remarks.

Just in conclusion, I have said from the beginning of the year that this second half of the year should be very strong second half for us. We still see that as being the case. We think that we're going to see additional projects with both the Energy segment and the additional growth in the Electronics division. I think as evidenced by the growth in the backlog in both segments. So, I look forward to talking to you next quarter. And again, if there are any questions or anything that anybody needs, you're certainly welcome to call us individually. Again, thank you for your support. And that ends our conference call.

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. You may now disconnect. Everyone, have a great day.