Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Sanjay M. Hurry — Strategic Communications Senior Advisor, LHA Investor Relations
William J. Clough — Chairman, President, Chief Executive Officer & General Counsel, CUI Global, Inc.
Daniel Ned Ford — Chief Financial Officer & Chief Operating Officer-Energy Division, CUI Global, Inc.
James O'Neil — Pro Forma CUI Vice-Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, CUI Global, Inc.
Aaron M. Spychalla — Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC
Robert Brown — Analyst, Lake Street Capital Markets LLC
Ed Stacey — Analyst, Capital Network

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you for your patience. Welcome to the CUI Global's First Quarter 2019 Results Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct the question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference may be recorded.

I would now like to turn the call over to your host, Sanjay Hurry, Investor Relations Counsel. Sir, you may begin.

Thank you, operator. Good afternoon and welcome to CUI Global's transaction discussion and first quarter 2019 results conference call. A copy of the company's earnings press release and accompanying PowerPoint presentation to the transaction are available for download on the Events & Presentations page of the Investor Relations section of the CUI Global website.

With us on the call today are William Clough, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Daniel Ford, Chief Financial Officer. The purpose of today's call is to provide you with management's viewpoint on the transaction at hand, and to review the company's financial results for the first quarter. Following management's remarks, the call will be opened to question and answers. A telephonic replay of this call will be made available until May 31. You may also access the archived webcast and PowerPoint at any time on the Investor Relations section of the CUI Global website.

As a reminder, this call will contain certain forward-looking statements made within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to vary materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements.

The company may experience significant fluctuations in future operating results, due to a number of economic, competitive and other factors including among other things, the company's reliance on third-party manufacturers and suppliers, government agency budgetary and political constraints, new or increased competition, changes in market demand, and the performance or liability of its products. These factors and others could cause operating results to vary significantly from those in prior periods and to those projected in forward-looking statements. Additional information with respect to these and other factors, which could materially affect the company and its operations, are included in certain forms of the company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Before turning the call over to management, please note that both Bill and Dan will be in attendance at the 20th Annual B. Riley FBR Investor Conference on May 22nd. To schedule a one on one with management, please contact your B. Riley representative.

With that, I'd like to hand over the call to William Clough, Chief Executive Officer. Good afternoon, Bill.

Thank you, Sanjay and thank you everyone for joining us on our call this afternoon. It is fitting the Dan Ford our CFO and I are hosting this call from our Orbital Facility in Houston, the city that sits at the heart of the U.S. energy industry. In concert with the publication of our first quarter financial results, a short while ago, we announced a transformative development for the company. Our intent to acquire 100% of the outstanding stock of four privately held companies for consideration case, consisting of cash, seller debt and CUI Global Equity.

The combined entity, which on today's call, I will would refer to as Pro Forma CUI will be led by Jim O'Neill as its CEO. Jim is the former CEO of Quanta Services, a well-respected New York Stock Exchange listed midcap company focused on infrastructure solutions for the electric power, oil and natural gas, telecommunications and renewable industries. Over Jim's approximately eight year tenure as Quanta's COO and then CEO, Quanta Services grew into a Fortune 500 enterprise with about $8 billion in annual revenue at its peak through a combination of both organic growth and numerous strategic acquisitions. For my part, I will remain in the leadership role as President and General Counsel partnering with Jim to takes CUI Global to the next level. With this proposed transaction, we are rebooting CUI Global and creating a diversified energy infrastructure services company that stand midstream and downstream energy companies and power and telecommunication infrastructure industries. I will begin today's call with remarks on the strategic rationale for this transformative transaction and why I believe it is a truly win-win proposition for the company, our shareholders, and our employees. I also give a timeline of next steps. Dan will then provide you with a review of our financial results and operational highlights for the first quarter and we will open the call to your questions. We have Jim O'Neill with us today and he will be available to answer questions as well.

Over the past several quarters, our board of directors and the management team and I have been assessing the growth strategies and market opportunities for Power and Electromechanical, and Energy segments with an eye towards unlocking the potential of our extensive portfolio of technologies and products and their engineering expertise.

In evaluating and acting on our opportunity set, we have been guided by an unwavering commitment to improving shareholder value. Step one was acquiring 21.4% of Virtual Power Systems. As I discussed in our fourth quarter call taking an equity stake in the category leader in software defined power, enables us to monetize growing adoption of VPS's platform far beyond power utilization to other areas within data centers, while also continuing to supply ICE Switches and ICE Plug to data center operators. This was a good outcome for our shareholders and maximally monetizes the strong relationship we have built with VPS for the long-term.

Transforming CUI Global through the acquisition of four target companies and adding Jim O'Neill as CEO is step two of the transformation. The proposed transaction and with Jim at the helm positions us to capitalize on midstream and downstream energy companies' capital spending estimated by the Oil and Gas Journal to be almost $190 billion this year to meet the needs for news transportation, storage and processing assets along the Gulf Coast. This spend coincides with the US's emergence as a top global exporter of oil and natural gas.

To give you a better sense of the market opportunity ahead of us, capital expenditures for new oil and gas infrastructure development are expected to total an average of $791 billion from 2018 through 2035 in the U.S. and Canada according to a 2018 report by the Interstate Natural Gas Association for America, midstream opportunities are expected to be plentiful.

The components of the transaction are as follows: the issuance of approximately 160 million shares of CUI Global stock, $30 million in cash, a $45 million one-year unsecured sellers' note, the assumption of $15 million of sellers' outstanding secured debt, and an earn-out payable over five years of up to $200 million depending on certain specific performance criteria. We expect to finance the cash contribution of the transaction through debt financing. We will be assisted in this transaction by our investment banking partner B. Riley FBR. Up on the close of the transaction pro-forma CUI will have aggregate revenues of $350 million and EBITDA of more than $40 million on a pro forma basis for 2019, of which, CUI Global will contribute approximately one-third to the total revenue based on our 2018 results. And as a public company platform, pro forma CUI will be poised to embark on an aggressive acquisition strategy to implement Jim's vision, and leverage his experience in aggregating and growing energy infrastructure services companies. This is step three.

Jim and I, have already identified acquisition targets that will result [indiscernible] (00:08:28) with about $1 billion in revenue and approximately $180 million in EBITDA on a pro forma basis within 18 months of closing the transaction we're announcing today. The pace of our strategy allows current CUI Global shareholders to realize improved near-term returns and the benefit from long-term valuation expansion.

Our proposed acquisition of the first four target companies will give us the scale with which to effectively compete in the energy infrastructure services market and immediate access to some of the largest energy producers in the world. The Gulf Coast sits at the intersection of natural gas production in North America and the insatiable demand for the fuel in East Asia and elsewhere in the form of liquefied natural gas. Currently, there are nine LNG terminals approved for the Gulf Coast, an additional 11 with pending applications, and a further five in application pre-filing.

As Pro Forma CUI we are positioning in the company to play a role in the construction of those terminals as well as a much broader scope of infrastructure needed to support the delivery of crude oil and oil products natural gas and natural gas liquids including surface and lease equipment, gathering and processing facilities, oil and gas pipelines, oil and gas storage facilities refineries and oil products pipelines including export terminals.

By way of example, according to the March 2019 edition of the of The Oil and Gas Journal, in 2019, spending in the North American gas and oil markets will include ExxonMobil Corporation's 2019 capital budget of $30 billion; Chevron Corporation's CapEx budget for 2019 of $20 billion; ConocoPhillips plan and average annual capital budget of $6.1 billion during 2019 and Anadarko Petroleum expecting to make capital investments ranging from $4.3 billion to $4.7 billion in 2019. In effect as the energy market shifts toward greater production and demand for natural gas increases, we are in the right place at the right time.

I discussed in our fourth quarter conference call that our new larger Orbital facility in Houston would be a key component of our North American go-to-market strategy in 2019 and beyond. With Orbital added to more vendor approved lists, our growing reputation for technical and operational excellence with many of the largest oil and gas majors and their EPC, and with expanding capacity in our new facility, we are already moving closer to where demand for engineering and integration services is at its highest. We're working on several large projects for Fortune 100 energy companies throughout the U.S. and building a pipeline in both volume and average contract size. Concurrently, Jim was moving along a similar path to establish a beachhead and scale for his re-entry into the energy services sector. We realized that together, we could achieve complementary goals with CUI Global serving as a public platform and cornerstone to building a sizable and growing diversified energy services company.

As I said earlier in my prepared remarks this is truly a win-win for our customers, suppliers, employers and shareholders. We can and will continue to service and expand our European and UK energy customers including, Snam Rete Gas, National Grid, Cadent, ENGIE, SGN [indiscernible] (00:11:37) Air Liquide and others. We can and will continue to develop and expand our distribution in Europe including DigiKey, Future, Arrow, Mouser and Mouser Electronics in the Power and Electromechanical division and SAMSON AG, Soccer T and others in the energy division and we can and will dramatically grow our North American energy footprint through the acquisition of these four companies and an aggressive M&A strategy modeled after Jim O'Neill's very successful [indiscernible] (00:12:06) experience.

Turning to the next steps, we expect to sign a definitive agreement on or before June 1, 2019 after which we will file a proxy and call for a special shareholders meeting to approve the transaction. Our goal is to wrap up everything and complete this transaction toward the end of the third quarter. Upon completion of the transaction CUI Global Shareholders will own approximately 15% of the stock of the combined company.

I'll now ask Dan to review our financial performance and operational highlights for the first quarter. From my perspective, we're off to a good start to the year amid what is clearly a transformational event for the company. Dan?

Thank you, Bill. As Bill noted we are off to a good start to the year. Starting with our consolidated results for the first quarter, total revenue was $23 million compared to $22 million in the first quarter of 2018 reflecting gains in both the Power and Electromechanical, and Energy segments. Power and Electromechanical revenue grew on higher direct sales while sales for the distribution channel were down slightly. In our Energy segment, higher revenue from our Houston operation was partially offset by lower revenue from our UK operation. Gross profit increased $1.1 million to $7.7 million from $6.6 million in the prior year period. Gross profit margin increased by 370 basis points to 33.6% from 29.9% due to [indiscernible] (00:13:26) segment mix.

Consolidated SG&A expenses increased fractionally to $9.6 from $9.2 million in the year ago period, as due primarily to increased selling expenses in the Power and Electromechanical segment, and higher professional fees and in the other category. SG&A expenses as a percentage of revenue was essentially unchanged at approximately 42%.

Adjusted EBITDA loss for the first quarter narrowed to $2 million compared to a loss of $2.7 million in the year ago period.

Turning to our segment revenue and gross margin; I'll start with our Power and Electromechanical segment. We are pleased to see continued strength in our Power and Electromechanical segment with year-over-year growth in the first quarter and what is historically the first of a two quarter revenue trough for the segment. Revenues for the quarter were $17.6 million compared to $17 million in the year ago period, an increase of approximately 3%. We saw a continuation of strong order patterns into the quarter including the highest distributor sales since 2014 with zero cannibalism following the recent additions of Arrow Electronics and Master Electronics to our distributor base. We view this as a testament to the effective stewardship of our distribution partner strategy. Today segment gross profit was $6.5 million or 37.3% gross profit percentage compared to $5.2 million or 30.7% gross profit percentage for the first quarter of 2018 which included a significant royalty expense associated with the ICE technology revenues.

Turning to our Energy segment; we generated revenue of $5.5 million in the quarter an increase of 10% over the year ago period when we reported revenue of $5 million and reflects the timing of customer project schedules. As Bill stated our Orbital operation in Houston is making excellent progress in securing certifications for approved vendor status to both EPC companies and directly with the energy majors. We are seeing opportunities that comprise both the integration project work as well as Energy product sales and has increasingly greater contract value. The pace work has steadily increased and port capacity is nearing maximum.

Touching briefly on our Energy products, we secured CSA certification for GasPTi solutions in the quarter that is essential to selling this solution into Canada. With this sort of cash on hand we are progressing trials with the major transmission company we have referenced on prior calls. At the same time, we continue to pursue certification with measurement to the Canada. [indiscernible]

(00:15:50) quarter and demonstrate diversification beyond our core customers. Sales in the quarter were 30% 50% above of what we recorded in all of 2018. We also launched our sales initiative into the burgeoning biomethane market in California, we discussed on last quarter's conference call with three quotes submitted in the quarter. And in UK, we are sustaining our focus on the biomethane market, while concurrently pursuing pre-sales initiatives to position us head of CapEx spend by gas network operators there. We have a very healthy coal pipeline that speaks to both market interest and biomethane applications, following the implementation of the RHI scheme last year and our standing in the market as a result of the competitive advantage of our GasPT solution gives us.

We are seeing a very high level of interest in our recently introduced next generation Remote Telemetry Unit or VIRTU and we'll soon be conducting field trials with gas operators that upon a successful conclusion will certify the unit per for use by any gas operator in the UK.

Energy segment gross profit declined approximately 560 basis points to 21.7% from 27.3% due to a higher contribution of lower margin, integration project work as it is the case at our Orbital operations in Houston. As a reminder, gross margin in our Energy segment improves on a mix of its leading technology solutions including GasPT, and VE sampling systems offsetting lower margin integration type project work. Consolidated backlog was $33 million at quarter end, compared to $37.5 million at December 31, 2018, reflecting declines in both segments due to timing of orders from distribution customers and in the Power and Electromechanical segment and integration customers in the Energy segment.

Backlog for the Power and Electromechanical segment was $19.6 million as compared to $21.8 million at December 31, 2018.The Energy saving backlog in quarter end, was $13.4 million, compared to $15.7 million at December 31, 2018.

In terms of our balance sheet, we ended the quarter with cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash of $1.3 million. This compares to $4.5 million as of December 31, 2018. Subsequent to the close of the quarter, we closed on a previously announced revolving line of credit facility of up to $10 million with Bank of America Merrill Lynch that doubles our borrowing capacity and at more favorable terms. We also acquired a 21.4% share in Virtual Power Systems, our partner in the ICE technology and software defined power.

Our ownership stake will be accounted for as an equity method investment. Looking ahead with the publication of their March 31 results, many of our Power and Electromechanical segment peers have reported the beginnings of a market correction. We share their outlooks as well as their concern regarding additional tariffs placed on parts manufactured in China. We are working with our OEMs to power through what the industry expects to be a several quarter correction and while tariffs to date have been generally accepted into the pricing schemes of most manufacturers and distributors. We are seeking ways to work with our channel partners to mitigate the impact of additional tariffs. Point of sale order flow through our distributors remains on pace with 2018 levels and tells us that customers remain committed to using our products and solutions. Design activity which historically has been a leading indicator of future sales is at a higher tempo than 2018. With an aggressive new product introduction pipeline slated for this year, we believe we can sustain this activity and potentially improve on it.

Finally subsequent to the close of the quarter, our global sales and marketing partnership with SAMSON AG began to bear fruit with the receipt of initial GasPT orders for an industrial application. Industrial use of our GasPT is an untapped market for us and one that complements our efforts along SAMSON AG in pursuing large gas network operators. These orders demonstrate SAMSON AG's ability to convert recent joint business development efforts into an exciting pipeline of opportunities. We are pleased with how this relationship is progressed.

That concludes my remarks, I will now turn the call back to Bill.

Thanks Dan. To summarize we have charted an achievable and attractive path forward and an improved valuation for our shareholders that doesn't rely in an uncertain and elongated pace of technology adoption and favorable government regulations that have come to define CUI Global over the past three years. This transaction gives us scale and industry class leadership with a differentiated value proposition for a market that is growing and is expected to continue to grow. At its core, the board and I have always managed the company for opportunity and this opportunity is very much in our shareholders' favor.

Thank you for your time and attention today.

Operator please open the call to questions.

Yes sir. Ladies and gentlemen [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Eric Stine of Craig-Hallum. Your question please.

Hi Bill. Hi Dan and welcome Jim. This is Aaron Spychalla on for Eric. Thanks for taking the questions.

Hey Aaron. How you're doing?

Hi Aaron

Doing all right, thank you. May be first for me can you just kind of touch a little more maybe on the acquisition strategy to get to $180 million, talk about maybe the line of sight towards those other acquisitions, are those already kind of defined targets that are maybe in advanced stages, and then just anything you can share on potential synergies between the companies with your current Energy segment or are these just going to kind of be run as separate entities?

The philosophy here is to take entrepreneurs who are successful in their own right. Allow them to do what they do and really provide them the support and resources that you can get from a public platform, so I think that answers the last part of your question. As far as the defined strategy, we do have two in particular targets that are quite a ways along in negotiations. But really the initial acquisitions we make the four companies we're looking at give you what we're trying to create and that is a full services company that can provide solutions to energy providers in the midstream and downstream marketplace. And I'll let Jim expand on that just a little bit because obviously this is a strategy that he developed and implemented at Quanta. Jim?

Thanks, Bill. Hello, Aaron, how are you?

Good. Thank you.

First real quickly I'd like to say I'm pleased to join Bill and Dan here on the CUI Global executive team and I look forward to growing shareholder value as we execute on our infrastructure expansion strategy. Just adding on to what Bill said, look, I think the four – the four platform companies that we're bringing in originally in itself they'll bring double-digit growth because of some of their anchor customers in the multi-year agreements that we've signed. Then we do have a vision or view of companies out there that we believe strongly that would be interested in this model that would bring us a new customer base or a new geographical region or a new service line that will continue to diversify the company and broaden out our capabilities. And then thirdly, yes, the point you brought up about leveraging the capabilities of these companies with one another to provide broader solutions to our customers is absolutely critical and will happen and I think that's one of the keys to success.

Did that answer your question, Aaron?

Yeah. That did. Thanks. That's very helpful. I guess maybe second on kind of the current Energy segment, can you just give us the latest on the RHI Biomethane rollout. Are you still kind of thinking hundreds of units there and just when that might start hitting the P&L?

Yeah. First and foremost, I think the exciting part is that we now are actually bidding products domestically. We have put bids in for biomethane terminals in California, which is – we believe is going to be a big market. As far as the UK is concerned, we've done significant amount of work with a couple of large providers. But to be frank with you due to the Brexit issue and the fact that they've now kicked that can down the road, we're still at the mercy of the UK government. We have seen some RHI funds let and in each case we've gotten better than 50% of the bids that have gone out. They're coming out slowly but we do believe that they're going to loosen up as the year continues. We also just started deliveries now on the future billing methodology units that we're going to be putting out in field trials. We're going to put the first I believe 20 of those out over the next six weeks so they're going out in the field. So we see movement. But again I think much of the delays in in the UK are going to continue until they resolve this Brexit issue.

Understood. All right. Thanks for the color. I'll hop back in the queue.

Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Rob Brown of Lake Street Capital. Your line is open.

Hey, Rob.

Hi. Good afternoon.

Hi, Rob.

Just wanted to kind of get a sense for the future strategy, are you – are you really looking at services businesses primarily or will it be a mix of products and services businesses? And I guess what's the – what sort of the structure of these service businesses that you call the margin structure growth profile of those businesses that you're acquiring I guess your strategy how that all fits, but kind of what they look like one of those four businesses look like?

Yeah. Rob, I'm going to pass this out to Jim, so he can kind of give you an overview of that. Jim?

So the services business is Rob I would say the margin expectations would be north of 10% EBITDA and going possibly up to 15% EBITDA dependent upon what service line we're talking about. I would say that the products if we continue to acquire products businesses, it would be under the old CUI Global portfolio of products and anything that we can grow there. I do think that there's going to be synergies between what Bill has historically sold from a product standpoint, and some of the engineering and integration that they do and the services that we provide. There's going to be some synergies there that we'll have to explore that we can deliver to our customers. And what was the next question, Rob?

That was – that covered it. Well, thank you. And then, in terms of the power and electronics business, how does that fit into your strategy or do you still look to take a look at that at some point?

We've talked in the past about a possible divestiture, but at least out the gate, we're going to continue the company as is. I mean we – that's a big piece of our business it obviously is not only a big part of the revenue, it's a large part of the earnings as well, so we'll keep that in place for the short-term at least. But as we mentioned on prior calls, we are always considering what to do with that piece of business once the Energy division is standalone profitable and of course this acquisition will make that occur. So that will be part of the strategic planning that we'll be doing over the next period of time.

Okay. Good. And then, in terms of the consideration, I just want to clarify you're issuing stock to the sellers of these entities, is that right?

Correct.

Okay. And then, the earn-out kind of situation, pretty broad, but what's earn-out dependent on?

It's dependent on a dramatic increase in EBITDA.

Okay. Good. Thank you. I'll turn it over.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Ed Stacey of Capital Network. Your line is open.

Hi, Ed.

Hi. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Hi.

Hi, Ed.

Just one, any investment required in the four businesses that are being acquired [indiscernible] (00:28:09) is there any immediate thought they will need more capital and is that sort of provided for somehow in the deal structure already?

Yeah. Working capital is provided in the deal structure and as group they are quite profitable companies that have plenty of working capital. So, again – but it is – whatever needs are there are already in the deal structure.

Okay. Great. And the other one is just a housekeeping question. Definitive agreement June 1 is that the earliest that we will get more sort of financial details and more role details about the acquirees?

Yeah. I think you'll get more as they develop. Obviously at some point in the not too distant future we're going to have to file a proxy to get their vote on this and that will obviously have complete and full details including audited financials. But I think, yes, the next big announcement would be to do with the PSA, the purchase and sale agreement.

And finally just looking at the numbers here and obviously you only just kind of seen it as everyone has trying to do a calculation quickly what kind of EBITDA multiple you're paying on the first year? It seems both for growth companies it's not a high EBITDA multiple, is that just sort of normal for service business or were the sellers particularly attracted to going with CUI and you've got a good deal because of that

Yeah, I believe both are true. I think what you have is a situation where we can be together as a management team with Jim and the group of company managers that we're bringing on board. And the fit was really quite perfect. We saw the opportunity. They saw the opportunity obviously we believe that a public company platform is the way to go. And I think because of that we were able to make a relatively sharp deal. Now obviously they're going to want to have that earn-out but that earn-out is going to be dependent on more companies on – coming onboard and in growing EBITDA. So I think that's a good deal for our shareholders and obviously for them if we can grow the way we think we can.

Okay great. Thank you.

Thank you.

Thanks Ed.

Thank you. This concludes our Q&A session. At this time I'd like to turn the call back over to management for any closing remarks.

Thank you operator and thank you everyone for joining us today. For those of you who are attending the B. Riley conference next week we will look forward to seeing you there. And again thank you for your attendance. Thank you operator.

Thank you sir. Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference. Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day. You may disconnect your lines at this time.