Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Casey Stegman — Investor Relations, Stonegate Securities, Inc.
William J. Clough — President and Chief Executive Officer, CUI Global, Inc.
Daniel Ned Ford — Chief Financial Officer, CUI Global, Inc.
Eric A. Stine — Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC
Joe Maxa — Analyst, Dougherty & Co. LLC
Andrew J. D'Silva — Analyst, Merriman Capital, Inc.
Marco A. Rodriguez — Analyst, Stonegate Securities, Inc.
Jim G. Kennedy — Founder & President, Marathon Capital Management LLC
Roger Liddell — Vice Chairman & Investment Manager, Clear Harbor Asset Management LLC
Alex M. Blanton — Analyst, Clear Harbor Asset Management LLC
Colin Lee — Analyst, Luzich Partners LLC
James Bennett Liberman — Financial Advisor, Wells Fargo Advisors LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to CUI Fourth Quarter and Full-Year 2014 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we'll conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded.

At this time, I would like to hand the conference over to Mr. Casey Stegman, Investor Relations. Sir, you may begin.

Thank you, Saeed. Good afternoon, everyone. Welcome to the CUI Global 2014 fourth quarter and full fiscal year earnings conference call. We appreciate you joining us today. With me on the call is Mr. Bill Clough, Chief Executive Officer; and Dan Ford, Chief Financial Officer. The purpose of today's call is to review the company's financial results for the fourth quarter and fiscal year as well as provide you with some additional color on the business going forward. Following management's remarks, the call will be opened up for question.

Many of you have seen the company's release that was issued today. If you haven't, it can be accessed at the company's website at www.cuiglobal.com. Today, during the course of the presentation, we will be directing your attention to a series of slides. Those slides can be accessed during the call from the link in the press release that went out earlier today or from the Investor Relations section of our website at www.cuiglobal.com.

As a reminder, this call will contain certain forward-looking statements within the meaning Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to vary materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. The company may experience significant fluctuations in future operating results due to a number of economic, competitive and other factors, including, among other things, our reliance on third-party manufacturers and suppliers, the government agency budgetary and political constraints, new or increased competition, changes in the market demand and the performance or liability of our products.

These factors and others could cause operating results to vary significantly from those in prior periods and those projected in the forward-looking statement. Additional information with respect to these and other factors, which could materially affect the company and its operations, are included in certain forms company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

With that, I'd like to introduce Mr. Bill Clough, CEO of CUI. Bill?

Thank you, everyone, for taking the time to join us on this afternoon's call. I'm going to start with a brief overview of the quarter as well as the full year, and then I'll hand the call over to Dan to go over the financials. When Dan is done with his remarks, I'll provide some additional commentary on some of the key initiatives we are currently working on at CUI Global, including our recently-announced acquisition of Tectrol Inc. We will then open the call up for Q&A.

Let me begin by saying that I was very pleased with our performance for both the fourth quarter and the full year as we were able to grow revenues over 20% for both periods. For the full-year 2014, our revenues were $76 million, which represents a 25% increase as compared to the prior year. As for the fourth quarter, our revenue increased 22% to $18.6 million.

Additionally, this revenue growth was generated through growth in both the Gas and the Power and Electro-Mechanical segments. The Power and Electro-Mechanical segment revenues were $48.7 million in 2014, which accounts for a 14% increase versus the prior year. Within the Gas segment, we recognized $27.4 million in revenues as compared with $17.9 million in the prior year, an increase of 53%.

2014 was an eventful year for CUI Global as we made several significant announcements throughout the year, each of which represents a major stride for our company as we continue to put the pillars for success in place. I'll review some of the more significant events in more detail after a discussion of our financials.

Let me turn the microphone over to Dan Ford, our CFO, so that he can run through the numbers in more detail. Dan?

Thank you, Bill. I'd like to now give a financial overview for the fourth quarter and full fiscal year 2014. As Bill mentioned, the company's revenues were $18.6 million for the quarter, up 22% from revenues of $15.2 million in fourth quarter 2013. The increase in revenues for the quarter is attributable to approximately $2 million of growth in the Power and Electro-Mechanical segment and $1.4 million of growth within the Gas segment. Full-year revenue of $76 million represents a 25% increase year-over-year.

The cost of revenues for the quarter was $12.7 million versus $9.1 million for the same quarter in 2013. Cost of revenues for the full year of 2014 was $47.5 million as compared with $37.1 million in 2013. As a percentage of sales, the cost of revenues increased to 69% for the fourth quarter, compared with 60% in the fourth quarter of 2013. That increase is primarily associated with the anomalous increases related to biomethane projects during Q4 2014, which add compressed deadlines to meet customer requirements as well as first time through costs for this new project offering. Future biomethane projects are expected to generate much improved gross margins.

For the full year, the cost of revenues as a percentage of sales increased slightly to 62% compared to 61% in 2013. This increase is associated with the increased cost of sales in the biomethane projects during the third and fourth quarters, offset by increased revenues and consistent margins within the Power and Electro-Mechanical segment. The company expects 2015 cost of revenues to be improved as a result of improved cost efficiencies on future biomethane projects, consistent margins of core products and higher margins on technology-based product offerings.

EBITDA for the year was $1.4 million or $0.07 per share versus $2.4 million or $0.14 per share for the full-year 2013. Adjusted EBITDA for the full-year 2014 was $3.2 million or $0.16 per share, compared with $3.6 million or $0.20 per share for the full-year 2013. Gross profit for the quarter was 31% or $5.8 million as compared to 40% or $6.1 million in the prior-year comparable quarter. The gross profit for the full year was 38% or $28.6 million as compared to 39% or $23.5 million in 2013.

Within the operating segments, the Power and Electro-Mechanical segment generated quarterly and fiscal year gross profit margins of 39% and 40%, respectively, while the Gas segment generated a 20% quarterly gross profit margin and fiscal year gross profit of 34%. The company expects improved gross profit margins in 2015 as a result of previously-discussed expected efficiency gains on future biomethane projects, consistent margins on the core products and the higher margins on technology-based product offerings.

SG&A expenses increased to $6.5 million for the fourth quarter compared to $5.3 million for the same period during 2013. This is associated primarily with the operating activities necessary to support the increased revenues as compared to the prior year. The full fiscal year SG&A expenses were $26.1 million for 2014 and $19.5 million for 2013, representing an increase of $6.6 million. SG&A as a percentage of total revenue were 34% for 2014 as compared to 32% in 2013.

The increased SG&A for the full fiscal year is primarily the result of owning Orbital Gas Systems in the first quarter of 2014, of which the SG&A during that quarter from Orbital accounted for $2 million of the increase. Further increases in SG&A related to stock compensation expense of $1.7 million related to stock issuances and vesting expense of options related to consultants, for strategic services, including customer marketing and investor relations, to directors and employees for services, as well as the overall increases in operations throughout the organization associated with increased revenues of approximately $15.4 million, including continuing investment in reaching new customers and markets and continuing existing customer relationships.

Operating requirements generated negative cash flow from operations of approximately $3.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2014, and positive cash flow from operations of approximately $1.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2013. Significant items that impacted the negative cash flow from operations during 2014 were the net loss for the year, offset by non-cash items such as stock compensation, depreciation and amortization items, including increased amortization of $0.9 million related to amortization of Orbital acquisition-related intangible assets.

Additional items that impacted the negative cash flow from operations were increases in trade accounts receivable of $3.3 million associated with increased revenues, increased prepaid expenses of $1 million associated largely with increased prepayments for insurance of $0.4 million and prepaid royalties of $0.4 million.

Additionally, unearned revenue increased $0.5 million associated with the timing of related customer orders and the terms granted, and billings in excess decreased $2.9 million during the year related to progress on Gas segment projects.

The company had a net loss of $2.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 as compared to a net loss of $0.9 million for the year ended 2013. The loss in 2014 is largely attributable to several significant non-cash items that impacts profitability, including the equity compensation issued in the form of stock and options grants, strategic consultants, employees and directors for performance, as well as vesting in granted stock options, totaling approximately $1.7 million, which represented an increase of approximately $1.1 million as compared to the prior-year period.

Additionally, with the full-year amortization of the acquisition-related intangible assets acquired with Orbital Gas Systems in 2013 was the previously-discussed $0.9 million increase and amortization of those intangible assets, while the deferred income tax benefit decreased $0.1 million. At the same time, as these costs increased, the company increased revenues of $15.4 million, while the gross profit margin decreased only slightly to 38% from 39%. This helped to offset the increased costs.

Of this increase in revenues, the Gas segment increased approximately $9.5 million related to having Orbital Gas Systems for the full year in 2014 as well as general sales growth for that segment. The Power and Electro-Mechanical segment increased revenues approximately $5.9 million related to continued market penetration through both new and existing customers, including growth within the distribution sales channels.

Adjusted net income or loss, which represents the net income or loss, plus the amortization expense of the intangible assets acquired via the 2013 Orbital acquisition, plus the expense associated with stock options and notes issued for compensation and services, for the quarter, this was a loss of approximately $1 million or $0.05 per share in 2014 as compared to the loss of $0.8 million or $0.04 per share in 2013. Adjusted net income for fiscal-year 2014 was $2 million or $0.10 per share as compared with $1.8 million or $0.10 per share in 2013.

As of December 31, 2014, CUI Global held cash and cash equivalents of $11.7 million and short-term investments of $11.2 million. As of today's filing, the company has [ph] 20,780,395 (10:40) common shares outstanding.

And now, I'll turn the call back to Bill. Thank you.

Thank you, Dan. Before we begin taking questions, let me take a moment to update you on a couple of the larger projects we've been working on over the past year as well as give you some additional color on some of the key highlights from our fourth quarter.

First, we opened Orbital North America on January 5th of this year. In conjunction with that opening, we retained the services of Rusty Darsey as our North American Sales Director and Jim McGinty as a Director of Engineering. This new office will allow CUI Global to more really address the North American natural gas industry, which is quite sensitive to having local representation. Moreover, the addition of Jim and Rusty to our organization adds two of the most-respected sales and engineering executives in North America to our team, bringing along the requisite boost in reputation, credibility and expertise. I welcome both of these talented individuals to the CUI Global/Orbital team.

Earlier this month, we announced the acquisition of Canadian-based equipment manufacturer Tectrol Inc. Tectrol is a leading designer and manufacturer of standard and custom power solutions and the acquisition is expected to provide immediate incremental revenue growth and manufacturing capabilities. It will give CUI a greater presence in the electronics space as well as further enhance our status as a well-recognized manufacturer.

We believe this transaction is a step forward for our company as we look to deliver the most-advanced power solutions from the AC front-end all the way to the DC point of load. The teams have been quite busy meeting with Tectrol customers to work through this transition and, more importantly, to begin long-term relationships between CUI and these Tier 1 customers. There are great synergies between the two companies and we are confident that the integration will immediately enhance the capabilities of our power group.

We've continued to expand our distribution progress over the course of 2014 and with the addition of Mouser in 2015. In early March, we entered into a global distribution agreement with – and partnership with Mouser Electronics Inc., the global authorized distributor with the newest semiconductors and electronic components. The CUI product line, now available from Mouser Electronics, is comprised of two major product groups, power and components.

There were many new distribution groups within the Gas segment in 2014, including, among others, Branom Instruments, Benchmark Instrumentation & Analytical Services and Ives Equipment Corporation. The management team remains committed to bringing our valuable electronics portfolio to a broader set of customers, thus expanding market share and enhancing shareholder value.

We have now signed up a total of 38 distributors in Europe, Asia and North America. In addition, last quarter, we announced the fact that National Grid has selected our IRIS Technology for use in remotely controlling its entire grid. We expect the third phase of National Grid's IRIS installation amounting to another 150 units to 200 units to begin later this year.

We continue to believe that our developing relationship with GE's Intelligent Platforms Group represents significant steps in our plan to develop a substantial distribution network for our groundbreaking technology and, specifically, for sales of our IRIS Technology targeting North American energy producers and transporters.

GasPT and VE technology sales remained steady. We delivered and installed another 29 GasPT units in 2014, bringing our installed base to almost 300 units. We have received orders for an additional 58 units to be delivered in 2015 and have another 35 units out for bid. We are continuing to make progress with our larger GasPT opportunities, including positive discussions with Snam Rete in Italy and Dominion Compression in the U.S., along with others. We successfully completed engine testing with Dominion in December of 2014 and we anticipate receiving initial purchase orders this year.

As some of you may note, Snam Rete Gas publicly released its prequalification tender for suppliers, for analytics related to its expanded metering project this month. That project now calls for the installation of as many as 3,000 analyzers, twice the 1,500 number of units originally proposed. The tender seeks suppliers who can, "supply as many as 1,000 analyzers per year," and further, those units must not use either calibration or carrier gases and must provide results based on metrics related to, and I quote, "speed of sound, thermal conductivity and CO2 content," exactly the metrics used by our GasPT technology. We are currently preparing our response to the tender with our Italian distribution partner, SOCRATE S.p.A.

And moving to VE technology sales, we delivered an additional 22 VE sampling systems last quarter, bringing our total delivery to 73 units, while we delivered an additional 54 VE thermowell applications, bringing the total delivery of thermowells to 194 units last year. Furthermore, we continue to receive inquiries and are working with numerous potential VE technology customers, including ConocoPhillips, ABB, Statoil and others.

By way of examples, members of our sales and engineering ground are currently in Australia, speaking with several of the world's largest oil and gas companies for inclusion in the Gorgon natural gas project. The Gorgon Project is a $29 billion LNG project being funded by the governments of China, India, Japan and South Korea. It involves the connection of as many as 2,000 natural gas wells to an LNG terminal being built on Barrow Island off the coast of Western Australia.

As an indication of the time and complexity of such negotiations, the Gorgon Project was initially proposed in 2003. Our involvement with the project began when members of my sales and engineering team and I met with them and began talking to participating companies in Houston some three-and-a-half years ago. During that time, we've continued discussions and maintained the relationships, relationships that are now finally producing results. We are confident of our ability to close those deals as we're the only technology capable of providing the vortex elimination and rapid sampling times, which are unique features of the VE technology, allowing us to provide a safer, high-value solution to the natural gas operator.

Finally, moving to backlog, as of December 31st, 2014, the Power and Electro-Mechanical segment had an unaudited backlog of orders of $12.5 million and the Gas segment held an unaudited backlog of orders of $15.9 million. The overall backlog has decreased since December 31st, 2013 when we reported a backlog of $25 million. This decrease is associated with several factors, including the increase of approximately $3.3 million for the third quarter and fourth quarter revenues of 2014 in comparison to 2013 and approximately $1 million in change related to the changes in the pound sterling versus U.S. dollar exchange rate.

Additionally, Orbital is still being affected by the restructuring of the UK operation of its largest customer, National Grid, related to their, quote, Revenue, Incentives + Innovation + Outputs, or RIIO, program and related initiatives, which has significantly impacted that customer's ability to place large contract orders. As a result of these RIIO changes, Orbital is seeing a higher volume of shorter-term contracts with lower total values. Now that the RIIO initiatives have been fully implemented, Orbital expects a return to the traditional longer term, higher-value ordering format from National Grid.

As we look ahead to 2015, I want to reiterate our continued commitment to both our employees and our shareholders to grow CUI Global and its subsidiaries in an organized, efficient manner by introducing new products, attacking new markets, seizing opportunities and continuing to pursue and partner with some of the largest most-recognized industry leaders in both the natural gas and electronic markets. We, as a management team, believe we're at the forefront of an abundant opportunity as a company and we are very much looking forward to carrying forward our focus and determination into 2015 and beyond.

In conclusion, I'd like to thank everyone for your continued interest and support of CUI Global. Now, let's open the floor for questions.

Thank you, sir. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Eric Stine from Craig-Hallum. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Hey, Bill. Hi, Dan.

Hey, Eric.

Maybe just starting with Snam Rete, good to see that tender out if you're able to, just some thoughts on how you envision the timeline there going forward. And then, also, since it's an open tender, just thoughts on the competitive environment in other devices you see out there that will be going after this.

Yeah, Eric, they've been pretty forward with us on their timing. They are telling us that they're going to make a decision about suppliers sometime in June or July of this year. They then expect to issue a tender for service or installation. They expect to have that decision made by the fall. And they're hoping to get purchase orders out late third quarter, early fourth quarter for building to begin the very first part of 2016.

As far as competitive technology, there are other devices that they've been looking at. But frankly, none of those devices are able to work without service gas and none of them are based on the metrics of speed of sound, thermal connectivity and CO2. So, they've put a very narrowly-defined tender out that really targets the GasPT technology. Now, that doesn't mean they're going only pick our device, because, obviously, under EU regulations, I think, they are almost obligated to pick more than one device. But it seems pretty apparent that they certainly are looking for what we're able to provide. Does that answer your question?

It does. That's good color. Thank you. Maybe just turning to Tectrol, just wondered, I mean, could you give us some clarity on maybe historical revenues, whether it was trailing 12 months or maybe an average over the last few years. And then just curious, looks like they've a pretty significant customer list, just wondering what the early reception is to that transaction from those customers.

Sure, Eric. I'll take that. So, they've been around since 1968. Their heyday was through the 1990s, during the – and early part of the 2000s. For the last several years, they've had declining revenues, which is why they ended up in their insolvent position and where a great opportunity for us to pick up the resources that they bring to us. So, they did about $40 million three years ago. They did around just under $20 million two years ago. And it looks like they're unaudited – currently unaudited, it's in the process of being audited. Fiscal year ended February 28th, 2015 looks like about $15 million. Those are all going through U.S. GAAP audits. Currently, we are doing historical audits under U.S. GAAP for the last three years and those will be filed in an amended 8-K coming soon. So, those will be put out there. And then quarterly ongoing, we'll do the pro forma presentation in our statements.

But what we can expect out of that is we're looking to do between $10 million and $12 million this year through them, and we're going to expect to increase that pipeline. Our sales team has been on the road. And in fact, before the acquisition took place, as we were doing our due diligence meeting with customers, doing phone calls with them, and then, since then, we've been meeting face to face with a number of these Tier 1 accounts and it's a great reception. And then, we're actually at APEC right now, where our sales team is meeting with several of those customers as well as some of the suppliers that Tectrol has used in the past. So, the reception has been very, very good. It fits right in line with our Novum Advanced Power Technologies, targeting the [ph] Broadcom (22:08) and telecom space. And it brings a lot of value to us from the standpoint of the manufacturing capacity that it brings as well as the engineering knowhow and the product portfolio that fills the gap that we didn't have. So, it's a great opportunity for us.

Let me also add, Eric, you asked about customers specifically, and I just want to let you know that one of the primary due diligence factors we did is Matt McKenzie, our COO, spent a great deal of time on the phone with their customers. And the response he got from these Tier 1, Cisco, Extreme, F5 and others, was great relief that we were coming in to take over this operation. They like the products. They certainly felt that they were good, solid, platinum manufacturers, but they were concerned obviously with the way the company was being managed. They are very happy with what we've told them. And I think this is going to be an opportunity for us to penetrate some Tier 1 customers that might have taken us a considerable amount of time to do without this acquisition. So, again, on every front, we feel it's going to be very positive for the Electro-Mechanical division.

Got it. I mean, do you expect it to be modestly accretive in year one or is that something you need to [indiscernible] (23:19)?

Yeah, we're going to have to run the numbers. We're still in the middle of that. I mean obviously there's some efficiency that we bring immediately, because of Matt's operating skills. But there are – we're going to have to run those numbers. It's certainly going to be immediately accretive revenue-wise. Top line, it's immediately accretive. It's going to take us some time to put everything together to give you an answer on whether or not earnings will be immediately accretive.

Got it. Okay. And last one for me, just on the gross margin line. So, it was really – it was Orbital, it was the biomethane project. Are those – I mean, based on what you see in the pipeline, is that something that you think you return to more normal levels pretty fast or is that something that may – needs to happen throughout the year, or is it something you trend towards?

So, those – the impacts of those projects completed in December.

Okay.

What we're seeing in Q1 now and going forward is actually we're – those projects had other add-on projects or getting some margin on new business-related to those, I guess, biomethane facilities. So, we are continuing to build that relationship, but we're also – have not dealing – we're not dealing with the compressed timeframe and the requirements to meet those demands in order to – for the regulatory compliance on new biomethane projects this year. So, we've been able to plan more around that and we've also adjusted some of the pricing to better accommodate the costs that we incurred doing that. So, we do expect the biomethane projects that are coming through in 2015 to be much better positioned.

Okay. Thanks, guys.

Yeah.

Thanks, Eric.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Joe Maxa of Dougherty & Company. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Well, thank you. I just want to stick to that, the biomethane project. I think you mentioned last quarter you had seven of them. It sounds like that maybe you got them all done and that was the gross margin issue?

Yeah, that's exactly right, Joe. There were seven – they had to be done by – an online by December 31st to meet the tariff – those tariff requirements. And those – they are done now.

And then you've talked about another 30, I believe. Are those still in the pipeline or looking like you're going to get those?

No, there was another six and then as many as another 12 this year, we've already got six. We think we could get as many as another 12 on top of that, so a total of 18. And those look real good. I mean, the good news is that even though it costs us some effort, resources and some money to do what we did last year, we did deliver on every single installation and everybody was extremely happy with them. So, we've developed a reputation in the industry of really being able to deliver on those products, which means we're capturing more of those products this year. And again, as Dan mentioned, we've had very lengthy conversations at Orbital. I just got back, as a matter of fact, making sure that the pricing this year is what it should be. So, I think at the end of the day, we're going to get many more this year and we should be very strong on margins with those.

Very strong mean still below the average of Orbital, but much better than what you've seen?

We're trying to keep them at the average. They'll be at right where Orbital expects to be.

Okay. [ph] So, you're going to (26:27) do 40%, perhaps, in the quarter, if all goes well?

Orbital's been historically in the 35% range. But, yeah, that's the territory we're looking to get to.

Okay. And do you expect to do all six of those and complete them in Q1 or are those more [ph] less (26:39) staggered for the next couple of quarters?

Yeah. They're staggered. I think the last ones are due sometime late July. So, they are staggered.

I see. Okay. And then the National Grid, that next phase of the IRIS installations, have you received that RFP yet?

It has not come out yet. We've been assured that it's coming out any day now. I mean that they internally have to put that together and that's something that we're pushing for. They have told us, though, because we've asked that we should assume that we will start building in July. That's what they're telling us. So, with that in mind, they are getting close to the point where they're going to have to let that RFP out, but they have told us to plan on starting to build in July.

Here's just a directional question on Q1 given you have a lot of moving parts, you have the Tectrol coming in just for a month, you have the new office starting in Houston. Just wondering what we should be thinking directionally on revenue, Q1 versus Q4?

Joe, you know we don't give forecast and I think this call is about 2014. We'll be doing a call on Q1 in the next month or so.

All right. Just trying to get a little color from you. All right. I'll jump back in the queue. Thank you.

Thanks, Joe.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the Andrew D'Silva from Merriman Capital. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Hey, guys. Kind of going back to that Tectrol question, what were their fixed costs last year, if you kind of give a little color on that, at least?

So, again, they're going through a U.S. GAAP audit and the operation that they were no longer exists really. We purchased assets, so we didn't – a lot of what they were dealing with is gone now. So, that's a difficult thing to answer. We will be filing the prior-year historicals here soon.

So, there's really no way to backward and extrapolate how to model expenses associated with that acquisition as far as OpEx goes?

For what's publicly available currently that is a fair assumption. The bulk of their cost is related to product production and revenue – I mean, pardon me, research and development. There's not a lot of administrative overhead there. So, their margins are going to be similar to CUI's from a cost and revenue standpoint, CUI Inc. Power segment. And then overhead is going to be ultimately in line with CUI.

Okay. Okay. But you do expect at least some synergies once things start rolling maybe Q2?

Yes. We do expect to start seeing some cost synergies. That facility is being set up as a cost center, as a supplier to CUI's Power group. So, it's being set up as a factory and an R&D house to serve the Power segment. So, it is not – when we report going forward, also just to be clear, it's going to be reported as part of the Power segment, and its sales are generating through CUI Incorporated. So...

Got it. And then kind of moving to the Texas office that's being opened up, where do you see breakeven at that, assuming 40% margins, is it $4 million in sales annually or more?

No, I think probably $4 million is a good number to hear that, that would be a breakeven. And we think with those two guys, Rusty and Jim, involved, that's a very doable number. But, yeah, I think you're about right there.

Okay. And then what – Snam Rete, previous caller mentioned something about that and then you stated that the purchase order should come at the end of this year. Should we expect no real top-line benefits until fiscal-year 2016 now or do you still think that we might get some orders from them in 2015?

We may get some orders. But I think the bulk of the project is going to be for delivery in 2016. I think we'll get purchase orders late third quarter, early fourth quarter, fairly significant purchase orders, if the indications are correct. But I think delivery will be in 2016, which means we'll recognize revenues in 2016. Now, there may be some instillations earlier just to some areas that they want to put the analyzers in, either for test purposes or otherwise. But I don't see that being a large number. I think the large bill is going to occur in 2016.

Okay. And as far as National Grid and then the RIIO initiative goes, that's pretty much worked itself out now and we expect things to progress there as normal?

Yeah, absolutely. In fact, they've assured us that the implementation was complete late last year, and that they expect to get back up and running in a normal vein any day now. So, again, that's why they're talking as about the Irish project, they think that's going to be one of the first projects out the door.

Okay. And as last question, either with IRIS or Snam Rete, is there any risk in – not saying they'll go with your product or select IRIS or GasPT, but the projects just not going through? I know, with Snam Rete, they had like a June or July deadline for this. Now, it looks like it's going to be pushed into December. What's the risk associated with that in your opinion right now?

Yeah, I think there's very little risk. In Snam Rete's case, they're budgeted now for almost an €800 million project. They've taken that €80 million bond that they had and rolled it into that bigger project. So, I think, since they've got funding and are ready to move forward, I think the project itself will definitely happen. Same thing with National Grid. National Grid has, I think, its $50 billion for five years of improvements over the next years for innovative increases in their network, generally. And so, they have a huge amount of money that they are going to spend over the next five years.

They have IRIS at the top of their list, because, frankly, a lot of their telemetry units that are out in the field now are obsolete. They have no spare parts. If they fail, they have no way to replace them. And so, again, it's a project that's high on their priority, because they have the money and they need the replacements. So, in both cases, I think the projects are going to go forward. Now, obviously, I can't guarantee in either case that they're going to take our technology, other than the fact that in National Grid's case, they're already using our technology. They already have 70 of our units out there and they're very happy with them.

In the case of Snam Rete, they've been very happy with everything they've seen. And as I mentioned, the tender that they published is almost specifically written for our technology. So, again, I think the chances are pretty good on both accounts that we're going to see some movement.

Have you translated that tender yet to English?

We have.

Can you post that somewhere or e-mail it offline?

You can get a hold of me offline, yeah, and I can give it to you.

Okay. All right. Thanks. Thanks and good luck this year, guys.

Thanks, Andrew.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Marco Rodriguez from Stonegate Capital. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Hi, guys. Thanks for taking my questions. Most of my questions have been asked. Just kind of some quick follow-ups here. I didn't catch – wasn't able to write down quick enough the gross margins for the segments in Q4. Could you repeat those?

Yes, I can. I apologize. Let me get to that. So, the Power and Electro-Mechanical segment generated 39% during the fourth quarter and 40% for the fiscal year. The Gas segment generated 20% for the fourth quarter and 34% for the fiscal year.

Okay. And then, in terms of following up on that margin going forward, there was a call earlier talking about the normalized gross margin, and I think you guys have talked about it being a more normalized 35% gross margin for the Gas segment. But the first half of fiscal 2014 and fiscal 2013, you were kind of in the low 40%. So, are we really readjusting things back down to the 35% level or are we looking at more of the 40% level going forward? Just trying to get some clarification.

So, which are you speaking of, which segment? Are you talking about the blended?

Gas. No. Just the Gas?

So, the Gas segment targets 35%. It may hit higher than that with the higher blended technology-related product sales. But 35% is the general target for that group.

Okay. All right. And then switching here to Tectrol, just clarifying, it was the $10 million to $12 million you're expecting for revenues from that acquisition of fiscal 2015 or $10 million to $15 million?

$10 million to $12 million.

$10 million to $12 million. And should we expect that that's kind of a straight line over the quarters or how should we think through that on a quarterly basis?

At this point, that seems fair. Yes.

Okay.

We're working through customer delivery schedules and requests. Obviously, the customers have been dealing with that company, a supplier that was insolvent and had difficulty meeting delivery schedules. A lot of them had booked emergency stock on their shelves to [ph] build their (36:15) safety contingency. So, we're working through the delivery plans and needs with our customers, but it looks like $10 million to $12 million and flat line that during the year is reasonable.

Okay. And then last quick question on Snam Rete, just kind of following up. Previously, you guys talked about a drop – that date there for June, where if they didn't have things going, funding was going to be dropped, but now again that looks like it's pushing to the latter part of fiscal 2015. Can you talk a little – give a little color in regard to how that kind of have transpired in – how should we expect it to go forward?

Yeah. It's my understanding that the project became so much bigger, they're talking now about 3,000 to as many as 7,000 analytics going in the entire system. They're going to change what had been what they call homogenous monitoring system, where they really have 200 monitors over 2,500 optics to a literally a monitoring system that monitors the entire system. It's about 10 times the size of what they were going for from €80 million to around €700 million. And in order to do that, they took that bond, as I understand it, the $80 million and rolled it into the bigger project.

Now, I can't give you the intricacies of Italian law. All I can tell you is that that's what we were told is that it became a much bigger project, because of – frankly, because of the testing that they did on our device and the ability that they found to put a very simple, relatively inexpensive device, ours, on a number of locations without having technicians to keep them accurize. Because of that, they saw the opportunity to really dramatically change the way that they meter their system and they jumped on it. And using that as an excuse, they increased dramatically the size and scope of the project.

Again, I think that, from our perspective, it took what was roughly a $30 million opportunity, 1,500 units times the roughly $20,000 price tag, they're now talking about taking the $40,000 unit, which is the box with all of the accoutrements over as many as 3,000 units to 7,000 units. You're talking about anything from $120 million to $300 million projects. So, from my way of thinking, it was a much bigger, much more complex and much more profitable deal for us, and they were apparently able to roll that money into this bigger project.

Okay. Thanks a lot, guys.

Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Jim Kennedy from Marathon Capital. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Hey, guys.

Hey, Jim.

Hey, Jim.

Two questions. On Snam Rete, in looking over the specs and the type and amount of gas that they are looking to test, are anything in there that we cannot do or that provides a challenge for our equipment?

No. Just the opposite, Jim. Frankly, in order for us to get where we are, we have to do two things and we've talked about both of them. One was we had to have our devices in the ground, six of them, throughout Italy, really from Sicily all the way up to Lake Como. And they had to be in operation over the broad spectrum of gases they see and they had to work within 0.5 accuracy over a 12-month period. That 12-month period will be over the end of this month and the reports are extremely positive. Every one of those units has worked without a hitch.

The other thing we had to do is we had to qualify two of our units through a company called NMI out of Norway, which is a certification group out of Norway that tests all European analytical devices, whether it be gas, oil, water, it doesn't matter what it is. And in those tests, we had to have two of our devices test across a blend of seven different gases. We did that. In fact, the certification should be issued this month and, again, without a single hiccup. So, it was very important that we were able to test across the entire expanse of Snam Rete Gas and do it consistently for a year, which is what we've done. But there is not a single thing that we have not been able to successfully perform for Snam Rete. That's why they are moving forward as they are.

And then, you mentioned that with this size project, they will more than likely want a second source. If we are indeed the technology that can deliver this better, faster or whatever than anyone else in the world, what might a second source look like? Are they going to go with the standard analyzer, [ph] throw few (40:42) GCs out there?

There are competitors. All of them have or need calibration gas and all of them need maintenance. But as an example, there's a German company, Elster, which has a device called the Lab Series. It is a small, relatively efficient metering device, but it requires pure methane gas and it requires calibration twice a week. There are cheap versions of the gas chromatography, ABB has one, Siemens has one, I believe. Again, they both require a calibration and carrier gas. So, while they can effectively have a second source, I can assure you they do not want the complexities of carrier or calibration gas; tanks of gas, frankly, sitting at the locations where they're going to have to have people go to maintain these things on a once- or twice-a-week basis.

I mean, if you think about it, if you have 1,000 units out there a year, which is what they're talking about, so 3,000 units over three years or, say, 5,000 over five years and you've got to make a visit to each of those locations once or twice a week, you're talking about hundreds, if not thousands, of technicians to be able to do that. They will not be putting those out there. They're doing this because they believe that our device gives them the opportunity to do it without the use of technicians or maintenance and that's the key to it.

Okay. Well, based on the specs – a review of the specs, it seemed to me that they were not going to allow any gas extraction device whatsoever. So, wouldn't that preclude them going the second source route you described?

Yeah. And I can't explain that. I actually am quite surprised that the spec that they've put out, I think I mentioned – I've said on other calls, I thought that the spec could be broader than that, because I felt that this EU regulation will require them to have more than one company. But again, I can't explain it other than the fact that now that we've seen it and translated it, it is very particular. And I don't know how to get around that.

So, if we [ph] not allow (42:42) carrier gas, we don't allow a pneumatic extraction. Does that greatly narrow those list of second source options you described?

There aren't any. I don't know of any other technology that's out there right now that doesn't require one or the other, other than our technology.

And we're very familiar with the testing that Snam Rete has done and ours is the only one that's met that for them.

Okay. Reviewing the specs, I'm not sure where they're going to go for a second source. Listen, I wanted to move on to the U.S. and we talked about this a call or two ago where you might update us on either the number of trials, the type of trials that are going on, where you are in the process. And maybe I missed this earlier. Could you bring us up to speed on what's going on in the U.S.?

Yeah. Primarily, right now, it's with engine control. We are still working closely with GE, Arrow. We are still working with them regarding turbine control and we've got another engine test scheduled, I believe, in May of this year. And then, the completed engine test with Dominion, as I mentioned, completed in December, those engine tests resulted in a conversation with a number of different companies that are looking to use the technology as process control for these big secondary compressors. So, again, I think, primarily, in that regard, I don't know that I have any particular updates other than the fact that it's mostly process control at this point.

Okay. And you used the word completed trial with Dominion. Is that all the trialing you're anticipating with Dominion or is there a next step there or we're not sure yet?

No, we believe the next step will be purchase orders with them. They've done all the testing they needed. They did quite extensive testing during the month of December. They've done a little bit of follow up in January. But they've been pretty clear with us, they're done with testing now.

Okay. And what might that process look like if they are indeed interested?

Yeah. I can't tell you that. It's really being handled through Ives, through our distributors, and I know they're right on top of it. But they have internal procedures they go through for budgeting and whatnot.

Okay. Very good. Thanks, guys.

Sure.

Thanks, Jim.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Joe Maxa from Dougherty & Co. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Hi. Just a housekeeping item. I believe your amortization of intangibles related to Orbital are winding down this year and I'm just wondering if you're going to see much in the way of amortization of intangibles for this acquisition of Tectrol.

The Tectrol – to answer your first question, the biggest amortization items for the acquisition of Orbital that has a material impact on ongoing quarterly basis does terminate this year. That has to do with the backlog. The other amortizing items, things like trademark, trade name, customer list, knowhow related to software and IP, those ones have longer amortization lives. And so, the expense on a quarterly/annual basis is far less, whereas the backlog had a shorter window of time to amortize that. So, that one is finishing out this year – early this year.

Regarding Tectrol, because of the way that this was purchased, the amount of intangibles and goodwill is much less and we're expecting it to be somewhere around US$1 million. And the allocation of that is being evaluated right now by our third-party valuation firm that's required to do that. And it's also subject to the final pricing adjustments of the purchase which is things related to inventory and other cost adjustments for that purchase.

So, we are expecting much less in the way of intangibles to be amortizing related to the Tectrol acquisition. And also, the Tectrol name is no longer. We're using CUI Canada from a branding perspective. We do own those rights, but they're going to be phased out. So, there's not – they're not going to be promoted by the company. So, those aren't going to have an assigned value to them. So, in general, it's really related to the customer backlog, the IP out of that facility for CUI Canada. So, much less of an impact on an ongoing basis.

Okay. Thank you. And lastly, is the – having a GE Premier Solution Provider status, have you had any traction going to customers or their customers with IRIS?

No, we have not yet. Our first targeted customer will be Energy Transfer Partners and we're still in the process of setting those meetings up. And that will be our first joint customer presentation. We expect that to happen sometime late this month and early next month.

Thank you very much.

Thanks, Joe.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Roger Liddell from Clear Harbor Asset Management. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good afternoon. Could we go back into the European situation? Again, Europe gets very involved with process. In the U.S., we get involved with results. So, if there needs to be a second and a third supplier over there, are we at risk of just having everything slide sideways, while other competitors are conjured up from somewhere?

I do not believe so. Again, I can only go by what I've been told, Roger, and what I've been told is that they're definitive about this project. They want to start it the 1st of 2016. They want to install 1,000 units in 2016, 1,000 units in 2017, 1,000 more in 2018. And if they are as effective as they think they will be, they want to go to 7,000, which will be the entire distribution grid – I'm sorry, transmission grid. But I can only go by what they tell me. They are very excited about this project. Frankly, at the very highest levels from the third highest executive in the entire operation down to the engineering team that we're working with, they seem very much moving forward in a very particular way. They told us that the tender would be out within three weeks. It was out two-and-a-half weeks. They told us that they'll make a decision by June, July. We'll see if they come through with that. But I have no doubts that they will.

And so, again, I think they have a plan and they have a schedule now, which is the first time that we've seen this. And they have started publicly performing on to that schedule. My understanding from the people that I talk to over there, SOCRATEs, in particular, is that once they issue tenders, they move forward in a particular fashion. They don't issue the tenders until they have funding and they don't issue the tenders unless they're moving forward with the project. It's not a situation, as I understand it, where they issue tenders and then kind of muddle along. Once the tenders are issued, they start moving forward. So, again, I can only tell you what I've been told. So, it seems to me that they're quite excited and moving forward with the plan.

Okay. And following up on Jim's question, on the specs in the RFP, there must have been – this is by recollection – 15 or 20 different gas elements that they are looking to measure, at least, as I understood it, and down into exceptionally low concentrations of some of these trace elements. Is there any risk of disqualification or could sources two and three needed for competitive purposes be dedicated to dealing with items, trace elements 5 through 15 or 20, or however many there were?

No. And understand, what they're doing there is describing the composition of gases that you could see. They're not looking for somebody to particularly identify those gases in the natural gas chemical bank up. They're not looking for a gas chromatograph. What they're looking for is accurate determination of BTUs with those types of gas compositions. We've already done that. That's what we've been doing for almost a year now, a year to the end of this month. We've been sitting on their grid, as I mentioned to you, six different locations, sitting right next with the analyzer, measuring the gas in their grid.

We're not guessing at what we're going to do. We're not doing it from bottles of gas or from a lab situation. We've actually been sitting out in the field and we saw those stats last month. And again, we have tracked those gas chromatographs accurately and exactly for the entire 11 months that we saw and I have no doubt that we'll do that for the full 12 months. That's why they're moving forward the way they're moving forward. They are very cautious about changing the way that they are going to meter gas on their grid. And they have made a decision that because of the accuracy we've shown that we're the right tool to do that with.

And again, I get back to it, they're not looking for – what they're doing there is disclosing the amounts of chemical concentration you might see in their gas and they're demanding a machine and analytic that will accurately measure the BTUs of that type of gas.

Got it. That's a very important clarification and thank you for it. Following up on the non-engine control or rather turbine control side, I'm a little confused between turbines and engines for whatever General Electric might be doing. You mentioned a trial coming up, I think, you said, in May. Could you clarify what it is and how much are we at risk of engineers playing with toys rather than sales and marketing people involved?

Well, first of all, you're absolutely right there. There are two different process controls that we're being tested on in North America. One is the turbine application and that's the big turbine – power-generation turbines that are predominantly produced by GE, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Siemens, that now has acquired Rolls-Royce, that's the test I'm talking about in May. And that is still, I think, largely an engineering function. It is, to some extent, the engineers of GE taking their time and really playing with the machine to see what it will do.

The other test, though, is one that's, I think, much more practical. That's the one I was talking about with Dominion. And that's with a two-stroke Caterpillar secondary compressor. It's a big – what amounts to a big Harley-Davidson engine, that's what it is, a huge two stroke, very simple engine that's used to compress the gas and then moves through the transmission and distribution systems.

So, the initial pressurization of the gas is done generally by a compressor turbine. And then, secondary compression as it goes through the line is done by these big Caterpillar two-stroke compressors. Those compressors are also operated on natural gas. They have a chemical reaction that occurs in them called NOx, which I believe is N-O-X, which is a very damaging thing that occurs when the machines are run either too rich or too lean.

What we are able to do is to put their algorithm, which they have an algorithm that can prevent the NOx from occurring, if they know exactly what gas is going into the machine. Well, of course, without – before our machine, it was very difficult to know what that gas was going in, in a timely manner. We give them the opportunity to know, within a matter of seconds, what is exactly going in that big two-stroke compressor and they can then tune that machine, just like you would tune a turbine, to run much more efficiently, use much less gas and have much less emissions out the back end. So, it's a very similar application, but it's two very different machines.

In the case of the turbines, these are big multimillion dollar turbines that are going to be found throughout the world generating electricity. In the case of the secondary compressors, they are very expensive machines. I think somewhat a little over $1 million or more a piece. But the bottom line is they are throughout the network within the United States. They are used for secondary compression throughout the entire country. So, there's many more of them available than they would be at these big multimillion dollar turbines. So, it's two different applications although they're very similar in nature.

And finally, on Mitsubishi. If I recall, they have bought PTis and want to test them with – in Thailand, I think it is. Could you update us on that?

Yeah. Other than the fact that we've delivered those two units that they are operating, I don't know anything further. And that's because they're not sharing anything further with us. They didn't give us test criteria other than to tell us the composition of the gas, nor did they tell us how long they would test. And I think they did that intentionally. Unlike GE, they don't have the big R&D facility that GE has at Houston. And they're actually testing them in the field. So, again, there's not much I can tell you other than no news is good news. In other words, there has, obviously, been no problems or they would have gotten back to us. But they do have two operating units right now.

So, the most – if they're going to move forward, what's a likely timeframe for going forward?

I have no idea. They haven't shared anything with us regarding timeframe or anything else other than telling us that if the two work well on these two machines, which have very different CO2 levels, that they would be moving forward to put them on some or all of the rest of their fleet.

Okay. Thank you, Bill.

Okay.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Alex Blanton, Clear Harbor Asset. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

My questions have been answered. Thank you.

Thank you, Alex.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Colin Lee from Luzich Partners. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good afternoon.

Hi, Colin.

Back to your Houston office, you mentioned $4 million revenue was breakeven. I'm just doing the math. Does that mean you guys are spending about $1.5 million to $2 million in SG&A cost on that expansion?

We're not going to go into building a model on this call right now. But I think you can calculate it backwards from that. The margins are generally 35% on our Gas business segment. So, it is a new developing office, launching into North America and $4 million is our target for breakeven.

Got you. And for Dominion Energy and Snam Rete, once the revenue comes in and you guys deliver the product, how should we think about the SG&A expense? Is that going to be steady based on what you guys are incurring now or is there going to be any one-time distributor expense? That would be helpful for us [ph] investors (57:41)? Thank you.

No, that's a good question. The SG&A, we've got our base pretty well built, especially around the GasPT technology. So, we would not expect any impact to SG&A from those. And actually, it should – the way we kind of refer to it internally is sort of a rubber-band effect. Revenue will go up and SG&A will stay fairly flat with regards to that. So, it will be a lot more of a benefit from those sales.

There are basically a finished good product sale once they go online. Regarding our projections for the margins, the rev costs are already built in on that. So, we see really healthy margins coming out of those products and those are – of the 35 points, those are in the higher technology margin territories.

Right. Thank you. And on the GE front, just so I'm aware. So, there's different path to GE, one is the engine turbine application and the other is the IRIS solution, and that's with the intelligent – their Intelligent Platform provider. Is that how we should think about it? And I think, in the previous call, it was mentioned that you guys wanted to transition from their R&D department to their commercial engine department. How is that progress going?

Yeah, to your first question first, that is the way to look at it. There's two opportunities. One was the engine group, which is aero and power I believe it is; and the other is the Intelligent Platforms, which is IRIS. And we're still in the R&D division. And again, I think we're seeing some movement there, but frankly it's slow. They're very slow at adopting new technologies, especially on their turbines, because they have such a huge market share and they are – it's a big profit center for them. So, I can't fault them. But we are still in that R&D division. Although, like I say, we're getting some movement – we're moving forward, but we're not yet in the commercial. And then, as far as Intelligent Platforms, Intelligent Platforms is a commercial group. That is all they're interested in is commercializing this. So, they're a much faster partner to market, I believe.

Just on that last point on the intelligent partners group, I was trying to look at GE's intelligent partners group and I couldn't locate the IRIS. I don't know if they haven't updated their website, because they're slow moving, but I think that would be helpful for, at least, you guys so that you're actually on the website. I think there is a press release associated with you on their website, but in terms of their provider partner, payable, I don't see you guys on it or I could be wrong?

We have exactly the same problem and it's not that they haven't updated, it's just the opposite. We were on it. They did an update and we and a number of other companies did not get transferred over.

Okay.

And as we understand it, from our context there, they are doing everything in their power to correct that and have not gotten it done yet. But we are definitely on that.

Okay. Great. Thank you.

Sure.

Thank you. Our next question comes from James Liberman from Wells Fargo Advisors. Your line is open. Please go ahead.

Thank you. That was a very [ph] stellar (1:00:54) presentation that I did finally get most of my questions answered. But would you be able to give a little bit more color to the significance of the National Grid selection of IRIS?

Yeah. I think, again, National Grid is very, very reticent to, obviously, make press releases or statements about certain technologies, if they don't truly believe in the technology. And I think the fact that we were able to announce with their participation, the fact that they were looking to not only implement IRIS, but recommend that IRIS be the method for telemetry, remote telemetry throughout the EU, is an indication of how committed they are to the technology.

The IRIS Technology was developed at their request, with their assistance. And frankly, they are big believers in what it does and how it works. It gives them a much more dynamic method of controlling their grid. And we believe very confidently that as they move forward, as they now are done with RIIO and move forward, to retrofit some 320 more IRIS sites or telemetry sites, that IRIS will be the technology of choice. And I think that that press release and the fact that they participated in that is a good indication of how strong they believe in the technology.

So, I think the color that I can give, it is just that. The reason that we're involved with GE is because National Grid hosted GE and was able to show them how dynamic and how well the technology work and also work as a testimonial for what we'd done. So, again, I think that the National Grid's certainly committed to it. We know that they have to retrofit these locations, because, as I mentioned, many of them are redundant or are obsolete. And so, we know that that's coming up in the next little while, and we believe strongly that it's going to be an IRIS retrofit. So, I think that's the most color I can give you. But again, it comes from the press release. You saw their quote and the fact that they participated in it.

Thank you. It's a great-looking future. Appreciate it.

Thank you.

Thanks, Jim.

Thank you. I'm showing no further questions at this time. I'd like to hand the conference back over to Mr. Bill Clough for closing remarks.

Thank you. Just in conclusion, I would again thank all of you for your support and interest in CUI Global. As I mentioned at the conclusion of our statements, management is fully committed to moving the company forward to expanding and to doing it in efficient manner that enhances both our employees and our shareholders' value.

So, with that, I again thank you for your interest and we'll conclude the call.

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. This concludes our program. You may all disconnect. Have a wonderful day.

Thank you.