Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Scott Eckstein — Vice President, KCSA Strategic Communications
James F. O'Neil III — Vice Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Orbital Energy Group, Inc.
Daniel Ned Ford — Chief Financial Officer/Chief Operating Officer - Energy Division, Orbital Energy Group, Inc.
Eric Andrew Stine — Analyst, Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC
Robert Duncan Brown — Analyst, Lake Street Capital Markets, LLC
Liam Burke — Analyst, B. Riley FBR, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, everyone, and welcome to Orbital Energy Group's First Quarter 2020 Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A question-and-answer session will follow management's remarks. As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded. A replay of today's call will be available on Orbital Energy Group's website later today and will remain posted there for the next 90 days.

I will now hand the call over to Mr. Eckstein of KCSA for introductions and the reading of the Safe Harbor Statement. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you, operator. Hello, everyone, and welcome to Orbital Energy Group's first quarter 2020 conference call. A copy of the company's earnings press release and accompanying PowerPoint Presentation are available for download on the Events and Presentations page of the Investor Relations section of the Orbital Energy Group website. With us on today's call are Jim O'Neil, Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Daniel Ford, Chief Financial Officer; and William Clough, Executive Chairman.

Today, we'll review the highlights and financial results for the first quarter as well as the recent developments. Following these formal remarks, we'll be prepared to answer your questions. I would like to also remind everyone that today's call will contain forward-looking statements made within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 as amended.

Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to vary materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. The company may experience significant fluctuations in future operating results due to a number of economic, competitive and other factors such as the coronavirus, including among other things, the company's reliance on third-party manufactures, suppliers and service providers, government agency, budgetary and political constraints, new or increased competition, changes in the market demand, and the performance or reliability of its products, integrated solution and services. These factors and others could cause operating results to vary significantly from those in prior periods and to those projected in forward-looking statements.

Additional information with respect to these and other factors which could materially affect the company and its operations are included in certain forms the company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These forward-looking statements are based on information available to Orbital Energy Group today, and the company assumes no obligation to update statements as circumstances change.

Now at this time, it is my pleasure to introduce Jim O'Neil, Vice Chairman and CEO of Orbital Energy. Jim, the floor is yours.

Thanks, Scott, and thank you everyone for joining us on our first quarter 2020 earnings conference call. Last year, we initiated our strategy to transform into a diversified energy services infrastructure company and in the first quarter, we continue to make progress with this strategy. Importantly, we successfully entered into a definitive agreement for our platform acquisition of Reach Construction Group, a utility scale, solar engineering procurement and construction services company. This transaction was completed in April. We also accomplished several other key objectives during the quarter such as expanding capabilities in our Orbital Gas Systems, Houston and UK offices to capitalize on favorable trends in the renewable energy market and continuing to gain further traction in the marketplace, with the proprietary VE Technology sampling and measuring systems.

We also continued to develop our greenfield operation, Orbital Power Services in Dallas, which is focused on electric transmission and distribution services. And lastly, with these assets now in place, we recently implemented our corporate name change to Orbital Energy Group and are trading under the new ticker symbol OEG. We believe this name reflects our progress today and our strategic repositioning to become a diversified energy infrastructure service provider.

Before I discuss our accomplishments in more detail, I would like to briefly review highlights of our first quarter 2020 performance. Total revenues were $5.7 million for the quarter, up from $5.5 million in the first quarter of 2019. The increase was attributable to higher integration revenues and our North American operations, reflecting our expanding customer base and the increased awareness of the exceptional work performed by Houston operations.

This was partially offset by lower integration revenues in our UK operations during the quarter, mainly due to the headwinds that the market continues to experience surrounding Brexit, foreign exchange fluctuation, the impact of the political environment on investment within this sector and the COVID-19 pandemic towards the end of the quarter. Our total backlog was $9.5 million at March 31 of 2020 from $9.6 million at December 31 of 2019, impacted primarily by lower translation rates in the UK and timing of customer projects. Reach Construction Group is not in these numbers as they were acquired in April of this year.

As we have previously discussed, given the challenging operating environment in the UK, we have taken the appropriate steps to right size our operations there, while at the same time developing new opportunities for organic growth. This includes diversifying our operations away from being solely focused on gas network revenue opportunities by leveraging Orbital's technical expertise in the field of biomethane and renewable energy production. This strategy has started to show tangible results as evidenced by Orbital's recent award for a contract by major UK energy provider to design, produce and commission its first ever biomethane to grid plans for the UK water industry. This is a major contract win for Orbital, but it is not the only one that they've gotten recently. Others include a biomethane grid entry unit or GEU upgrade project for an – with an existing customer, a comprehensive service contract to cover nine GEUs which includes servicing GEUs built by other OEMs based on our best-in-class service team and with the standalone propane enrichment system for a biomethane GEU in France, our first biomethane project in Western Europe.

As previously discussed, we expanded our Houston operations to capitalize on the favorable trends we are seeing in the North American renewable energy market. Our world-class natural gas measurement integration facility in Houston continues to gain recognition in the marketplace. In the quarter, we expanded our business development efforts into the renewable gas market and as a result executed on several biomethane analyst projects. Additionally in March, we announced that we had received and deployed orders from several Fortune 100 energy companies in the oil and gas industry based in Houston, Dallas and Charlotte, North Carolina for trace mercury measurement in oil and gas utilizing our proprietary VE Technology.

In the quarter, Orbital's VE Technology product sales increased by 250% over 2019 levels. We continue to gain access to a growing number of leading gas companies as well as keep expanding our pipeline of project opportunities. We expect the growing number of orders for our VE Technology to improve our product mix and expand gross margins. In summary, in the first quarter, our Houston integration in product sales revenues experienced 50% growth over the same period last year. By expanding our business development efforts beyond the gas network market and rightsizing our operations, we believe we have implemented the right strategy in the US and UK to achieve long-term success. We continue to monitor these operations on a daily basis and look forward to keeping you updated as we expand our project portfolio in both the US and Europe.

However, despite our first quarter performance and the incremental gains we anticipated in the renewable gas and VE Technology product sale opportunities for the remainder of this year, in April, we began experiencing a broader impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on all aspects of our integration and product sales, both in our US and UK operations. Several integration projects that had been awarded to construct are now delayed indefinitely and the pipeline of future opportunities has slowed. Additionally, the majority of our service work is on hold as customers are not allowing contractors on their sites such as refineries until further notice.

During the quarter, we also continued to develop our greenfield operation in Dallas, Orbital Power Services. Since its inception in late 2019, this internally developed operation has grown into a full service construction and maintenance service provider to the electric power distribution, transmission, substation, renewable and emergency response sectors of North America.

The rate of deployment for this business has been slower than expected due to the impact of COVID-19 as most utility customers are not allowing new personnel on their systems in order to mitigate the spread of the pandemic. However, the majority of our startup costs are behind us and the business is building momentum albeit slowly, our goal is for Orbital Power to be on a profitable run rate by the third quarter of this year.

Turning to our recent accomplishment, in April, we successfully completed our accretive platform acquisition of Reach Construction Group. Headquartered in the Apex, North Carolina, Reach is a leading provider of EPC services and the utility scale solar industry with its leadership having a combined 50 years of industry experience. This was an attractive transaction for us on many levels. First, the acquisition is expected to add significant revenues and positive net earnings to the company as a whole. This is a result of Reach's development and reliance on repeatable processes to provide its customers with safe, high-quality predictable results at the lowest cost. Reach already had a full year 2020 contractual backlog and access of a $100 million in North American projects at the time of purchase. However, due to COVID-19, several projects have now pushed into 2021 reducing this year's backlog to $55 million.

The addition of Reach also offers significant synergies for our overall revenue growth, including its deep expertise in renewable energy project delivery, particularly utility scale solar farms. Further Reach's in-house engineering capabilities, supply chain relationships and industry expertise are expected to complement and accelerate the growth of our other divisions within Orbital Energy, including our Orbital Power Services, electric transmission and distribution services operations. In addition to this, we also anticipate significant cost synergies by leveraging existing sales, integration and distribution infrastructure for cross-selling opportunities. We also closed this transaction at very attractive terms with the purchase price of approximately $37 million via the issuance of 2 million shares of our common stock and the assumption of $35 million in seller's debt. As I mentioned earlier, the acquisition was immediately accretive to our earnings. Brandon Martin, the principal owner, remains with us as Reach's Chief Executive Officer, and we are excited to grow Reach's business under Brandon's continued leadership.

At quarter-end, we held cash and cash equivalents of $6.7 million, and restricted cash of $1 million. Our cash usage in the first quarter was primarily related to acquisition activity, normal administrative cost, repayment of the working capital adjustment related to the Bel Fuse power transaction, and start-up costs for the Orbital Power Services, primarily investment in equipment. Now that the acquisition of Reach is complete, and Orbital Power Services is fully developed, we expect our cash usage rate will return to more normalized levels. In the short-term, we are diligently managing our working capital to preserve liquidity.

As time progresses, we expect Reach will contribute positively to our liquidity as we expect them to be cash-flow positive during 2020. We expect to generate further cash flows from volume growth in our energy businesses, both organically and through targeted acquisitions. We further anticipate additional cash inflows from the expected sale of the remaining power and electric mechanical operations of CUI Canada and CUI Japan. Both of these entities remain held-for-sale and we are actively exploring the best options for both units.

With the divestiture of the majority of our non-energy related businesses in late 2019, the April acquisition of Reach and the creation of Orbital Power Services, we have the foundation in place to deploy a broader set of service offerings in the energy infrastructure market. In addition, adding Reach to our organization has also extended our energy services business into the rapidly growing areas of alternative and renewable energy, enabling us to take an active role in reducing our nation's carbon footprint. In the near term, we expect to capitalize on the complementary capabilities of Reach and Orbital Power Services. This wider scope of improved service offerings creates significant new cross-selling opportunities with both existing as well as potential new customers. Longer term, we expect to diversify into synergistic services and to expand geographically to serve the electric power industry as well as the larger infrastructure services market.

In light of our company's strategic repositioning, it was the appropriate time to change our corporate name from CUI Global to Orbital Energy Group, including the new ticker symbol, OEG, which became effective at the open of trading on May 11. We believe this new name reflects our increased capabilities in energy-centric growth strategy. In conjunction with this name change, we have also launched a new website and social channels that are a better reflection of our company's energy and infrastructure services platform. We invite you to visit our new website which can be reached at www.orbitalenergygroup.com.

To summarize, we have accomplished a great deal during the first quarter as we move forward with our transformational strategy to become a diversified energy infrastructure service company. During this period, we successfully completed our accretive platform acquisition of Reach Construction Group. Simultaneously, we strengthened our integration capabilities in Houston and in the UK while launching our internally developed Orbital Power Services Group in Dallas. With this structure in place and the divestiture of the majority of our non-energy related businesses, we are well-positioned to establish ourselves as a leading energy services infrastructure company.

Despite the COVID-19 pandemic headwinds we have experienced this year, our strategy remains the same to diversify our existing energy business into the energy infrastructure services market through both organic growth and by pursuing a targeted acquisition strategy focused on innovative companies and complimentary industries, Reach was the first of these targeted acquisitions and we look forward to updating you as we continue to execute on this plan during 2020 and beyond.

This concludes my opening remarks and I will pass the call on to Dan, who will review our financial results. Dan?

Thank you, Jim and good afternoon everyone. Today I'll review our first quarter 2020 GAAP financial results. I'd like to remind everyone that I will focus my remarks today on the company's continuing operations, which consists of our energy segment. The power and electromechanical segment as presented in discontinued operations as the electromechanical business was disposed off during Q3 2019, while the remainder of the domestic power business was divested during Q4 2019 with CUI Canada and CUI Japan remaining as held-for-sale at this time and also presented as discontinued operations.

We reported total revenues of $5.7 million for the first quarter or 2020 compared to $5.5 million for the first quarter of 2019. These reflect higher integration revenues and overall power revenue in the company's North America operations, partially offset by lower integration revenues and the company's UK operations during the quarter.

Gross profit was $559,000 for the first quarter of 2020 compared to $1.2 million for the first quarter of 2019. Gross margin was 9.8% for the first quarter of 2020 compared to 21.7% for the first quarter of 2019. The margin decrease was almost entirely due to startup costs that our new Orbital Power Services Group, which increased cost of sales as a percent of revenue and it's compared to a comparable 2019 period. We expect margins to improve during the second quarter and remainder of 2020 as Orbital Power Services gained greater operating efficiencies and companies throughout the world learn to cope with the new operating environment created by the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as through increased sales of higher margin products, a better mix of integration projects, increased service revenues throughout our energy focused operations and the addition of Reach Construction Group.

During the three months ended March 31, 2020, SG&A increased $2.4 million compared to the prior year comparative period. The increase in SG&A for the quarter was due to increased corporate costs largely due to strategic initiatives, which included increased professional fees including legal, accounting, tax, investor relations and costs associated with due diligence activities related to the prospective acquisitions. Also contributing to the increase was increased SG&A costs in the energy segment primarily due to startup cost at Orbital Power Services Group, which included increased payroll and insurance costs.

As Jim noted, our backlog was $9.5 million as of March 31, 2020, down slightly from the December 31, 2019 backlog of $9.6 million due to lower translation rates in the UK and timing of projects. As of March 31, 2020, the company held cash and cash equivalents of $6.7 million and restricted cash of $1 million. This $1 million of restricted cash relates to collateral for several bank issued letters of credit related to contract guarantees.

Along with funding the loss from continuing operations, as Jim mentioned earlier, our cash usage in the first quarter was primarily related to acquisition activity including $3 million issued to Reach Construction on a note receivable, normal administrative costs and startup costs for Orbital Power Services. To offer some additional transparency, cash used in operations for the three months ended March 31, 2020, were almost $4 million in the other category which primarily related to M&A activity, $2.7 million in energy segment from Orbital Power Services startup costs and $1.1 million related to discontinued operations. This compared to cash used to $0.9 million in the other category, $2.3 million in the energy segment and $0.5 million provided by the discontinued power and electromechanical segment during the first quarter of 2019.

During Q1, we issued $2.8 million to Bel Fuse related to the working capital adjustment from the sale of the company's domestic power operations in late 2019. Now, we've closed the Reach acquisition and the majority of Orbital Power startup costs are behind us, we expect our cash usage rate will decrease significantly going forward and return to more normalized levels. We continue work to improve our short-term liquidity through prudent cost control as well as management of working capital. We expect the long-term liquidity will benefit from the addition of Reach Construction Group which is expected to be cash flow positive during 2020. We also expect cash flows to benefit from overall volume growth in our energy business, both organically and through acquisitions and the expected sale of the remaining power and electromechanical operations. In addition, subsequent to the quarter end, the company and its subsidiaries entered into unsecured loans in the aggregate principal amount of approximately $1.9 million pursuant to the Paycheck Protection Program. The loan and interest accrued thereon is forgivable partially or in full if certain conditions are met.

Before turning the call back over to Jim, I want to update you on our share repurchase program. As previously announced in December 2019, our board authorized the share repurchase program under which the company may repurchase up to $5 million of the company's common stock at market prices. During the first quarter of 2020, we did not repurchase any additional shares under the program. Due to the onset of the coronavirus pandemic, as a part of our efforts to strengthen our liquidity, the company has decided to temporarily halt repurchase under this program until the pandemic has passed and we see a return to positive cash flows. We will reevaluate this on an ongoing basis. For the period since the share repurchase plan was approved through March 31, 2020, during the open buying windows available to us, we repurchased 353,063 shares of our common stock at an average price of $1.17 on the open market.

I'll now turn the call back over to Jim for closing remarks.

Thanks, Dan. In closing, throughout the first quarter, we continued to execute on our companywide transformation into a diversified energy infrastructure services company. During this period, we strengthened our legacy energy business, launched Orbital Power Services and added a new supplemental capabilities, while also entering new markets through the acquisition of Reach Construction Group. We believe we have the assets in place to drive our growth by serving a much broader portion of the electric utility construction space and over time the larger infrastructure service market.

Before we go to Q&A, I'd like to talk about the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, its impact on the global economy and how it relates to our business. Orbital Energy Group and its subsidiaries have been designated as an essential critical infrastructure workforce. As a result, we've continued to operate in most areas and we intend to keep delivering high-quality products and services to our customers.

Of course, the health and safety of our employees is our top priority, we will continue to act in accordance with the guidelines provided by the CDC and the Department of Homeland Security. In response to this, we have implemented increased safety protocols at each of our business locations, implemented the utilization of telework when possible and furloughed some personnel. Our team continues to monitor new developments on a daily basis and will continue to make operational changes as necessary to ensure the safety of our employees and their families.

As I mentioned on our last call, at that time, we had experienced customer and supply chain disruptions in our UK operations with minimal business impacts in the US. Since that time, we are seeing decreased demand for near-term domestic construction activity, supply chain delays, decreased field service work and other impacts related to the COVID-19 pandemic. The company is proactively working to adjust its operations to properly reflect the market environment during the immediate pandemic, while maintaining sufficient resources for the expected rebound later this year.

The impact from COVID-19 continues to change daily and it is too early to accurately estimate the full year effect on the industry demand. While the company expects the effects of the pandemic to negatively impact the results from operations, cash flows and our financial position in the current level of uncertainty over the economic and operational impacts of COVID-19 means the related financial impact cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. Because we have been designated as essential business, many of our customers continue to execute on their backlog of projects. However, we expect some construction project timelines will be modified as different geographic markets adjust to economic uncertainties during this unprecedented time. Recognizing this will now be a challenging year for our nation and the world as a whole and the uncertainty in our customer capital spending and construction activity, we will not provide full year 2020 guidance at this time.

While the COVID-19 pandemic has affected all of us, we remain confident that our long term business fundamentals remain intact. Accordingly, we have and will continue to take actions to protect our employees, bolster our liquidity and support the long term health of our business.

Looking forward, we remain confident our strong foundation of energy products and services will be successful in capitalizing on the attractive underlying market fundamentals and long term secular growth trends in the energy infrastructure market. By continuing to execute on our strategic plans, we will build a diversified energy services platform and position our business for growth once normal commerce resumes. In doing so, we will generate greater and sustainable value for our shareholders.

That concludes our prepared remarks. Now, I would like to open the call for questions. Operator, please go ahead.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Eric Stine with Craig-Hallum. Your line is now open.

Hi, everyone. Thanks for taking the questions.

Hi, Eric.

Hi, Eric.

Hey. So, I mean, obviously COVID-19, the uncertainty there, I guess goes unset, but I'd love to get your thoughts on the impact of low oil as well and I know it's not going to impact Reach, but in terms of the rest of your platform, how do you view that given that a number of your customers have had a pretty substantial cut back in their CapEx budgets. How do you think about that, I guess near-term and long-term?

Yeah. It's obviously low oil prices is a headwind, but I think lesser of a headwind because of the biomethane projects and mercury projects and some of these other projects that we're focused on that are somewhat independent of oil pricing to some degree, but the low oil price environment is a headwind for sure, but not as much as COVID has been.

Right. Right. Okay. And then, obviously first quarter had a lot of, I guess one-time costs related to the ramp of the services group and I'm not sure if you broke that down between cost of goods or the gross margin line and SG&A. Just wondering, I mean how should we think about the business from a margin perspective long-term, obviously the 9.8% this quarter was not representative of what you would expect going forward?

Right. No. It's certainly not. The Power Services Group brought that down with a lot of early startup costs for consumables and things like that. They were expensed on the outset as well as getting the fleet ready and not fully deployed increase the cost of sales. So, we expect margin to – on a combined basis to be in the 20% or better range – 20% is the target we're going for in the near-term and we'll continue to reevaluate that, but that's the number that we're looking at right now.

Okay. Got it. Maybe just last one for me on the acquisition plan, just curious how – well, I guess COVID is the main factor how – how that impacts the plan in 2020 and also I mean is this something that you actually could use to your advantage if there are some companies out there that maybe are not in – in very good shape and you could be opportunistic as a result?

Yes. We can absolutely be opportunistic. I think we'll do at least one, perhaps more acquisitions this year. So, in my mind, the pace of acquisitions really doesn't change with COVID, but there are – given there are opportunities out there to take advantage of some deals. So, that's the position we're in right now.

Okay. Thanks a lot.

Yeah. Thank you, Eric.

Thank you. Our next question comes from Rob Brown with Lake Street Capital. Your line is now open.

Good afternoon.

Hey, Rob.

Hi, Rob.

Hi, there.

Just a question on Reach, you had a backlog. I think you said now at $55 million for this year expected. Is that the amount that you'll see from here on out or is that the total year that Reach will do?

That's this year's backlog. There was two projects that pushed from 2020 into 2021, but there's also a significant amount of activity hat that we're looking at right now. So, that number could go up here in the near term, but projects can push too, so we've got those puts and takes that can occur.

But Rob, that is the forecast or the backlog from date of acquisition remaining through the end of the year. So it's not including the period prior to acquisition.

Okay. Good. Thank you. And then, maybe just in terms of sort of some of the COVID impacts on the other business, you talked about projects getting shifted around or pushed out and no service business, but how much of your business at this point is service and how much is really project activity?

So service is probably 10% of our overall revenues and that business is pretty much shutdown, primarily because chemical plants and refineries they don't want us vendors or contractors on their sites right now. They've kind of ring fenced it to where they've just got their own employees showing up for work. So, that service business is probably 10% of what it should be right now and that's about 10% to 12% of our revenues.

Got it, okay. Great. And then just the balance sheet, you have, I guess coming out of the Reach acquisition, I think that's pretty neutral to cash, but what sort of your cash balance coming out of that and how do you sort of see the how much room do you have in cash as things play out and when the things kind of need to improve when you get tight on cash?

Well, cash is something we're always keeping an eye on. We finished the quarter with $6.7 million of unrestricted cash available and a $1 million of restricted. And then, we've put quite a bit in the inventory that is returning over this year in some other areas that are going to be turning over this year. We see cash flow positive on the short-term horizon for Reach where Reach will be generating cash into the company. So I guess to answer your question, we don't have a panic button right now, but we are being a small company and in the environment we're in, we're always keeping an eye on that figure especially and managing how much further investment we're going to be putting out. I think we've put out the investment for the Power Services Group. Q1 was pretty heavy on that between equipment and getting the personnel lined up and ready to go. That's there now.

And so, it'll be incremental investments going forward based around on cash flows for that group and products on the horizon – are not on the horizon, but actually in the near-term when we do those investments. So I think from that standpoint, the biggest cash outs are through behind us and from Q1 with the OPS launching, the Reach M&A activity, investment into them and then also that working capital adjustment that we paid back to Bel Fuse. So I think we're in a good spot right now based on our modeling at this stage. But it is something we're going to continue to keep an eye on and obviously the COVID situation is one that will be impacting how customers are paying and how vendors are expecting payments and all those kind of things. So, it's an ongoing conversation and review that we're doing.

Okay. Great. And then realizing you can't predict how the COVID thing loosens up and turns back up, but in the Power Services Group, you've launched what's the typical contract cycle there? How long if things kind of start to open up, how long to win a contract and typically kind of when it started and get some revenue out of it? Is that a long sales cycle or is something that when things turn on, it turns on pretty quickly as well?

It's not a long sales cycle at all. We could turn it up pretty quickly. So yeah, some of the work is MSA work which we'll get on utility system and do their day to day routine maintenance, and then the other just short-term fixed price projects and those happen daily. So you can basically go to work in a matter of a week on those types of projects. So there's not a long sales cycle at all.

Okay, great. Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you, Rob. [Operator Instructions]

Our next question comes from Liam Burke with B. Riley FBR. Your line is now open.

Thank you. Good afternoon, Jim. Good afternoon, Dan.

Hi, Liam.

Good afternoon, Jim.

And Bill. Could we circle back on the gross margins? I understand you have the startup costs in there. But if I adjusted for the startup costs, were the gross margins directionally better than fourth quarter of 2019.

Yes, actually, it would have been directionally.

Okay, okay. And if, and Dan, you mentioned 20% target that would be on the Power Services Group.

That's the combined for the group that we're targeting right now. And I think there's room for that to continue to improve, but 20% is the combined group that we're looking at, getting it back into the 20% area for the near-term.

And then Orbital Power Systems, you had for third quarter is where you anticipate getting the critical mass and becoming profitable. I guess integration is a bad word, but how quickly do you anticipate Orbital Solar and Power Systems to begin working together and creating a one and one equals three situation?

Immediately. Whenever Reach goes to work building these solar farms, they had in the past been outsourcing the electrical component of that to third parties. And now, they can do it in-house. So, we will be able to have immediate synergies between Orbital Power Services and Reach Construction.

Great. Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you, Liam.

Thank you. I'm not showing any further questions at this time. I would now like to turn the call back over to Jim O'Neil for closing remarks.

Okay. Thank you, operator. I'd like to thank everyone again today for joining us on the call and your continued interest in Orbital Energy Group. We look forward to having follow-up conversations with many of you, and updating you on continued progress. Thank you, and have a great evening.

Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference call. Thank you for participating. You may now disconnect.