Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Steven van der Velden — Chief Executive Officer, Elephant Talk Communications Corp.
Pat Carroll — Chief Executive Officer/Founder, ValidSoft Ltd.
Mark Nije — Chief Financial Officer, Elephant Talk Communications Corp.
Edward Woo — Analyst, Ascendiant Capital Markets LLC
Luis Marquez — Analyst, Laidlaw & Co
Brian McCarren — Analyst, Ameriprise Financial

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Elephant Talk Communications fourth quarter and year-end 2012 conference call. At this time all participants are in a listen only mode. Following today's presentation, the conference will be open for questions. [Operator Instructions]

I would now like to turn the conference over to [ph] Ms. Monica Gould, Investor Relations (00:00:24) for Elephant Talk. Please go ahead ma'am.

Thank you. Good morning to everyone in the United States and good afternoon to our European listeners, and thank you for joining us for Elephant Talk Communications fourth quarter and full year 2012 shareholder update conference call.

Joining me on the call today is Steven van der Velden, Chairman and CEO of Elephant Talk, Mark Nije, CFO of Elephant Talk and Pat Carroll, CEO of ValidSoft.

Following management's discussion, we'll open up the call for your questions. Before turning the call over to Steven, I'm going to review the company's Safe Harbor statement. We will make certain statements today that are forward looking and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.

Please note that these forward-looking statements reflect our opinions only as of the date of this call, and we undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revision to these forward-looking statements in light of new information or future events. Please refer to our SEC filings of a more detailed description of the risk factors that may affect our results.

During our call today, we will discuss adjusted EBITDA, and our press release issued today in our filings with the SEC each of which are posted to our website, you'll find additional disclosures regarding this non-GAAP financial measure, and reconciliations of net loss to adjusted EBITDA.

With that, I would now like to turn the call over to Elephant Talk's Chairman and CEO Mr. Stephen van der Velden.

Thank you, [ph] Monica (00:91:59), and thanks to everyone who joined us today for our shareholder update call. I will begin today by providing an update on several positive developments that have occurred at Elephant Talk Communications over the past couple of months.

Before turning the call over to Pat for an overview of the exciting things that are happening at Elephant Talk, and then to Mark for a recap of the company's strong fourth quarter and full year results we will conclude by opening the call for questions.

To begin, here are the topics I would like to discuss. First, I would like to share with you continued success of our high-margin mobile and security business. Second, I will share information regarding our first months of positive operational cash flow, and discuss our funding prospects. Third, I'll give you a brief update on Telnicity. Fourth, I will share an update on the situation in Saudi Arabia and [indiscernible] (00:03:07) communications opportunities we are pursuing there.

Then, I'll also provide an update on the exciting progress we have made implementing our software defined network architecture known as our mobile software DNA platform, and also known as our SDN platform with a mobile operator in a major [indiscernible] (00:03:28) how the deployment contributes to our MVNO and MNO strategy moving forward.

Lastly I would like to respond to some key questions that have been asked about the company.

First turning your attention to our high mobile and security revenues. In the fourth quarter mobile and security solutions have made up the majority of total company revenue for the very first time accounting for 52% of total company revenue. This revenue was a significant contributor to the fourth quarter margin of $2.7 million. Our mobile and security businesses recorded a sixth consecutive quarter of sequential growth with revenues of nearly $3.6 million in the fourth quarter.

For the 12-month ending December 31, 2012 mobile and security revenue grew 103% to $11.7 million or approximately 40% of the company's total revenues last year. Going forward we expect the majority of the company's revenues, and more importantly, the vast majority of the contribution to profits to come from our mobile and security operations.

Fourth quarter mobile and security results were driven by the over $1.2 million active mobile subscribers that we fully manage on behalf of Vodafone in Spain. By the end of the 2013 we expect to have several hundred thousand additional subscribers to this platform in Spain getting as close to, if not over 1.5 million subscribers. Our strong results were also driven by ValidSoft's strategic partnership with FICO/Adeptra to provide SIM Swap Fraud Solutions for Santander, one of the world's largest banks.

Secondly, we are excited to report that Elephant Talk expected first month of positive operational cash flow in April. While we are still in progress of closing the books, it looks like we are very close to reaching this milestone for March as well. This is consistent with the guidance provided on our third quarter 2012 earnings call in last November. We estimate positive operating cash flow by using adjusted EBITDA defined as earnings before derivative accounting such as fraud liabilities and future – and conversion feature expenses, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, impairments, non-operating income, and expenses and stock-based compensation.

Our positive operational cash flow position will be achieved through the growth of our existing mobile and security operations and our cost control efforts. The exact timing is dependent on the timing of some revenues from existing contracts that we associate with accounting treatments. Whether it's March or April we view this to be a significant milestone because we believe that operational cash flow best represents our ability to generate cash from our main revenue generating activities.

Giving the lengthy sales cycle associated with our mobile and security operations and with the Latin America deployments only beginning to ramp up during the second half of this calendar year, we do not necessarily expect to be operational cash flow positive for each of the remaining months in 2013. To this end, the company will likely close additional financing in April or May in order to ensure operational flexibility. We are currently evaluating non-binding term sheets. We hope to update you in the very near future. In the meantime, we as a management have accepted to qualify going concern opinion of our auditor, BDO.

This brings us to the Telnicity acquisition we announced in January. Our acquisition of 100% of the Telnicity assets closed yesterday, April 1, 2013. Telnicity's relationships several North American based telecommunications companies are expected to provide us with an immediate market presence in the United States. The world's largest telecommunications market by revenues. This is a springboard for Elephant Talk to launch its services into the US mobile telecommunications market. Meanwhile, Telnicity's existing customer base will be able to leverage Elephant Talk's technology and telecommunications relationships to offer more complete international calling and roaming packages. This will all be driven by a strong US-based management team with substantial local sales presence, marketing and technology development experience.

That said, we do expect the financial impact to be limited for at least the first several quarters, as we work to bring the two companies together. We, as management, are very excited to establish a foothold in the United States telecommunications market and as we proceed with our go-to-market strategy in the United States, we continue to pursue the most promising opportunities all over the globe. One of these activities is in Saudi Arabia.

As most of you know, we currently have an operation with Zain in Saudi Arabia. So far, this platform has been generating $0.5 million and $1 million in revenues on an annualized basis. In January the MVNO regulations changed opening up a larger opportunity for the company whereas previously MVNO activity was not permitted and mobile operators were limited to so-called co-branded services only. In the second part of the current quarter the Saudi Government plans to issue three full MVNO licenses one for each of the existing mobile operators.

While the outcome for Elephant Talk will be better understood at that time, we have been in discussions with several of the mobile telecom companies that are involved in this process, and we are very optimistic about our prospects in this market. Given the immediacy of the opportunity in the Middle East and our MNL outsourcing client in Latin America, we have decided to shift some of our resources away from Europe until the economy improves. We believe this rebalance allows us to be opportunistic without sacrificing the inroads we've already made in Europe.

This brings us to an update regarding the work we are doing with a prominent Latin American market mobile operator. As we recently announced I'm pleased to report that the implementation phase which started in January is going very, very well. We are on track to make the first test phone calls on our mobile software DNA platform that we are currently installing during the current quarter. We expect to keep migrating this customer's existing mobile customers and adding MVNO subscribers to our platform during the third quarter of this year. While, we know many of you would like to know the name of the – our customer we have decided upon the request of our customer to not provide that information at this time.

Once the binding MOU moves to a final executed contract, which is expected over the next 4 to 8 weeks, we will be pleased to disclose such details and file an 8-K. That said, rest assured we are working with an established mobile operator in a major Latin American company. In fact by the end of this calendar year we expect to be generating monthly recurring revenues from over 1.5 million mobile users on Elephant Talk's mobile platform, a 50% increase from the guidance we provided in January when this deal was first announced.

While the platform will initially have capacity for up to 10 million mobile subscribers, it has the ability to grow for future capacity as required. When the telecommunications company in a major market is willing to migrate a substantial part of its existing mobile subscribers to Elephant Talk's mobile software DNA platform, we take this as an extremely strong validation of our value proposition. Over the years we have worked with our partner customer Vodafone to enhance our mobile platform, which has created our state-of-the-art solution as we have it today.

Elephant Talks – Elephant Talk owns a vast majority of the source code for the platform at this time. This is extremely important not only in order to be able to live a truly end-to-end service levels, but also to be able to follow any pricing pressure this market may show over the next 10 years to 20 years. Ultimately, we expect to have such direct control of between 90% and 95% of all the records back-and-front office mobile operations in the very near future, with virtually no assistance required from any other venture. This will continue to give Elephant Talk and their customers the flexibility needed to be successful for the long run. At this point, it's also relevant to discuss how our deployments with the Latin American customer represent our strategy within mobile network operators.

On a global scale, there are currently more than 800 mobile operators and over the next couple of years, an equal number of new entrants are expected to start offering mobile broadband data services. With Elephant Talk's mobile platform soon able to service at least 20 million customers, we are very well positioned to service almost all existing mobile operators, except the 20 to 30 largest of the mobile operations. Therefore, our addressable market would currently be close to 95% of the total mobile operator market and 100% of the new entrants market. Over time, with the capacity of our platform food further being expanded, it should be able to handle close to 100% of those markets. A good news for Elephant Talk is all of these mobile operators have exactly the same problem with their legacy systems. Ultimately, they will all need to find an alternative, integrated solution such as the one Elephant Talk offers and thereby we believe that many will specifically look what a really unique one-stop-shop, single platform outsourcing solution that we provide.

Next to platforms, servicing the Netherlands, Belgium and Germany. The company is focused on building out its existing MVNO outsourcing platforms in Spain and Saudi Arabia. We believe the acquisition of Telnicity enhances our ability in due course to deliver our mobile software DNA platform also to US telecom service providers. Meanwhile we are also heavily focused on the recently contracted MNO outsourcing platform with a mobile operator in Latin America and quite a few automobile operators that have shown serious interest in Elephant Talk's platform-as-a-service offering, either through the clouds or on premise at a mobile operator's operation. Further, management is pleased to have enhanced our policies and procedures and control systems in the past year. We now have adequate controls and procedures and have expunged any material weakness with respect to our internal controls over financial reporting.

That concludes my discussion on the topics that I set out to discuss. However, before I turn the call over to Pat, I would like to address some confusion that appears to be out in the marketplace regarding my ownership position in Elephant Talk. I can assure you that I'm very, very much committed personally and financially to the company. While I can express my personal appreciation for the opportunities that I still have, those interested in knowing my financial commitments, I direct you to Form 5 published with the SEC on March 5, 2013, which reports that I directly and indirectly own approximately 12 million shares of Elephant Talk. I have been asked if I sold any ETAK shares that were previously reported on Form 5. I have not; however, some 2.3 million shares that were pledged as security for a loan and that were to be held in escrow were illegally sold by the lender about two years ago. The responsible individuals were arrested by the FBI and their trial is scheduled to start this May in San Diego.

We recently learned that a shareholder made a complaint to the SEC, which we believe concerns our disclosure policy. We have not been contacted by the SEC and we are not aware of any status this may have within the SEC, our policy to disclose material customer agreements consistent with our understanding of applicable rules. With respect to other agreements, the decision as to whether to make disclosures depends on several circumstances such as the customer relationship, where the customer permission is needed for disclosure and where the contract terms permit such disclosure. The same shareholder who made a complaint has also threatened to file a lawsuit against the company. The board has been briefed and based upon preliminary reviews, we believe there is no merit to his allegations. The board's review, however, is not complete at this time.

With that, I will now turn the call over to Pat.

Thank you, Steven, and good day everyone. Since my last update, ValidSoft has been very active. I'm delighted to report that we continue to make progress on all fronts. As is the case with most B2B2B relationships, the speed of this activity is under the control of the participants. The time necessary for large organizations to move through their approval and, if needed, regulatory processes, can be painstakingly long. That said, we take great care to honor their needs and are prepared to act when the time is right. I'm very pleased to report that ValidSoft security products have been nominated and in several cases, won key technology awards over the past few months. The nominations and awards were received, represent a very strong independent validation and industry recognition of the strength of our authentication and verification software solutions.

ValidSoft recently emerged from Prestigious National Institute of Standards and Technology, NIST Speaker Recognition Evaluation trials in the US for voice biometrics. This test here was arguably the most difficult test in the history of the trials. In fact, the tests were extended by two weeks to enable participants to complete the trials. This evaluation is the most important and main driver for innovation in the field of voice biometrics, particularly security. It is no coincidence that ValidSoft's achievement in the NIST Speaker Recognition Evaluation came shortly after Opus Research, a top independent analyst firm in the voice biometrics industry, recognized the company as an industry leader in its Voice Biometrics Vendor Survey. We are very proud to have our SIM Swap technology award the 2012 Banking Technology Award for Best Security Initiative. The award acknowledges the technology we developed along with our partner FICO/Adeptra and rolled out in Santander's UK operations. This implementation was the world's first real-time detection and prevention application aimed at addressing the growing problem since swapping. This industry-leading solution has also been recognized by Gartner and was recognized in several recent research reports on transaction security in the mobile environment.

In addition, ValidSoft was recently awarded the highly coveted honors of Winner Jury Vote at this year's Florin 2013 awards. The five-person jury that chose ValidSoft for this prestigious award was appointed based on their exceptional experience, respective positions within the transactional services industry and their proven inclination towards innovation. Jury members included ING's global head of payments and cash management Mark Buitenhek and Santander's Subdirector-General, Javier Santamaría Navarrete. ValidSoft was recognized for its SMART, Secure Mobile Architecture for Real-time Transactions, telecommunications-based technology which offers a multifactor, multilayer authentication solution designed to verify and authenticate transactions on mobile devices. SMART can protect transactions for m-banking, mobile wallets and P2P payments. And because of its flexibility, it's custom-designed for both feature and smartphone technology.

Finally, ValidSoft SMART platform is in the running for the Technology Provider of the Year award at the 2013 FStech award against the most prominent players as BT and Monitise. The winners will be announced in the April 17. The annual FStech Awards recognize excellent and innovation in the field of information technology within the UK and EMEA financial services sector. These awards are highly coveted among the UK and EMEA financial services technology industry.

Whilst we believe we have some of the best transaction security technology in the industry, independent recognition is extremely important to not only validate our products, but in the creation of value for ETAK and its shareholders. ValidSoft operates in markets that pay a premium for specialist, industry-leading technology. One need only look no further than the acquisition of AuthenTec, a fingerprint biometric technology company, by Apple for $356 million in mid-2012 to realize the premium attached to such specialist technology.

In addition to be nominated and winning some of the industry's most respected awards, ValidSoft is increasingly being considered as a thought leader when it comes to transaction security and fraud detection or prevention. In fact, ValidSoft recently participated in the European parliament meeting on e-privacy and trust in the online world. The meeting brought the political, policy, academic, industry and consumer worlds together and focused on the growing lack of consumer trust in IT products and services caused by abuse of personal data and privacy infringement.

ValidSoft's solutions received recognition for its privacy-by-design methodology and for being certified through the European Privacy Seal process, EuroPriSe. ValidSoft remains the only security software company in the world with three European EuroPriSe seals. With regards to revenue generation and consistent with previously quarter updates, I'm delighted to report that FICO/Adeptra has been pressing ahead with the integration of ValidSoft solutions into its client base. FICO/Adeptra has signed agreements with a leading UK bank that we mentioned on the November earnings call for the provision of ValidSoft's SIM Swap technology and VALid-POS technology and has other key UK banks contracts in the pipeline close to reaching a similar decision for both POS and SIM. In addition, there is interest in our call forward/in-bound forensic analysis capabilities, voice biometrics and browser manipulation detection.

With regards to our ongoing relationship with Santander, our SIM Swap continues to run very smoothly in production, achieving its objective and to date, we have processed in excess of 7.5 million transactions, a 50% increase in transactions since last quarter when we reported 5 million transactions.

Regarding our direct relationship with FICO/Adeptra, we are in the process of implementing a broader agreement and relationship to reflect the market interest in our wider product portfolio. While we hope to have a new master agreement in place by mid-2013, we continue to work with FICO/Adeptra and Santander. In parallel, we will continue to focus our efforts on real-time, context-aware solutions focused on the elimination of fraud and false positives. In addition to our commercial relationships to our FICO/Adeptra channel, our direct client relationships continue to move forward. We continue to work with a leading US financial institution to provide out-of-band authentication and transaction verification services including our voice biometrics capability.

The implementation phase will take approximately six to nine months and will be followed by live production with a transaction-based revenue model. The implementation phase is expected to begin immediately after the client receives necessary regulatory approval and is subject to the usual protocols of a large institution. Regarding Utiba and Spindle, both companies continues to progress through individual B2B client opportunities, thereby breaking the stages of their respective engagements closer to the use cases requiring the ValidSoft Security solution. As previously announced, ValidSoft confirmed that its Secure Mobile Architecture for Real-time Transactions, SMART, has been selected to be an integral element in the recently announced comprehensive payment acceptance service solution to be provided by Spindle, Inc. in the US. You will no doubt also recall that on October the 19th last year, Spindle announced, Spindle announced that it had signed an agreement with Utiba to provide low-cost mobile acceptance technology and services to complement Utiba's converging payment solutions and to enrich the consumer [ph] to merchant (00:29:47) experience by integrating the comprehensive Mobile and marketing capabilities within Utiba's Mobile Financial Services offering. The arrangement between Utiba and Spindle give Utiba's customers the ability to conduct open loop transactions in numerous countries.

Open loop transactions are a typical use case where enhanced security is required and where ValidSoft's SMART technology provides a competitive advantage. I'm also delighted to announce that one of our original key clients from Australia, Newcastle Perm Building Society has grown its active user base to almost 90,000 customers and is expected to expand their deployment to 150,000 users in the coming months. Newcastle Permanent Building Society is a leading mutual in Australia, which is similar to a credit union in US.

ValidSoft and NPBS were awarded the Money Magazine Best of Best Award in Australia in 2008 for the NPBS implementation of our core VALid authentication and transaction verification solution. That is for the authentication of customers accessing the NPBS online banking services. This contract is worth in excess of a $1 million over three years to ValidSoft and is based on the traditional license fee/maintenance model.

On the intellectual property front, we continue to make solid progress and confirm that we did indeed file a new patent on August 1 entitled Browser Manipulation Detection, a new, innovative method for detecting malware and browser Trojan attacks. In addition to BMD, we've also filed patents for number one, an innovative method for detecting fraudulent call forwarding from landline to mobile; number two, an innovative method for detection of caller line identification spoofing to protect bank's call centers and computer telepathy integration systems from customer impersonator-based fraud. And number three, an innovative method for detecting browser manipulation based on transaction image analysis, which is independent from our browser manipulation detection technology. I'm very confident ValidSoft is in a very strong position for commercial exploitation, which is expected to contribute to total shareholder value. My confidence comes from independent market research that supports our technology, the industry recognition our solutions have received, and an increasing market acceptance of our technology. I firmly believe ValidSoft is at the forefront of a rapidly expanding market with high growth potential where ValidSoft will play an increasing role in helping to shape this market. I believe that ValidSoft is unique in terms of the capabilities we bring into the marketplace, that the company is at the intersection of security and telecommunications, and finally, that ValidSoft is at an inflection point in the market in terms of the appreciation and need for the solutions we offer. I look forward to an exciting 2013 and beyond. I'd now like to turn the call over to Mark Nije, so that he may discuss our financials. Mark, over to you.

Thanks Pat. I will now discuss the company's financial results for the fourth quarter and full year of 2012. I will begin with revenue results for the fourth quarter of 2012. Revenue for the higher margin Mobile Security solutions business increased with 87% year-over-year to a new record level of nearly $3.6 million and now accounts for 52% of fourth quarter revenue. This compares with only 23% of revenue for the prior year periods. Total revenue for the period was $6.8 million, down 16% year-over-year when compared to total revenue of $8.1 million for the fourth quarter of 2011. The majority of the decrease was the results of the 47.5% drop in the lower margin landline revenue to $3.2 million.

We now turn to the revenue for the full year. Mobile Security revenue was $11.7 million, up 103% when compared to 2011, and accounted for approximately 40% of the company's 2012 revenue. Total revenue was $29.2 million, representing a year-over-year decrease of 9% when compared to 2011.

Turning our attention now to fourth quarter reported cost of service and associated margin, defined as revenue minus cost of service. Margin for the fourth quarter increased 84% year-over-year to $2.7 million, and represented approximately 39% of revenue. This compares to only $1.5 million or 18% of revenue for the fourth quarter of 2011. The margin improvement was driven by an increased percentage of revenue coming from the higher margin Mobile and Securities activities which contributed to a $2.6 million or 38% year-over-year drop in cost of services.

Management expects cost of service to decline further as a percent of revenue as a greater proportion of future revenue is comprised of our Mobile Services and Security Solutions, which have substantially lower cost of service than our traditional landline business.

For full year 2012, margin increased to $8.4 million from $3.5 million for 2011, a year-over-year increase of 139%. Turning to SG&A, reported SG&A for the full year increased $1.3 million or approximately 8%to $17.9 million. The increase was mainly due to the [ph] 13% (00:36:21) year-over-year increase in compensation cost following increased numbers of full-time employees, primarily in European-based worldwide support M&O and technical staff, as well as higher investor relations and sales and marketing related staffing and expense.

Adjusted EBITDA for 2012 was a loss of $9.5 million, which compares to an adjusted EBITDA loss of $13.1 million for the prior year. Net loss for the year was $23.1 million versus $25.3 million for 2011. The year-over-year improvement in net loss was driven by increased revenue from the higher margin Mobile and Security business combined with lower non-cash position expenses.

With that, I would like to turn the call back to Steven. Steven?

Thank you, Mark. Management has made a strategic effort to improve the company's financial standing by growing the higher margin Mobile and Security solutions business to a record level in the fourth quarter. It is due to our diligent efforts that this strategic part of the company has grown to more than 50% of fourth quarter revenues. We are excited by the record fourth quarter Mobile and Security revenue we reported today, and even more excited by the expected positive impact of the new opportunities that we were discussing today, including our multi-year Mobile Services deployment with an operator in a major Latin American market. Through this deployment, we expect to add at least 1.5 million subscribers to our proprietary Mobile software DNA platform by the end of this year. Our increased focus on leveraging our proprietary platform to work directly with Mobile network operators to run their complete back and front office operations.

Our foothold in the United States telecommunications market was the Telnicity acquisition. ValidSoft's repeated recognition of its product offerings, which include the prestigious Banking Security Technology Award for the SIM Swapping Fraud Solution. ValidSoft implemented at Santander UK, [ph] win (00:39:01) a Jury Vote of the Foreign Transaction Service Innovation Awards for their smart telecommunications-based technology, and a very successful showing at the prestigious National Institute of Standards and Technology for their Voice Biometric applications. These awards are independent validation of ValidSoft's leadership in this fast growing mobile transaction services industry. We are confident that the recognition ValidSoft's technology has received, as much as we appreciate it, will translate into increased market acceptance, resulting in greater business momentum.

Management is extremely confident that the direction the company is heading. We believe that being on the brink of achieving our first month of positive operational cash flow is a strong indication that our growth strategy is yielding the desired results. We believe the outlook is strong and Elephant Talk is well-positioned for future profitable growth.

This concludes management update portion of the call. I would now like to open up the floor for any questions that you may have. Thank you.

Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, at this time we will begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of [ph] John Blum (00:41:01). Please go ahead.

Good afternoon guys and congratulations once again for significant milestones, certainly making a lot of in-roads in the MVNO market as well as the credit card security market. I am curious about retail transactions and I know – I'm sure you're somewhat limited about what you can say -- but there was a lot of talk at least for a while about the volume of retail, clearing retail transactions and are we -- how close are we to any of that kind of volume with the ValidSoft proposition?

Pat, I suppose this is best answered by you.

Yeah, thanks Steven, [ph] John (00:41:54) thanks for the question. I guess the -- if you're talking about what breaks down into card present transaction more – that's more in the merchant acquirer side of the business, and that's what we're starting to see through, for example, our relationship with the likes of Spindle and more recently there [ph] lies our (00:42:16) partnership with Utiba. So we will start to see, as they bring their solutions to marketplace and particularly as we look at some of the areas in which the Spindle technology gets deployed and their specific use cases, then that's applications that we would expect to participate with Spindle in that regard.

Alongside that, there's the other side of the coin on the major participants in the marketplace. So if we step away from what's happening on the new technology or on the merchant's desk and looked more with the bank's relationship with the industry today, we see that there is the issuance side, which is the VALid-POS technology solution that we bring to bear, which looks at trying to prevent our fraud and false positives at the ATM and point-of-sale. The point-of-sale piece is where the merchant acquirer comes in, and again, that's a new focus for us, particularly because the ability to confirm or deny that transaction will always come back to the issuing bank today. So our focus is on working through the issuing side to ensure that those false positives can be eliminated as with respect to either a point-of-sale transaction or an ATM transaction. As we move further into the future, we're likely to speak quite an opportunity in that specific regard because the mobile-present transactions will provide us with much greater flexibility on where the solutions for VALid-POS which can help reduce things like charge backs and fraud at the point-of-sale can be eliminated, but that's more for the future looking forward. Today it's more the issuance side that we look to [ph] perfect (00:43:56) solutions.

Okay. Well. Thanks. [indiscernible] (00:43:59).

And our next question comes from the line of [ph] Thomas Raymond from Lauren Capital (00:44:12). Please go ahead. Mr. [ph] Raymond from Lauren Capital (00:44:30) your line is open.

Hi, yes, and I – just a follow up question, I guess for Pat, on the Utiba/Spindle, can you provide any more insight into their relationship. And more importantly, the role ValidSoft will be playing and helping with this partnership?

Yeah. Absolutely, thanks for the question. I'm not sure is your surname [ph] Raymond (00:44:58) or your first name?

Surname. It's [ph] Thomas Raymond (00:45:01).

Yeah. Hi, [ph] Thomas (00:45:02). Okay. Thanks for the question. Okay. So, with Spindle and Utiba, a couple of things have happened. One is you'll have read the press release back on the 19th of October, which announced the partnership between Spindle and Utiba and they're collaborating to bring our specialist applications and services into the whole micro merchant and merchant space, but also through the Utiba link, it offers and opens up a whole new area of that marketplace by what they call open loop transactions.

Open loop means that you move from within a closed loop environment, as we know today, within a particular mobile network operator, or particular service, to be able to take cash or other goods that have been received electronically and then be able to transact those out to the marketplace through the likes of a relationship for example, MasterCard or Visa. Once that happens, there is an increased need for security because you're moving cash from within a system to open up that opportunity for the cash to be used outside of the system and those are the use cases that we're focusing on, particularly with respect to both Spindle and Utiba. Both companies are already along the line with their own respective clients. We're in the B2B relationship with them. As they move forward into that space and bring those services into their test environment, subsequently to live, and as the risk profile of certain use cases emerge, then clearly we would expect to be [ph] part and parcel (00:46:35) of that Security service offering for those types of moves in the marketplace.

Great. Thank you.

Thanks, [ph] Thomas (00:46:47).

And our next question comes from the line of [ph] George Taft-Karku (00:46:50), private investor Please go ahead.

Yes. Thank you. Well pronounced, sir. Thank you. Steve and Pat, congratulations. I'm encouraged by the growth in recurring revenue in Q4 in Mobile and Security. I have three very brief questions. I have more, but I'll just keep it to three. Much has been discussed with the relationship on, with FICO and Adeptra. To what extent does that relationship FICO and Adeptra have any relationship whatsoever, good, bad, or indifferent, or if at all, with Visa Europe? That's the question. [ph]

George (00:47:38), do you want me to answer that now or do you want to move to the next question?

That's the first. The second question is, we're in April, so I'm hoping you guys give us some kind of guidance for Q1? Right. And the third question, given the significant gains in visibility that the company has achieved with its IP in both the ValidSoft and Elephant Talk side, winning a major UK bank, as you can tell, I have an English, accent although I live in New York now, if you've secured one of the three biggest banks, that means it's one of Lloyds, Barclays, or Royal Bank of Scotland. The way UK banks work, if you're winning situations like that, I can't believe the Company has not been approached at kind valuations to be acquired by some bigger fish out there. So, three questions, how does the FICO/Adeptra relationship with Visa, Q1 guidance if at all. And given the available valuable IP, have you guys been approached about being acquired.

Okay, thanks [ph] George (00:48:51). In terms of the FICO/Adeptra and impact negative/positive on Visa Europe, I would say that there is definitely an impact, but overall we view it as positive. If we look backwards, you'll recall that our relationship with Visa Europe envisaged Visa Europe as a reseller of our VALid-POS services to their client base, and you'd be aware that Visa Europe has relationships with over 4,000 situations in Europe alone. So, in fact, we have embarked on detailed discussions with a leading U.K. High Street Bank who had expressed a keen interest in near real-time and real-time POS for the prevention of fraud and false positives.

As it transpires, that bank is also a key client of both FICO and Adeptra, and in fact recently signed agreements with FICO/Adeptra in December for the provision of our VALid-POS and VALid-SIM solutions. Now, that's extremely important, because it doesn't in any way negatively affect our capability or ability to provide our solutions to Visa Europe. And Visa Europe is a very conservative organization that would likely ensure that any of our white label services brought to market would have already achieved commercial acceptance in the marketplace. So, it was a bit of a chicken and egg with Visa Europe and we've broken that by virtue of our relationship with Adeptra/FICO. And, in fact, the relationship there ensures commercial acceptance and in no way jeopardizes our future potential with Visa Europe. In fact, if anything it helps kick-start that whole relationship.

Okay. So, okay, I take that as a positive. Thank you.

Good. Yeah.

Q1 guidance, is it too early to give that?

Well, maybe -- this is Steven. Maybe it's proper for me to address that. Yes, it's kind of early because, as you can imagine, we have not yet closed our books. And that's also the reason why we are not sure whether possibly March has already achieved the point of operational cash flow positive. As we see the pipeline of recurring revenues, we feel comfortable that April will indeed be such. On the long run, it's clear – and we have given that guidance every time over and over that Mobile and Security revenues will enjoy further growth and ultimately will be by far the largest part of the revenue base of the company with the associated higher margins. And altogether, we believe that the growth has continued in Q1 and will strongly continue in the rest of the quarters this year, especially, of course, also when the Latin American contract will be deployed with recurring revenues as of Q3. Okay.

Okay.

Then with respect to IP visibility, it's not only IP, it's, of course, also the growing presence in the market both towards the financial services industry as well as the mobile operators. I don't think we have ever been officially approached and there are always many discussions, but I don't think that we can really say that any serious approach has been made. And I'm also not sure if the timing for that is right. I think it would make a lot of sense for the company to further deploy its strengths in the IP, both of the ValidSoft as well as on the Elephant Talk platform side, and see that we can indeed grow our revenue base over the next quarters, over the next years, before we ever will come to that point.

I mean I would agree with that sentiment completely. I mean, I'm not suggesting for one moment that the company should consider any such things, but I can't help but observe, given the lead you you have in the authentications side on the back office side for the telco MVNO space. It's difficult to imagine you're not on someone's radar. I mean, my hope and desire, as a long term shareholder, is that we monetize our IP over the -- as you say, over the coming quarters and years, to realize a good return on the investment. So, okay. Than you, guys.

Yes, and what I can add is that at least within the industries, we are approached more and more full cooperation. We are more and more taken as the very serious partner, and we also hope in the near future to be able to announce some of those partnerships that can help the company to leverage usually the much larger presence of these incumbent companies and combine it with the agile technology at Elephant Talk has.

Very good. OEM strategy is very good in this industry. Okay. Thank you. Thank you for your time.

Thanks, [ph] George (00:53:28).

You're welcome.

Thank you. Bye bye.

Thank you.

Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Edward Woo Ascendiant Capital. Please go ahead.

Yeah. Thank you. I had a question in terms of the ramp up in the Latin American contract that you just won. Is the revenue profile going to be very similar to the one in Spain, in terms of potential and revenue ramp?

Yeah. I think it's a very good question indeed. As indicated, we are currently installing the platform. We expect the first calls to be made this quarter and we expect migrations to get started as of Q3 this year. And altogether, we believe this will culminate in managing at least 1.5 million subscribers by the end of this year on our proprietary platform. Whether it will show exactly the same metrics as the Spanish model is not quite sure yet. The ARPUs and the margins and the revenue base in this Latin American market are definitely different than the ones in Spain. So ultimately we believe that it may not have exactly the same metrics on a per-customer base, but it should definitely have the same metrics from an absolute revenue point of view. And ultimately I believe that the platform in Latin America will be our biggest revenue generator for quarters to come after Q4 this year.

Great. And you mentioned that you're allocating some of the resources away from Europe and into other areas including the US and other regions. Should we expect that more deals will be outside of Europe? And particularly, what regions are you most excited about?

Well, we certainly, as a management, work very hard to achieve that. And indeed we have been focusing much more on areas outside Europe because we believe that some of the economic problems are just making decision-making in Europe, a bit more difficult at this very moment. Currently, we are really focused on the Latin American contract and the platform in Saudi Arabia. We believe that if we do those platforms right over the next three, four, five quarters that we have built a perfect additional reference. Next to the reference, of course, we have been building up with Vodafone in Spain. And we believe that if the three use cases of the Latin American case, the Spanish case, as well as the Saudi Arabia case, is really showing what we as management think we can achieve there, I think the company is extremely well positioned to take on any other challenge in the Mobile Services industry and we will then have to be perfect references of such different but very much aligned business models where we can work together with mobile operators to help them to better achieve their results. And ultimately, that's a key element in our B2B outsourcing model. We have to make sure that our customers are better positioned to service their customers so that they ultimately can grow together with us and through our platform.

Okay. Thank you and good luck.

More than welcome.

Thanks, Ed.

And your next question comes from the line of Luis Marquez from Laidlaw. Please go ahead.

How are you gentlemen?

Good.

Hi Luis.

Can you speak about what the benefits for the shareholders in ValidSoft in regards to a broader agreement with FICO and Adeptra?

Can you speak about what the benefits for the shareholders in ValidSoft in regards to a broader agreement with FICO and the Dev Trust.

Yeah. Luis. Very happy to answer, I guess it probably falls into two pieces, the first really is that the FICO, if we look at that for long, we see that they had relationships with over 50 key companies around the world, but when you now look at the entire FICO/Adeptra portfolio of companies, we're talking about an addressable market place of over 5,000 companies including financial institutions. And I guess how we see it is that the need for our solutions is generic right across the world, and we're very uniquely positioned to be able to address that need.

On one side, we've got FICO/Adeptra with their global reach, and on the other side, we've got our relationships through Elephant Talk Communications and their reach into the global mobile data network, and the whole objective here is to try to offer a services that are – that have extremely high barriers to entry. So, trying to ring fence our business opportunities by underpinning it with unique solutions, intellectual property. So, for example our patents or trademarks copyright, and of course, privacy sales. So, that's at one end of the scale, it's really about the extent of which these two entities have to come together to provide us with the addressable market.

On the other side if we look at the opportunity within say FICO itself, one of the big issues in the marketplace today is that we have a very high false positive rate. In fact, we put the false positive rate around the world at about 90%, that's the industry – that's the best we can do to achieve. Meaning that if [indiscernible] (00:58:49) got across the transaction, he gets it wrong nine times out of 10, the whole objective with our technology is to integrate our ValidSoft capability directly into for example the FICO part of the risk engine. When you do that, you're able to address this whole issue, there's weaknesses at source so that there's no impact whatsoever on the customer.. That's a massive step forward from where the industry is today. It takes a huge amount of cost out, it takes fraud out, it takes all administration expenses out, and it gives a very significant competitive advantage to those institutions that deploy that capability.

What we can provide to FICO is that layer of contact awareness real time that brings into it the use of the phone as a proxy for the customer alongside the capability that they have from the risk engine, combine those together in real time to be able to offer a solution that eliminates fraud or at least goes very close to eliminate fraud, [indiscernible] (00:59:47) and at the point of sale at the ATM. And that's our objective is to really look at how we can maximize that capability to our relations with FICO and give ourselves and FICO a massive competitive advantage over other means of trying to achieve something similar in the marketplace.

Thank you very much.

Thanks.

Our next question comes from the line of [ph] Carl Stephens, a private investor (01:00:13). Go ahead.

Thank you very much. Hello, Steven.

Hi, [ph] Carl (01:00:15). [indiscernible]

(01:00:22) ETAK has roughly 115 million shares outstanding plus X number of case less warrants that are out there that could drive that number significantly higher. Although, earlier you mentioned that you are going to do a capital raise which will also add to that dilution. How is the company going to generate $150 million to $200 million of high margin business to support that float.

Very good question. We believe that once we will have the operations in Europe, Latin America, and in Saudi Arabia on full speed that we will indeed not reach levels of $200 million in revenues a year, but we will have the perfect reference to get it there. And as also stated earlier, we believe that all global operators have kind of the same problems with their legacy systems, and as Pat pointed out, most of the financial services industry has problems with false positives with fraud with service and customer levels.

We believe that our technologies, once they are really shown to have contributed to the results of our customers that we will become de-facto standards within the industries, and that should ultimately propel the company indeed in the league of having revenues like the ones you just mentioned that will not happen overnight, that will take quite some time, quite some effort, and however once a company is cash flow positive, we will have the time to grow into that and we will also have the funds that we can invest in for to growing our platform, as well as our security transaction business.

Okay. Thank you, Steven.

Welcome [indiscernible] (01:02:06).

And our next question comes from the line of [ph] John Weatherford a private investor (01:02:11). Please go ahead. [ph] Mr. Weatherford (01:02:22), your line is open. And our next question comes from the line of [ph] Rob Skate a private investor (01:02:39). Please go ahead.

Hi guys. Thanks for the update and also thank you for the continued progress and transparency. I've got one question that I'd like to clarify something that has been said both on the conference calls and then maybe in some other areas. The new contract in the US we learned that would yield you know somewhere around about $1 million in revenues this year, but then we also heard in another call at one point that there might be several $0.5 million to $1.5 million opportunities for revenues there. Can you help clarify that for us? [ph]

Rob (01:03:27), I'm not sure with that question more for me in terms of the ValidSoft revenue earnings potential?

Yes. It was. That something the US faced contract that was awarded, but it's still pending regulatory approval from the...

Yeah.

...company and it was the conference call, the investor conference calls that were not the quarterly updates where we kind of heard a different version of it.

Okay. So just to clarify if we look at the general positioning of our products in the marketplace, and we will have clients that come to us through our channel partners, so I'm not talking about direct client relationships for the moment, but if we look at those different types of profiles that those institutions have smaller – at the smaller end of that and for each product that we would sell it would generate roughly around about $0.5 million of revenue per year per product and that's per location. So a single product deployed in the UK for example we generate in a smallish type banks would generate $0.5 million a year. And medium sized banks would be $1 million per year per product per location and a big bank would be $1.5 million per product per location. That's roughly how we broke it down. That's about a $0.5 million to $1.05 million comes in. Does that clear up that piece of it?

Well, no I understand that piece but when the US institution was mentioned we talked about say a $1 million in revenues, but then in the investor call it sounded like there might be a dozen or so opportunities to generate $1 million or so in revenue.

So in the US the contract that we've been awarded with the financial institution has two pieces to it. The first is an implementation component, we estimate that that would generate revenues of between you know a $0.25 million to $0.50 million depending upon which resources are part of our site. Beyond that that we move into a transaction based model and that model is for our authentication platform. So a very similar to the for example the announcement made and on this particular call regarding [indiscernible] (01:05:45) in Australia where we said that was $1 million over three years, they would be a smaller institution by far apart compared what we have here in the US , and we estimate that this was in the US roughly about $1 million per year [indiscernible] (01:05:56)?

Okay. All right. And then [indiscernible] (01:06:09) is still on track to be about a third of their transactions based on their business model which I guess was 3 billion to 4 billion transactions a year?

Yeah so off their portfolio of transactions that they currently run through their systems some of those are for bill pays, some of those for top-ups, and we estimated that out of the 12 million to 15 billion transactions that they did roughly about 30% of those were [indiscernible] (01:06:36) transactions at brisk i.e. there is the capability for taking cash out of the system or cash into the system and therefore increase [indiscernible] (01:06:45) authentication as required. You see that we are well along the line with our first major client which would open up several opportunities used cases for the deployment of our technology. And that's certainly the area that we're focusing on at present.

And as they move forward into and enhancing the relationship [indiscernible] (01:07:04) for example, MasterCard will have more transactions that go from closed loop to the open loop in France, and again that's where the used case will require the ValidSoft technology.

I will say that our smart technology and architecture, the reason that we won the recent award for this is that it's a very unique blend of technology that's being custom designed for the used cases that exist in the whole mobile payments industry. And I'm unaware of anything else on the marketplace that has equipment capability share functionality.

And I couldn't quite get from that call when we start to see revenues from Utiba?

Well, I think the problem that we have is that we're on the B2B2B. So there they have their relationship with their customer which they want to be awarded and are working on that. And we're still behind that. So we're ready to go. We're not in the critical path for anything that's required on the Utiba site or at Natural Cardinal Spindel site. We're simply waiting for the capability to start using our technology within our framework. And of course, their plans are at the mercy of how quickly their own clients can use, but we're good to go as soon as they are.

Okay. Well, thank you very much.

Thanks, Rob. [Operator Instructions]

And our next question comes from the line of [indiscernible] (01:08:36) a private investor. Please go ahead, sir.

Yes. Thank you very much. Question, Steven, I believe you mentioned that in four weeks to six weeks if I heard you correctly, you believe you will be able to announce some contract, I'm not sure which one it is, but you'll be able to make public disclosure, who the client is and some details about that. Am I correct on that? And could you elaborate a little bit more?

Yes. As I indicated, we believe that the final contract for the Latin American platform will be executed within the next four to eight weeks. Of course, also with a view on the fact that we expect to make the first call on the platform before the end of this quarter. And at that stage, we will definitely file an 8-K. There might be some provisions made in the filing with respect to confidentiality as requested by our customer, but at that stage if we do indeed enter into a material contract, we will definitely disclose.

And you think that'll be four to six weeks from today.

Well within the four to eight weeks we expect to execute a final agreement. And then within days the filing will be made.

Okay. Thank you very much.

Welcome.

And our next question comes from the line of Brian McCarren from Ameriprise. Please go ahead.

Hi. Yes. Thank you. Three quick questions. First one is for Pat, the unemployment verification system that was talked about in the UK a number of quarters back, I think you might have partnering with HP on that, any kind of update?

Yes Brian. Thanks for that. Well we've successfully completed that as we announced previously, we're currently waiting for a decision for the specific government of a state. They were working on a strategic platform that needed to be implemented and deployed before our solution could be brought to market place. And suffice to say we have to stay alive for and we've been actually collaborating with more than one European government who have all [indiscernible] (01:10:44) problems at present and which we can offer solution for so that's all ongoing at present. And as I've said we're just waiting for a decision by the specific government that was involved to the original files to decide to move ahead.

Great. And then the other two questions, Steven, you had mentioned a while back, Turkey as a market, I think it's the largest cell phone market in the world. Any progress or updates on getting a foothold in Turkey?

Yes. With respect to Turkey, there is basically good and bad news. The bad news is still as also indicated earlier that due to a double taxation, the market in Turkey is not necessarily very attractive for reseller third-party channels or virtual operators as the taxation takes place both at the operator level as well as at the reseller level. So, basically this next challenge which is kind of similar like for example in Brazil is still making it much more difficult for virtual operators to economically viably address the market.

On the other hand we are in discussions, serious discussions with an operator in Turkey itself. At this stage there is no reason to assume that we will succeed in getting any contract. But there is clearly traction in the Turkish market and of course there is still hope that at some stage this double taxation problem will be solved, and we believe that once that is the case that Turkey is really a very attractive market to given to its size given to its population and of course also given to its accelerating economic development.

Got you. And then the last piece, I know Vodafone Spain, maybe they helped with the Latin American contract, I believe it was about a year ago, they were going to give a joint presentation with you and sort of the buzz was that you guys had helped reduce operating expenses, I think it was north of 70% which is a huge number. Is there any point where that is going to be published or we can get some kind of case study or have I missed it?

Well. Indeed, the CEO of Vodafone Enabler who is our partner for the Spanish market has indeed made that speech in São Paulo last year, very powerful, very positive and of course has helped us to get to better profile with all the mobile operators that were around at that conference. So far Vodafone has prefer to do this between carriers at these type of conferences and I think as we had indicated before, Vodafone has been very helpful in getting us the Latin American contract. So from that perspective, Vodafone is really a very good partner for us and I think we are currently discussing whether we can create a whitepaper that reflects the way we have supported Vodafone in Spain and we believe that once that whitepaper would be endorsed by Vodafone that it could be a very strong proposition that we can bring out to the marketplace and of course a perfect reference on how a large operator like Vodafone is enjoying operational advantages through our platform.

Thank you.

More than welcome.

Thanks Brian.

And our next question comes from the line of [ph] John Weatherford (1:14:09), a private investor. Please go ahead. And Mr. [ph] Weatherford (1:14:24) your line is open. And our next question comes from the line of Brett Cohen with JGB Capital. Please go ahead.

Hey guys, how are you?

Hi Brett. How are you?

Hi Brett.

So I had a question on the subscribers. So my understanding from the call here is that you're hopeful to be at 1.5 million subs in Spain by the end of the year and maybe now, you're at sort of I guess 1.2 million. Then, you had mentioned with the Latin American customer, you're hopeful to be at 1.5 million subs by the end of the year. And what I just wasn't clear on, are those two, is that the same 1.5 million – in other words are we talking about 3 million altogether or 1.5 million altogether, if things...

Brett, a very good question. I know these are definitely two different source of customers. One is the customer base in Spain and the other one is the customer base in Latin America. So altogether from that perspective, it adds up to [ph] 83 million (1:15:40).

I see, okay. That's, that's my question.

All right.

Thank you very much.

Thanks.

Thanks Brett. [Operator Instructions]

And our next question comes from the line of [ph] John Weatherford (1:16:06), private investor. Please go ahead.

What is the history of the relationship with the deal in Australia and what ValidSoft products do they use?

Yeah. Hi, [ph] John (1:16:23). We've got a longstanding, very positive relationship with Newcastle Permanent Building Society, in fact we – our relationship goes back now about six years. They're a leading mutual society, which is similar to a credit union in the US and in fact, in fact in 2008, NPBS were awarded – what was called The Money magazine Best of the Best award in Australia for their implementation of our core valid authentication and transaction verification solution. What they use that for is for securing authentication and transaction verification for their customers as they come up with their online banking services.

We reported that – on this call that they were close now to 90,000 users and are looking to increase it out to 150,000 users in the coming months, but a very strong implementation from ValidSoft and in fact one which has had a remarkable record of performance. In fact over the six years, I believe that we have only had three support calls, two of which were not our problem. One was a memory leak which was caused by another application and the second was caused by incorrect entered telephone number for contacted customers. So all in all, a tremendous record of achievement [indiscernible] (1:17:50) NPBS.

Okay. Thank you.

Thanks, [ph] John (1:17:57).

And our next question comes from the line of [ph] Matthew Elmina with MetLife Securities (1:18:05). Please go ahead.

Yeah. Hi guys. A question regarding the revenue from mobile and security, it looks to me like you are at a run rate of about $23 million to $25 million if you had the forecasted growth and sequential growth of the revenue for 2013 using 2012, am I correct on it? [indiscernible]

(1:18:33)

Your sequential growth was 24% in the last quarter and 103% over last year. So.

Yes. If we would have the same growth rate this year, we would indeed get to those kind of levels.

Right. And so the question is do you anticipate the same growth rate or greater [growth rate?

We have not given that guidance and I'm not sure we are prepared to do so at this moment. It's clear that we think that mobile and security revenues will grow and will keep on growing for the next couple of quarters and actually maybe even accelerate some growth, especially if the Latin American contract gets online, but I don't think we could give any guidance that our revenues would again double for 2013. Of course management hopes that it will happen and maybe even [indiscernible] (1:19:18), but that will still depend on quite a few uncertainties that need to be addressed over the next couple of months.

Okay. And just from the standpoint of annual revenue, based upon your current capacity, what – if you were to be running at maximum capacity, what – do you have an idea of what the revenue would be at maximum capacity given what you've – what your CapEx is at this point?

Well, very good question. That would require some more analysis because of course a lot of our contracts have sliding skills. So let's imagine if we would grow to 5 million customers, it would be a sizable difference, whether this would be realized and one on the same platform and for one on the same customer or it would be spread out over a couple of customers. The [indiscernible] (1:20:09) side of the business where also sliding skills are part of the contractual arrangements. So basically it's difficult to give you a direct answer, but on the other hand, if our operations in Spain and Latin America, in the Middle and in the Western Europe and also the [indiscernible] (1:20:29) services would work at full capacity, the revenue capacity of the company would clearly be hundreds and hundreds of millions of dollars.

But I don't think that today we are any near close to that number and it will require [indiscernible] (1:20:44) work to get to that level. But indeed if it would just focus on those markets, we could reach ultimately those levels of revenues. On the other hand, it's probably more realistic to assume that in the meantime, we will install a few additional platforms usually costing between $1 million and $3 million each. So you would require more CapEx to reach those level of sales. And I also think that it's probably not realistic to assume that you will ever run at 100% capacity because ultimately, we wouldn't be able to keep up the service level agreements that we have agreed with our customers because there was always a lot of room in our capacity to accommodate any growth, even unforeseen growth on the side of our customers.

Right. And in terms of – you haven't given forward guidance, but in terms of what – you are obviously going to be doing a capital raise. What did – do you have an idea of what your CapEx or your capital needs would be for this upcoming year?

We have estimated that also in line with the CapEx requirements over the last couple of years that usually it will be in the range of $5 million to $10 million a year.

Okay. Okay. Thank you very much. I appreciate the answers.

More than welcome.

Thanks, [ph] Matthew (1:21:57).

And our next question comes from the line of [ph Rob Skate (1:22:04), a private investor. Please go ahead.

Hi, guys. Steven, just a follow-up question on the Turkey question. There's been a couple of MVNE, MVNO opportunities announced in prior years, like KPN Belgium and Cleartech Brazil. Do those fall in similar categories where it's taxation or other issues, but have closed those doors or is it still a work in progress?

No I think we are encountering a different set of market circumstances than, for example, in Belgium or in Brazil. In Brazil, it's, as I said before, there is still a double taxation and we believe that the government is now realizing that without an abolishment of that double taxation, it will be very difficult to entice virtual operators to invest in marketing and sales and distribution in the Brazilian market. Even though we don't see any, very short-term solution, I can only say that there is strong interest still for quite a few parties for the Brazilian market as we believe that parties want to be prepared once that double taxation will be gone.

In Belgium, it's different, in Belgium, Netherlands and Germany. This is Europe. There is huge competition amongst mobile operators. In quite a few of the markets, prices have halved over the last 12 months. A lot of operators are laying off staff, are confronted with losses and I believe that the whole market in Europe will need to find a new equilibrium and of course these circumstances create a lot of uncertainty for virtual operators as we were focused on servicing bundled services by combining our platform with airtime from mobile operators to accommodate virtual operators. That market has shown to be much more tougher than we expected, mostly also due to the economic circumstances and as explained before, the harsh economic circumstances that are currently being faced by virtually all of the mobile operators in Western and Southern Europe.

Okay, but the Cleartech Brazil one, wasn't that rollout in 10 countries, the MEIKO partnership.

No. The Cleartech Brazil was a partnership to help us getting to market in the Brazilian market. They have a very good channel as they are well positioned amongst the Brazilian operators. MEIKO was a completely different setup. MEIKO is a virtual operator. They entered into an LOI with us to look for [indiscernible] (1:24:44) platforms. Unfortunately it has shown that MEIKO had a different reading of our arrangement than we had, so we could not finish the MoU into a formal contract and thereby basically we have given up efforts to try to finalize that contract. So from that perspective, the MEIKO – the potential MEIKO partnership is that. However, all possibilities with, for example, Cleartech in Brazil are absolutely [indiscernible] (1:25:13) on the contrary and we believe that as I said before once the double taxation will be solved that the Brazilian market will be very well-suited to accommodate a very substantial part of virtual operators gaining the normal market shares of 10% to 20% they see in many other markets.

Is the reseller market in the US plagued with any major problems or do you see that as a good opportunity here?

No. I think actually the US market has shown quite a revival over the last couple of years. We have seen that even though the market is differently organized than in most other countries, as it's still mostly a reseller market at the United States, whereby virtual operators are acting as resellers of bundles that are pre-bundled by mobile operators, but we see development moving into the space of unbundled services. And to offer unbundled services, so basically airtime, data and texting separately, package the price by a virtual operator, you would need a platform like ours that can ultimately manage that for a virtual operator. Today's development in the US market are less developed in that domain. So it's still more a reseller market and we want to believe – we believe that by addressing those market needs with better solutions, we can gain some market share and ultimately offer the roadmap to at some stage have our own platform in the US market so that virtual operators that really have the ambition to grow more from the current reseller model into really the unbundled model can be accommodated and we are really focusing to accommodate that niche of the marketplace, those virtual operators that feel that ultimately they will have to move up to these unbundled services and that would then be a unique selling point for us today to contract these partners even though it's still mostly the reselling mode.

Okay. Thank you very much.

You are more than welcome.

Thanks, [ph] Rob (1:27:11). Mr. van der Velden, there are no further questions at this time.

All right. Well then on behalf of everyone at Elephant Talk Communications and ValidSoft, I would like to thank you all for joining us on today's call and thanks again to all of you for your long-term patience and commitment to the company. As stated earlier, we look forward to providing additional updates on future milestones as they are realized. Thank you all and have a great day.

Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the call for today. You may now disconnect.