Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Steve Gersten — Investor Relations Contact, Pareteum Corp.
Robert Harold Turner — Founder, Executive Chairman & Principal Executive Officer, Pareteum Corp.
Vic Bozzo — Chief Executive Officer, Pareteum Corp.
Gary G. Brandt — Chief Restructuring Officer, Pareteum Corp.
Lisa R. Thompson — Analyst, Zacks Investment Research, Inc.
Bryan Kobel — Managing Director-Capital Markets, Laidlaw & Company
Brian McCarren — Financial Advisor & Managing Director, Ameriprise Financial Services, Inc.
Gregory Randall — Senior Vice President, U.S. Brokerage, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, everyone, and welcome to the Pareteum Corporation Third Quarter ended September 30, 2016 Quarterly Conference Call Update. Today's call is being recorded.

For opening remarks and introductions, I'll turn the conference over to Mr. Steve Gersten, Director of Shareholder Relations. Please, go ahead sir.

Thank you, Debbie, and good morning to everyone. Thank you for joining us today for Pareteum Corporation's third quarter ended September 30, 2016 analyst conference call. With us today are Hal Turner, Executive Chairman; Vic Bozzo, Chief Executive Officer; and Gary Brandt, Chief Restructuring Officer and other members of the Pareteum team.

Just for the evening November 14, 2016, Pareteum released financial results and filed its Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2016. If you have not received Pareteum's earnings release, please visit Pareteum's investor page at www.pareteum.com. Following management's discussion, there will be a Q&A session open to all.

During the course of this conference call, the company will be making forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934. The company cautions you that any statement that is not a statement of historical fact is a forward-looking statement. This includes any projections of earnings, revenues, cash or other statements relating to the company's future financial results.

Any statements about plans, strategies or objectives or management for future operations, any statements concerning proposed new products, any statements regarding anticipated new relationships or agreements, any statements regarding expectations for the success of the company's products in the U.S. and international markets, any statements regarding future economic conditions or performance, statements of belief and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. These statements are based on expectations and assumptions as of the date of this conference call and are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements.

Some of these risks are described in the section of yesterday's press release titled Forward-Looking Statements and in the public periodic reports the company files with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Investors or potential investors should read these risks. Pareteum assumes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect future events or actual outcomes and does not intend to do so.

With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Mr. Hal Turner, Executive Chairman of the company.

Thank you, Steve, and good morning, everyone. I can't tell you how pleased I am that this is the first call that we've had under our name Pareteum Corporation and in many ways, this is the bounding of our company and you'll hear more about that. And we appreciate you being with us today for our Q3 earnings call.

I'm joined today for the very first time by Vic Bozzo. He's our newly appointed Chief Executive Officer and in just a few minutes, you're going to hear a few remarks from Vic and hopefully you will hear why we are so encouraged about what is before us in 2017. Also Gary Brandt, our Chief Restructuring Officer, is joining today and you're going to hear some remarks from Gary concerning the vivid transformation of this company through the restructuring process. And both Vic and Gary will join me for the Q&A session and remarks.

We do have a few others on our team on standby in the event that there are more detailed questions that Gary or Vic or I need some help on.

So, I'd like to just review a few things now about our progress that we've made since the last call and actually through the restructuring process, most importantly, Pareteum Corporation was born. We trade under the symbol TEUM and we pronounce it internally as team. And the word Pareteum derives from the Pareto Principle, which is referring to the 80/20 rule where the greatest results come from the fewest items addressed.

We also realized that you can't accomplish very much in life or in a company unless you have the right team. And it's a team that's comprised of those who understand and adopt an entrepreneurial mindset and realize that we're all in sales and that we are all in completely committed to the mission of the business. Because at the end of the day, it's our revenue, it's our growth and it's the results that matter. And you're going to hear more on that momentarily.

We have a very strong focus internally and externally on the things that matter and will produce the greatest shareholder return. Therefore and really considering that November 1 of 2016 is the true founding date of our company, Pareteum, and then really, it's a startup from that day forward, but it's a very valuable startup, because not many people can start up with more than 1 million subscribers and a base of revenue that is poised to grow in 2017.

November the 1st was also a milestone date for us, because it's at that time that in addition to the founding that we named our first CEO, Vic Bozzo. And Vic and I've known each other for quite a while. He brings 20-plus years of experience in the communications arena and has been very successful experience, sales and operations. I can simply say to you that there were many great executives that I and the board could have chosen from in making the CEO selection.

Vic distinguished himself in almost every way. I won't regale you and go through the details of his long list of accomplishments and achievements, but I'll simply say, for me, Vic always does what he says he will do and he does it when he says he will do it. And from a commitment standpoint, I've never known Vic to be anything other than 100% all-in all the time. So, we hired Vic to partner with me on the growth of the business and we think it's going to be dramatic growth over time. So, we'll going to let our results speak for ourselves and then we'll see how it goes. And hopefully well beyond our current preliminary guidance, you'll see that there's a significant growth opportunity in our business.

Our report card to-date beyond the fact that at we're raising funds and that we're building our sales pipeline and then we've got real deals, the most important thing of our report card is that we reached positive EBITDA for at the end of Q3, September 30 and for all of Q4, we expect to be pro forma EBITDA positive. I think you all know that we sold ValidSoft for $3 million cash and note. And in doing that, we eliminated negative EBITDA of over $2 million just from ValidSoft annualized basis.

We decreased the full-time employee equivalents in this business from around – just under 300, I think the number was about 278 or so to 75 people and we eliminated $10 million of annualized cost. And that's since Q4 of 2015. We took hard steps in many cases to close business units that were no longer core to the operations, we reduced suppliers, we decreased vendors and we decreased our service cost.

And if you ever wanted a challenge, think about trying to raise money in the circumstances like that, yet we raised over $6 million. $3.5 million from a pipe in March and $2.5 million from the preferred share offering in the last 60 days, just in equity capital.

Additionally, we borrowed $1.2 million and paid back $2 million to our senior secured lender. We've maintained our New York Stock Exchange listing compliance. We filed an S-3 registration statement and got good news yesterday regarding this effectiveness and we're very pleased. We've built our liquidity. The real liquidity strength is growing and that's evidenced by payroll, making it and making it with comfort and operations liquidity, being able to pay our bills from the operating resources of our sales. Our pipe unitholders, a conversion process is under way and this is going to help us very much as it relates to our stockholders' equity.

We continue to think about the future, not only from the organic sales but through mergers and acquisitions. And our consideration is active and we're focusing on things that can bring us new products, things that can bring us new markets and in some case, both. We've established new channels of partnership during the period that I've mentioned and each of these are really a deep a precursor to revenue growth. One that was announced by name was Expeto. That's a channel partnership that's got several projects under way and there's going to be more to come. And particularly with Vic's leadership, you're going to see these accelerate.

We did sign a branded MVNO relationship and that was – actually came to us through Expeto. Things are going very, very well with that and we will see some of the first test phones in this month and certainly the ramping of that will occur in very early 2017. We're very excited about this because, for the first time, this moves us into a different kind of revenue model.

We signed on a named basis a channel partner, Cleartech, in Brazil. We've got initial projects that are underway and we think that many more are going to come. The Brazilian marketplace is a very vibrant marketplace and we will be part of that marketplace. Creation of new and productive channel partnerships such as these really focus clearly on things that we can expect in 2017.

From a straight commercial standpoint, we've had six straight months of subscriber growth in our European operations and all of this is a precursor and is a base to the expected – minimally expected revenue growth for 2017.

We've done this all the while by enhancing service quality and improving the transformation of the company and the transition of our company and our team has stepped up in a big way. And when you start taking numbers of people out and realize that the work has to get done, the people that are committed step up and we've seen that in every case.

We've also hardened our network and our protection of our intellectual property, recognizing that as we grow and operate in international markets, this becomes more and more of a concern. And we are feeling very good about these steps we've taken in that regard.

We've dramatically improved our pipeline with quality deals. Deals that where we understand what the pain of the customer is or the opportunity of the customer, we understand the budget and we understand the decision process. And you're going to hear more on this from Vic coming up momentarily.

Finally, before I yield over to Vic for comments from him, I'd just like to say that we believe that we're leading what we're referring to and as referred to and many times in the press as the uberization of mobile networks. And that quite simply is where we take our software platform to software that's been developed over the many years and we are putting this into a mobility cloud platform.

And this becomes a direct access point. It's a plug-in point. And it's a direct access to direct networks, it's a direct access to applications and it's a direct access to the capability to use our exchange. And it's an exchange that becomes an enablement platform for mobile carriers, but not just for mobile carriers, but for enterprises and also to enable the information needs of the information or the Internet of Things that we know is coming.

So, with that context and backdrop, I'd like to turn over to Vic Bozzo for his thoughts and comments. And, Vic, I can't tell you how happy I am to welcome you as the Chief Executive Officer of Pareteum. Vic?

Thank you, Hal. Thanks for that warm introduction. And as you mentioned, I spent the last 20-plus years selling into this very carrier services and enterprise market that Pareteum is serving, most recently building the market leader, Telarix, in the Internet – interconnect, routing and billing market where we sold to the many of the same customers. I think it's time for fundamental transformation in the service provider business.

As a challenge for who will own the subscriber between the traditional service provider, now the incumbent wireless provider, and the application providers sometimes referred to as the OTT, continues; both of them lay a claim to the subscriber. Most notably, we recently have seen companies who have risen and entered in the public markets to bring more application providers into the messaging, voice and data business. This has resulted in the most unique opportunity for Pareteum.

I chose to join the company because we have the technology, the proper positioning as a mobile virtual network enabler. This is a new category that I call MVNE-E, and as an MVNO aggregator, and more importantly, a provider of an aggregation platform for the wireless subscriber of the future, which will be made up of these varied devices known as the internet of everything.

Today, we measure our customers by SIM. But ultimately, those SIMs represent subscribers in wireless devices. And just the current existing customers alone represent millions of incremental subscribers to be converted on to our platforms. Our new future can be measured by subscriber aggregation and our strategy is to participate in that whole universe of opportunity by providing the platform and a service field for any and all of those various devices.

We've already identified an industry-connected sales and marketing team, and they've already begun to join the ranks. As a result, we've identified a series of new MVNE opportunities, carriers who are looking to partner to create these hubs, MVNOs who need a turnkey system from someone like us today. The brand marketing mobile virtual networks and carriers are looking for us to help them bridge using that cloud into the future of their subscriber growth.

Thanks, everybody. Thank you, Hal, for that introduction. I'm looking forward to the future of our company, and I think it's going to be a very, very positive and exciting ride.

I'll now turn the call over to Gary.

Thank you, Vic and Hal and Steve. We have successfully completed a three-phased restructuring including actions which we deemed vital to improving our business.

May I remind you, in November of 2015, we had 265 employees. As of March 31, 2016, we had reduced our head count by 69 people to 195, and by another 41 heads to finish the second quarter with 154 full-time employee equivalents. During the third quarter, we further reduced the head count by 72 ending the quarter with 82 full-time employee equivalents for a total reduction of approximately 70% or 183 persons. Cumulatively speaking, 59 of these departures were voluntary.

As we have previously disclosed, revenue per employee is a key metric we are now monitoring closely. At the end of the third quarter 2015, revenue per employee was $47,000. At the end of the second quarter 2016, revenue per employee was approximately $87,000, and we closed the third quarter with revenue per employee of $146,000.

Headcount bottomed out in early October at approximately 66 full-time employee equivalents. And we will now begin to climb as we add resources in line with revenue growth and new initiatives. We are well on our way to the target of $200,000 of revenue per employee, which will ensure future sustainability.

For the 10-month period from November 30, 2015 to September 30, 2016, total workforce reduction expenses totaled $2.7 million. These restructuring activities yield pro forma, cumulative operational expense savings of $10 million on an annualized basis from payroll and consultants fees foregone alone.

Turning our attention to the third quarter results for the period ended September 30, 2016, revenue for the third quarter and nine months year-to-date totaled $3.2 million and $9.7 million respectively, compared with $3.5 million and $27.7 million for the same period the year prior respectively. The decrease for the quarter was attributable to a decline in non-core revenues as the company tightened its market focus during restructuring.

The decrease for the nine months year-to-date was primarily attributable to the loss of the Iusacell contract in 2015. Excluding the impact of Iusacell for 2015, third quarter and nine months year-to-date revenues declined 9% and 13% year-over-year from $3.5 million to $3.2 million and $11.2 million to $9.7 million respectively.

Cost of service for the third quarter 2016 totaled $0.9 million compared with $1.4 million for the same period the prior year, yielding improved margins. General and administrative expenses, product development and sales and marketing cumulatively for the third quarter 2016 totaled $4.2 million compared with $4.2 million for the same period the prior year. Excluding non-recurring workforce reduction costs of $0.6 million in the third quarter 2016 and taking into consideration the reduction of capitalized expenses of $1.2 million, combined operating expenses and capital expenditures declined year-over-year 31%.

Net loss for the third quarter 2016 totaled $13 million compared with a net loss of $4.2 million for the same period the prior year. The increase in net loss was driven primarily by the impairment of goodwill and other assets, the loss in the sale of ValidSoft, interest expense related to debt discount and conversion features and restructuring costs.

Looking forward, with a much simpler balance sheet and sustainable cost structure, the company is poised to deliver on its promise of profitable growth. Vic's arrival signals the change and focus from restructure to growth and the company will seek the appropriate capital to support these growth initiatives, knowing that the cost structure has been fully aligned with current business levels.

The New York Stock Exchange compliance we've received to, to efficiency notifications for the NYSE over the course of the last six months in relation to shareholders' equity among other things. The NYSE has been extremely supportive and it's monitoring the company's remediation plan, and we are on track.

I'd like to turn the call back to Hal please.

Gary, thank you very much. It is greatly appreciated. And before Vic, Gary and I address your questions, I just like to highlight a few key elements of our go-forward vision.

As Vic and others have mentioned, the telecom industry has been divided among communication service providers that own their networks, subscribers and application providers who use the network. Pareteum holds a very unique software and applied technology position to be able to drive value for customers from each of these approaches, and that's where communication service providers and enterprises alike benefit from our platform and we see this as a way of turning competitors into partners.

So, our vision is to enable and secure communications, transactions that go with communications and applications for the connected world through our globally deployed cloud services. Our value proposition is very straightforward. Mobile Virtual Network Enablement, that's the MVNE-E that Vic spoke about, and operating the service bureau where we are providing domestic and international network services for turnkey Mobile Virtual Network Operators, enterprises and IoT services to plug in and be able to make their businesses work.

Our mission is, therefore, to open up to the enterprises in the retail world for mobile application-enabling services and create value on demand, and create it with trustful and reliable communications, turning communications into self-service, on-demand mobile services and applications through your devices without being locked to a single carrier. We now become a very mission-driven business.

Over the next 90 days, our priorities certainly are, number one, sales and profitable top line revenue growth. Our second priority is executing our capital gain plans for growth and equity and the balancing balance sheet strengthening and delivering on the new promises of predictable and sustainable customer and channel partner wins. And as we move to the cloud, that becomes much more available to us as we take the upfront costs down in doing business with Pareteum.

With this in mind, I'd like to issue our preliminary, and I stress preliminary, 2017 guidance. And this is a guidance that I want to clarify that includes really the focus on our current business as usual, our current customers. You heard mentioned that we've experienced six straight months of growth, and it is this growth of our current customers without the benefit of any material new business that forms the basis of what I'm about to tell you.

This is a forward-looking statement, and it is primarily based upon the anticipated subscriber growth as I've just explained. The company is expecting at least a revenue growth of 25% for 2017 over the annualized fourth quarter 2016 projected revenues of $3 million. This is given with its current cost structure that we've talked about through the restructuring, the post-restructuring and the divestiture of ValidSoft, and recognizing that we have achieved positive EBITDA which is projected for the full year.

What we expect, as I move into the next quarter and update this preliminary guidance, is to be able to reflect the forecast as we see it growing based upon the new sales, many of which are in works now and are very near a conclusion state, but I would be remiss if I added those to the forecast until we've got the signed document. These are new sales that will also layer on to potential very big deals, some RFPs that we continued to work in major locations throughout the Middle East, throughout South and Latin America as well as small deals that will become much more repetitive based upon our cloud platform, smaller deals that are able to generate revenue quicker and don't fall into the long-time issue of having 12 to 18-month sales cycles. We're talking three months sales cycles in some cases in our view point. And these are the things that will be updated as we go into future quarters.

So I can't tell you how pleased I am that we can see today at least a 25% increase. And I suspect that we're going to see some much larger numbers. And as we really look at the potential for merger and acquisition, and these are things that really we'll focus on, as I said, product or market or both. We think that there is a very, very bright future, particularly in 2017. So this concludes our remarks, this concludes my remarks.

And so, operator, Debbie, I'll please ask you to open the call to questions. And what we'll do is, I'll hear the question and among our team we will address it to the best of our ability. So, operator, over to you please.

Thank you, sir. [Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Lisa Thompson with Zacks Investment Research.

Good morning.

Hello, Lisa. How are you today?

Good. I see we had a kitchen sink water here. Hopefully, that was it. Is it going to be a little bit more restructuring in the next quarter?

There's some refinement underway for sure, but the categorization of kitchen sink is really reflective of us trying to get everything cleaned up by the end of the third quarter. And we don't anticipate any material additional restructuring charges. Let me turn to Gary for any further comment or clarification on that. Gary?

Hal, that's correct. Lisa, the head count reduction, we closed the quarter with 82, but we really started third quarter given the divestiture of ValidSoft with 66 heads. So, pretty much all of the head count reductions are out of the equation in the third quarter. There may be some small tail on with some severance cost in the fourth quarter, but it's not material relative to the fourth quarter. And with Vic's arrival, this is all about growth from this point forward.

Okay. Let me just ask you about the overall strategy and where you're going with this. It seems to me that what you do for Vodafone is different from what you're going to do for the Brazil customer, which is different than [indiscernible] (29:03). Where are you focusing? What you think your product is going to be going forward?

Good question. So, what we do for the large European customer is currently seen as a managed services platform that's providing outsourced technical services to that one customer off of this uniquely one customer-built platform. We will continue to do that in selected cases as the larger deals come forth, but that is not the primary element of our strategy going forward. Those kinds of deals that I've just referenced take anywhere from 12 to 18 months going through the full sales cycle and RFP cycle, as well as implementation. But we will not turn our backs toward that when we think we can compete and win. But the focus of the strategy is taking that very, very robust software that we have developed for the large European customer and put to work very, very successfully, and bring that into the cloud. And by bringing it into the cloud, we're able to take down the price points by which we start business and the timeframe by which we can get customers up and running.

So, it is the cloud mobility platform which does include all of the capabilities that we provide on an outsource basis, billing subscriber, customer support, new product evolution and development. All of that is embedded in our cloud. And we will take that cloud with network connectivity through our directly negotiated carrier network agreements and allow smaller carriers to plug into that and use it as a point of providing immediate mobile services. We will also bring this to the enterprise and allow them to plug in for the immediate benefit of their mobility needs. And finally, using this is as an exchange platform for the Internet of Things where the devices that we have referred to need connectivity, they need communication of the data and they need a scorekeeper to determine who gets paid for what.

Now, let me pause and turn to Vic for his comments on the strategy, because it's Vic that will refine this. It's Vic and team that he's referred to that will execute this. And I'm going to help them, but Vic is the leader on this. Vic?

Yeah. So I think it's a great question. I see it this way. Today, and I phrase that category that new category of Mobile Virtual Network Enabler [indiscernible] (32:02). And so, I see that we are an enabler for Vodafone today. We give them a software, the technology platform, that enables them to bring up brands and bring up MVNOs and bring up other retailers into their environment.

So, as we provided that technology, we analyzed that. We've looked at it and said, we too could be a service provider in other parts of the world or in other points of presence for those types of services for marketing companies that either don't have a network or need turnkey type solutions. And that's where we coin the phrase service bureau. So, we will have three flavors. We will begin by continuing to sell our software technology and software-as-a-service technology to other customers and other carriers around the world who want – as Brazil as an example of that. We will also continue to invest in our own points of presence where we know there is aggregation opportunities for other MVNOs, IoTs and enterprise providers.

And once we have that kind of, let's call the beachheads around the world, we're also investing in a technology that allows us to connect to all of our points of presence together through software, whether through the cloud, whether they are customers' points of presence or our service bureau points of presence, and that allows us then to effectively enable people to take their carriers, IoTs and enterprises to take advantage of our network effect around the world and potentially bring up those connections anywhere in the world where we might have connectivity and partner with our customers as well.

Okay. So, near term, can you kind of give us an example of a customer and why they're coming to you and what they're going to do with their platform or whatever they're doing with you? Just hypothetical.

Vic, why don't you take that one? And I think you've got more than one.

Yeah, sure. Yeah. So that's part of the advantage of having come out of this space and sold to all of these carriers around the world previously. I'm very familiar with where a lot of these opportunities are. But let's take an example of one that we actually service today, Zain in the Middle East. So, Zain is a conglomerate that owns many carriers throughout the Middle East. And they have one point of presence with us today where they buy our software and we do a similar solution to, as an example, to a Vodafone.

In that case, we're enabling them to bring other MVNOs on to their network. But we also run a point of presence in the Netherlands where we actually manage that and we're managing that specifically for some MVNOs. As a result of that, we've seen at least, I would say, between 5 and 10 opportunities that have come to us recently where they are marketing companies at heart, they're running MVNOs, they have the subscriber base, but they don't have a place to effectively put all of that solution. And that doesn't just include voice or SMS or MMS, it also includes their payment models and the things they're doing on the phones besides just voice and text including their ability to transact payments. So, our software provides them with the ability to do all of that. And so, we're seeing an uptick in those types of opportunities. And what we're saying is, if they are not suitable or they're not sizeable enough for the likes of a Vodafone to invest in, they can use one of ours service bureau pops and we can add their SIMs, their subscribers to our growing list of subscribers.

So, these are customers that want to add more capabilities on to just plain old telephone? Is that basically it?

Yes. But we're also seeing marketing companies. For example, we have an example of – without getting too much into, we have an example of a global congregation. And that global congregation is accessing lots of information and frankly want to both use technology, voice, SMS. They also want to use payment plans and things like that. And so, the leaders of that congregation decided that it would be best just to issue mobile phones for them around the world. So, we provide two things. We provide all the technology, but we also provide the capability for the control and the visibility for the marketing company. So that seems to be a very growth-oriented space.

Okay. So that makes more sense. And so, when will we see some revenues coming in from these new projects? How long does it take?

So, without getting too deep into them, I believe that the service bureau model is much faster, the cloud model is much faster than – first of all, the sales cycle is faster, the turn-up is faster and frankly, the move to revenue is faster. Can we accelerate that by as much as maybe 60% or 70% from where it has been. Yes, I absolutely believe we can.

Lisa, this is Gary. If you recall, in August, when we hit the wall with our financing and we secured some additional debt funding. And we spoke any this, I think, on our second quarter call. We have re-affirmation from our largest customer of the value of our platform. So, there was absolutely no question with over 1 million subscribers, there are platform fills a huge void in the marketplace. And it's from this day that we have the confidence and the strength in terms of us being able to deliver value.

What Vic brings is a tremendous portfolio of context where we can go in with a warm and confident introduction to bring forth this value proposition. In the past, this is what was lacking in the old elephant talk, is we didn't have that confident entrée with this platform. But there's no question that the elephant talk platform has been a superb and superior platform for offering these enabling solutions in the past. It's just – we just did not have the entrée. [Operator Instructions]

We'll go next to Bryan Kobel with Laidlaw.

Good morning, guys. And thank you, Steve for introducing me to the story. I just had a quick question. You mentioned revenue per employee as the key metric that you look at. Is that the metric we should use going forward to measure or define the success of this sort of new platform focus or are there other metrics you guys look at internally that we should be following?

Bryan, as we go forward, revenue per employee is a key metric. SIM cards that we support and subscribers that we support, and while we use those terms interchangeably now, we will begin to define it more as subscribers going forward because of the service bureau aspects and in some cases, there won't be a SIM card specifically associated with the subscriber. But it's revenue per employee, it's those two elements, it will be revenue growth, it will be EBITDA, it will be a series of factors that clearly look at our cash flow both on a pro forma and operating basis. Many of these are internal, but we believe that the revenue per employee is the single best barometer of what's going on in the organization.

Also internally, we continue to look at the cost of acquiring a subscriber, the cost of supporting a SIM card, and therefore, the margins that are associated with each piece of the business be it the software platform, be it the service bureau. So, those are all things that we focus on very, very clearly.

Gary, would you like to add to that?

Yeah. The revenue per employee was obviously a very, very critical, based on where we started and where we knew we needed to be. $200,000 of revenue per employee is a base for being sustainable. You can run the numbers all different types of ways, but $200,000 of revenue per employee is a critical number to ensure sustainability. If you look at the companies like Google out there that have million dollars of revenue per employee, there is clearly room for us to move up as we do and expand our services in the cloud. And so, we're going to continue to push at that number. But there's no reason why there isn't still some upside growth on that base.

Great. And as sort of a – being new to the story, this might be an uneducated question. With Vic's appointment, is that to focus on effectively, I guess, a warmer sales cycle? The introductions, his experience, has sort of opened doors in a more effective manner. Is that how we should view the sales cycle? I guess what's that process like for you guys?

Well, first of all, it signals that we actually have a sales organization and a sales cycle. And quite frankly, as Gary and I linked arms and partnered with others in the organization, there was not as much focus on sales, because we simply didn't have the people or the experiences to do that beyond the large bid RFP response.

So, what this signals is not only the warrant of coming from relationships and the warrant that comes from the relationships that the people were bringing in have with customers, it signals that we actually have a sales process and are rigidly going to execute on that sales process. So, I'm very pleased with that.

Vic, you want to add to that?

I think, it pretty – sums it up pretty well, but generally, in my experience that there are opportunities out there right now for this particular type of business and we know that there are people in the API business right now, who've been pretty successful lately, who are not necessarily servicing this part of the market. And so, I think it's really about starting the conversations, getting lower shorter-term sales cycles from the cloud business, from the service bureau business, while we're hunting the larger kind of more lengthy sales cycles of MVNE-E.

So, I think we're looking to smooth the lumpiness of the kind of long sales cycle with lots of service bureau opportunities. And frankly, some of those service bureau opportunities, we believe, may turn into – when they get to a certain growth size, they probably will turn into MVNE-Es as well.

Great. Thank you.

We'll take our next question from Brian McCarren with Ameriprise Financial.

Hi. [ph] I was long-term (45:25) shareholder here and you guys touched on Zain a little bit. I want to see if you might give us a little bit more of an update as to the status of getting some of the licenses and what not in Saudi Arabia. That's something we've been talking about for about three years. And then, also maybe you could fill us in a little bit about the partnerships with Hewlett-Packard. I know, for example, we were pursuing something in the UK with them and also Verizon. Thank you.

Okay. Brian, I'm going to go to Vic for most of this, but I just want to comment on Hewlett-Packard Enterprises. One of the things that come with Vic is one of the sales executives that we will bring in will in fact focus on these channel partnerships such as Hewlett-Packard Enterprises and certainly we have aspirations for more. And you can imagine the usual list of suspects that are included there.

So, that is a real focus for us. And as also mentioned, we do view Expeto and we view Cleartech as channel partner relationship. So, it's a clear area of growth, but we certainly want to grow with people like Hewlett-Packard.

Vic actually had a long conversation this morning with our Middle East colleagues and the client. So, Vic, would you take the question about Zain?

Sure. So, I think there's multiple opportunities there. And it's important to note that Zain operates in 12 to 14 countries and these operations are somewhat independent. So, if you look at a Zain versus a Vodafone, Vodafone is operating in 23 countries and with these independent networks.

So, we believe two things. One, we have opportunity to become in these types of conglomerates the de facto standard for what they use to bring up their wireless subscribers. So, that was a lot of what we talked about this morning, but generally, there's been some pent-up growth there beyond certain licenses within certain organizations. So, they have their own MVNO and they have their own MVNE.

In the MVNE, they've been waiting for [ph] sub-licensing (47:46) and that's been a real blockade for the growth sector, but it turns out in their MVNO, they're growing pretty rapidly. And so, that's been also an area where we just haven't had the opportunity because of the focus on Vodafone to really go after them.

So, we unlock that opportunity this week. And that kind of goes back to the point of I believe there are – there is unlocked – there is potential within our existing customer base that we haven't necessarily gone after and we do have a license to hunt in these accounts. So, we're finding that those opportunities are coming and sometimes those are faster sales cycles because they're already up and running and integrated.

So, I think we'll see some growth and I just – back to Hal's comments earlier, we'll see some growth in our existing customer base, which will also give us an opportunity and some fuel for the next phase of this [ph] rocket (49:06) specifically for going on getting additional customers, but also for leveraging this into further and deeper into our existing accounts and allowing them to take us to other operating companies within their organizations.

And, Vic, the Verizon portion of the question?

Yeah. So, Verizon, I think, is a unique situation just because Verizon themselves are struggling to determine whether they will allow other people to provide their network or the brand will be exclusively Verizon. I've been selling to Verizon for about 15 years and I've spoken to some of the folks there and I think that struggle continues.

But I think, at least the way we're perceiving it, the opportunity is going to open up where Verizon will probably let other companies like ours enable them to specifically partition their networks. So, I think there's more to come on that. After, I think, 10 days, I haven't had a full chance to leverage into Verizon, but I think the opportunities in the U.S. are actually very, very strong.

We'll go next to Greg Randall, U.S. Brokerage.

I'm sorry, gentlemen. My question was answered. Thank you.

Thank you.

And we'll go next to [ph] Nick Travis (50:47).

Hey, guys. How are you doing? I hope everything is well with you.

Thank you, [ph] Nick (50:55).

A couple quick questions. You mentioned merger and acquisition, I was wondering if you can kind of expound on that a little bit. Maybe give us an example what you see there. And also the – where it comes to the $13 million loss, is that primarily because of ValidSoft? Is there more involved there? Is it for tax reasons? Are we going to see a decrease in that in the quarters to come? That's pretty much it.

Okay. So, [ph] Nick (51:32), I'm going to take the questions, but first, I'm going to let Gary answer the loss part of the question and then we'll come back to the other pieces.

Okay, Gary?

Okay, sure.

Thanks, Hal and [ph] Nick (51:47). So, the loss in the quarter is primarily driven by the divestiture of ValidSoft, not just from the loss on the sale, but from the decision to then write off some of the goodwill and the other intangibles that were on the balance sheet. So, those are the primary drivers of the loss for the quarter.

There were clearly some restructuring cost that still came through in the quarter and there were some balance sheet charges related to the repricing of some of the instruments and stuff like that. So, you'll see that separately identified in the statements as well, but it's primarily driven by the divestiture of ValidSoft, correct, and that's not recurring.

And, [ph] Nick (52:40), regarding, the M&A question, I can give you a couple of examples. In the U.S., Vic and I are discussing several small platforms, which exist, which we know of, we know the developers on it very well and we believe that we can bring those platforms in and integrate more quickly than we can develop internally and these are platforms that bring additional capability that relates to the service bureau and the ability to connect with points of presence around the world. So, that's one focus of products, M&A that we're definitely looking at and considering.

The second area is we're very interested in Europe and expanding our presence in Europe. And we certainly believe that there's several candidates in Europe that could easily combine with us and provide a much bigger scale, a much bigger scope and that the technologies are not mutually exclusive. In other words, our platform could be useful to their platform and vice versa. And they have sales and marketing and distribution in areas that we don't. We are exploring those opportunities and certainly I expect that Q1 and Q2 will show some progress in those areas.

Finally, we believe that the MVNO portion of this marketplace is quite fractured and we believe that with our service bureau concept that we are talking about and the ability to quickly deliver products there, that there is a consolidation, bolt-on and rollup opportunity, which in many ways would give a level of vertical integration to the company that it has not experienced in the past. So, we are exploring some of those.

And as we think about that, in a banking relationship, M&A advisory that can assist us, that's certainly one of the targets that I have is to have such an advisory relationship in 2017 that can get some – help us produce some real results. So M&A has three flavors to it and I believe that Gary has addressed the loss situation. [ph]

Nick (55:00), does that address the question?

Yes, it does. I really appreciate you guys. You seem to have put together a really good team and I hope that together you guys can reach this company's true potential. I just want to say keep up the good works.

Thank you very much and we intend to and we appreciate your support and that of all of our shareholders.

Okay.

And with no other questions at this time, Mr. Turner, I will turn it back to you for closing remarks.

Debbie, thank you so much. It's much appreciated. So, as we conclude today, I just simply like to say it's my fervent hope that all of our shareholders, all of our stakeholders take away from the call today that we have done what we think is a phenomenal hard work to get the achievements of the restructuring and the transformation of the Elephant Talk of old and to create Pareteum.

We're very, very pleased with the progress there. Pareteum is founded as a strong and very well-conceived stable organization. We've got some renewed vigor with people coming onboard. We've got renewed vigor with employees who have stayed with us, seeing the vision and understanding that this is a good place to work.

We see a market-leading capability with a very disruptive technology and innovative solutions. We've got a growing base of eager partners. We've spoken about some of them. We've got satisfied clients who name us as their platform of choice and are growing with us and we'll have new customers added to those. We've got a vision for the future that we believe will bring the real true value of Pareteum to bear in our valuation that is commensurate with our fundamentals and that includes sales growth and it includes sales growth that will accelerate in our opinion.

So, ladies and gentlemen and our partners and our shareholders, I want you to know that our team is ready. Everybody on this call and who has been part of this restructuring and our go-forward is all in. I think we've shown everyone and demonstrated in the periods from November 15 forward that we know how to scale this business, we know how to fix things that were broken and we've actually done it.

We hope that you're ready to embark on this new journey with us and that you will take the ride with us. So, on behalf of the whole and entire Pareteum management team, employees and organizations, I just want to thank you and I want to thank everyone for joining us on today's call and a very, very big thank you and call-out, shout-out to our long-term shareholders for their patience, their commitment and their support. Stay with us.

We look forward to providing additional updates on our future developments and providing you beyond this preliminary guidance I've given today as we cure this forecast, what we think is really a big, big future that's ahead of us.

So, I thank you. I hope you'll have a great day. Operator, Debbie, back to you.

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your participation. This does conclude today's conference and you may now disconnect.