Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Stephen Hart — Corporate Development, Strategy & Investor Relations, Hayden IR
Robert Harold Turner — Founder, Executive Chairman & Principal Executive Officer, Pareteum Corp.
Denis McCarthy — President, Pareteum Corp.
Robert Mumby — Chief Revenue Officer, Pareteum Corp.
Amy Love — Chief Marketing Officer, Pareteum Corp.
Ali Davachi — Chief Operating & Technology Officer, Pareteum Corp.
Vic Bozzo — Co-Founder & Chief Executive Officer, Pareteum Corp.
Edward O'Donnell — Chief Financial Officer, Pareteum Corp.
Eric Martinuzzi — Analyst, Lake Street Capital Markets LLC
Michael Latimore — Analyst, Northland Capital Markets
Barry M. Sine — Analyst, Dawson James Securities, Inc.
John Nobile — Analyst, Taglich Brothers, Inc.
Ashok Kumar — Analyst, ThinkEquity

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Please stand by. Good day and welcome to the Pareteum Third Quarter 2018 Earnings Results Conference Call. Today's conference is being recorded.

At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Stephen Hart, Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you, Yvonne, and good afternoon, everyone. Thank you for joining us today for Pareteum Corporation's third quarter ended September 30, 2018 earnings results analyst and investor conference call. With us today are Hal Turner, Pareteum's Founder, Executive Chairman and Principal Executive Officer; Vic Bozzo, Chief Executive Officer of Asia and Chief Executive Officer of the company; Rob Mumby, Chief Revenue Officer; Ali Davachi, Chief Technology Officer; Denis McCarthy, President; Ted O'Donnell, Chief Financial Officer; and Amy Love, Chief Marketing Officer.

Earlier today, Pareteum released financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2018. If you've not received Pareteum's earnings release, please visit Pareteum's Investors' page at pareteum.com. Following management's discussion, there will be a Q&A session.

During the course of this conference call, the company will be making forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934. The company cautions you that any statement that is not a statement of historical fact is a forward-looking statement. This includes any projections of earnings, revenues, cash or other statements relating to the company's future financial result. Any statements about plan, strategies or objectives of management of future operation, any statements concerning proposed new products, any statements regarding anticipated new relationships or agreements, any statements regarding expectations for the success of the company's products in the U.S. and international market, any statements regarding future economic conditions or performance, statements of belief, and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing.

These statements are based on expectations and assumptions as of the date of this conference call and are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statement. Some of these risks are described in the section of today's press release titled Forward-Looking Statements and in the public periodic report the company files with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Investors or potential investors should read these risks. Pareteum assumes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect future events or actual outcomes and does not intend to do so.

With that, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Hal Turner, Pareteum's Principal Executive Officer. Hal?

Stephen, thank you very much, and let me add my greetings to everyone who's joining us today from wherever you are around the world. I want to start out by just simply saying our business is in excellent fundamental shape or its stage of growth. We've got some really good news so let's get to it.

There are several strong points to highlight for Q3, and the way we're going to do this today is I'm going to go through a few of the highlights and a few of the points that we think are very important, then Denis is going to go into a more in-depth financial results, and then we're going to open it up to Q&A because we think you'll have a lot of good questions to ask.

So with several strong points to highlight for Q3 are Pareteum revenues are $8 million. This performance is 129% growth over the same quarter in 2017, and that has moved us from $3.5 million per quarter up to $8 million a quarter. That's a 233% growth over the last eight quarters where we moved from $2.4 million to $8 million, and it's a 33% quarter-over-quarter advancing from $6 million, which, in and of itself, was a record quarter, to $8 million. This represents a stand-alone annual revenue run rate at this point of $32 million, which excludes the Artilium acquisition.

Our continued improvement in adjusted EBITDA showed a growth quarter-over-quarter from $1.3 million to $1.8 million. For the quarter ending September 30, 2018, our non-GAAP earnings of $600,000 equated into non-GAAP earnings per share of $0.01. For the nine months ended September 30, 2018, our non-GAAP earnings of $2 million represented non-GAAP earnings per share of $0.02.

In addition to these very strong items, I'd like to highlight for you some selected successes that we've had in our business and that have continued throughout the third quarter and certainly going forward, we expect. From July through the end of October, we won 27 new contracts, which added $112 million to our 36-month contractual revenue backlog.

Additionally, we've experienced growth of $72 million from existing contracts, people are buying more, and $40 million from the Artilium acquisition. That brings us to the $500 million 36-month contract revenue backlog as of October 30. And that excludes monthly recurring revenue from Artilium acquisition for customers that are not under contract.

By the way, in our minds, by any possible stretch of the imagination, this is and was the metaphorical opening of the floodgates by Rob Mumby and his sales team to produce the $500 million in contracts. I think you'll recall that at the end of 2016, our backlog stood at $40 million. At the end of 2017, it was $147 million. And now, year-to-date through 2018, it's $500 million. That's 1,150% increase and that's coupled with the corresponding 233% in quarterly revenue. This is our definition of opening the floodgates.

We expect to continue our growth given our Pareteum history of overachievement, and we're going to do that by continuing to sign new contracts across the globe and as we convert showcase opportunities, many of which have come to us from our Artilium acquisition. We'll do this also by maintaining our scheduled implementations at 100% for the 36-month contract revenue backlog conversions and also improving our best-in-class performance for dollar-based net expansion rate, which currently stands at 147%.

We ended this third quarter with 2,903,000 connections or devices and people connected to our connectivity capabilities. That's an increase of 127% over the end of the third quarter for 2017 and a 7% sequential quarter increase. Now, with the addition of Artilium, we have over 4,400,000 connections through our global connectivity network, which has always grown and currently stands at 64 million Wi-Fi hotspots with 180-plus countries connected, 1,000-plus GSM and 200-plus CDMA SMS global agreements for texting and 59 mobile network agreements in 80 countries.

With that, I'd like to pause and now recognize Denis McCarthy, who will go into some of the details of our major financial highlights during the third quarter. Denis?

Thank you very much, Hal, and good afternoon to everybody on the phone as well. I'd like to take you through some of our key financial measures for the third quarter.

As Hal mentioned, we generated adjusted EBITDA $1.8 million in the quarter which represents 23% of revenue. Our adjustments to EBITDA include stock-based compensation of $5.6 million, and acquisition and restructuring related costs of $2 million. The majority of stock-based compensation is onetime and nonrecurring in nature as are all of the acquisition and restructuring costs.

As Hal mentioned, we generated non-GAAP earnings of $600,000 or $0.01 per share, and $2 million or $0.02 per share for three months and nine months ended September 30 2018. We believe this is a reflection of the continued strength of our core business and a testament to both our sales and operation teams.

In addition to the previously mentioned top growth of $8 million, we've been able to maintain margins in excess of 70%. During the third quarter, our margin improved to 73% over the prior quarter.

Pareteum has also overachieved on consensus analyst expectations as follows. Our consensus revenue estimate was $7.7 million. Our actual results of $8 million exceeded that by $300,000 or 4%. Most importantly, our non-GAAP EPS consensus estimate was a negative $0.03 and we achieved $0.01 for the quarter, overachieving analysts' estimates by approximately 400%.

Our adjusted EBITDA was $1.28 million in the consensus estimate and our actual result is $1.78 million for a roughly $500,000 [ph] exceeding (00:09:41) or a 39% excess over consensus estimates.

As we look at our market opportunity, we think about the following things. We have a current market price of $2.29, which represents a market cap of $227 million. Companies like Twilio and [ph] Bandwidth (00:10:00) and Zendesk, which are competitive in our space, are achieving 8 to 12 times revenue valuations with similar business models. Currently, we view a pathway on those business models with revenue scale, market recognition and software multiples to achieve the results that are comparable to companies [ph] in our space (00:10:22) and are focusing our sights on those long-view targets.

Speaking of long-view targets, we think about our long-term goal of a price per share of $25 per share, which would represent 1,200% upside to where we are today.

As we've mentioned in our press release, we consider our key performance indicators to be the following: connections, which is our industry speak for subscribers, devices and their connectivity usage, have grown from – to grow into over 2.9 million at the end of the third quarter.

Our 36-month contractual revenue backlog converted into live production-generating monthly-recurring revenue was once again at 100% of scheduled conversion, representing this sixth quarter in a row that we've achieved at that 100% or greater.

Revenue-per-employee is $492,000 at the end of the third quarter, an increase of over $277,000 from the same quarter last year. This does not yet include the impact of the Artilium acquisition. We expect to continue to exceed the expected industry average for annualized average revenue-per-employee per year. And on that basis, on a pro forma basis, our revenue-per-employee, including the Artilium acquisition, is roughly $359,000 per employee. And again, the benchmark for our industry would be in the low $200,000s.

Speaking of Artilium, an update on that acquisition, we announced the acquisition on June 7, 2018. In that announcement and the resulting proxy and investor update deck, we identified the material cost synergies available which make the transaction accretive: net of transaction fees and restructuring charges, onetime expenses which are treated as period cost pursuant to GAAP.

Note we will continue to report adjusted for onetime transaction restructuring fees as we go forward to properly focus on ongoing operations or what we would refer to as our core business, alongside our strategy to pursue acquisitions that are both accretive and incremental to our adjusted EBITDA.

We reviewed the transaction on the June 8, 2018 shareholder call and referenced the following things. We provided examples of sales successes we have experienced because of our strategic alliance pre-acquisition. We highlighted an example, showcase opportunity, which we continue to pursue and which may bring exciting content delivery through our cloud platform if and when it completes.

Artilium and Pareteum continued to [ph] solicitate (00:13:04) the transaction June, July, August and September. Pareteum and Artilium shareholders overwhelmingly approved the transaction at north of 80% for the Artilium shareholders, which we believe was a resounding testament to how that [indiscernible] (00:13:22) acquisition felt about the acquisition and their joining the Pareteum family.

The Artilium acquisition closed effective October 1. Our Q4 earnings results will include for the first time the consolidated results of Artilium and Pareteum. We entered October with combined head count of approximately 150 as a result of restructuring accomplished in September of 2018.

The highlights of our financial statements include the following: $4.8 million of cost expense synergies expected in the first calendar year, of which, as previously mentioned, restructuring activities in September have already yielded $4.1 million of cost savings. Given our efforts on the administrative savings and cost of goods sold efficiencies, we're actually raising our outlook to include $6 million of expense synergies, an increase of 25% of our original estimate for the 2019 calendar year.

Pro forma combined calendarized 12 months revenue $49 million for 2018 and the current run rate of $52 million based on Q3 results also round out the highlights of the acquisition. And perhaps most importantly, adjusted EBITDA with synergies on a calendarized basis for 2019 is just under $12 million.

As a result of the acquisition, we were required to register certain securities not eligible for court-ordered exemption. We took the opportunity to include chairs for potential future strategic activity as we filed our shelf registration statement recently.

While we have no immediate plans for the use of those shares and expect that any future use will extend the growth opportunities of Pareteum in an accretive manner, we continue to seek inorganic opportunities alongside our continued strong sales success that is recognizing organic growth for the company. We are very focused on those inorganic projects that accelerate those initiatives.

As a company committed to growth, our capital and future external capital are also expected to be used for growth activities. We do not expect to declare dividends or [ph] stock provisions (00:15:34) in the near future while we pursue these growth initiatives. We do not require funds for operations and we have current plans – and do not have current plans for capital.

And now, with this shelf registration, we have the capability to be more assertive in our strategic alliance plans and hopefully find more accretive transactions such as Artilium, which bring products, markets, channels, people, all areas that we constantly examine in our customer plans.

We are decidedly a growth company. With the addition of Artilium, we now have over 4.4 million connections through our global connectivity that Hal just mentioned. It is always growing.

I'd like to now yield back the call to Hal Turner to conclude.

Denis, thank you very much. Good financial results for certain. We are expanding into new markets and our leadership is therefore expanding. As Denis said, we are a growth company.

Bart Weijermars, who is now CEO of Pareteum EMEA – Europe, Middle East and Africa – certainly joined as part of the acquisition of Artilium. By the way, Bart could not join us today. We're very sorry for that, but I assure you he is – will be listening.

Denis McCarthy, who you've just heard, was formerly our Senior Vice President of Corporate Development. We've named him and promoted him to President of the company. And in doing this, Denis will lead not only our growth strategies alongside me, but as well our corporate staff and financial and human resource and M&A functions. It's Denis' professional guidance we expect to accelerate our strategic plans and create more alliances as we are expanding our ecosystem.

Amy Love has joined us as our first-ever Chief Marketing Officer and she's got a big job ahead of her to coalesce, particularly as we integrate the marketing communications for everything across the globe with the acquisition of Artilium. She'll do this through, not only marketing communication plans and programs, but digital marketing and product marketing messages.

Pareteum has expanded into Asia. You may know that on Monday, we named Vic Bozzo, who's CEO of Asia. This is an additional assignment to his already very broad mandate.

The appointment follows the decision of Manjot Mann, who we hold in high regard to join one of our key Singapore-based customer-target opportunities by becoming CEO of M1 in Singapore. We wish [ph] Manj (00:18:06) the very best as he takes up his new role, which will begin on the 6th of December. [ph]

Mann (00:18:11) has made plans with Vic, who will certainly manage the transition to continue our working relationship through his new company, the same as we did before [ph] Mann (00:18:20) officially joined us as he was transitioning and departing from Lebara following its private equity sale. I'm personally very confident by Vic's acceptance of this new additional role and we think that he's got the great opportunity, along with all the other teammates, to really make a greenfield opportunity into a material results contributor for the company.

The comfort I have in Vic doing this job is underwritten by the superior sales leadership and results being produced by Rob Mumby and his excellent sales team. And we're seeing clearly the service delivery and platform development from Ali Davachi and that team, which is underlying our ability to deliver.

We've also grown our presence in the Americas with new executive additions. David Hess has joined us and David John has joined us. And we're very much looking forward to their leadership in North America and Latin America, respectively. Now, more than ever, we are a team of teams and it's a growth team.

I'd like to turn now to our guidance for 2018. Pareteum is raising its guidance and this is as follows. You'll understand this is under the context of a forward-looking statement. It's based primarily on the strength of the accelerating growth in scheduled and anticipated connections, all which are derived from the devices and the people and their growth, and the connectivity usage as they're connected to our network and are converted from the 36-month contract revenue backlog.

We're raising our outlook for revenue. We're now expecting more than 100% increase stand-alone on Pareteum 2018 revenues over 2017 performance. We are expecting a combined Q4 revenue, Pareteum and Artilium, in the $13 million to $14 million range. We will continue to update our revenue guidance on a quarterly basis. Also, with our current cost structures, post the Artilium closing and ongoing streamlining, we are affirming our expectation of positive adjusted EBITDA for the full-year 2018. In the turn of the year, we will introduce our full-year 2019 revenue outlook in the first quarter of 2019.

At this point, we would like to open up for questions and answers, and I will be joined, along with Denis, we'll be joined by Ted, and Vic, and Rob, and Ali, and Amy. Stephen, we're ready for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Eric Martinuzzi with Lake Street Capital Markets.

Thanks. A lot of things to congratulate you and the team on, Hal, but I think 129% organic revenue growth is the one I'm going to highlight. So, congrats on that.

Let me shift over to...

Thank you very much, Eric.

Yeah, you're welcome. Let me shift over to understanding the Q4 revenue guide. I do appreciate the color there. You talked about the combined Artilium/Pareteum revenue guide of $13 million to $14 million. I just want to feel the effect a little bit. If I just look at the organic business, are we assuming a sequential growth in the legacy business from [ph] Q3, Q4? (00:22:00)

Yes, we are, and you can clearly see that if you look at our stand-alone 36-month contract revenue backlog slide that appears in our presentation on the Web. But clearly that's that is a sequential increase over the $8 million, and it does include the proportional amounts that were available to us from our Artilium.

Okay. You talked in the press release about an increase in inbound requests. I think this has got to be a salesman's or saleswoman's dream scenario where the phone actually rings and you don't have to pound the payment or send the phone calls out the other way. What do you think are the major points that are driving that?

There are a couple of those. I'm just going to hit one or two and then I'm going to yield over to Rob Mumby and Amy for their comments on this. The first thing that we see driving this is just an overall increase in mobility and the need for applications to be driven through mobility and therefore mobile virtual network operators coming into the space. What is happening is, through search engine optimization, we are very fortunately appearing near the top of the ratings and the rankings and are getting a lot of over the transom calls on that. So, that's what I would comment.

Let me go next to Rob Mumby to see if he has color on that, please.

Yeah. Sure. Hi. Thanks, Hal. Just a couple additional comments. First, I would say that education in the market, that there are options outside of [ph] commercial local (00:23:51) services provided by MNOs is one. Second is the MNOs understanding that they need to cater to what the market wants and need to use our platform to have the flexibilities to do so. And finally, I think the evolution of new applications in IoT in particular are driving the need for a solutions platform like Pareteum.

So, I think that's why we're getting a lot of inbound leads, and you're exactly right, that's a sales team's dream.

Okay.

Amy, did you wish to add anything? Okay. All right. Please go ahead.

All right. I agree. Just confirming Rob. Thank you.

Okay. Let me shift over to the expected mix here. You are seeing what you've been telling us you would see and that is a decreased dependence on the MSP side of your business. You talked about cloud. I believe it was 37% in the quarter. If we were – I know, you're not giving formal guidance for 2019 at this point, but what – as we're standing here maybe a year from now, what do you believe that mix looks like between MSP and cloud, and Super API?

Since Denis is driving the modeling with the team, I'm going to ask him to address that. But the very good news is that the cloud portion is increasing fairly dramatically as will be the IoT or the Super API portion.

Denis, you want to comment, please?

Sure. As we've talked about in the past, Eric, we've increased our contracts by roughly 70 since the beginning of 2017. And of those 70 contracts, I would categorize 60% of those in the cloud space. So, all things being equal on implementation because the 30% of contracts are in the MSP space tend to be larger. I would say that it is going to grow into the 40% to 50% of revenue range on an ongoing basis.

Our API platform is accounting for about 10% of our contracts right now. We expect that to grow in terms of the number of contracts. It'll trail though in terms of revenue, but we expect to see – that to start to ramp in a real way in 2019. Currently, this year, it's less than 5% of our revenue. I would say that would more than triple in 2019 to be roughly 15% of revenue.

Okay. That's helpful. Thank you. That covers it for me. I won't monopolize the call. But again, congratulations to the team and also the team members who got promotions and expanded responsibility.

Eric, thank you very much.

We'll take our next question from Mike Latimore with Northland Capital Markets.

Great. Yeah. Congratulations on all the contracts [ph] and new (00:27:06) businesses here.

Thanks, Mike.

Yes. I just wanted to follow on. I think just wanted to make sure I got the number right. Did you think that – did you say the API business, your App Exchange business, that could triple as a percent of revenue over the next year or so? Did you say that [indiscernible] (00:27:24)?

Correct. Yeah. From just under 5% in 2018 to just under 15% in 2019.

And most of those are IoT sort of applications. Is that's right or?

Yeah, I would characterize them broadly as IoT and Smart City, which we put in the IoT bucket. Those are the types of applications.

Great. And then the gross margin increase in the quarter, is that something that's sustainable? Is that something that comes with more volume, or how should we think about that? I guess, more on an organic basis and then I guess Artilium [ph] followed in. (00:28:11) What does that mean?

Yeah. From an organic basis, I think that that number you'll see very – from the very high 60s to the mid-70s, and that depends quite a bit on the amount of usage revenue that we bring in in the quarter. And again, I'm speaking purely organically. As we bring on the Artilium acquisition, they, by nature, had a, through their IDM subsidiary, had a far greater amount of usage as a company than we did. And so, that'll drop our overall margins likely into the low 60s. We are constantly working every day to bring those numbers up. And again, sustainably between 65% and 70% on a long-term basis is our goal.

Got it. Okay. And then on Artilium, is there any sort of purchase accounting effects on revenue there? And if so, how much of that'll be?

Yeah. There's about – we are losing roughly $1.2 million annually on the purchase accounting basis from the loss of deferred revenue over the next three-and-a-half years roughly, and so about $3.8 million overall. But it's about a $1.2 million impact annually and [indiscernible] (00:29:33) I would say, $300,000 to $400,000 quarterly.

Yeah. Okay. And then just last I guess with regard to a couple of recent announcements here. The new hire in the U.S., I assume the priority there is just new sales, but is the focus direct, is it on channels, or is there some other initiative there? And then the other one is you said 11 customers I think went live. Is that going to sort of be the norm seeing say 10 to 15 customers a quarter go live?

So, on the first part of the question regarding the sales executive, it's very much direct. Still we are continuing to work on channels and expect to see some channel activity in 2019. And as it relates to the number of turn-ups or go live, 11, we hope to make that a bigger number and we hope the velocity of that will increase. And that hope will be driven through our continued use of our own software and tools to make that work better. And we learn on every one of these implementations how to do it better next time, and you're beginning to see the evidence of it. So, I expect it to accelerate.

Let me turn briefly to Ali to see if he has a comment on that.

Thanks, Hal, and I agree as well. We are making leads every quarter to improve implementation strategies and help our clients get up on the platform. So, I agree that we will certainly see acceleration in those metrics.

Great. Okay. Thanks a lot and good luck.

Mike, thank you so much.

Our next question comes from Barry Sine with Dawson James.

Hey. Good afternoon. So, I wanted to ask about Artilium and the integration process. When I look at that company, it really struck me how similar the two companies are and how complementary the strengths are. But my question is, you bring two separate sales forces, how are you doing in terms of training your sales force on their product portfolio and vice versa and then introducing your unique capabilities to their customer base and vice versa? And if I can make this a really complicated question, kind of a similar question with the iPass capabilities that you've added to the mix. Thank you.

You're welcome, Barry. Thank you. I'm going to turn to Vic Bozzo to address the sales integration question with Rob Mumby, and then we'll come back to Denis on iPass because that is largely an IT integration at this point.

Vic, if you would, please?

Sure. Great. Absolutely. So, one of the things that's occurred, as a result of the acquisition, is we have a broad new set of technology. And that additional technology is very much in line with where we were taking our marketing and our messaging. So, as a result of that, it's really fit very nicely into the product set, and that really has helped the sales force to gel and merge together quite well. And I think, as Hal has mentioned in the past, Artilium was very focused on the retail and enterprise end of the market and Pareteum has been very focused on the service provider end of the market. So, the two teams have merged together very nicely and we're seeing accelerated growth as a result of that, accelerated sales opportunities.

And Rob Mumby, would you like to comment on the iPass piece because I know you made a pretty material sale with your team on iPass capability after we licensed the IP?

Yeah. So, I think for the overall sales force there's interest in other connectivity option. And so, iPass complements the connectivity that we provide, the mobile network connectivity that we provide and gives another option for a couple of things. One, potentially cost reduction and another for more robust connectivity along with information that you get regarding different connectivity options based on whatever your location is. So, there is a lot of options that iPass has brought and we're seeing a lot of really positive traction with customers and markets around the world.

Denis, anything you would like to add on the IP portion of that?

Yeah, Hal. I think to steal the words that you often use, it really gives us the last mile of connectivity for multiple avenues whether that be wireless offload for some of our existing mobility customers and/or deeper penetration for IoT applications. Alongside that, from a technology perspective, they bring two really interesting pieces of technology to us. One is the ability to analyze data in real time on where users are spending their time in a particular area and what signals that they're availing themselves of whether those be radio access signals or Wi-Fi signals. So, it gives you a sense of the utilization as well as just sort of triangulating positions and where people are spending times and which is helpful in [ph] shopping arenas (00:35:33) and other applications as well. And then lastly, coupling that all with the connectivity steering and being able to dynamically choose between those different access mechanisms to create the best overall seamless experience.

And Barry, I would just sum all of this up by saying we were in the deep process of cross-training everyone in the organization on the various products. And I don't think we've even begun to scratch the surface on the upsell opportunities that are brought to us by the Artilium product line to the current Pareteum customer base, and we hope to expand that greatly.

That's really thorough. Thank you very much for taking my question.

You are welcome. [Operator Instructions]

We'll take our next question from John Nobile with Taglich Brothers.

Hi. Good afternoon. I wanted to ask you a question about the stock compensation, the $5.6 million in the quarter. Obviously, it was high. Now, some of this was related with the acquisition that was taking place, Artilium, is that correct?

Denis, over to you on that, please?

That is accurate. And as I mentioned...

Okay.

...in my comments, a large portion of that is nonrecurring.

Right. Could you quantify how much of that is nonrecurring roughly?

I'm going to ask Ted for a little bit of help on that.

We're looking at about $4 million nonrecurring of that $5.6 million...

Okay. Nonrecurring but in Q4... [indiscernible]

(00:37:20) remainder it will be...

In the fourth quarter, will there still be some of this trailing off into that quarter maybe? I'm just trying to get an idea. I mean, I know that's not going to be going forward into 2019, but just to get an idea how much it would impact...

Yeah. We actually do expect some in the fourth quarter as well, John.

Okay. And thanks also for the – well, the quantitative cost savings, the synergies created with Artilium, I believe it was mentioned about $4.8 million on an annual basis. Is that correct? [ph] If I recall (00:37:54)...

Yeah. We had originally projected $4.8 million. And the result of some early savings, we were actually are increasing our guidance to $6 million on an annual basis.

Okay. So, that's going to be about $6 million and you've already captured [ph] $4.1 million. (00:38:10). [ph]

$4.1 million. (00:38:11)

Okay. So, if I actually – to get off the – as an analyst, I'm asking you to get off the quantitative end of it, but if you could talk about it qualitatively, to think about how this is going to benefit Pareteum organically, the synergies that this would create.

I'll give you a couple of comments and then I'd like to turn collectively to Vic and Rob on that. So, this gives us an interactive voice response capability that we didn't have. It gives us an API to be able to take in to our carrier customers. It gives us a messaging capability that we did not have for text messaging, and allows us to power and fuel marketplace or shared economy type applications again with our Super API.

It also gives us a whole set of capabilities around the CRM and the way that information is presented to the customer on the portal and the orchestration capability for them to manage their network and capabilities. I'll pause there before I get in trouble and turn over to Vic and Rob.

Thanks, Hal. So, with this, we get a broad platform for communication, including these APIs. So that's IoT, chat, SMS, voice, video, fax, and when you think about the use cases for that, that brings us into banking and retail and healthcare and industrial. So, we really get a strong uplift technology-wise that I would call customer-facing, developer-facing and APIs, which are really very, very powerful in the market today.

That's great to hear, and thanks for the detail. And then, I just wanted to understand that more, like I say, qualitatively. Just one more quick question here, only because you mentioned actually as of September 30, backlog was, what, $403 million backlog. Okay.

Now, when you acquired Artilium, I'm trying to get an idea of what type of backlog they had when you acquired it. Did that add about $70 million? Or is – am I looking at this wrong because I think you had about a $500 million backlog now with Artilium? I'm trying to get an idea of what that was when you acquired it.

Denis is the keeper of the backlog. So I would like to get him to give you the detailed number on it.

Yeah. We've included about just shy of $50 million on an ongoing basis. [ph] You know (00:41:01) that's roughly two years of their annualized revenue to-date. The rationale for that is there's actually a fair amount of revenue which would push that number closer to $80 million. That is not subject to long-term contracts right now, primarily coming out of again the IDM portion of the business. So there's good, strong recurring revenue there that is not under contract. So we've excluded that from overall backlog, but we will get the benefit of that as those customers continue to stay on the network.

Great, and thanks for taking my questions. A lot of them were asked already, but I just wanted to get the clarification on that. Thank you very much.

You're welcome, John. Thank you.

And we'll take our final question from Ashok Kumar with ThinkEquity.

Great. Congratulations on the results and your guidance. One on – in terms of the operating forecast for the December quarter. Your top line guidance would imply $5 million to $6 million in revenue contribution from Artilium. I was wondering if you could clarify what percentage of that [indiscernible] (00:42:17) Telenet. And also, your customer dilution on a go-forward basis given that Vodafone [indiscernible] (00:42:26) was about three-quarters of your revenue, so in terms of year-to-date performance.

Thanks, Ashok. Denis, you want to address that, please.

Sure. So the Telenet portion of the Artilium is actually fairly small on an ongoing basis, primarily [indiscernible] (00:42:46) very large upfront license agreement with Telenet, if you had looked at their filings, and that was all stuck in deferred revenue which we don't get the benefit of from a GAAP basis.

That said, we also do ongoing maintenance and other project work for them, which generates roughly about $200,000 to $300,000 a quarter from Telenet, so we will get that. The majority of the rest of the revenue is all from – much more our customers.

On the Vodafone concentration piece, we're targeting them right around 55% of 2018 revenue. They're coming in roughly $15 million, give or take, and roughly 55% in – of our overall backlog. They're coming in right about 20% of our overall backlog. And I would note that represents a growth in the Vodafone business, but a reduction of overall concentration.

And in terms of your key performance indicator, the KPI, you've grown in native connections from 2.2 million to 2.9 million over the last six months. And you earlier highlighted 1.5 million on native connections for Artilium given your different end market focus, service provider at your end and retail and enterprise Artilium, and would be 4 million-plus. So that'd be the target connection opportunity for the combined company. And ultimately, the ARPU, which is in a low period at this point, [indiscernible] (00:44:24) for the forecast for [ph] Artilium (00:44:27)?

Denis?

I'm sorry. Can you repeat should the – I guess the first part of the question?

KPI – [ph] yes, please (00:44:43). Yeah, Dennis. So the KPIs at your native connections have expanded from 2.2 million to 2.9 million over the last six months and was highlighted...

Right. [indiscernible]

(00:44:55)

Yeah. With Artilium, 4.4 million. Yeah. Correct.

Yeah. So the question is...

And I'm sorry, what was the first part of the question? I apologize.

Yeah. The first part is the [ph] 4 million-plus (00:45:05), these are the target opportunity for native connections for the combined company given that – I mean I assume this is additive given the different the different end market focus, right, service provider at your end, and retail and enterprise at Artilium.

4.4 million is our current. Our target opportunity, I don't think we've quantified just yet, but we expect significant growth through 2019 in the overall connections.

So, okay. But in terms of – one of the gating factors for Artilium's performance was – did not have a capital to expand the sales team. And are you beginning to see an acceleration in transforming the leads into contract revenue and backlog and sales under the combined company?

Vic, you want to address that one, please?

Yes. Ashok, would you mind repeating the question, please? I'm sorry.

Yeah. On Artilium, I think one of the gating factors for their performance was the capital to expand the sales team. Under the combined company, are you seeing an acceleration in turning their leads into contract, revenue backlog and sales?

Okay. Yes. So I would say two things. One, as you know, we had an alliance with them prior to the acquisition and that alliance is already bearing lots of fruit, which is great. They had a very robust lead generation program, which we've been able to bring in to kind of our direct sales force model as well. So, we're not really seeing intense capital requirements to get that acceleration, but we are absolutely seeing that acceleration.

And in terms of – you talked about inorganic growth, the metric. And historically, I think your format has been not to buy companies in distress, focusing on companies that fundamentally have good business model, generating SaaS revenue. And just the access – [ph] starting (00:47:21) them the access to capital on – to be able to generate positive EBITDA and start contributing to the mother ship in terms of the cash flow overall, simultaneously realizing the cost synergies. I assume that still is the criteria for the target...

It is and we've only done one company and that's Artilium, and that's exactly what has occurred here. So, yes, we're able to convert almost all of this as SaaS-based revenue with the exception of the upfront license fee matter that Denis mentioned earlier. And we see significant growth in that without the corresponding scaling cost that might normally be required if we were going after that revenue organically.

All right. And one last question is on the cost synergies. You've taken that up from $4.8 million to $6 million. So the original breakdown was $4 million-plus in SG&A and $0.5 million in COGS. Do the same ratios hold for the higher amount or are you seeing something different?

Denis, you want to talk about that?

So the [indiscernible] (00:48:41) to $6 million – yeah, I think I have it, Hal. So, you were saying in the increase from the $4.8 million to the $6 million, are we seeing the same ratios. I think that on a overall $6 million basis, we would expect roughly $5 million from G&A synergies, including head count, and about $1 million from cost of goods sold. So, slightly different ratios than before. A little more on the cost side.

Thank you once again and congratulations.

Thank you, Ashok. We appreciate it.

And that concludes today's question-and-answer session. At this time, I will turn the conference back to Hal Turner for any additional or closing remarks.

Thank you very much. As we close this out today, I just want to reaffirm that we're a growth company. We view that fundamental measure of success for Pareteum is shareholder value. We create this over the long term, so I've got a few closing observations for you.

I'm often asked by our board what keeps us up at night as management team and for us, all of us, it's waking up each day and really understanding that we have great loyal customers until they aren't. And this means to us that it's got to be always about the software, the services, the APIs, the deployment, the quality of services, and the customer value that is derived by us providing those services. So that means that we know that taking care of customers and their engagement journey with us is our very best competitor response and will keep us growing.

Another observation is that we continue to seed our future. We did it and have done it with Artilium, and we'll continue to develop new software, APIs, applications and solutions as we apply our strategic alliance approach. We understand that [ph] missionaries build (00:50:36) better products and this is partially what we mean by we're all in sales.

Our vision and mission have remained unaltered, it's open mobility and applications for connected devices on any network anywhere, and we see that as a facilitator to access mobility and software services for the underserved throughout the world.

We know that we must continually build and grow, offer superior products and services, or lose our relevance. The big news for us is that we've grown our revenue from $3.5 million on a quarterly basis to $8 million on an organic basis in one year. That's the trailing four quarters.

And that's not to mention the $3.5 million of adjusted EBITDA on a year-to-date basis. That's a very, very strong Rule of 40 performance. It calculates out to about 286%, which by the very definition of Rule of 40, once you get above 40%, you should be getting higher multiples.

We also see that, as we think about that, this is – even if we didn't sell another contract, today, we've got $379 million of revenue value over the next 36 months sitting there in contracts, awaiting the implementation and deployment. And that's based upon the customers' contractually executed schedules. That means that we've got $121 million of revenue over 36 months that's in production and creating recurring revenue that includes [ph] ARDA (00:52:07) and it also does not include the not-contracted revenue from within Artilium. So this is a vivid reminder that customers love very much what we are doing for them.

With the Artilium acquisition, the management team and I believe that we have substantially completed the turnaround of Pareteum. Pareteum doubled its sales by the end of this year 2018 over 2017. And now with Artilium, on a pro forma view, we're going to double them again with the Artilium acquisition.

Our market cap has dramatically increased from $50 million in November of 2017 to I think Denis just quoted $227 million. We are now included in the Russell Index and we're poised, we believe, to move higher in 2019.

It's a real testament to Pareteum shareholders and our management team that we've grown from $0.90 a share on November 7, 2017 to $2.29, which is 154% growth through one year. We're very pleased with that, but we're not satisfied with that. And we don't think it reflects the fundamental performance of our company and the results that we've been producing.

Denis noted for you that our long aspirational view is $25. We have a plan in place to produce the results to support that target. That would be a 1,200% upside. That's what our team is focused on. It is a long goal.

We seek your support in helping us achieve these long target views. And with that, I say thank you and our third quarter earnings call is concluded. Thank you, teammates. Thank you, stakeholders. Bye.

And this does conclude today's conference. We thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.