Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Steven van der Velden — Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Elephant Talk Communications Corp.
Paul Burmester — Chief Executive Officer, ValidSoft Ltd.
Mark Nije — Chief Financial Officer, Elephant Talk Communications Corp.
John Nobile — Analyst, Taglich Brothers, Inc.
Edward Woo — Analyst, Ascendiant Capital Markets LLC
Kevin Dede — Analyst, H. C. Wainwright & Co. LLC
George John Melas-Kyriazi — Executive Director, MKH Management Company LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Please standby, we're about to begin. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Elephant Talk Communications Shareholder Update Conference Call. During today's presentation, all parties will be in a listen-only mode. Following the presentation, the conference will be open for questions. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded today, May 12, 2015.

And now, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Steve Gersten of Capital Markets Group. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you. Good morning to everyone in the United States and good afternoon to our European listeners. And thank you for joining us for the Elephant Talk Communications shareholder update conference call.

On our call today will be Mr. Steven van der Velden, CEO of Elephant Talk; Mark Nije, CFO of Elephant Talk; and Paul Burmester, CEO of ValidSoft. Following management's discussion, there will be a Q&A session open to all participants on the call. As the operator has already mentioned, now before we get started, I'm going to review the company's Safe Harbor statement. Remarks made on this call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 as amended and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 as amended.

All forward-looking statements are inherent uncertain, and they are based on current expectations and assumptions concerning future events or future performance of the company. Listeners are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which are only predictions, and speak only of the date hereof. In evaluating such statements, prospective investors should review carefully various risks and uncertainties identified in this conference call and the matters stated in the company's SEC filings. These risks and uncertainties could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements.

With that out of the way, I would now like to turn the call over to Elephant Talk's Chairman and CEO, Mr. Steven van der Velden.

Thank you, Steve. And thanks to everyone for joining us today for our shareholder update call. The start of 2015 has been exciting, as we are witnessing the beginning of our expansion into new geographies in North America and South America.

On April 29, 2015 and April 30, 2015, Elephant Talk North America was invited to be present at the Verizon Partner Summit in Miami as one of three vendors participating, alongside with Coriant and Cisco. Elephant Talk North America was highlighted from the stage as the intended partner to power Verizon Partner Solutions, new pre-paid MVNO offerings in North America. In the United States, ETNA will, if selected, provide the platform for Partner Solutions of Verizon Pre-Paid program as a branded Powered by Elephant Talk solution.

Our North American model is now similar to the model we have been applying successfully with Vodafone in Spain. In exchange, for a monthly hosting fee per subscriber to be paid by the operator, we help the operator to better service their existing as well as future virtual operator partners through making available ET's highly reliable mobile platform, offering a broad portfolio of mobile service capabilities to specifically suit the agile, flexible needs of such mobile operator partners.

Overseas, we are diligently to be working with LOWI along with Vodafone in Spain. We recently topped a critical mass user number for the LOWI brand, which is followed on our platform. This fast growing volume is considered a significant success, achieving these type of postpaid subscriber numbers in a relatively short timeframe since the launch of the LOWI brand around the event. The launch is considered by Vodafone as one of the most successful new MVNO launches in Spain and in the entire industry.

Building on the success, we are working with Vodafone to not only increase the numbers of users on our platform in Spain, but to look to work with new brands and new geographic markets as well. Recently, we signed a new platform contract in Brazil subject to our client obtaining an MVNO license from Anatel, the Brazilian telecoms regulator with a substantial, initial customer capacity. Our client entered into an agreement with one of the largest mobile operators in Brazil to use their network covering all of Brazil as their host network.

Last month, our clients submitted all required documents to the regulator to obtain all of the necessary licenses and permits to operate in this market, actually by far, the largest market in South America, which are expected to be granted over the next couple of weeks. If all goes well, we expect the platform to be up and running by the end of this year.

As we previously filed in an 8-K, our 2014 Annual Report as well as in this 10-Q, as discussed during our last earnings call, our relationship with Iusacell/AT&T is coming to an end. At this time, we are in discussions regarding an amicable settlement and exit under the contract terms. And we expect a positive final settlement to take place shortly. The settlement will take into account the payment of outstanding receivables combined with payment for a portion of the work that was to be completed during the contract. The settlement will provide us the necessary means to move forward with our long-term growth strategies and to pay down a substantial part of the obligations to our debt lender. I want to reassure all of our shareholders that this is not based on the lack of success or inability of Elephant Talk to perform. The decision reflects AT&T's desire to maintain consistency within their global operations and choosing to use their legacy vendors as they enter this new geography. In fact, we expect to work with other brands in the Mexican marketplace in the very near future.

Over the past two quarters, Zain has had significant business development in Saudi Arabia and it's now operating three brands on our network; Sky brand, an M2M brand; Matrix, an international roaming brand; and Simpati, a cross-broader brand of Telecom Indonesia. We expect that in the coming two quarters, more brands to be launched jointly with Zain that likely will bring users into six digits hosted SIMs on our platform.

Next week, we will announce the new MVNO in the Dutch market to be hosted on our mobile platform. It is specialized in offering secure connectivity services to the customer and enterprise markets. Elephant Talk provides this MVNO with voice and data services through its state-of-the-art MVNE platform, using the latest software-defined networking capabilities. Even though the overall revenue impact most likely will be delivered, this will be the fifth MVNO in the Netherlands enabled by Elephant Talk Communications.

ValidSoft is continuing to make progress in employing its products globally.

I will turn the call over to Paul to discuss ValidSoft in further depth.

Thank you, Steven. After a very encouraging start to 2015 with two new contracts signed, we continue to go from strength to strength with our strategy to commercialize ValidSoft and is very pleasing to see our momentum continue to gain pace and as such, I'm delighted to announce with a third major commercial contract for 2015. This latest contract has just been signed with ImageWare Systems, which is a U.S.-based OTC listed corporation. ImageWare Systems is a market leader in providing identity management solutions delivering a single platform of best-in-class biometric solutions to manage millions of identities worldwide with a varied client and partner portfolio, including TransUnion, Fujitsu, IBM, and CA Technologies.

After a rigorous process of trials, tests and commercial review against other Voice Biometric vendors, ValidSoft is being selected as the preferred voice biometrics technology provider for ImageWare Systems going forward. Most importantly, this deal not only validates of superior technology and gives ValidSoft a leading channel partner on a reseller for our Voice Biometric technology, but it also provides us with an existing channel pipeline of contracts that are already signed by ImageWare Systems and are currently under development and deployment with them. Therefore, we're very excited by this new partnership with ImageWare Systems and its potential to complement and accelerate our growth in the voice biometrics marketplace. We look forward to providing further updates on this in the very near future.

In our last earnings call, we announced a new commercial contract for our enhanced User Authentication platform featuring our voice biometrics technology. The customer, a US-based NYSE listed corporation, will utilize our User Authentication platform with Voice Biometric technology to authenticate their out-of-office based agents in the US in a secure and user-friendly manner.

Not only is this a significant new customer of ValidSoft, but it's also pleasing to see our successful expansion into a new geography and a new industry service sector. And this is further validation of our new commercial strategy. As you will no doubt appreciate giving the nature of our business, the confidentiality of our customers, their data and their deployment details is of paramount importance. And as such, it's not always possible to ValidSoft name and promote our customers in every incidence of the point of contract execution. So we very much appreciate your continued understanding and patience in this regard.

As we continue to develop and enhance our product portfolio with some notable updates to our Voice Biometric technology at the start of this year, our endeavors are now bearing fruit as they have enabled ValidSoft to displace the existing suppliers of Voice Biometric technology within two major customers, based on the technical performance and strength of our Voice Biometric engine during comparative trials. And, in fact, the leading CTO of one of our customers described our performance and results as astounding. After being consistently recognized as a leader in voice biometrics industry by a wide range of analyst organizations, it's rewarding to see further praise and endorsement from commercial customers as well.

As you know, we recently announced the successful deployment of our Device Trust platform in partnership with FICO, the second major UK bank. Not only is our solution now in full commercial use, but we have seen a substantial increase in SIM Swap detection transaction volumes from both deployments currently on the platform. And we're also delighted to announce that during this quarter, we are going live with an extension of our Device Trust platform within one of our existing customers to include our international proximity correlation functionality. And we look forward to providing further updates on the growth of our Device Trust deployments in the near future.

Finally, we previously highlighted that ValidSoft had been successfully audited and recommended for ISO 27001, which is the industry standard for information security management. And we are now pleased to announce that since that time, we have formally received full ISO 27001 Certification. This enables us to promote our compliance and certification to our growing pipeline of commercial opportunities as a further and key endorsement of our approach to securing customer data.

I will now hand over the call to Mark to discuss our financial data. Mark?

Thanks, Paul. I will now discuss the company's financial results for the first quarter. As mentioned in the previous earnings call six weeks ago, as a result of the application of the US GAAP accounting rules, we will provide going forward investors both GAAP and non-GAAP revenue information. GAAP revenue was $5 million in the first quarter compared to $5.4 million for the same quarter last year, a decrease. This revenue was negatively impacted by exchange rates impact of more than $700,000, following the devaluation of the euro against the US dollar. The non-GAAP revenue, which is the GAAP revenue adjusted for changes in deferred revenue, was up by 23.4% from $6.5 million first quarter last year to $8 million this quarter. Part of this revenue increase was related to the revenue from our Iusacell contracts. Upon terminations of the Iusacell contracts, the company will lose approximately $1.3 million non-GAAP revenue per month that it had been earning in the first quarter of 2015.

Depending on the size of the settlement agreement with Iusacell, the company estimates that the non-GAAP revenue for the second quarter of 2015 will not be much negatively affected by this yet. At the same time, the GAAP revenue is estimated for Q2 to be substantially impacted in a positive way, in case, the Iusacell termination and settlement is concluded then. Upon the settlement of full release of Elephant Talk's obligations towards Iusacell, the full amount of deferred revenue related to the Iusacell contract, which resides on our balance sheet, will be released from the balance sheet and recognized as revenue.

I will now briefly turn to a number of other items of the income statements. Costs and operating expenses for this quarter were $8.3 million, a decrease of approximately 7.8% compared to the $9 million in expenses for the same period prior year. Other income and expense showed a gain of $1.1 million compared to a loss of $1.5 million previous year's quarter. This gain was for the majority caused by the extinguishment of an old debt provision in our books that could finally be released this quarter.

As a result, also of the other income and expense gain, net loss for the first quarter improved from a net loss of $5.2 million last year to a net loss of $2.1 million this year's quarter. Adjusted EBITDA, our other non-GAAP metric proved from breakeven last year's quarter to a positive $2.3 million first quarter this year.

Lastly, as we have reported previously, the company was informed by its lenders through their agents, Atalaya Capital, that we are in breach of certain covenants under the credit agreement following away the intended termination of the Iusacell agreement. The company has been working closely over the past few months with Atalaya to resolve the situation and the associated Iusacell settlements.

This concludes our financial summary. And I'd like now to turn the call back to Steven for his closing remarks. Steven?

Thank you, Mark. With the conclusion of our settlement with AT&T weeks away, we are focusing our attention on all of the new business opportunities we have in the US and Brazil and in the Far East as well. We remain confident that we are poised to deliver on our strategic plan and secure large-scale revenue-producing projects. Looking out in 2015, a few key milestones are ahead of us. Our contract with Vodafone is growing and we recently topped the critical mass user number for the LOWI brand in a relatively short period of time, and we expect to deploy in new locations throughout the coming years.

We have many options to continue to utilize our platform in Mexico that we are currently working on, all supported by our proven success in that market. We are very much looking forward to upscale our partnership with Verizon to a contractual level in the weeks ahead. That will give our North American market presence a substantial boost. We expect to launch new services in Brazil later this year, once our partner goes through the formalities of achieving the license process, which should take a few more weeks.

ValidSoft is now excelling on its global sales initiative, having launched with several financial institutions and other leading companies from both Device Trust and Voice Biometric products. Our long-term growth strategy is on track and we have begun the successful deployment in new markets around the world. We are working diligently to turn our hard work into positive results for our shareholders.

This concludes management's update portion of the call. I would now like to open the floor up for any questions that you may have. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

And we'll take our first question from [ph] Robert Schatz (00:22:38).

Hi, Paul. Thanks to both Paul and Steven for the update. I have a question for Paul on the SIM Swap with the banks. So you've got two banks now with SIM Swap and one of them is going to Proximity Correlation Logic. Years ago when this product was launched, we always looked at the Proximity Correlation Logic service as generating a lot more revenues than the SIM Swap. Is that still the case?

Probably not. Obviously, I can't really comment on things that predated me. But first of all, it's important to be clear this is International Proximity Correlation. So the experience or the process, if you like, will be when an individual is roaming in a foreign country, they're outside of their home country. And in many instances, their card might be declined at an ATM or point-of-sales terminal, because they are roaming abroad and perhaps they didn't tell their bank that they were going abroad. In that instance, as part of the bank's risk assessment and transaction verification, they can then choose to find out if the mobile number associated with that person and that account is actually live and roaming in the same country as the transaction that he is attempting to take place. So, it's not domestic or granular correlation, it's international roaming correlation and it's to avert that sort of international fraud and also the high volume of forced declines that might happen.

Okay. Thank you.

We'll take our next question from John Nobile from Taglich Brothers.

Hi, good morning or afternoon depending on where you are. I just want to make sure I have this fact correct. Did you say that without Iusacell in the first quarter, was that about $1.3 million a month in lost revenue. Is that correct?

Yes. Well, in Q1, we realized that revenue as non-GAAP revenue and if the contract will finally terminate as expected in Q2, that revenue will be indeed lost.

Okay. And I just wanted to get an idea of how big Iusacell was to total revenue in 2014. I was wondering if you had that number, what percentage of total revenue was generated from the Iusacell contract?

Yeah. It was somewhat less important as the business, of course, in Iusacell was ramping up. Mark, do you know more or less the percentage of that revenue base last year?

Well, it depends on GAAP revenue or non-GAAP revenue. The GAAP revenue was around 25%. If you talk about the non-GAAP revenue, it's more like 45%, 50%.

Okay. On non-GAAP, it was about 45%, 50% or but GAAP the way you used to – I mean, the way you're reporting now it's about 20%, so basically a very significant customer.

Now, in regard to that AT&T plan, I was curious if they were looking to revert back to the legacy systems that the customers who were already on your system that migrated to your platform, are they going to be maintained on those platforms, or do you think AT&T is going to take them off of that?

It's difficult for us to say what AT&T will ultimately do, and I think it's also not wise for us to comment on that. For the time being, they are bit by bit returning to their legacy systems and from there onwards, I have to assume that AT&T will substantially improve [indiscernible] (00:26:49) the time to come. And ultimately, it might be a mix of legacy and more modeling systems. But again, I think we are not in a position to really comment on that.

Okay. And could you shed some light as to how the subscriber growth with Zain has been, more specifically subscriber growth over the quarter now that Zain is operating three brands on your platform and that's really over the last one or two quarters that they started to really increase.

Yeah.

So I wanted to get an idea of the growth over the quarter.

Yeah. Well, that information we are not privileged to disclose that. But as we indicated, we expect that growth to materialize into the six-digit number by the end of this year and we are quite well on track on reaching that. So, it's a substantial number and let me answer this very generically, it's somewhere between, let's say, zero and $100,000. But as I said, we are really on track on reasonably rapid growth and we would be more than happy if by the end of this year we would indeed be on that six-digit level.

Okay. And you anticipate obviously with the growth in Zain and looking at Vodafone also growing that it should successfully replace maybe what might be lost through lusacell where you can actually grow revenue in the second half of the year. I believe you mentioned on the prior quarter, you were looking at that?

Yeah. But I think it's a little bit overdone to expect that the growth at Vodafone and Zain can make up for the loss in non-GAAP lusacell revenues. As we indicated earlier, we have confirmed that this was a combination of cost cutting on one hand and looking for additional revenues on the other hand. And the additional revenues are a mix of the growth of existing customers, but it's definitely coupled with new customers that we want to see getting online, like for example the Brazilian contract that we mentioned.

And could you shed some light into that Brazilian contract, the size of that new contract?

Well, again also here, Elephant Talk is a B2B supplier to our customer partner in Brazil. So at the end of the day, we depend on how successful our partner will be in attracting MVNO business in the Brazilian market. But the platform has a substantial dimension and we believe that given the size of the Brazilian market and a lot of mature state of MVNOs taking that market that our customer has a very high likelihood of becoming a very successful player in that market. And that would ultimately after maybe one or two years reflect very positively on our revenue base. But I think it's – really, it would be too optimistic to give you just a number like that. But I think it could ultimately grow into one of the largest customers.

Okay. Does any of the deferred revenue that's on the books contain Iusacell currently and if so how much of that?

I would rather leave that question to Mark.

Yes. So a substantial if not the largest part in the deferred revenue is related to Iusacell. So it will have a substantial impact going forward.

Okay.

I think the total amount of deferred revenue is around $13 million now and the largest, by far the large part of that is Iusacell.

Okay. I was hoping maybe you could quantify exactly what part of that was Iusacell?

No, we did not disclose that.

Just one quick question. Any idea of when you expect to settle with AT&T, are we looking at days, weeks or months at this point?

Well, it's very difficult to exactly plan those roadmaps, but both sides are working diligently towards an amicable solution. And if I would have to give it my best guess, a matter of days is too optimistic, a matter of months is clearly too pessimistic, I would say a matter of weeks.

Okay. All right. I'm looking forward to seeing how that's shapes out. Thank you.

Thank you.

We'll go next to Joe Peters.

Yes. Hi. Thank you for taking the call. My first question is really from Mark in regards to the balance sheet. I know yesterday's 10-K basically stated there's about $1 million left on the balance sheet. And I just want to kind of tie it into and relate it to the loan that was taken in November, which from what I understand was about $12 million, $3 million of which was immediately used to pay off a prior loan, but you show a balance is somewhere in the $9 million range. So basically, it seems like maybe it was like $8 million cash burn on that loan or if not the full $12 million used or taken from the loan initially?

No, the primary cause of us not having more money in the bank is caused by the fact that we have almost $10 million in AR outstanding from lusacell. So if the business relationship with lusacell had continued in a normal manner, then our bank balance would have been more in the area of $8 million to $9 million.

Right. So was the original $12 million taken in full at the – back in November on that loan?

It was taken in full with a $2 million held back, which was dependent on us completing a number of post-closing conditions. So we received $10 million out of which I think was around $3 million to $3.5 million rebate, we had about $1 million to $2 million in outstanding overdue payables that we needed to repay. So out of the $12 million, we had around $7 million to $8 million that actually came in. And then in January, upon concluding the post-closing conditions, we received from our lender the remaining $2 million that was held back initially.

Got you. And Steven, this question is for you, if you can give some sort of update as relates to Zain and the Axiom deal?

Well, Zain, we just discussed, we have currently three brands on the platform. We sincerely hope that we will add a few more in the next couple of months, that should bring the growth to what we discussed earlier, the six digits, hopefully by the end of this year. Axiom is still hanging a little bit in the air. They seem not to be getting their official MVNO license. So they may not be able to start in-depth quality. However, they may choose to start in different qualities, like for example, a brand. But, of course, these decisions as the B2B supplier to both Zain and Axiom are outside of our domain, I mean, we are just supplying their – them to service as soon as they are up and running. We have developed a very expensive, very strong proposition that Axiom can put into the marketplace. And I would expect at the end of the day, [ph] left all right, (00:34:56) that ultimately to hit the market in Saudi Arabia and ultimately bring customers to our platform. However, it may be in a somewhat different format than [indiscernible] (00:35:06) if Axiom would have been granted the official MVNO license.

Right. And what about the two US MVNOs that you had spoken about at quarter three conference call last year, in which you had basically stated that you'd hoped to announce something in quarter one of this year, which I don't believe I've heard anything coming from that?

That's correct. Those are still very small activities and as we already communicated during our last call, we have refocused virtually all of our attention to service. What we then called is Tier 1 [ph] and our (00:35:43) partner in the United States as having been invited to their conference in Miami a couple of weeks ago that actually I personally attended as well. We are now really focusing on this model, the same model that we have with Vodafone in Spain, basically helping the mobile operator to better serve their existing and future virtual operator partners. And we believe we have been very successful in deploying that model in Spain. That's where the strength of the company is. So we really look forward to allocate virtually all of our resources into that same direction into the North American market, ultimately bringing hopefully the same success as we have had with that in Spain.

Okay. Thank you.

Welcome.

We'll go next to Ed Woo from Ascendiant Capital.

Yeah. Thank you for taking my question. Going back to the Verizon Partner's agreement, can you talk a little bit about what does that entail? Do you guys have an exclusive relationship? Are there any contracts that are up and running already?

As we stated, we have not yet have just finalized into a contractual relationship. That's one of the milestones we hope to achieve in the next couple of weeks and months. We do not believe that this will be an exclusive relationship. We might be the kind of default preferred partner, but even MVNO would like to bring their own gear, their own technology. I would certainly assume that Verizon would be very much open to that. So we will be helping Verizon Partner Services to better help their existing and future customers. And we believe that that will become a very substantial business over time, but the exact contractual format is still up for discussion in the next few weeks and months. [indiscernible]

(00:37:42) Verizon's MVNO business in the US, is it a very good right now?

Well, I think, of all the carriers, Verizon is probably the smallest virtual operator player in the US, which interestingly enough brings many opportunities, because if you imagine that Verizon would become rather aggressive in that market as well like some of their competitors, there is quite some growth to be foreseen in that space.

Great. And then the last question I have is going back to lusacell. I know you guys are potentially working on the settlement. Are you allowed to pitch for business in Mexico, while this contract is still being settled or is it pretty much [indiscernible] (00:38:32) you guys are already out, trying to get new partners in Mexico?

No. Very good question by the way. No. Actually, the exclusivity that we have contracted for was lusacell run out, and since sometime we are indeed allowed to compete for a lot of business. Unfortunately, we missed quite a few opportunities in the Mexico marketplace due to their exclusivity in the past and we definitely hope to catch up in the next couple of months to make sure that we can regain that position in that marketplace.

But so since quite some time now, we are able to look at other opportunities and actually we are. And we are seeing an interesting sales funnel and hopefully a couple of opportunities will pop out of that in the not too distant future.

Great. Well, thank you and good luck.

Thank you.

We'll go next to [indiscernible] (00:39:29)

Hello, Steven. It's your [ph] ex-David (00:39:34) speaking. Look, on the financial side – do you hear me?

Yes, I do hear you, yes. Please go ahead.

On the financial side, the reason why the share price is acting in a very different way from what the company is doing, isn't it because there's such an enormous overhang of shares to be sold by [indiscernible] (00:39:57) and others and that this has nothing to do with the way the company is performing, but it's just a pressure downwards. And I don't know how that that can stop, because obviously your results are different from what the share price we're seeing?

Yes, but I think we should look at the developments that have taken place recently. The loss of the Iusacell contract as we discussed a little earlier, it has a severe impact on our revenues at least on our non-US GAAP revenues and thereby on our cash flows. So, I can very well understand that there is some hesitation in the marketplace about the ability of Elephant Talk to replace that revenue with new revenue either from existing customers or new customers that I've just discussed somewhat earlier and then, of course, in combination with the fact that we have been informed by our lenders that we didn't live up to all of the components, which requires a discussion with the lenders to reset the conditions.

And as we've stated before, we are now in parallel to discussing the Iusacell settlement also discussing the settlement or the reset with the lenders. And all that together, so, let's say the uncertainty about replacing the Iusacell revenues, about the settlement with AT&T/Iusacell about the reset with the lenders, I can imagine that all together provides definitely with certain overhang that gives some hesitance to the marketplace.

Regarding [indiscernible] (00:41:28) selling stock or not, I think they have in the past hardly sold any stock and for sure at some moment, as any fund would need to do, they would like to exit this investment, but I'm not sure that's going to happen at this price. So from that perspective, I think the overhang is probably mostly due to the fact that we are losing the Iusacell contract and that we have not yet been able to clearly communicate about the settlement with AT&T as well as the reset of the conditions with the lender. And I strongly believe that once those elements are out of the way and we are able to clearly show our growth path forward that a lot of this overhang will be settled.

We'll go next to Kevin Dede from H.C. Wainwright.

Hi, Steven. I hope you don't mind if I go back to the Brazil contract you talked about. I understand you're hoping it'll be one of your largest customers. I would imagine that would include a nationwide deployment there and that your client is well-capitalized. But what I don't understand quite yet is whether or not your client has an established brand name and if acting as an MVNO, who you might expect them to lease airtime from or if they're expecting you to perform that? And when do you think you might be able to recognize revenue from that deal?

Yeah. Okay. Kevin, thanks. We are now perfectly fine to get back to the Brazilian situation, because actually it's one of the positive highlights that we are able to communicate. First of all, I think our partner is pretty well capitalized. He himself is a successful entrepreneur and he has the backing of private equity funds in Brazil. Secondly, as we actually stated a little earlier, our client has already contracted with one of the largest mobile operators in Brazil that has indeed national coverage. And the only elements he is still waiting for is the formal MVNO license to be submitted by Anatel, the Brazilian telecoms regulator.

And as we indicated, we expect that still to take a few more weeks. I think altogether now the original application was submitted three or four weeks ago, and in general, these processes tend to take about seven, eight, nine weeks altogether. So as far as that's concerned, all signs are on green. As far as brands and so on are concerned, yes, we have been discussing with our partner how he wants to penetrate the market. And there are actually a couple of impressive brands partnering with him. However, it's not up to us to announce that. And I hope that as soon as the Anatel license will be granted to our partner, that there will be a news flow about that whole contract and that it's been, of course, up to our partner to announce these more specific details.

Your last question was about revenues. I would believe that non-GAAP revenues, mostly consisting of a variety of platform initiation revenues, may come in as early as the next quarter, of course, subject to the approval by the regulator over the next couple of weeks. We then aim to have the platform fully operational by the end of the year. So, really recurring US GAAP revenues should start early next year and then ramp up over the couple of years to come. And as I said before, yes, indeed, given the size of the market, given the position that our partner has in that market or can achieve in that market, indeed being well capitalized, we feel very positive that he can ultimately reach a very substantial position in that market.

Okay. On the Verizon deal, curious to know if you think they will market with you once you finalize your contract. I know you mentioned that being a big milestone. But once you find that contract in place, do you think that they'll actually market with you or do you think that maybe they're thinking that they run or have you run MVNO for them?

I would suggest that we wait till we have the final contract in place. But as an indication of their interest to create bit of a higher profile in the marketplace, the very fact that Tim Payne and myself and two of our staff of ETNA were invited to this conference in Miami two weeks ago and were introduced to some 200 of their existing and future partners, I think is a very good indication of their willingness to expose the capabilities that we will jointly be able to bring into the marketplace. But again, we are here a B2B supplier and at the end of the day, it's the willingness of our partner to create a more high or lower profile in the marketplace and the efforts that will come with that. But so far, the indications are [ph] using every partner, I would say (00:46:48).

I would agree. Last question for me and really for, I guess, just your insight on corporate strategy, I'm wondering how you see ongoing synergies between Elephant Talk and ValidSoft, particularly as each company seems to be gaining more steam particularly ValidSoft's new deal with ImageWare.

Yeah. Yeah.

I was just wondering if you would mind offering how you see those two companies working together or what you think happens longer term?

Yeah. Very good question. Of course, not so easily to address in a call like this and quickly, because there are many different thoughts about how that might work out best. It's clear that there is a converging market interest, because mobile services and security are two elements that are probably top priority of many mobile operators, many enterprises, many virtual customers, many users in the cloud. And I believe that ultimately just offering great mobile services is simply not enough, they need to be very secure at the same time.

On the other hand, a lot of the customers that ValidSoft currently and hopefully in the future is servicing are people, are companies that offer a solution for other companies that are active in the cloud. And in the cloud, it's a matter of a combination of connectivity and security again. So, I clearly see a converging interest in that respect.

On the other hand, the markets we are servicing are somewhat different, as the companies like ImageWare and some of the banks and other contract parties of ValidSoft reflect. Those are not mobile operators, they are a different type of enterprise customer. However, I believe that there is more and more interest for mobile operators also outside of the Elephant Talk mobile platform to deal directly with ValidSoft to deploy very powerful capabilities to ID customers, because the mobile operator at the end of the day is in the business of authenticating a connection, a line, a handset and [ph] a line will (00:49:08) also play the role of identifying the user behind that handset. And that could be a very neat addition to the overall portfolio mobile operators could offer in the marketplace, and become kind of a gateway, a kind of single sign-on platform behind which all kind of OTT players could make sure that they know exactly who they are dealing with. And mobile operators could probably create an interesting business model surrounding that model.

So as far as it's concerned, there are converging elements, there are standalone elements to be taken into this discussion. And it's a little bit unclear how this maybe building, but I think for the time being, ValidSoft and Elephant Talk are clearly together, although we will always consider any reasonable alternative where the ultimate value of those companies will be better unlocked for our shareholders.

Thank you very much for the thoughtful response, Steven. Appreciate it.

Thank you.

And thank you for answering my question.

We'll go next to [ph] Lee Hopper (00:50:13) from [indiscernible] (00:50:14) Investments.

Good morning. Could you give us a little more color on your deferred revenue? How you have to account for it? What the turnaround period of it is for?

Mark, I believe that's more of a question for you to answer.

Yeah. The deferred revenue in our situation is tied to the contracts duration that we have with our customers. With the result of certain elements of the invoicing that we do to our customers, they cannot be recognized. They need to be spread over the usually between four years to five years, because that's a typical duration of a contract that we have with our customers. And that means that the deferred revenue related, for instance, to Iusacell, which is a sizable portion, it's double-digit, meaning that if for instance, the contract with Iusacell is indeed finally terminated in the coming few weeks and all the obligations that we have are released, then basically it means that more than $10 million in revenue is going to be recognized immediately, since that's how the deferred revenue operates. So you need to defer over the estimated life of the customer relationship. If, however, the relationship is terminated, then that's a buildup of deferred revenue needs to be released to revenue immediately upon termination.

Okay. I guess, well, I'm confused, you're showing about $14.5 million on the balance sheet...

Yeah.

...$13 million of it being in current and $2 million being in long term.

Yeah.

What portion of the revenue normally would be deferred between one year and the rest – longer than one year, because it looks like most of it predominantly used within 12 months?

Yeah. And that's related to the Iusacell contract. Since the estimated life of the contract with Iusacell has been dramatically reduced from five years to basically a few months as a result of determination discussions, it also meant that we needed to reclassify the longer term deferred revenue to short term.

Okay. But in a normal contract, what percentage is going to be recognized currently and what's going to be deferred?

That depends on the phase of the contract. If at the beginning of the contract we charge implementation fees, set of fees and stuff like that, then initially a 100% of that revenue is deferred and will only start to be released into GAAP revenue once the platform is life and SIM start running. Once a contract is life an up and running and we have monthly recurring revenues, then in general, depending on the amount and the type of custom work that we do and whether there's any [ph] hardware (00:53:38) involved, that will determine how much of a certain one-off invoice needs to be deferred. So it's a little bit difficult to give a key metric on how much of revenue is going to end up in deferred revenue. It needs to be evaluated per single contract, per purchase order. And with our relative little amount of history, it's very difficult to make general assumptions on that going forward.

Okay. Thanks for that clarification. Another, are you guys still doing work for Iusacell?

Yes, we are still doing some work for Iusacell, but it's on a limited basis.

By what I'm hearing from you and looking at the numbers, it looks like they really haven't paid you in about six months. Is that true?

I'm not exactly sure whether it's six months, but they have paid has – not paid us for a substantial amount of time, actually since it's clear that AT&T was taking over.

I mean, from a negotiating standpoint, I mean, is AT&T just trying to put you in a hard place or should you have just told them you're walking out if you don't get paid?

Yeah. Well, that's, of course, all these things always crossed your mind. In the telecom space, it's usually the customer comes first. And it's normally not dumb to put that kind of pressure on your customer – on your, let's say, vendor, because at the end of the day, communications is all about being connected and having open lines, and it's really not considered as a pressure that means to try to fold your hand. So from that respect, we have always taken the position that the end customer comes first and we need to take care of connectivity.

Okay. And one last question. Can you give a little more color to what you mean that you've met critical mass at LOWI, or that LOWI has met critical mass?

Yeah. Well, it's not up to us to disclose all kind of subscriber levels in detail. That's, of course, up to our customer. But we know from the original projections that we [ph] clearly have (00:56:01) a pretty sizable, critical mass aspect. And that's very good, because we know that this gives trust to our customer that they are indeed going in the right direction and aggregating sufficient customers to look forward to this whole deployment with a positive mind. And I think that's why we are very happy that this critical mass has been reached and it's actually up to our customer to possibly announce an exact number in the near future.

Okay. One final question though. ValidSoft, how do you see that being monetized? I mean, at what point do you see significant revenues coming in?

Well, basically, ValidSoft is already bringing in a growing revenue base. And with the long-term Voice Biometric contracts that are already signed and poised to be signed in the near future, we believe it will become a more and more important contributor to our overall revenues and margin mix. The exact timing of all these elements will mostly depend on the deployment by channel partners like ImageWare, as Paul explained. Paul, maybe you can provide some more color on this?

Yes. I mean, at this point in time, our focus is to do two things, really to prove ourselves. And that means winning a number of probably direct deals in some of the industry sectors and we've displayed that ability with the first big US corporate win. And the second aspect is to get our channels in place, because ultimately we are a technology provider as opposed to purely a solution provider. And so companies like ImageWare Systems can be a fantastic channel for us. They are proven experts in the identity and transactional authentication and have a complete suite of solutions around multi-factor, multi-modal biometrics and identity. So they already have contracts in place and that can really accelerate our growth. And we will be seeking additional channel partners in those different industry segments to really accelerate that.

We'll go next to [ph] Robert Schatz (00:58:29).

Thanks. Steven, a few months ago when you were giving a presentation, you talked about if we lost AT&T, we'd see a dip, and then the revenues would be recovered pretty quickly. And then last month, we kind of came to the conclusion that by the end of the year, we'd be back to sort of where we were before Iusacell started online. Is that still the case?

Yeah. As we indicated, it's a mix. It's not just that we can easily replace the $1.3 million in monthly revenues as we discussed before. It's a mix of lower expenses, especially lower cash expenses. It's a mix of existing customers growing and hopefully new customers coming online and not only creating non-GAAP revenues from the initial leasing space, but ultimately moving into the recurring revenue space, which as Mark explained, are mostly recognizable revenues under US GAAP.

And we still believe that, let's say, from an overall perspective, that by the end of this year, we could be at a similar level where we were around here and the beginning of this year. And whether this is exactly going to be Q4 or Q1 [ph] needs on (00:59:51) a lot of timings and we are, of course, dependent on many other players that determine real timing, but we feel comfortable that with the cost cutting on one hand, with the growth of our existing customers, with the new contract that we have already partly announced and that we hope to announce in the near future that all these elements together will provide that balance that we are indeed at the end of this year, somewhere close to where we were at the end of last year.

And at what point do you think you'll be cash flow positive?

Well, that's, of course, a very good question. But it's a mix. There are so many different elements that play a role. But as we reported, we've had a adjusted EBITDA of some $2.3 million positive in Q1, which was actually the best result ever. That is a kind of metric that resembles our operational cash flow. And yes, the loss in Iusacell revenue might be larger than that current adjusted EBITDA level. However, in combination with the cost cutting, the growth of customers and new customers, altogether we hope to be able to bridge that [ph] with lot of that we see (01:01:10). And actually, we hope to not get to the point that we will be operational cash flow negative. We really hope that we can stay positive, although as I said before, there were so many elements that play a role here that is difficult to say. But even if we do get into a negative operational cash flow, it should be limited and we should be able to recover pretty quickly and that's also where we refer to as we were discussing the situation that we hope to be in by the end of this year.

This year's $2.4 million of EBITDA isn't most of that the Hong Kong notes being released?

I don't think that has any influence on the adjusted EBITDA, because those non-cash items are not included. But Mark, maybe you can shed some more light on that.

No, the Hong Kong release of debt is not included in there.

Okay. All right. Thank you.

Thank you.

We'll go next to George Melas from MKH Management.

Good afternoon, guys. I missed most of the call. I have just one question regarding to the AT&T settlement. Once you settle, they will release their receivables and also pay you a settlement to compensate for loss – for revenues that you would not get in the future. Is that right? So it should be – the receivables I think you said is close to $10 million plus [indiscernible] (01:02:46) settlement. Do I see those right?

Yeah. That's correct. The idea is that through the settlement both all the outstanding receivables from lusacell towards Elephant Talk will be paid, as well as some additional compensation for what it originally was planned to be done by us over the next few years. And that combination hopefully will materialize in the very near future.

Okay. Very good. Thank you. That's all.

Welcome.

And at this time, I would like to turn the call back over to Steven van der Velden for any additional or closing remarks.

Again, on behalf of everyone at Elephant Talk Communications and ValidSoft, I would like to thank everyone for joining us on today's call. And thank you to all of our long-term shareholders for their patience and commitment to the company. We look forward to providing additional updates on future developments in the very near future. Thank you very much, and all have a great day.

And this does conclude today's conference. We thank you for your participation.