Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Robert Harold Turner — Founder, Executive Chairman & Principal Executive Officer, Pareteum Corp.
Vic Bozzo — Co-Founder & Chief Executive Officer, Pareteum Corp.
Ashok Kumar — Analyst, Joseph Gunnar & Co. LLC
Lisa R. Thompson — Analyst, Zacks Investment Research, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, everyone, and welcome to the Pareteum 2017 Second Quarter Financial Results Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, the call will be open for questions. Instructions will be given at that time. Today's call is being recorded.

And at this time, I would like to turn the call over to [indiscernible] (00:22) Please go ahead.

Thank you, Ann, and good afternoon, everyone. Thank you for joining us today for Pareteum Corporation's second quarter ended June 30, 2017 analyst conference call. With us today are Hal Turner, Executive Chairman; Vic Bozzo, Chief Executive Officer; and Ted O'Donnell, Chief Financial Officer.

Earlier today, Pareteum released financial results and filed its Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2017. If you have not received Pareteum's earnings release, please visit Pareteum's Investors page at www.pareteum.com. Following the management's discussion, there will be a Q&A session.

During the course of this conference call, the company will be making forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934.

The company cautions you that any statement that is not a statement of historical fact is a forward-looking statement. This includes any projections of earnings, revenues, cash or other statements relating to the company's future financial results, any statements about plans, strategies or objectives of management for future operations, any statements concerning proposed new products, any statements regarding anticipated new relationships or agreements, any statements regarding expectations for the success of the company's product in the U.S. and international markets, any statements regarding future economic conditions or performance, statements of belief, and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing.

These statements are based on expectations and assumptions as of the date of this conference call and are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. Some of these risks are described in the section of the press release issued today titled forward-looking statements and in the public periodic reports that the company files with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Investors or potential investors should read these risks. Pareteum assumes no obligations to update these forward-looking statements to reflect future events or actual outcomes and does not intend to do so.

With that, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Hal Turner, Executive Chairman of the company.

Thank you, [indiscernible] (02:36). We really appreciate everyone being on the phone with us today, greetings to everyone joining us from wherever you are around the world. Well, today, the headlines read, Q2 revenues of $3.2 million, up 16% quarter-over-quarter; $60 million revenue backlog, 41% quarter-over-quarter, achieved positive EBITDA for the three and six months ended June 30. And, we are the winner of the 2017 Communications Solutions Product of the Year Award from TMCnet for Innovation.

Ladies and gentlemen, this is the very first time since November of 2015, when we have a sustainable momentum building and a very positive outlook for the future of our company. This Q2 quarterly analyst and business update call that we are now conducting is one that reflects our ceaseless drive for success. I think you will enjoy this call, which I tell you upfront is, not a victory lap. It's an acknowledgement of the visible positive progress that continues to be experienced by our business and it's an affirmation to you, our shareholders that we are intensely driving forward always.

So, as we move through this and after my remarks, Vic and Ted will join me in our Q&A session. And during that time, they will also have an opportunity to make comments on relative points regarding our progress. Hopefully, you've all had the opportunity to see our earnings release and the file 10-Q. So, I won't read that to you other than noting a few highlights.

So with that I'd like to really get started and dig into this. Pareteum has set out to connect people and devices wireless and wired from anywhere in the world. This is really our vision. We intend to deliver on this by providing the single best unified solution that fully enables and secures the Mobile Cloud. We are levering the power of our highly disruptive and fully integrated platform to deliver innovation, growth and quantifiable value for our customers.

These customer successes will translate into healthy growth and profitability for our company. The foundation is being laid. The building has begun and the fruits of our labors in having planted these seeds for success will likely be enjoyed for an extended period of time. We've all witnessed the phenomenal growth rates of a few selected companies in our industry. They've proven to be very good at creating value for customers through Cloud Communication Platforms as a service, much like we do.

The potential opportunity for Pareteum is clear as it's evidenced by the momentum and positive trajectory in our key financial metrics and key performance indicators in the Q2. Pareteum's ability to drive customer success is fueling our growth in seeding this company's long-term value creation. Pareteum's customers solve problems and seize opportunities that translate into increased revenues and new sources of revenue, plus they gain reduced cost and operational scaling, reduced CapEx expenditures. And in some cases shifting CapEx to OpEx.

Plus, our customers who use our platform become better competitors and they can become market dominators. And using our services and ability to innovate, it means that they can be very agile and are now equipped to dramatically grow and diversify their customer base in geographies served. This is a materially big advancement for our customers.

All of these things are available. Right now, Pareteum's disruptive Global Cloud Mobility Platform is working. Our Managed Services Platform is working and has been working for a long time. And importantly, our Application Exchange and developers' platform, utilizing our API for creation of applications and even new business models is working. These are winning combinations of services delivered from our 100%-owned and developed in-house software.

You think about this. Our planet and our world in which we live and the whole industry, where we operate are shifting really at rocket-level speeds to new things on a daily basis. New opportunities are arising very fast in IoT, mobile monetization and seamless connectivity.

It's our continual product and service development and innovation producing fully integrated turnkey solutions that are the keys to having our existing customers continually reward us with new contracts and extended contracts, and for new customers to want to join the party at Pareteum and reap the rewards of our services.

This is what Pareteum delivers. We have built it and we continue to develop it and we will build more of it. It is our [ph] Customer Success Platform (07:45). This is what seeds our future growth with the foundation for ongoing service development and sales successes by addressing clear market needs. Now, and as they evolve with very innovative solutions, we're pleased with our performance indicators in the second quarter of 2017. We did have quarter-over-quarter revenue increase. We have continued improvements in our adjusted EBITDA, and other key metrics and signifying what we believe is the most relevant indicator of our hard work and future prospects is a record-breaking $60 million revenue backlog. It will continue to grow based upon our visibility into the sales deals that are pending and the overall sales process. Sale is clearly our focus.

Revenue backlog is a rolling forward 36-month snapshot of signed customers and their associated revenues. As you know, I mentioned the revenue backlog in a Q1 update letter to shareholders. The end of Q2 revenue backlog of $60 million is a 41% increase over our revenue backlog at the end of Q1 2017. The same revenue backlog represents approximately a three-fold increase over where we were at the beginning of 2016. This is progress at its best.

It is at the moment of truth that our customers have voted. Revenue per employee is a key performance indicator, KPI, that we began tracking in Q4 of 2015. We increased this important productivity indicator by 18% quarter-over-quarter in Q2 to $215,945 from the previous Q1 number of $183,275. Year-over-year, the revenue per employee is up 183% from the $87,000 in Q2 of 2016, and we're up 359% since Pareteum started tracking revenue per employee in Q4 2015, when it was approximately $47,000. I consider this heroic performance by the team in the most dire, challenging and trying circumstances.

Also, Q2 has seen our team greet many new customers with the execution of multi-year contracts. You will likely have seen many of those press releases. These new agreements and those that will surely come firmly establishes a pathway to continued revenue growth. And if our team's initiatives play out as we expect, accelerated growth is within our grasp.

Very importantly, this growth for new deals already signed and expected new growth from those deals that we see coming brings us very high-margin monthly recurring revenue services and that provides a clear quantifiable value and results for our customers. Customers win, team wins and this is truly a clear and present opportunity.

Our ongoing restructuring and turnaround continues. This remains a very heavy lifting exercise and we simply will not rest until that job is completed and done. Vic, by the way, calls this our rebuilding of the airplane in flight. He says we're going from a propeller-driven biplane into a jet, and I'd say now we're putting rocket boosters on it, all while in flight, with full passenger seats and without parachutes. But we will do this. It is our pledge. It is this progress that has facilitated our ability to recruit management and sales talent that we believe are some of the best and brightest in our industry. We expect this recruitment to continue as our needs expand because of sales growth and success-based spending that's associated with sales growth.

For Pareteum, organizational effectiveness mandates that each head count slot be occupied by highly-motivated teammates that are skilled, knowledgeable and have the most proactive attitudes toward the company's vision and our success. Nothing less will do. In that context, recently, last month, we were honored to have Laura Thomas join Pareteum as our second new Independent Director this year. She will also Chair our Audit Committee. As a telecom industry veteran with deep domain experiences, relevant executive and key management contacts, Laura has demonstrated throughout her career a long commitment to building shareholder value and operating transparently. We believe Laura's appointment add significant value to Pareteum.

Laura has said to me that she joined Pareteum, because she sees how we are uniquely poised to capitalize on the huge and growing market opportunity that's created by the very dynamic and shifting environment of our industry. And, particularly, she said, because all things connected in mobile, as the new normal, she sees that we have a winning combination. We fully agree and we welcome aboard Laura Thomas.

It is through excellent team efforts that we've achieved the following recurring revenue generating contracts and new service product launches. Very briefly, we signed a three-year contract with THYNGS Wireless. THYNGS will use our Global Mobility Cloud Platform for its comprehensive IoT solutions, serving Smart City infrastructures. THYNGS serve about 90% of the taxi cab market in Las Vegas. And, as well, the New York City and Taxi Limousine market area.

As a result of subscribing to Pareteum's Global Mobility Cloud, THYNGS is able to save its customers over 50% on their monthly service fees compared to other alternatives. And, we are delivering superior mobile coverage and metrics previously unseen in their industry niche. This is just one example of how we deliver service solution platforms for customers' successes. We believe THYNGS is poised to growth, which means that Pareteum will grow with them.

We also entered the Brazilian market with a seven-year contract that includes paid-in-advance fees and committed monthly recurring revenue services. The customer is a leading Brazilian financial and marketing company that selected our Managed Services Platform through a Software as a Service agreement in a long-term and hard-fought battle. This was a milestone competitive win for Pareteum. We've been fighting this battle since I joined the company and before actually I joined the company. We expect an increase in the initial contract minimums, which were approximately $2 million into the eight-figure range and this is based upon validated projections of 3 million subscribers and devices within a three-year period. This one, ladies and gentlemen, may go even higher.

Brazilian subscriber services implementation is underway and the on-boarding is set to begin in Q4 2017. Demonstrating our agility and responsiveness to market needs, we also launched a new product in Q2. It's an on-demand hosted Home Location Register or HLR as it's called in the industry. This is another cornerstone for growth since we are disaggregating services into a use what you need, and use it when you need it selection menu via our Global Mobility Cloud Platform.

HLR is the main database location of permanent subscriber information for our mobile network. HLR has not generally been available in the market on an on-demand basis. So, therefore, to utilize HLR services, it required a large investment by Communications Service Providers wishing to deploy wireless services.

We have disruptively changed this business model, resulting in three new customers in just the past few months. More are expected to join us and to use our full suite of services. This is the epitome of Software as a Service, moving CapEx to OpEx, and extracting immediate value for those newly signed customers.

For market delivery of this new HLR service, we signed a Global Mobility Cloud Connectivity agreement, utilizing a leading UK-based communications service provider. Transaction-based revenue on this contract is in implementation and it's expected also to commence in Q4 2017. This customer will use our HLR services to enable subscriber database management and billing capabilities, think à la carte selection from our software services versus the old business model.

Just after the end of Q2, in July, we signed two more three-year contracts with UK-based Communications Service Providers for HLR. Those two agreements together represent more than 50,000 new subscriber equivalents for Pareteum. And, importantly, those agreements added another $1 million to our rolling forward 36-month snapshot of revenue backlog.

We worked hard during the second quarter to finalize the deployment of our Full-Featured 4G Broadband Services. 4G Broadband Services launched in July. The offering creates a dynamic opportunity and it's attracting new subscribers now and soon across our whole customer base. As it will surely grow in the coming months, it will drive new incremental recurring revenues for Pareteum. And these services allow our customer base, including mobile virtual network operators, MVNOs, that is, enterprises and Communications Service Providers hosted on the Managed Services Platforms and those on our Global Mobility Cloud to deliver full-featured advanced mobile services. These kinds of services are typically only available to subscribers in Tier-1 4G networks or bundle home cable-type services.

Examples of these services include streaming media, data-rich mobile web access, IP telephony, gaming services, video conferencing and virtual reality applications. As a confirmation in the industry's recognition of our innovation engine that we've created here at Pareteum, we were awarded the 2017 Communications Solutions Product of the Year Award for our Mobile Networking Software and Services by TMC in July. We're very proud of that.

We've continued to invest in our future, building the foundations for the even greater future growth, and we expect ongoing new service additions to our product roadmap in the coming quarters. These new services are designed to deliver innovations that benefit our customers now and as the customer needs will change and they will surely change.

Now, let's take a very brief look at our Q2 financial highlights. You may all have reviewed our published press release and our 10-Q, which was filed with the SEC for a detailed description of our financial results. So, I'll just touch on some of the trending and momentum highlights that are clear indicators of our company's performance.

Revenues were up 16% quarter-over-quarter. We expect this trend to continue and accelerate as our revenue backlog is converted into booked revenues, and most importantly as we continue to build the sales and marketing team.

Gross margins continue to be healthy in the 70% range. Both, operating and net losses, have narrowed considerably on a quarter-over-quarter basis, and even more so on a year-over-year basis. We recorded a positive adjusted EBITDA in Q2, much improved over negative adjusted EBITDA numbers in Q1 and Q2 of last year. We improved our cash flow by restructuring our credit agreement with Atalaya Capital Management, our senior secured lender. This has resulted in a $1.5 million more cash being available to Pareteum in 2017.

In summary, we traded a valuation that is dramatically below our comparable companies. This has been a difficult turnaround and [indiscernible] (21:07) turnaround by many, in many respects. But we persevered by doing the right things or we've been able to reset the company, its vision, its strategies and the way of working, being in sales, everybody being in sales. We've changed out the company with management almost completely. We've brought people with skills, knowledge and attitudes that are consistent with the vision of this company. We've dramatically reduced cost. We've reset the company to allow it to survive. And, we've restarted sales and marketing and we've been successful at it. We've executed for you, our stakeholders and we're going to continue to do that.

Now, I think it's time to hear from you by your questions, and as well from Vic and Ted comment as we address your questions.

At this point, Ann, operator, Ann, please open the call to a few questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Ashok Kumar with Joseph Gunnar.

Congratulations. Three-part questions. First question is on your backlog. And I would assume this is a contractual estimate for future revenues not yet [indiscernible] (22:37) and would you consider this as a better indicator of your progress to-date than revenues?

The second question is regarding Brazil. Given you have established this new business model, where you're building out MVNO for financial institutions and with potential revenue opportunity in the eight figures. Do you think this model can be duplicated or replicated in other parts of EMEA?

And the last one, I think, the HLR, the Home Location Service, I assume that's a significant enhancement to your platform and it indicated three customers had signed on and do you see increased momentum for this opportunity attraction with your platform for this particular capability? Thank you.

Thank you, Ashok. I would like to recognize Vic Bozzo to first speak about HLR and Brazil. And then, Ted will wrap it up with speaking about our revenue backlog. Vic?

Great. Thank you, Ashok. So in terms of Brazil, we absolutely feel this is a replicable model. Interestingly enough, we are finding that since we've put this contract in motion, we found that there are existing MVNOs, there are existing marketing companies within the region, who've come to us and asked if they can join that platform. So, we see creating a hub, so to speak, in these regions as a very good model, and it also allows us to continue to build out our Application Exchange concept around the globe. So, we'll be doing more of this. We're working very hard in other parts of the world, very interesting parts of the world to build more of these hubs. And the advantage, obviously, is that they're being funded by customers and companies that are either already in the space or looking to add subscribers.

In terms of the HLR-as-a-Service, it's quite interesting, because by virtualizing our platform from a pure Managed Service Platform into the Global Mobility Cloud, we were able to determine that there are feature sets that had already existed such as HLR within the platform that could be extracted into individual discrete product sets. And so, that was really a byproduct of virtualizing our service and putting it on the Cloud.

So we've seen a strong uptake in that model. And, actually since we've announced those relationships, we found a lot more customers who've come to us looking for that same service and it will be very important as IoT, the Internet of Things, takes over, because there'll be massive amounts of wireless devices that need to be managed in this way and there won't be the need for CapEx in this model.

Vic. Thank you very much. And now, I'd like to recognize Ted O'Donnell to address the question on revenue backlog. And, yes, there are contracts. Ted?

Thank you, Hal. When we go ahead and look at the revenue backlog, we believe it creates a full picture of our total revenue to be recognized over the course of the next three years and over the course of the contract. So, when we look at the company like Brazil, it doesn't really go ahead paint the whole picture by just saying that, we're going to be doing implementation revenues over the next six months. Because then we'll go ahead and switch over to [ph] on a prescriber (26:35) basis that will be recognize over the course of the contract. And looking at it this way, we're able to go ahead and I believe properly value the company. Most Software-as-a-Service companies will go ahead and [ph] they trade it on a (26:48) number of different ways. One of the great ways that we'll be able to go ahead and determine valuation is on a multiple contractual revenues.

So when we go ahead and say that we've grown from $41 million to $60 million over a course of one quarter this a huge jump of over 41%. And doing that, I think, we're really going ahead and saying we established ourselves as a company that's going to go ahead and be able to generate revenues in a timely manner over the next three, four years. And in doing that, I believe, we're establishing the ongoing viability of the company. I think, that should answer your question.

Good. Thank you. Ashok, any follow-on? Did we clarify everything for you?

Oh, yes. You did. Thank you very much. Thank you.

You're very welcome. Ann, next question please?

We'll take our next question from Lisa Thompson with Zacks Investment Research.

Good afternoon.

Good afternoon, Lisa.

So I just want to go through a little bit of – statements you made. You talked about – you said that you believe that revenue would continue to accelerate sequentially. What's your feeling about gross margins? Will they bounce around? And, do you feel that also the operating losses will continue to decline each quarter?

So, Lisa, on the first part of this, we do see revenue increasing. We see it smoothing out. This is coming from a number of small, medium-sized Cloud deals as well as the larger deals are baked into this. So, our viewpoint is very positive on that.

The margins, we think, will hover around the 70% to 71% range, as we reported this time. But it really depends upon the product mix of Cloud and Managed Services Platform and connectivity that drives those. So, we don't see our margins dipping any lower than the high-60s, but we see quite an opportunity to take the margins up into the mid- to high-70s.

As far as operating losses, we didn't come here to operate a loss-making business. We're driving as hard as we can to profitability not just on an adjusted EBITDA basis, but a pure EBITDA basis. And, certainly, the commensurate cash flows that go with that, and we have good visibility on the progress that we're making and think 2018 is going to be a banner year as it relates to that.

Let me turn to Ted to make sure I have not inadvertently overlooked anything and perhaps to expand upon my answer. Ted?

That was a great answer, Hal. We've gone ahead and also seen our operating expenses start to do a lot better. When we go ahead and look at some of the things that cause a little – you alluded to some instability before. When you look at the area of other income, there's some elements in there that ebb and flow like in the first quarter, we were able to go ahead and get rid of derivative liabilities. And there was an add-back to some of the expense there. So, some things like that can go ahead [ph] of course (30:13). But as it relates directly to gross margins and operating income, I think, we've gone ahead and established a clear pathway and are matching up our revenues now with our operating expenses very well and look forward to clear path as, Hal said EBITDA-positive and then operating-cash-flow-positive. Thank you.

So do you feel that operating income will become less of a loss this quarter or fourth quarter or there's startup cost for Brazil that won't allow that to happen?

We've continued to go ahead and grow and look forward to that. On an annualized basis, we know that's going to happen on a year-over-year basis that will definitely go ahead and happen as well. There may be some startup costs that are mixed in, but usually these type of startup costs, we've been able to go ahead, have our clients go ahead pay for implementation, so that will go ahead and allows to go ahead and continue to be profitable.

Now, it might go ahead and eat into our margins a little bit, as Hal alluded to earlier, but might go ahead and see if things dip down a little bit below 70% to 60% range. But having someone go ahead and pay for those implementations is a great thing for us. So we look forward to continuing to grow both, as far as the dollar value, gross margins and operating income in the future.

All right. And as I look at – it seems like every quarter, you have a restructuring charge. Is that ever going to end?

Lisa, from my perspective, we're nearing the end, but there clearly are a few things that we're still addressing, but I believe the restructuring charges are diminishing in size. And the combination of the restructuring charges and settlements that we're dealing with clearly have been driving some of this working capital deficit, but I think we're pretty close to the end of the restructuring charges. And, I guess, Ted, maybe you would want to add some to that, but I don't see it increasing by any means.

The lion share of the restructuring costs were completed through the third quarter of next year. So if we go ahead and look at sort of a demarcation point, we look at October 1st of last year. And if we look at the trailing 9 months going back to October 1st, we'd be adjusted EBITDA positive.

Now, there will be some restructuring costs. We find that our financial statement users by breaking out and showing these costs that are restructuring in nature or relational to settlements, but it's helpful for them because it also goes ahead and shows them how we're going to be going ahead and be doing in the future once these one-time costs are removed.

We'll take our next question from [indiscernible] (33:11).

Hi, guys. Can you hear me? [ph]

George, (33:17) hi. How are you? Yes. We can hear you fine.

Yeah. Good. Thank you. Nice quarter, guys. Nice quarter. A couple of questions, how do you see – and I know you touched on it earlier how, but how do you see -as and Vic, how do you see the product mix of the revenues going forward? I mean, we have the Cloud Platform. We have the more traditional high ticket items. I'm trying to discern IoT, Cloud and the more traditional stuff. How do you see the mix of that going forward over the next two or three years? [ph]

George (33:54), as you, I think, are aware from looking at our filings, all of it effectively backward-looking has been Managed Services Platform. So, we began in Q1 to add Cloud Services to that. We believe that, as we move toward the end of 2018, that we'll see Cloud revenue representing as much as 10% to 15% of the business and we hope to see IoT revenue in the 3% to 5% levels of the business. Those are sort of some indicative high-level viewpoints.

Now, if a lot of this has dependency on how our channel partner customers do. So, for example, you've heard us talk about THYNGS, T-H-Y-N-G-S, the company. So, a lot of that can be characterized as IoT business, but it also uses the Cloud. So, we've got to internally make some decisions on how we're going to characterize a lot of this.

But by pure definition, the Cloud will be the fastest-growing element. By pure definition, the IoT piece has the largest potential. But the monetization of the IoT piece is smaller compared to the monetization of the Cloud and smaller compared to the monetization of the subscriber of the Managed Services Platform. So all-in-all, we see hopefully to get the Cloud into this 10% to 15% range in 2018.

Okay.

Vic, do you want to add to that?

Sure. So, we're very cognizant of the mix. And, obviously, the margins are generally the same, but the rapid deployment on Cloud is an advantage. Also, the sale cycles on the Cloud are typically shorter. So, we are targeting typically one Managed Service deal for every four to five Cloud deals. And, so we're building our models that way and so far it's been pretty accurate.

Yeah. I mean clearly, the Managed Service doors are the bigger revenue ticket deals, but I can see us getting a us more recognition for the more hip, if you like, if that's an appropriate term for the IoT Cloud deals. So, I think, it's interesting. In short-term, I get the sense the high revenue comes from more traditional Managed Service, but the more visible – the things that will get more visibility and following will be the smaller deals. But the IoT and Cloud deals and I think that's indicative of what's going on in the future.

Okay. One more question – two more questions if I can very quickly. Can you – and I appreciate you can't share any customer names, but what will be the typical profile of an HLR customer in the UK? You mentioned the UK service provider. What are their characteristics? What do they look like?

Vic, you want to take that, please?

Sure. Sure. One other comment to your last question I wanted to make is that, well, Cloud deals and Cloud customers feel like they could be smaller from the beginning. Don't underestimate the fact that our customers also are application providers and those types of customers can scale dramatically and rapidly to lots of subscribers, so we are viewing what we're doing as the mobilization of not just the service provider market or the MVNO market, the IoT market, but also the application providers who all need to get a mobile strategy. So...

Yeah. Absolutely.

...we believe there can be lots of subscriber, maybe dramatically more subscribers on that side. The profile of the customers for the HLR-as-a-Service are, their traditional carriers. Many of them are in the – either the voice-over-IP space or the application space. And, traditionally, they would have to go out and spend large CapEx dollars to run the HLR. But they would also need to tap into a network that's already connected, that has their HLR connected to the world.

And that's a big advantage that we have today in that service is that, our HLRs are already connected to all the Carrier Service Provider. So, the typical structure would be an application service provider, a Carrier Service Provider, a VoIP service provider, and many of these are pretty well-established companies that have been in this market for upwards of 10-plus years.

Great.

And again, Vic, let me add one thing for George. George, we're talking about Managed Services, we're talking about Cloud, we're talking about IoT, but Vic has touched upon something that is really fundamental to long-term success in our opinion and it is the developer community. He talked about application developers. But the tool to enable those will be our APIs and the [ph] Developer's Tool Kit (39:53) that is being opened up, and that is a clear focus to have us be able to have people create their own businesses, their own applications and their own use cases within their customers, within their businesses. So, that's going to be a huge growth area. We embed that and counted as IoT, but it's really a separate segment.

Okay. I understand that. Thank you for that. And it's clear to me the fact that Pareteum owned its own IP is perhaps one of the key distinguishing differentiators for you, and that leads now to my last question. It's actually about the backlog. You say $60 million over three years. Do you think of that – how do you think of that? Is that an even split, 33% per year and how would you characterize it across IoT traditional Managed Services, channel partners, et cetera?

Okay. So, if you take a look at the growth number of $60 million, the way we look at this is about $45 million of that over the coming three years is associated with Managed Services Platform. The remaining $15 million is the ramping of the initial Cloud customers, but it certainly could go higher. I also want to note, again just the reaffirmation, we've chosen 36 months as the forward-looking range on this. But in most cases, we're dealing with customers who are signing five-year contracts and in some cases, seven-year contracts. So...

Right.

...there's actually more at the end of it. We're just not looking at it that way. So roughly the way I've just outlined it is how it would be split between Managed Services and Cloud. And, I quite frankly – we haven't broken out the IoT portion of that, which I will consider to be additive as it is layered onto that.

Okay. Yeah. Good. Thank you. Impressive. Good quarter, guys. Thank you. Thank you for taking my questions.

You're welcome. Ann, next question.

At this time, I'll turn the call back over to Hal Turner for any additional or closing remarks.

Oh. Were there any other questions? We're happy to take another question or two if...

One moment. And there are no further questions.

All right. Well, thank you very much. So if we conclude this, I want to leave everybody with just a few thoughts. You, our shareholders, have witnessed this turnaround that the team has implemented over the course of 2016 and well into 2017 and it is ongoing. We are surely going to continue to improve this business every day. We thank each of you for your support, your patience and your understanding during this time. We believe that you know how hard this team has worked and how diligent and never ceasing that hard work has been and how it's preserved our business operations and now they have the ability to create sustaining long-term value for our all of us.

During the second quarter, you've begun to see the inescapable positive results of this turnaround. The moment of truth is always in front of a customer when you ask them for the sale and we are in all sales. These moments of truth have been a litmus test and have provided strong indications of the tremendous potential that Pareteum holds to achieve its vision and that's enabling and serving all things connected, wired or wireless.

One of the ways we've achieved this vision is by providing what we think is a single best unified solutions to the problems of fully enabling and securing the Mobility Cloud and all the services required by Communications Service Providers, enterprises and their customers, including the developer community, which I just briefly touched upon and integrating our smart APIs. The pace of which we've been signing long-term contracts with customers and that are really leaders in their own geographies and industry niches is a testament to this. We certainly expect the rate of these sales to continue at an upward trajectory.

I want to acknowledge and thank our entire team for their hard work leading up to [ph] enduring (44:53) this second quarter and that especially includes our large customer technical support teams based in Spain, and our professional sales team under Rob Mumby's very capable leadership. These are the people that are creating our future every day. And with their successes, and all of these teams report to Vic Bozzo, who leads by doing hands on. He's hopping on a plane, as soon as we hang this phone, up to go to Spain.

The same goes for our finance and corporate teams led by Ted O'Donnell and Alex Korff. Every day, they and their teammates redefine the term all hands on deck. Everything that needs to get done gets done with the can-do attitude by this unit. Every person who has the privilege of being on the Pareteum team demonstrates that they take all individual and very personal responsibility for the customer's journey with our company, whether it's a bug fix to a billing run or a service demo or a new proposal, it really doesn't matter. This team gets it done.

So, our entire team from our board to the C-suite and every single teammate at Pareteum is committed to building our company. It's your company. And this is to pursue what we see as the true multi-billion dollar opportunity. This is the pent-up value that we think is here, that's going to be unleashed. So, we hope that you'll look forward to the more good news that's going to come.

In case there is any doubt, just a little bit, I'm paraphrasing to an old song and speaking for Vic and Ted and Alex and Rob, and all of us, and all the teammates, we are still excited and we're not going to hide it, and we're going to gain control in the market. Now, it's not on [ph] The Pointer's Tune (46:40), but you get the point. So, stay with us. The best days are ahead. We're going to space with this company. So, check out our new website and you'll see. So, let's enjoy our journey together and thank you, all, very much. This concludes our call.

Ann, over to you.

And again, this does conclude today's conference. We thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.