Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Alan Sheinwald — Founder, Capital Markets Group
Steven van der Velden — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Elephant Talk Communications Corp.
Paul Burmester — Chief Executive Officer, ValidSoft Ltd.
Mark Nije — Chief Financial Officer, Elephant Talk Communications Corp.
John Nobile — Analyst, Taglich Brothers, Inc.
Edward M. Woo — Analyst, Ascendiant Capital Markets LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the Elephant Talk Communications Corporation Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, I'd like to turn the conference over to Alan Sheinwald of Capital Markets Group. Please go ahead sir.

Thank you, operator. And good morning to everyone in the US, and good afternoon to everyone in Europe. And thank you for joining us for the Elephant Talk Communications 2015 second quarter financial results conference call.

On our call today will be Mr. Steven van der Velden, Chief Executive Officer; Mr. Mark Nije, Chief Financial Officer; and Mr. Paul Burmester, Chief Executive Officer of ValidSoft. Following management's discussion, there will be a Q&A session open to all participants on the call, as the operator has already mentioned.

Before we get started, I'm going to review the company's Safe Harbor statement. Remarks made on this call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 as amended and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 as amended. All forward-looking statements are inherent uncertain, and they are based on current expectations and assumptions concerning future events or future performance of the company.

Listeners are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which are only predictions, and speak only of the date hereof. In evaluating such statements, prospective investors should review carefully various risks and uncertainties identified in this conference call and the matters stated in the company's SEC filings. These risks and uncertainties could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements.

With that I'd like to turn the call over to Elephant Talk's Chairman and CEO, Mr. Steven van der Velden.

Steven, the floor is yours.

Thank you, Alan. And thanks to everyone for joining us today for our 2015 second quarter financial results conference call. A lot has transpired since our last call. So in my opening comments, I will provide an overview of the most recent developments in a simplified manner so everyone can understand the financial and operational status of the company as we stand today. I'll then go into an update on the status of contracts we have discussed in the past as well as new initiatives we have underway. As always, Paul Burmester, CEO of ValidSoft will provide you his business update. And then Mark Nije, our CFO will provide commentary on the financials specifics.

In June, we ended our relationship with Iusacell following the carrier's acquisition by AT&T, resulting in a global settlement of approximately $13.5 million, consisting of $12.6 million in cash and the remaining balance in exchange for certain obligations of Elephant Talk to Iusacell related to equipment. Because of this settlement, Iusacell revenue previously reported on the balance sheet as deferred was not recognized in revenue. Therefore, revenue for the 2015 second quarter totaled approximately $19.2 million as compared to restated $5.1 million for the same period the prior-year.

This revenue increase reflects the positive impact of this deferred revenue, which was approximately $11.6 million. In addition to the settlement as described above, we repaid approximately $5.7 million in outstanding debt obligations including some expenses and entered into a new amended credit agreement with our existing lender for a term loan facility of $6.5 million. This will allow us to roll out a full restructuring plan that I will detail to you in a minute.

Our non-GAAP revenue increased to $7.4 million during this quarter as compared to $6.8 million for the same period to the prior-year and contributed to a non-GAAP adjusted EBITDA of $2.2 million, approximately the same level as the two prior quarters. We should however realize the substantial one-time effect the Iusacell settlement it have on these numbers. In the third quarter, we will therefore see a huge quarterly revenue gap of around $3.9 million, which needs to be bridged as soon as possible through a substantial reduction of our cost base, paired with a service level and efficiency improvement in combination with new quest for revenues and margins, both also being a function of a strategic reorientation as we aggressively attempt to win over new customers and do what it will take to optimally service them.

During this entire process, our team has worked to undertake a comprehensive review of our current strategy, business modeling and organizational structure. The goal of this effort was to prepare a business to move beyond the settlement and to adopt a more aggressive go-to-market strategy on several fronts. From a shareholder perspective, these events have had a negative impact on our stock price. As shareholders ourselves, management, the board, as well as our employees are all very disappointed in the performance of the company share price. We understand that it is incumbent upon us all to perform at the highest levels and we believe that our new organization and commercial focus will translate into sustainable improvement of our company's performance and we hope will also be reflected in a high evaluation.

The cornerstone of this plan was the execution of the board approved restructuring effort as part of our new strategic initiatives to improve operational efficiencies, increase sales efforts and reduce expenditures. Thanks largely to the unique talents, expertise and commitment of our staff, we have been able to smoothly realize this transition. The plan included dividing our mobile platform business into two organizations; one, for Delivery & Operations led by Co-President Dr. Armin Hessler, and another one, Sales & Innovation led by Co-President, Martin Zuurbier.

With this new focus, we are now able to pursue new business and roll out more projects much more aggressively, which we are confident will positively impact our growth in the weeks and months ahead. The recent restructuring is expected to eliminate approximately $5 million of our 2015 cash staffing cost and SG&A, consisting mostly of a reduction in staff and the elimination of office locations. And the restructuring will bring a focus to more securing and supporting a growing number of mobile network operators as well as mobile virtual network operator customers in the Americas, Europe, the Middle East and Asia. While streamlining operations is our intent to double the size of our existing sales team over the next 12 months. As ValidSoft operates separately, they are not a part of this restructuring.

Our renewed focus is targeting a global base in excess of 800 mobile network operators helping them to better service their own brands as well as their wholesale and enterprise customers. In addition, to the hundreds of larger mobile virtual network operator brands, all of which see cost efficiency and reliable and rapidly deployable core network and operating support systems such as Elephant Talk's full suite of Software Defined Networking and Network Function Virtualization so called SDN and NFV enabled platforms.

Now more than ever, as was noted in the recent case study developed and published by Hewlett Packard, we are focused on delivering some of the industry's most advanced, flexible and cost effective mobile core network and backup office solutions available, backed by world class technology development, delivery and support capabilities. We believe that this unique capability combined was increasing the priorities of our sales organization while targeting numerous opportunities is critical as we ramp up our global growth initiatives. Management expects that this new operating structure and increased commercial focus will allow the company to quickly and cost efficiently scale the business in terms of staff and costs, as it adds expected new clients later this year.

Following the impacts of these developments, in line with earlier guidance provided and has also indicated during the call last quarter, we anticipate a return to normalized overall revenue growth and positive adjusted EBITDA starting in the fourth quarter of 2015.

Earlier, we stated that by the end of 2015, the beginning of 2016, we expected to achieve once again the revenue and adjusted EBTIDA base we have by the end of 2014, early 2015. Being in the range of total revenues are some $7 million to $8 million per quarter and positive adjusted EBITDA of around $2 million per quarter. And that same message can now be communicated again.

We should however realize that when we speak about these amounts, that we talk about overall non-GAAP revenue and adjusted EBITDA. And the largest increase in Q4 2015 and Q1 2016 to get back to the non-GAAP levels of last year will come from initial fees and installation charges. Thus, a substantial part may be reported as deferred revenues.

I would now like to provide our shareholders with an update on our customer development activities, with existing customers and pending contracts in the United States and South America. Each will be critical growth drivers for us for the next few quarters. First, mostly bringing in initial fees and installation revenues, but thereafter resulting in growing recurring revenues for 2016 and beyond.

Let's start with current operations in Spain, Saudi Arabia and the Netherlands. It is exciting to be able to mention that LOWI is growing steadily and that over the last six months together with Vodafone, we have been focusing on stabilizing the pretty good service and making smaller improvements. The service has been running fine since the start without any significant issues and is being perceived as one of the very best MVNOs in Spain currently.

Later this year, we expect to be able to share with you some service expansions and performance milestones, not only for LOWI, but also for the other MVNOs we service in Spain. Even though the total installed base of mobile subscribers hosted on our platform is still relatively modest, we see continuing growth taking place in Saudi Arabia. And even though we certainly had hoped for a much faster growing revenue base over the last few years, it's still good to realize that our operation in Saudi Arabia has contributed to over $5 million in billing so far since its inception, and currently runs on annualized run rate of some $2 million to $2.5 million in overall billings, while meeting our margin objectives. In the Netherlands, OpenMobile, a new MVNO brand hosted on the Elephant Talk platform, will start their actual marketing launch in the Dutch markets in early September, even though they have now been operational for a few months on the platform. While this is a small overall market, it's proven to present the number of opportunities for Elephant Talk, as we now have several new MVNO prospects, and expect to sign at least another new MVNO before the end of this year.

Now, let me provide you with an update on two very important pending contracts. Please bear in mind that until such time as fully executed contracts are secured, I'm not able to discuss specifics, but we want you to have transparency on these new customers and the activities we have undertaken since we last communicated with you.

In North America, earlier this year, as you all know, Elephant Talk was invited to Verizon's Partner Summit in Miami, where it was introduced as one of three vendors, with the other two vendors not the mobile platform providers. Elephant Talk North America was highlighted from the stage as the intended partner to power Verizon Partner Solutions' [ph] new pre-paid (15:21) MVNO offerings in the North American market. In the United States, ETNA will, if selected, provide the platform for Verizon Partner Services prepaid program as a branded Powered by Elephant Talk solution.

As you can imagine, working through a contract with an organization, such as Verizon, is an extensive process. One, it involves a large number of details and different business units. This complex transaction does take time. At this point, I can report that we are finalizing a Master Services Agreement, and are currently completing necessary compliance and credit documentation required to commence service deployment and customer acquisition. We have no reason to believe that these matters will not be resolved over the next few weeks, with the first revenue being recorded in the fourth quarter of this year.

In Brazil, as we also indicated on our past conference call, Elephant Talk was selected as the platform provider for a new virtual operator to be operated on the network of one of the largest mobile operators in the country.

We have been informed by our customer that a required license from Anatel to Brazilian telecoms regulator will now be granted in a matter of weeks. In that time we have completed initial pre-deployment activities in support of this customer, so we are prepared to relatively, quickly get this project up to full speed.

Subject to the timely granting of the operating license, Elephant Talk will hopefully complete systems deployment later in the fourth quarter and commence operations either just before the end of this year or otherwise early next year.

Finally Mexico, we are in the final stages of reentering that market. We hope to be able to share this news further with you in the very near future.

I will now turn the call over to Paul to discuss ValidSoft in further depth. Paul?

Thank you, Steven. After clear commercial progress at the start of 2015, we have continued our strong momentum into the second quarter of this year. Firstly, I'm delighted to announce that our International Proximity Correlation capability has now gone live with both of the major UK banks currently using our Device Trust Solution in partnership with FICO. This is testament not only to the unique capability of our technology, but also to the successful track record we achieved in partnership with FICO and the focus that we have put on data protection and high-quality transaction processing within our existing Device Trust deployments.

With these live Device Trust deployments in mind, I'm very proud to say that we're now securing transactions for over 17 million individual customers in the UK. Additionally, we are currently running Device Trust proof-of-concepts with two additional major banks in the UK. And given the benefits we've already delivered for our existing clients, we are very confident that we will see a positive conclusion to these trials before year-end.

As a result of our participation in the prestigious Payments Council Innovation event in June, I'm pleased to announce that we have signed a new channel partner agreement with Virtusa Inc. Virtusa is a global information technology services company, providing IT consulting, technology and outsourcing, and they are a significant addition to our channel partner portfolio providing services to a wide range of industries from financial services and telecoms to retail and healthcare. We've already seen very positive results from this new partnership and are currently supporting Virtusa in a proof-of-concept with a leading financial services company.

On our last call, we announced that ImageWare Systems had selected ValidSoft as their preferred supplier of voice biometrics. And I'm now pleased to announce that we have completed our integration with ImageWare Systems and already beginning the enrollment of some of ImageWare's existing clients while also working together on some exciting new opportunities. And I look forward to sharing further details on this successful partnership in the near future.

At the start of the year, we announced a new large commercial contract with a major U.S. corporation for our User Authentication platform, featuring our voice biometrics technology. And I can now announce that the project is gone extremely well and that we are delivering the final integrated solutions to launch this month on time and to plan. The corporation will be using our voice biometric technology to authenticate their staff access to their systems and data and initially they will be rolling it out to their 5,000 remote U.S.-based staff during September.

As we see significant commercial growth in the voice biometrics market, we are investing in our team and technology accordingly. And to this end, we have recently made the notable addition with Dr. Federico Alegre to our Voice Biometric team.

Federico brings a range of expertise in speech and anti-spoofing technology, which will be key to ensuring that our voice biometrics engine remains best-in-class. As ValidSoft is proving to be a strong and an agile commercial player with valuable technology in user authentication and voice biometrics, we now have many of the tools and resources required to build on our success so far this year. And I very much look forward to announcing further progress in the near future.

I will now hand over the call to Mark to discuss our financial data. Mark?

Thank you, Paul. I will now discuss the company's financial results for the 2015 second quarter. As mentioned in the previous earnings calls, as a result of the application of U.S. GAAP accounting rules going forward, we will provide investors with both GAAP and non-GAAP revenue information.

GAAP revenue totaled $19.2 million in the 2015 second quarter, as compared to $5.1 million for the same quarter last year. As Steven mentioned earlier, revenue during the quarter reflected the accelerated recognition of $11.6 million from deferred revenue to recognizable revenue for this quarter, as a result of our supplement agreement with Iusacell. On the U.S. GAAP, the buildup of deferred revenue on the balance sheet of a particular customer is released in one go when the contract is terminated and no delivery obligations are left with the supplier in this case indeed.

In addition to the deferred revenue release, following the contractor termination, there was also revenue recognized from the Iusacell settlement in this second quarter of 2015 of around $3.9 million that was recognized immediately. I would like to comment that with the release of the $11.6 million deferred revenue from Iusacell, not all deferred revenue is removed from the company's balance sheet, since other customers of the company also carry deferred revenue elements, which are recognized over an extended period of time.

The non-GAAP revenue, which is the GAAP revenue adjusted for changes in deferred revenue, totaled $7.4 million during the 2015 second quarter as compared to $6.8 million for the same period of the prior year. This year's non-GAAP $7.4 million included the earlier mentioned $3.9 million of Iusacell current revenue.

A second major event this quarter was related to the Atalaya/Corbin agreement, which had to be renegotiated. In the anticipation of the final closing of an amendment, the company paid approximately $10 million to Atalaya in June, reducing the outstanding debt on the face of the balance sheet at June 30, 2015 to around $2 million. Following the amended agreements of July 9, Atalaya paid the company the funds in order to raise a new principal outstanding balance of $6.5 million.

In addition to the reduction of the principal amount from $12 million to $6.5 million, the amended agreement also increased the interest by 1% and additional warrants were issued to new lender in addition to certain change fees. Furthermore, the customary covenants were adjusted.

I will now briefly turn to a number of other items of the income statement. SG&A and product development expenses exclusive of stock-based compensation were $3.8 million this quarter compared to $5 million same quarter last year; a decrease of $1.2 million or 24.4%.

For the six months period, the decrease was $2.1 million or 21.6%. The reduction in expenses for the second quarter 2015 was partly closed by exchange rate translation effects of US$650,000.

When adding cost of service to the above-mentioned operating expenses, [ph] telco (26:20) cash expenses were $5.2 million this quarter compared to $6.4 million the same period last year; a decrease of $1.2 million or 18.5%. For the six months period, these operating costs were $10.9 million compared to $12.5 million last year; a decrease of $1.7 million, or 30.3%.

Here again, the favorable impact of exchange rate translations for the first three months ended July 30 were US$860,000. Similarly to the favorable impact on expenses of the lower value of euro against the dollars, revenues were impacted in an opposite manner by the euro devaluation. The $7.4 million on the reported non-GAAP revenues for the second quarter were negatively impacted by US$633,000. In other words, the negative effects of the devaluation of the euro on revenue were largely compensated by the positive effects on operating expenses. Altogether, net income for the 2015 second quarter was approximately $9.5 million as compared to a restated loss of approximately $6.5 million reported in the second quarter of 2014.

As mentioned before, this was largely the result of the release of the deferred revenue to the income statement equal to $11.6 million. Adjusted EBITDA was approximately $2.2 million for the second quarter of 2015 as compared to approximately a restated $441,000 in the same quarter of the prior year.

This will close our financial summary and I would like now to turn the call back to Steven for his closing remarks. Steven?

Thank you, Mark. In conclusion, we are optimistic about the second half of 2015 as we embrace our new organizational structure and begin to execute on the many opportunities ahead of us. We expect to sign a number of significant new global customers in the weeks and months ahead. Launching Elephant Talk Communications in new geographies, including the Americas and possibly elsewhere. We have full confidence that our new operating structure will ensure we continue to deliver the industry's best key performance indicators with the most responsive customer service throughout the industry.

While the loss of a large client is certainly something we could have never predicted, I want to let our shareholders know that management is doing everything possible to replace the revenue from Iusacell with several exciting new opportunities before the end of 2015 that will enable us to get beyond our past and successfully grow the business once again.

This concludes management update portion of the call. I would like now to open the floor up for any questions that you may have. Thank you.

Thank you so much. [Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from John Nobile with Taglich Partners (sic) [Taglich Brothers] (30:35).

Hi. Good morning. I was hoping to get some clarification on deferred revenue. It was approximately $11.6 million on the quarter and yet when I look at the Q, it says total deferred revenue adjustments were $11.9 million. So I just want to make sure, was that additional $300,000 compensation for termination of the Iusacell contract?

Mark, [inaudible] (31:06).

Yes. Thank you for the question. The deferred revenue which you see on the balance sheet and I mentioned in my script just earlier is the deferred revenue is applicable to basically all of our customers. And the changes in deferred revenue, therefore, encompass all changes in deferred revenue for all of our customers. So that there is no tie-out between the Iusacell settlement makes sense because there also other customers involved in the deferred revenue changes.

Okay. So $11.6 million wasn't totally made up of Iusacell's numbers?

Correct. Well, the $11.6 million [indiscernible] (31:53)

Okay. The $11.6 million, okay. So the additional $300,000 were other customers. Only because in the Q, it says – let me just make sure I have that correct. It says that the $11.6 million related to the termination of the contract with Iusacell as well as compensation paid by Iusacell for the termination of the contract, so that included an additional compensation for that termination besides the deferred revenue?

There are two elements related to the settlement. Deferred revenue settlement or amount that was released in the balance sheet is basically an autonomous exercise, which is not [ph] immediately (32:39) related to the financial settlement with Iusacell. Because the reason why the $11.5 million was released from the balance sheet that was for past invoicing and billings done in prior periods to Iusacell and the fact that we terminated the contract that as such releases those revenues. So that's one part of the equation accounting-wise.

The other part relates to the actual amounts that Iusacell paid to us, which consisted of $13.5 million of the gross settlement agreement, of which $9.6 million was a payment for accounts receivable. So that is settled for accounts receivable and $3.9 million actually went to, let's say, normal revenue for the quarter.

Okay. So that was current revenue?

Correct.

Okay. In earlier comments, it was mentioned that you plan to double your sales team over the next 12 months. Now, you're looking to cut SG&A by about $5 million also in that time horizon. So I was just curious now [ph] we're not going to see any (34:00) sales and marketing expenses go down, but we should see that increasing significantly. The bulk of these cuts is going to be in the general and administrative line, if I'm correct on that.

Let me address that. Yes, indeed, John, you're completely spot-on. So the overall reductions in cost are probably somewhat larger because they also make up for the additional expenditures in our sales and marketing team. And currently, we have a staff of around [inaudible] (34:34) people and stated we expect that double over the next nine months to 12 months to somewhere between 15 and 20 people. Not only to have direct sales altogether, but also to have better channel management, to have better BIP management, to have good account management spread out over the globe wherever our customers are. And altogether we believe that a team somewhere between 15 and 20 people combined with the channel that we can use from third parties gives us a pretty good coverage around the world.

Okay. And I'm sorry, I didn't hear what the current sales team number was?

It's about nine people today, which consists of [ph] account and BIP (35:16) management and actual sales.

Okay. And I was just curious if I can get a little more color on your relationship with LOWI. How has that brand of Vodafone been selling? And I was wondering if you could also shed some light on your progress with OpenMobile?

Yes. Well, let me start with the last thing. As we stated earlier, OpenMobile is not connected for a few months. They will stop their marketing campaign after the summer holidays. So we expect our first series [indiscernible] (35:47) to start in the month of September. Regarding LOWI, in general, this is perceived as a very successful launch in Spain. It's now perceived to be one of the top MVNOs, since it's growing steadily now. And even though we cannot mention official subscriber numbers, that's the privilege Vodafone itself.

Now there is a public number that you could check and that's the amount of porting subscribers every months. And just the amount of porting, so customers moving their number from another operator into LOWI is around 8,000 customers per month in net additions. So that gives you kind of a feeling that at least those customers are the ones that churned from other operators. Next to autonomous growth that LOWI realizes itself. So altogether, it's a pretty successful take-up in the Spanish market. And I think that LOWI is at least meeting the objectives that Vodafone had, but probably doing better than originally expected.

Okay. Well, that's good news. And as far as Zain is concerned, on the last call you said that you expected growth to materialize to six digits. Are we still looking at this and in what timeframe?

Oh, yes, yes. We said that we hope to by the end of this year or early next year to indeed have an amount of customers hosted on the platform in the lower six digits. And I think we are still on target to get there. And if you compare also the revenue base that we are realizing, things are developing successfully, even though slowly. I mean, we can only admit that originally we had hoped for a much quicker growth rate. Certain things just go sometimes a bit slow, but at least the direction is very positive. And I think we can repeat the guidance we gave earlier. So, indeed, we expect to have around a six-digit number by the end of this year or early next year of the hosted [indiscernible] (37:54) on our platform.

All right. Great. And just one more question. I'll get back in queue. Back to the SG&A number, your current $5 million reduction, will the third quarter show the full effect of this, which I guess, if you would annualize it [ph] $1 million a quarter (38:09), or is this going to take you several quarters to implement? I just wanted to get a feel for how I could see these numbers progressing over the quarters.

Yeah, very good question, because, of course, it always takes time and money to reduce your cost base. I believe that if you look at the overall objectives that we are probably already 95% to 98% of the whole reduction process. So most of it is behind us, also most of the costs to reduce your cost base is behind us. So I think indeed that Q3 should reflect virtually the full impact of that cost reduction program in our overall SG&A numbers, correct.

Okay. So, being that it's mostly behind, it won't be a dramatic change from Q2?

It will have a somewhat positive impact in comparison to Q2, although Q2 already has somewhat lower cost base, but Q3 will show you the full impact.

I don't know if you could quantify that or just leave it as a general term?

No, it's always difficult, because, as Mark pointed out, both our revenue and our cost base are heavily impacted by currency fluctuations. So I think we would [inaudible] (39:25) to general terms, but I think the $5 million objective that we communicated looks still as being very, very realistic.

Okay. Thank you.

Welcome.

Thank you. And we'll continue on to Ed Woo with Ascendiant Capital.

Yeah. Thank you for taking my question and congratulations on the settlement. I just want to clarify did you say that you're expected to return the growth and a positive EBITDA by the fourth quarter and to get $7 million to $8 million in revenue and $3 million is in EBITDA by then?

Well, as we gave guidance earlier, we expected by the end of this year, earlier next year, we will indeed reach back those levels. So whether Q4 will fully reflect that already that might be a little bit aggressive. I think that if you look to the development, we certainly should be there in Q1 next year and hopefully we will be very close to those targets in Q4. But again, we gave guidance earlier that by the end of this year or earlier next year, we would exactly be there where we were at the end of last year earlier this year.

And I think that guidance can be repeated and whether it will exactly or already be reflected in Q4 as I stated before that might be somewhat aggressive. But you will clearly see the direction and you will then also see that we will be comfortable reaching that number at least in Q1 next year.

Great. Well, thanks for giving us some, I guess, additional details on some of the contracts you're working on. What about contracts that you haven't discussed yet? How is the backlog on impact on development of other contracts?

Yeah. That's always a repeating question, and of course, a very good question. In generally, we have a whole range of opportunities in the Americas, in Europe and in the Middle East, in the Far East. We have been recently working hard, for example, with HP in developing the Far Eastern market. We have done workshops in Singapore and Hong Kong, in Japan together with HP. And there are quite a few opportunities around. However, it's very difficult to quantify what really will come out of that.

These are very big contracts. Long sales cycles, and of course, there is competition. And most of these opportunities go through an RFQ and we usually see ourselves positioned in the very short list of the last two or even the last three contenders. But it's always at the final decision whether you're in or out. And next to that, quite a few of these RFPs and RFQs did not ultimately bring it to a winner simply because the process was abandoned by the principal.

So it's a very difficult thing to give good guidance in that respect. I can only say that there is good reason why we are doubling our sales activities because we see a lot of opportunity out there. And even though we lost Iusacell, I think the very fact that we were able to service that customer pretty well generate revenues around $30 million, managed over 2 million subscribers with extremely high KPIs. Even though the outcome of the Iusacell contract is clearly disappointing, I think it's a very good proof of the way we can help mobile operators.

And if you look at the back offices of mobile operators, they are now mostly 10 years, 15 years, 20 years old. And for IT that's a pretty old standard. And we believe that a lot of these operators will need to switch to more modern architecture to these so-called Software Defined Networking and Network Function Virtualization platforms. And as we have been able to get across to the market, we are clearly one of the front runners in that space. So we feel that the addressable market will definitely increase. We will instead of focusing on our three existing customers, as we did in the past, really focus on the whole market, maybe not on all 800 model operators, but to quite a big chuck of those.

The real big ones like AT&Ts, they will be outside of our domain. But there are many, many in the range of 5 million to 10 million customers. And we believe that's really where our sweet spot is. And the efforts that we're now taking to go after all of these customers is a clear sign that we believe that the opportunities are abound. And we have a good product, we have good teams, we have very good people. And altogether, we believe that that combination can really position us for a success in the future. But I would rather avoid going too specifically into these opportunities. We will communicate once they are there. And as we have said, we expect to be able to communicate some of those over the next few weeks, in the next few months.

Great. Well, thank you and good luck.

Thanks, Ed.

Thank you. We'll now go to [ph] Robert Scott, (44:27) private investor.

Hi, Steven. Thanks for the update. So if I understand it correctly, $3.6 million in this quarter, the $7 million in non-GAAP revenue was Iusacell itself. But then you mentioned there was going to be $3.9 million drop in revenues. Where is the other $300,000, how come there is no growth for the quarter?

No, no, no. Altogether, from a budget perspective, we had calculated a $3.9 million revenue base per quarter moving forward. And if you look at most recent billings levels, they were close to that level. So that's the level we are looking forward to see replaced by other revenues.

I see. So but Iusacell was about $3.6 million in this quarter.

Well, it was actually a little bit over $3.8 million.

Okay. So the difference then is growth, there is a couple of hundred to a few hundred thousand in growth in the non-Iusacell business, and then, of course, $3.9 million drop in Iusacell?

Correct.

Well, you've always told us that the sales cycle is 12 months to 18 months. And we're basically talking about first getting setup fees in Q4 and Q1. And then, I would imagine as the fees – the setup fees start dropping, you expect the revenues to pick up all of that drop and then some. What are you doing that's compressing the sales cycle so much to do that?

Well, first of all, of course, it's not just that we started selling services last months. We had services around to go after customers and the fact that we believe we're able to announce a couple of new contracts over the next few weeks and months is, of course, the result of a lot of work that has been behind us. So we indeed expect in Q4 and Q1 to see growth coming mostly from initial fees, from installation charges, and as stated, they will be mostly classified as deferred revenues. However, the most important part there is that once you go through the cycle of these initial fees and installation charges that you ultimately create a base of hosted subscribers on your platform generating recurring revenues. And we believe that even though in the beginning, it will be mostly initial fees and installation fees that over the next couple of quarters, that will be more and more replaced by an increasing number of recurring revenues.

And that will ultimately [inaudible] (47:23) take over the – let say, the gap in our revenue base caused by the fact that the contract with Iusacell was terminated. So this is a consequence of years of work and, yes if you look at what we are currently going after, it may take another six months, nine months, 12 months before our current efforts will bear fruit. But the couple of contracts we hope to communicate over the next couple of months are really the result of one year to two years of work that is now behind us. And that's why we are pretty optimistic that we are indeed able to fill in that gap in revenues relatively soon.

And what's the company's current breakeven level with all these changes?

I think if you – and this is very rough, I mean – very much high line numbers, our current cash cost base would be around $5 million, a bit over $5 million a quarter. So we need about $5 million in billings in a quarter to be at a breakeven level.

Okay. So you've only got about one quarter's breathing room since delay, with the current cash position?

Yes. And as we discussed before, we expect to be getting back to where we were by the end of this year or early next year as just discussed a few minutes earlier. Q3 will be clearly more difficult and there was a question last time about breakeven in Q3 or positive adjusted EBITDA in Q3 and at least we said that we really aim to stay adjusted EBITDA positive in Q3. There are many moving targets; there are many elements that will put us altogether. But we definitely hope we will see billings that will be either close or be around that number in cost, and thereby hopefully turning positive adjusted EBITDA and no cash loss for the quarter.

Will you still burn through $1 million of cash?

No. If we would have billings and collections of somewhat over $5 million from a cash basis, we're able to pay our bills. It might be certain U.S. GAAP effects that will show up slightly different, but from a cash flow perspective, it should [ph] fit (49:55). However, there are always working capital changes in each quarter which can be positive or negative, depending on how quickly we get paid, how quickly we pay our own bills. But aside of that, as I stated before, our cash cost base is somewhat over $5 million on a quarterly basis at this moment.

And you're going to have $3.9 million in revenues?

I'm not sure where you – we have $3.9 million or $3.8 million something in Iusacell revenues in Q2. We didn't say whether we will have $3.9 million in revenues in Q3, at least I do not recall that number.

Okay. When I asked about the drop of $3.9 million, I thought you said that would be our base amount of total revenues going forward.

In Q2, if you analyze the numbers that's close to that number, little lower, but of course, we anticipate a certain growth for Q3. And as I stated before, I think the best guidance we can give is that we are aiming to get billings close to around $5 million and thereby making sure that the quarter operationally is cash flow breakeven.

I understand. Okay. Thank you.

Welcome.

Thank you. And continuing on to [ph] Dennis Dillon, private investor (51:14).

Hi. Thank you. Two-part question, and I apologize, for the first one, if I have missed this. But where do you stand with the accountants on the going concern opinion? And the second question is with respect to ValidSoft, at what point can we expect you to begin to break-out the results of ValidSoft separately?

Well, to start with the last question, we have not yet planned any move in that respect to break-out the ValidSoft revenues anytime soon. At some moment, it may happen and we said in the past that, once they are real substantial, we may consider to do that, but at this moment, we are not considering that.

With respect to the going concern, as you may have read in our Q, there is still a sentence that there is going concern opinion in the Q. So you can find it. So we have not yet been able to convince our auditors that we are fully in Safe Harbor with our plans moving forward.

Have they given you any insight as to exactly what they are looking for to list that opinion?

See, well, in general, it's a 12 months window that you need to calculate going forward, basically excluding new contracts reflecting your current cost base. And we believe that once we will have a couple of these contracts that we hope to announce in the next few weeks and months really in place then that might be sufficient to convince our auditors that the window looking 12 months forward is fully covered.

Okay, thank you very much.

There is of course, no guarantee because that's at least finally decision by the auditors themselves.

No, no, I understand. Thank you.

Welcome.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And we will go to [indiscernible] (53:11).

Yes, hi, guys. Thank you for taking my question. I had a couple of things on regards to the announced Verizon Partner program. Can you highlight for us as the – what your feelings are with regards to the size of this opportunity? I know there is no exact numbers and there's no telling based on what you have to procure from that. But what are the amount of actual MVNOs that are under the Verizon umbrella that you are targeting, a rough number?

Yes, thanks. Very good question of course, but as you can imagine not easy to answer. Also, because we simply don't know the full impact yet. On the other hand, you have to assume that if Verizon takes on a business like that, that they will be serious, that they are looking to a larger addressable market and that they need a good partner to service that market being Elephant Talk. I think it's not wise to speculate on the size, Verizon being an extremely large company with clearly over 100 million subscribers being serviced in the United States. I think we ultimately will be able to service a meaningful number of those customers in the specific segments being the prepaid, wholesale and the prepaid MVNO segments of that market through Verizon Partner Services.

So I think altogether it will be a serious number that we can service but to speculate on any specific number now is really a bridge too far. However, we as a team we take it very, very seriously because we see the huge opportunity. And we want to be completely ready to address that opportunity with the KPIs we are used to provide our customers. And so in the case of Verizon, we will exactly do the same, make sure it works well, and make sure that if it grows fast that we can handle it. And from that perspective, you can be assured that we are dimensioning any effort with Verizon to make it into a very meaningful business.

And Steven, is that something that you will be servicing these potential opportunities or clients under Verizon with the platform in Mexico, or is this require additional capital expenditure to deploy new platform within the United States?

No. It's on the initial platform we will deploy for Verizon will be so-called wide platform, which is mostly aiming at IT levels. So not necessarily the core network elements or no HLRs, GGSMs and STPs and so forth. It will be core IT platform, which requires relatively limited investments. It's mostly the software that's a key element. And we are able to deploy that software in the U.S. So, it will be a limited investment from our side.

Although, long run, of course, we might upgrade that effort to move from a light platform to a much more broader and more full platform down the road. But it will ultimately be up to Verizon to decide that, but we will certainly be willing and able to offer that to Verizon. But we will start with this IT platform, which actually also an easier deployment and also more easily scalable. So from that perspective, I think let's first take the first steps, let's make sure we can start to service a meaningful number of Verizon customers and then let's just take it over from there.

That's great. With regards to Mexico, you mentioned a possible re-entry in the Mexican

Markets. Is that sort of your pipeline that addition – one of the other additional providers currently in the market is looking at us to do what they essentially what Iusacell did?

Well, Iusacell, of course, was a mobile operator and you have three of those and you have today AT&T which is what Iusacell used to be combined with Nextel, you have Telcel, which is part of América Móvil and then you have Telefónica that is part of the Telefónica Group. Those three mobile operators are hosting subscribers or virtual operators and Elephant Talk is currently in talks with a couple of potentially large virtual operators that might be connected to Telcel or Telefónica or both. And we hope to conclude this in the very near future and then also be able to share that information with you.

Very nice. And then one of my last question was for ValidSoft, if you guys can give us somewhat an idea of amount of transactions has been processed currently with the two banks that are on the platform. I know as of last year, I think it was mentioned that it was close to $20 million or $30 million for the year that was processed, has that number obviously increased or what are we talking about right now with two clients on the platform?

Paul, can you address that please?

Yes. Unfortunately what they don't allow us to do is actually state the number of transactions. As I mentioned, we have just over 17 million customers and what that really means is they're customers of those banks who have enrolled their mobile phones into the service and we are checking things like SIM Swap Detection and International Roaming Correlation on those services. Now in partnership with FICO, they actually run risk engines, which generate a query if you like, a transactional query upon us. We have no visibility into those risk engines and on a daily and transactional basis, they may raise one several times and another not at all, depending on what's going on in the background. So obviously, if we have 17 million registered customers, you can do the math and know that it's an awful of more than that on a monthly or annual basis. But we are not allowed to give out exact transaction volume information on each of the banks, I'm afraid.

And Paul, do you have other opportunities with regards to the Voice-Biometric side in the commercial or otherwise that you guys are working on?

Very much, so. Yes, so as I mentioned with ImageWare, actually if you look at ImageWare Systems, they had their earnings call yesterday and during that, they gave a fair amount of information as to their existing clients and their pipeline, and we are working with them as they deploy with the existing contracts and we are actually working with them on some new opportunities as well. That pipeline we believe is really going to start to deliver as the year goes on.

We have new channel partnerships with people like Virtusa. We have a commercial rollout with a large U.S. corporate, which is happening this month. And we have a number of other both channel partners and direct corporate entities, who are running major proof-of-concepts. We are actually in contract negotiations at this time. So there is a healthy pipeline that's being developed there specifically around Voice-Biometrics and it is pretty global as well, some in Europe, some in North America and also in Asia now.

Very nice, Paul. Thank you very much, guys. Keep up the good job.

Thank you.

Thank you. And with no additional questions in the queue, I'd like to turn the conference back over to Steven van der Velden for any additional or closing remarks.

Thank you. Again, on behalf of everyone at Elephant Talk Communications and ValidSoft, I would like to thank everyone for joining us on this call. And thank you to all of our long-term shareholders for their patience and commitment to the company. We look forward to providing additional updates and future developments in the very near future. Thank you very much. And all have a great day.

Thank you. And again, ladies and gentlemen, it does conclude today's conference. Thank you all again for your participation.