Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Valter Pinto — Partner, Capital Markets Group, LLC
Robert Harold Turner — Founder, Executive Chairman & Principal Executive Officer, Elephant Talk Communications Corp.
Mark Nije — Chief Financial Officer, Elephant Talk Communications Corp.
Lisa R. Thompson — Analyst, Zacks Investment Research, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, everyone, and welcome to the Elephant Talk Communications Corp. 2015 Year-End Earnings Conference Call. Today's conference is being recorded.

At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Valter Pinto of Capital Markets Group. Please, go ahead.

Thank you, operator, and good morning. Thank you for joining us for the Elephant Talk Communications 2015 full-year financial results conference call. On our call today will be Mr. Hal Turner, Executive Chairman of Elephant Talk; and Mr. Mark Nije, Chief Financial Officer. As is customary, following management's discussion, there will be a brief Q&A session open to all participants on the call.

Before we get started, I'm going to review the company's Safe Harbor statement. Remarks made on this call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934. All forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain and they are based on current expectations and assumptions concerning future events or future performance of the company. Listeners are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which are only predictions and speak only of the day hereof.

Evaluating such statements' perspective, investors should review carefully various risks and uncertainties identified in this conference call and the matters stated in the company's SEC filings. These risks and uncertainties could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements.

With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Mr. Hal Turner, Executive Chairman of the company. Hal, the floor is yours.

Valter, thank you very much. And I want to thank all of you who are on the call for joining us today for these full-year results for the year 2015.

To begin, I'd like to tell you that Elephant Talk is improving and we are fundamentally a different business and a much better business today than when I last spoke with you in mid-November of 2015. Elephant Talk is a more stable business with a restructuring effort that is underway, and this restructuring will continue and will have been demonstrated to – have been very worthwhile as we segue into the latter part of this year. On today's call, I want to provide you an update on several key areas. It is our restructuring, ValidSoft and our vision of the future for Elephant Talk.

First, the restructuring. Our restructuring operations and financial matters has had one overarching goal, and that is to protect our current customers, services and revenues, and position our business for growth. We developed a very specific three-pronged strategy and began the actions that we deem critically necessary to improve this business.

In phase one, we've cut cost everywhere. This is mostly occurred in Q1 of 2016. In phase two, we are re-examining everything again, always focusing on the fewest number of things that will produce the greatest results, and we will take more savings and more efficiencies to achieve our goals, and to complete both the operational and financial revamping. And this will be mostly in Q2 of 2016 and will segue a bit into Q3. In phase three, we will grow again, and we will broadly reenter the market with a professional sales focus and a professional sales force, and bolster our good employees throughout the organization. The concept that we're all in sales is a culture will continue to be infused into the organization, and this is mostly Q3 and Q4 2016.

I want to speak a little bit about some of the details of phase one. During phase one, we recognize right away that the 2015 annualized recurring revenues have been substantially reduced significantly by Iusacell. So we curtailed, and in some cases halter, all cash expenditures and hiring. We implemented a complete recalibration and in some cases a full restart of portions of this business, and this is an ongoing process as I've mentioned. We've reviewed every line item on our P&L and balance sheet.

In phase one, we concluded some things; number one, that our expenses were significantly above those necessary to service each client. Also, we concluded that our largest expenses were centered on excessive head count. We initiated a head count reduction strategy by asking the fundamental question. What is the minimal head count required to get great service and support to our customers, and to keep our key performance indicators that we've contractually agreed to with key customers at acceptable levels? That was the basis under which we made all of our decisions.

We're early days into phase two and from this perspective our sales team tells us and we see a continued loyalty that's very solid among our existing customers. Many of these existing customers have promotional plans set up for the balance of the year and several of our customers are expected to increase their subscribers and their underlying MVNOs, and that's because of their promotional plans. And, of course, this is going to generate revenue to Elephant Talk because of our enabled managed services platforms which drive those MVNOs. We're seeing new sales opportunities continue to be addressed, and this predominantly are for the existing customer base and their associated pipeline.

The complete restructuring of our sales organization is now planned for Q3 of this year. As I share with you how we performed in the phase one and early days of phase two, I want to introduce to you what we consider to be a tried and true industry ratio and this will be our ongoing key trackable metric, call after call, to answer the fundamental question of how are we performing? This key trackable indicator will be revenue or sales per employee.

Revenue per employee, as all of you probably know, an efficiency ratio, and we're monitoring it closely for several reasons. Fundamental of that is when you hire the best people, you get the best results. So, to us, in answering our internal question of why are we using sales or revenue per employee, it tells us that our company can operate in a streamlined manner with very low overhead cost and fewer locations, in other words doing more with less.

We can also extract unnecessary cost and continually extract more based upon focusing on the smallest number of things with the greatest result. This reinforces our capital efficiency and scalability of the business model which makes us attractive for a number of reasons. We believe this to be the strongest precursor to healthy growth and profits in the business, and we do believe that we've got a highly scalable business here because of its software model.

So how have we actually performed so far in this restructuring? Here are some facts for you. In November of 2015, we had 264 employees. Today, at March 31, we have reduced our head count by 65 people to 199. By the end of the second quarter of 2016, we anticipate having approximately 160 employees in Elephant Talk, reflecting a reduction of 104 persons, and that's approximately 40% less head count than in November of 2015.

As we look at these full-time equivalent personnel resources or head count, FTEs, to revenue ratio, we're looking at the run rate of our sales. And it's very clear to see the value we've created in the short amount of time, particularly during the first quarter of 2016. At the end of the third quarter of 2015, revenue per employee was $52,813. We are projecting for the end of the second quarter of 2016 that our revenue per employee will increase to $89,612.

On that basis, we will have improved in just six calendar months our revenue per employee ratio by 70%, and we will have performed this with 40% less head count, with the vast majority of these improvements having come in the January to March timeframe. We are infinitely proud of the task that our employees have undertaken to make this happen.

In summary, when I spoke to you last time, our espoused goal was to reach EBITDA breakeven on an operational basis with neutral cash burn by the end of the second quarter. We are very happy to affirm that goal and we are well on track to achieving it. I want to note for you though that our plans to rebuild a professional sales organization have been delayed into the third quarter and that's due to the ValidSoft transaction not consummating when the buyer failed to close as contractually bound to do.

Again, I want to emphasize, it's no small feat to have accomplished these restructuring items in a short amount of time and with very limited resources. It's – it is the thanks and the acknowledgements that I provide to the executive team, all of the employees and Elephant Talk as a whole for their unending drive in this which has really made it possible.

I'd like to turn briefly to ValidSoft and our divestiture plans. Last week, as you will all be aware, we provided Cross River Initiatives or CRI with a notice of default on the binding letter agreement dated February 17 of 2016. We are, and will continue, to have ongoing discussions with Cross River concerning their proposed purchase of ValidSoft. However, we cannot, in the best interest of you, our shareholders and all of our stakeholders, extend deal preference or exclusivity any longer solely to CRI. We are now actively working with an investment bank to evaluate many of the multiple strategic alternatives we have for ValidSoft, its assets as well as other sources of ongoing capital.

We remain very optimistic that our transaction can be consummated in line with our restructuring plan objectives. We view these events very practically. We now have multiple opportunities. We're creating a much more professionally developed deal book to market ValidSoft, which was not done in the past, into a much broader audience.

In the interim, we're now working to extract the obvious synergies that exist with ValidSoft and Elephant Talk that for whatever reason were not previously addressed or captured. Additionally, with ValidSoft, we will explore licensing and partnerships with ValidSoft that have not been previously addressed. I must also say that I'm very pleased at the continued commercial progress of ValidSoft and the team and the many opportunities that they're working on which we think have high promise.

Growing cash flows that are organically generated will be generated and will come back into our business through new products and services and roadmaps and that's part of what we see as this strategic initiative that's underway. I'd like to say, finally, that we believe that using this whole area of the revenue per employee and also looking at ValidSoft tells us that the health of our business is getting stronger and stronger.

I will conclude now these remarks on ValidSoft and I'll yield to Mark Nije, but I will come back in just a moment and address the final point which is the future of Elephant Talk. So, Mark, over to you, please.

Thank you, Hal. I will now discuss the company's 2015 financial results. As can be seen from the 10-K we filed, we provide investors with both GAAP and non-GAAP revenue information which I will do also now. Furthermore, since we are primarily a euro-based company that needs to report in U.S. dollars, I will also touch upon the exchange rate effects on the numbers that we report.

The 2015 revenue was $31 million, an increase of approximately $10.7 million or 52% compared to the $20.4 million last year. This increase was a result of the full recognition of deferred revenue related to the termination of the Iusacell contract in June 2015, approximately $11.6 million; in addition, increases in the company's other mobile and security business revenue of approximately $1.6 million. However, against this, we had a negative reporting effect of $2.5 million following the devaluation of the euro against the U.S. dollar.

The non-GAAP revenue for billings was $21.3 million, a decrease of $7.7 million or 27% compared to $29 million in 2014. The decrease, again, was the result of the termination of the contract with Iusacell. In addition, the non-GAAP revenue was negatively impacted by approximately $2.5 million in exchange rate effects. Sorry to interrupt. I think there are some mics still open that may need to be muted. Thank you.

Cost of service for the full year 2015 was $5.9 million, a decrease of approximately $760,000 or 11% compared to $6.7 million in 2014. Decreasing cost of sales is primarily a result to the lower euro versus U.S. dollar exchange rates in 2015, together $765,000, and reductions in the combination of cash and noncash stock-based [indiscernible] (14:25) compensation of almost $700,000. All this is partially offset by increases in the cost of mobile bonded services of close to $700,000.

General and administrative expenses for the year 2015 and 2014 were $12.9 million and $12.6 million, respectively, an increase of $300,000 or 2%. Adjusted for positive exchange rate impact of approximately $1.3 million, general and administrative expenses decreased by $1.6 million. However, the increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily the result of the restructuring charges that were accrued and partially paid during fourth quarter of 2015. Total amount of workforce reduction severances was approximately $1.3 million, including around $100,000 in noncash-related compensation expenses. Excluding the restructuring charges, the general and administrative expense decreased by approximately $360,000 or 3% compared to 2014.

Product development expenses for the year 2015 was $4.5 million, a decrease of approximately $2.7 million or 37% compared to $7.2 million in 2014. The decrease in product development expenses was the result of lower euro versus U.S. dollar exchange rates in 2015 of $725,000 and reductions in the combination of lower noncash-related compensation expenses, the reduced use of consultants and reallocation of certain staff to other functions, [ph] all together totaled $2 million (16:14).

Sales and marketing expenses for the year 2015 was $2.6 million, an increase of approximately $240,000 or 10% compared to $2.4 million in 2014. When adjusted for the positive impact of the lower euro versus U.S. dollar exchange rate in 2015 of $265, the increase was $500,000 due to increased staffing and associated noncash-related compensation expenses, but partly offset by reduced third-party PR and general marketing related expenses.

Net loss for the year 2015 was $5 million, which is a decrease of almost $17 million compared to the loss of $22 million for the same period in 2014. And this decrease in loss was mainly caused by the full release of the deferred revenue of $11.6 million related to the termination of the contract with Iusacell, as well as compensation by Iusacell for actually terminating the contract. Adjusted EBITDA for the full year 2015 was a negative $1.3 million compared to a positive $4 million in the year before.

I would like now to turn the call back to Hal for closing remarks. Hal, over to you.

Mark, thank you very much. This is appreciated. And before we open the call for questions, I mentioned that I would address our vision for the future of Elephant Talk. So, straightforward, our vision is that we observe there are many devices throughout the world that will communicate and be connected. We believe that Elephant Talk can be a major facilitator of this interconnection and interoperability. We intend to bring, additionally, wireless and mobile communications, help bring that to the next billions of users worldwide via our enablement strategy, and this will be principally in Europe, Middle East, and Africa.

Most of this growth is going to come from smartphone users, and almost all of that is going to be in the emerging markets. We intend to do this with three simple strategies. Number one is to focus on our foundation, which is the communication service providers of the world. These make up our current customers, but we will move to new wireless carriers in different marketplaces and different segments.

And what we see is that all of these carriers have commonality. They're seeking new subscribers to replace lost voice revenues. They want to expand their brands and to do that without heavy CapEx, and we are ideally suited to do that, and we can do it either outsourced, we can do it on a managed cloud basis, any number of ways. But this is our foundational market, and we will penetrate it much deeper.

Second strategy is to enter the enterprise marketplace and doing that with channel partners, and almost every enterprise in the world wants to manage their expense spending on wireless and cellular, and many of them want to create affinity brands and do things that make sense that absolutely perfectly align with our services, platforms and the capabilities that we can enable.

Finally, our third strategy is, again, recognizing that we believe that many things will be connected. That is the Internet of Things. And in doing that, whether it's sensor-based or whether it's monitoring or any number of uses of sensor-based devices, it creates a tsunami of data. And someone has to mediate that, someone has to be able to facilitate this world of chaos as people and devices move among networks and figure out who gets paid for what and how does it happen. And we are ideally suited for that, to mediate and sit in the middle.

I want you to know that our entire management team is all in to making the fixes that are required to sustain our business. We're continually focused on these most important items, and we take actions whether it's sales, whether it's expenses or whether it's business develop – and we're looking for impact. On behalf of everybody at Elephant Talk, I want to thank you for having joined us today and I want to leave you with a couple of things that I think are very important.

First of all, I believe that we've got the products. I think we've got the services and we've got a services road map that is ideal and excellent and positions us well. We're operating in a very large and growing market that, depending upon which piece of it you look at, is measured in billions and billions of dollars.

We are differentiated from our competition and we can sustain that differentiation because of our software. We have the foundation of a great team of people. We were very, very happy to find as we went through the reorganization the strength of the people in the underlying organization to carry the load. And make no mistake, they are strong and resilient. We'll build on that to create value for all. And I have to ask myself, why do we do that? Why do we do this? Why are we up to this challenge?

First of all, it's our duty. But I want to show you or tell you a little bit about what I observed as I look at this business. I see from Q4 2015 to Q2 of 2015 an annualized revenue run rate trend that's upward of plus 20%. I see subscribers that are growing in the 15% to 20% range within our customers. I see head count down by 40%. I see revenue per employee up by 70% during this period. This tells me we've got a scalable business. It tells me that our customers are loyal and creating more services every day and this reflected in a combination of subscribers and change request for new features and benefits. These are the most positive indicators I can give you and I can tell you that we are up to the challenges that lie ahead to complete the reorganization and the restructure both financially and operationally.

With that, I can conclude my remarks Valter. Questions?

Operator, you can... [Operator Instructions]

We'll go first to Lisa Thompson with Zacks Investment Research.

Hi. Good morning. Nice to hear...

Good morning.

...from you again.

Good morning, Lisa. I must say, the last time we spoke I've been employed 23 hours and you are very kind to me, so.

Okay. Well, that's all over.

Anyway four months into this, I'm happy to speak to you again.

Great. Thank you. Okay. First off, could you just tell us what the adjusted EBITDA was for the fourth quarter? You usually give that. I think it's like $1.3 million loss. Is that right?

Yeah. Mark, do you have the specific number in front of you?

Yeah. Sorry. I was on mute. Sorry, you were talking about the fourth quarter adjusted EBITDA? It was...

Yeah.

Sorry?

Yeah. What was it?

Yeah. It was minus $4.5 million.

$3.5 million?

$4.5 million.

$4.5 million.

Correct.

Okay.

But that includes the restructuring charges.

Right. So adjusted would take that out. I was – so it's more like $1.3 million, isn't it?

Well, it's going to be – that's going to be somewhere between $1.2 million and probably $2 million.

Okay.

Sorry. It's between $1.2 million [indiscernible] (24:42). So that shows basically Q3 is in, let's say, a steady state, let's say a post-Iusacell period.

Right.

And that showed an adjusted of minus $1.2 million. And then Q4 had some additional one-off charges outside of the straightforward restructuring. So you probably end up with around $2.5 million.

Okay. So you're saying from that – this point in Q4 to get to Q2, you're going to get to breakeven. So I'm sure part of that is ValidSoft. How much of that savings will come from selling ValidSoft?

The ValidSoft – well, first of all, Q2 – by the end of Q2, we expect to have achieved the operational breakeven, i.e. no more cash burn. ValidSoft, we are certainly expecting that we will have done some transaction that makes sense. But right now, ValidSoft is representing about, Mark, if I'm not mistaken, it's somewhere around $300,000 a month or so.

Correct, yes.

Of what?

Yes.

Overall. Let's say the operational losses.

Okay. So when you say you'll reach breakeven by [ph] end Q2 that and – (26:14) you're counting within yourselves of those losses.

We are expecting that we will continue to address matters with ValidSoft. We certainly hope that a transaction will have been completed. But we're also taking every step to work with ValidSoft, integrate them, take synergies between the two companies and to help them get their sales up in the event that we have not completed a transaction. So we are affirming that we are on track for the breakeven.

Okay.

I'll tell you that the operational breakeven basically addresses one part of a triage, if you will, and that's stop the bleeding.

Right.

The other part of the triage is solving the accumulated working capital deficit, and we're certainly addressing that in a multiple set of ways, but that includes ValidSoft divestiture. It certainly includes working with our senior lenders. It includes working with our vendors and other sources of capital, and that's one of the reasons we've decided to work with an investment bank on this. So we're on it. We're working hard at it, and we believe we'll be there.

So do you think that if you sell ValidSoft for a price similar to what you thought you were going to sell it for, will you also need additional capital to achieve your plan?

Actually, the – if you just look at the sort of the accumulated negative working capital that we've got, it's in the – if you go to the...

$11 million.

Yeah. It's about $10.8 million.

Yeah.

So we think that ValidSoft would be more than sufficient for that. Also, we certainly are, as I mentioned, exploring other financing options as part of our capital game plan. So it's not a concern of ours would the adequacy be there.

Okay. All right. Let's see. So you talked about restructuring. Will there be an additional restructuring charge in Q1 or was that [indiscernible] (28:28) into Q4?

Mark, help me here, but I believe we took most of the restructuring in Q4. But there will be some that could be identified as part of the ongoing examination and reexamination that we do. Mark, would you want to comment a bit more specifically?

It's – you're correct, Hal. So we took a substantial part in the fourth quarter of 2015 and there's been some residual additional severances in Q1 and maybe a loss [ph] reference too (29:05).

Okay. And as...

We think, Lisa, that – let me just comment, we think most of it will have washed through by Q3.

Right. But there might be a little something.

A little something possibly, yes.

Okay. So I noted in the 10-K that you have a lot of locations. Have you closed some of them or are you going to?

The answer is yes and yes. Our internal general counsel is going through an exhaustive review at this point of every one of the entities and we're certainly seeking to rationalize where we can rid ourselves, and the approach we expect to end up during the course of the next 18 months or so to end up with our principal operations based in Spain particularly supporting our European customer base. And we're expecting our principal corporate growth to be headquartered here in the U.S., including our sales organization. So we'll examine all of the entities that exist out there and as you can realize, depending upon where contracts are enacted, in some cases, you must have a local entity. We want to make sure that we have rid ourselves of the ones that we don't need and kept the ones that will be valuable.

So have any been shut down already?

Mark, I believe we have actually shut down at least one or two, is that correct?

Yeah. Well, actually the most expensive ones, they've been closed. One of the most was in the Netherlands.

Yes.

And there's certainly a residual small office next in the Netherlands but that was probably the most important one and adding the most to the bottom line [ph] eco savings (31:07).

Okay. So then – what if – can you – so if you – the current customers, are all the current customers are still customers or anything changed about who you're dealing with or supporting? It sounded like a lot – you plan to have your growth, at least this year, come from the current customers, right?

That is correct. All of our current customers are still customers and certainly are on varying portions of either remaining three-year contracts or some portions of five-year contracts. So they're very stable, very sticky. And when I talk about the – my observation of our annualized revenue trend being upward, it comes from these existing customers either creating new promotions within their existing channel partners, so an [ph] MVO (32:15) that's operating off of their core cellular network, as an example.

And also expansion plans they have within their own market to license other operators off of their core platform. So we're very pleased with that, and the trend is definitely upward. The real acceleration will come as we, as I mentioned, as we have now delayed into the third quarter the complete reorganization of our sales team and the repopulation of sales executives. But that's where the real acceleration will begin to show up.

Okay. And how is Vodafone doing? Is Lowi getting any traction? I haven't heard about them recently.

Well, again, without specifically talking about a brand or so forth, I think I mentioned to you that the trend is upwards regarding the subs. And as you can imagine with that key European customer representing a large portion of our revenue, therefore a large portion of the subscribers growth is coming from that area.

So I'll be in Europe in the latter part of April, and we'll be visiting our key customers and everything is really good and all of our thought processes and plans for expansion which our customer has given us are on track, and we're looking forward to a really good solid last half of the year based upon that.

And then through – my final question is, I'm sure people would love an update on what's happening in the U.S.

Okay. In the U.S., with our key tier one customer, the platform began testing in March, which is good. This is a technical integration which basically will then allow them to drive other brands and other customers off of it. It's expected to go live in April. There is one MVNO carrier customer who will be the test customer on it. So we're very pleased with that.

And we do expect that as our strong parts of the sales organization actually sits here in the U.S. with our sales support sitting in Spain. So we're very well-positioned to support some growth here and we're going to do that. Part of the sort of recalibration and expansion of the sales in the latter part of the year and segueing into 2017 comes with our ability to integrate and interoperate with most of the major carriers on both a pre- and a post-sale basis. So that is ongoing work and that will also drive a lot more new business for us. But we're very pleased with the work that's been done by our key U.S. personnel.

Is this test customer a freebie or you paid for this?

The – it will be a paid. The freebie part is the test that's underway now. The un-free part begins in April, late April.

Great. Thank you. Thank you so much for the update.

You're welcome, Lisa. [Operator Instructions]

No, I'm a speaker.

And with no further questions on the phone, I'd like to turn the conference back over to Mr. Hal Turner for any additional or closing remarks.

Thank you very much. Again, we appreciate your time and your attention today. Look forward to speaking with and meeting you in due course and thank you all very much. Valter, if there's nothing else, we'll conclude the call.

Yeah. We – okay. Thank you all. Good bye.

Again, that does conclude today's presentation. We thank you for your participation.