Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Peter M. Salkowski — Managing Director, The Blueshirt Group LLC
Steven van der Velden — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Elephant Talk Communications Corp.
Pat Carroll — Chief Executive Officer/Founder, ValidSoft Ltd.
Mark Nije — Chief Financial Officer, Elephant Talk Communications Corp.
Edward Woo — Analyst, Ascendiant Capital Markets LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Elephant Talk Communications Second Quarter 2013 Conference Call. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. Following the presentation we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be provided at that time. [Operator Instructions]

I would like to remind everyone that this conference call is being recorded today, August 8, 2013.

I will now turn the conference over to Peter Salkowski from The Blueshirt Group. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you, Angel. Good morning everyone in the United States, and good afternoon to our European listeners, and thank you for joining us for Elephant Talk Communications second quarter 2013 shareholder update conference call. Joining me on today's call are Steven van der Velden, Chairman and CEO of Elephant Talk; Pat Carroll, CEO of ValidSoft; and Mark Nije, CFO of Elephant Talk. Following management's discussion we will open up the call for your questions.

This morning, the company issued a news release announcing its second quarter 2013 financial results. That news release is available on the company's website at www.elephanttalk.com. Before we begin, I'd like to remind everyone that on the call we will discuss certain factors that are likely to influence the business going forward. Any factors discussed that – here today that are not historical facts, particularly comments regarding our long-term prospects and market opportunities, should be considered forward-looking statements.

These forward-looking statements may include comments about our plans and expectations of future performance. Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risk and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially. We encourage all of our listeners to review our SEC filings, including our most recent 10-K and any of our other SEC filings for a more complete description of these risks. Our statements on this call are made as of today, August 8, 2013, and the company undertakes no obligation to revise or update publicly any of the forward-looking statements contained therein, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in expectations or otherwise for any reason.

During our call today, we will discuss adjusted EBITDA. In our press release issued today and in our filings with the SEC, each of which are posted on our website, you will find additional disclosures regarding this non-GAAP financial measure and reconciliations of net loss to adjusted EBITDA.

With that, I will now turn the call over Elephant Talk's Chairman and CEO, Mr. Steven van der Velden. Steven?

Thank you, Peter, and thank you to everyone who joined us today for our shareholder update call. I will begin today by providing an update on the developments that have occurred at Elephant Talk Communications since our last call. I'll then turn the call over to Pat for an update on ValidSoft. Pat will then turn the call over to Mark for a recap of the company's second quarter results. We will conclude by opening the call for questions.

Management believes, more strongly than ever, in our proprietary solutions and monthly recurring revenue business model. With nearly 90% of second quarter revenues generated from our mobile solutions and security systems operations, we believe the transformation of Elephant Talk from a telecommunications company to a software company is now explete. Going forward, our mission is to provide an end-to-end service portfolio, enabling and securing big data in the mobile cloud.

Through our mobile services, we empower mobile network operators and mobile virtual network operators by providing a Tier-1 innovative outsourced mobile communications infrastructure. This infrastructure provides a full suite of off-the-shelf services and features that include a full range of support services as well as the required third-party interface.

In addition, our infrastructure is able to provide cybersecurity technology that enables organizations to secure all clouds and electronic-based consumer financial transaction channels within a single platform. We are very excited about the strategic direction of the company as well as the increasing number of clients and partners that we have signed. We believe the current market valuation does not accurately reflect changes we've implemented and the progress we have made.

On today's call, I'll focus on the following. First of all, the continued success for our core mobile solutions and security systems businesses. Secondly, I will provide an update on achieving positive operational cash flow, and briefly discuss our current cash burn rate. Thirdly, I will provide an update on our progress implementing Elephant Talk's proprietary Software DNA platform with Iusacell, major network operator in Mexico. Fourth, I will discuss the new telecommunications agreements we signed in July, with NEO-SKY in Spain and Axiom in the Middle East. Fifth, I will provide an update on the success we're starting to see with Elephant Talk North America. Lastly, I will summarize our successful efforts that strengthened company's balance sheet.

Turning now to our results. The strong operating momentum of our mobile platform and transaction security businesses in the first half of 2013 leads us to believe that our entire business has reached an inflection point, whereby Elephant Talk should be considered a provider of software and managed software solutions to our customers.

In the second quarter, mobile and security revenues was $4.5 million, a year-over-year increase of approximately 61% compared to the second quarter of 2012. This was the eighth consecutive quarter in which mobile and security revenue grew on a quarter-to-quarter basis. Mobile and security revenue comprised nearly 90% of total company revenues, [ph] empirical (00:07:15) evidence of our transformation from a telecommunications business to a software and service business.

Margin, defined as revenue less cost of service, increased significantly to $3.5 million or a new high of 71% of revenue, compared to a margin of $1.9 million or 20% of revenues in the year-ago period. For the six-month ending June 30, margins have improved from 8% in 2011 to 23% in 2012 to 57% in 2013. This trend is expected to continue. Mobile and security are the core of our business and will continue to account for the majority for the company's revenue, and more importantly, the majority of margin contribution going forward.

Second, regarding the company's operational cash flow position, I'm pleased to report that we were operational cash flow positive for the month of June. Our next target will be achieving this key milestone on a consistent basis. Once we achieve this, we believe we can leverage our high-margin monthly recurring revenue model to provide returns similar to or even greater down that of the software industry.

We estimate operational cash flow by using adjusted EBITDA, defined as earnings before derivative accounting, such as warrant liabilities and conversion future expensing, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, impairments, non-operating income and expenses and stock-based compensation. Our next target is achieving the first full quarter of being operational cash flow positive. We believe this is likely to occur in the second half of the year, as we see an increase in our security revenue from ValidSoft and generating recurring mobile revenues in Mexico and Saudi Arabia.

Another example of management efforts to reduce cash burn is evident in the net cash used from operating activity, shown in the cash flow statement that was published in today's earnings press release. For the first six months of 2013, cash used for operations was approximately $1.1 million. We ended the second quarter with cash of approximately $3 million. This substantial improvement in cash flow from operations, for the first six months of 2013, is primarily attributable to increased revenues from our higher margin mobile and security business, which led to a lower net cash used in operating activity.

In addition, we reduced working capital primarily with financing arrangements made with vendors. This brings me to Elephant Talk's deployment with Iusacell in Mexico. The deployment is on schedule with the first test call conducted with the CEO of Iusacell back in June. We will begin migrating revenue generating mobile customers from Iusacell [ph] and apps and MVNO (00:11:39) subscribers to our Software DNA platform by the end of September. We anticipate 1.5 million subscribers in Mexico will be added to Elephant Talks platform by the end of 2013, more than doubling the number of subscribers on our platform.

The Iusacell platform will have an initial capacity of 11 million subscribers and has the capacity to scale to 20 million subscribers in the next couple of years. The Iusacell implementation is an excellent milestone for Elephant Talk as it illustrates our ability to install an end-to-end solution with a major telecommunications company. We are very proud of our accomplishments in Mexico and expect our success there to translate into additional implementations of our software-defined network architecture.

In fact, in July, we made two mobile platform announcements that support our mobile operator and virtual operator strategy. NEO-SKY between the sixth virtual operator in Spain to be powered by Elephant Talk's network and mobile platform. NEO-SKY is targeting high-end corporate clients with Elephant Talk's sophisticated solutions. NEO-SKY expects to reach 100,000 subscribers over the next few years. This recent expansion in Spain has established new sales initiatives and forged strategic relationships that we believe will allow us to rapidly increase recurring revenue and further improve profitability.

In addition to our relationship with Zain Group in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia to provide our mobile platform services, we signed a long-term agreement directly with Axiom Telecom to provide Axiom with our dedicated mobile-managed services platform. It will enable them to offer custom mobile services throughout the region. Axiom is the largest primary authorized retailer and distributer of leading international mobile phones, mobile accessories and PDAs in the Middle East. We are very pleased that Axiom has recognized the possibilities of Elephant Talk's Software DNA platform.

Local presence is crucial when it comes to successfully making use of an evolving market. Our common goal is to build a long lasting partnership that will create important revenue streams for both companies. More [ph] countries (00:14:51) are opening up in the Middle East for new entrants like Axiom to offer mobile services. Time to market and a full set of innovative services will be very important to capturing sizable market share in this region. We are very pleased to see that Axiom has committed substantial marketing resources till the end of the year.

In North America, I'm very pleased to report that Elephant Talk North America, our US-based mobile enabling company, that in April this year acquired the assets of Telnicity, signed its first contract and recognized its first revenues, albeit modest in the second quarter. We expect to be able to provide further details regarding this contract during the third quarter. Overall, the transaction pipeline in North America is looking promising. We believe that a composition of the major customers we serve, Vodafone in Spain, Zain in Saudi Arabia, Iusacell in Mexico represents strong used cases for us as we look to bring Elephant Talk's Software DNA platform into the other markets.

Now for a brief look at Elephant Talk's balance sheet. In the second quarter, the company raised over $13.5 million with $12 million from an equity raise. I personally contributed $4.5 million to the equity raised, a strong indication of my commitment to the future of the company. A portion of the net proceeds from the equity raised was used to repay the remaining balance on the March 2012 debt. In July, the loan that was executed in the second quarter from a member of the Board of Directors for approximately $1.3 million was fully converted into equity. As a result of these two transactions, the company is now essentially debt free.

With that, I will now turn the call over to Pat.

Thank you, Steven, and good day everyone. Second quarter 2013 has been a very busy quarter for ValidSoft. On the commercial front, our relationship with FICO/Adeptra continues to show very positive progress. And as I've previously mentioned, FICO/Adeptra was awarded a contract with a major UK bank for a complete set of services, which specifically involves ValidSoft solutions of SIM Swap and proximity correlation.

Our contract negotiations continued in quarter two. We are now discussing deployment base, likely to be in either the third or fourth quarter of 2013. The ValidSoft services form part of a complete package which FICO/Adeptra tendered for, and subsequently won, in response to this bank's RFP for renewal of their existing Adeptra services. During the second quarter, the FICO/Adeptra platform was upgraded to seamlessly integrate our POS solution which will greatly facilitate the deployment of our solutions in a totally integrated manner.

Regarding Santander, our SIM Swap continues to run very smoothly in production, and as of today, we have processed in excess of 9 million transactions. We're also currently discussing deployment of our POS solution at Santander and anticipate this product will be live this year.

Another large UK retail bank is now planning their second proximity correlation proof of concept for cross-border card swiping transactions in anticipation of a production implementation again this year. They are currently working with FICO/Adeptra and ValidSoft in conjunction with their legal department in assessing what if any changes are required to existing terms and conditions, as well as the technical department for a FICO/Adeptra integration of the service.

Alongside this, we have completed a highly successful pilot with UK bank's major credit card issuer and that's with our POS solution, a fact acknowledged by the insurer themselves. Discussions on this and a number of other points are ongoing at this point in time. This progress confirms that our solutions are at the cutting edge of fraud detection and prevention, solving massive issues at the core of the electronic payment processing industry and adoption is well underway.

On the product front, we launched VALid-SVP, which stands for Speaker Verification Platform, and is ValidSoft's proprietary voice biometric solution. VALid-SVP is a leading edge voice biometric engine that supports test-dependent, text-independent and conversational voice verification, which is biometric plus knowledge. We believe that VALid-SVP is unique and that it is custom built to operate in the mobile environment and program to [ph] assess short utterances (00:20:44).

Based on our performance in the trials held by the US government's National Institute of Standards and Technology, better known as NIST, at the end of last year, we now believe we have the number one commercial voice biometric engine available in the world today, from both a functional and technical perspective. NIST is the de facto benchmark for the evaluation of voice biometric capabilities in the world today.

On the IP front, we've continued to invest in and grow our unique intellectual property portfolio by filing for several patents which combat sophisticated fraud in an even more sophisticated way. In terms of our patent filings, we've filed for patent protection for the following new inventions: In-band Transaction Verification or ITV. This is a new inbound method for detecting and preventing Man-in-the-Browser and Man-in-the-Middle attack in real-time. Call Forensics Analysis or CFA. This is a method to detect forger attacks on transaction, including detection of compromised telephone lines between the bank and its customers. Browser Manipulation Detection or BMD. This Man-in-the-Browser combating invention prevents, amongst other things, credential harvesting, transaction manipulation and transaction injection. And most importantly, the Zero Latency Correlation or ZLC. This invention provides a method which leverages the increasing penetration of smartphone, and when integrated with mobile wallets or apps, we have the capability to perform real-time proximity correlation and other fraud prevention methods without any dependency on mobile operator. This capability is a crucial point in our mobile platform and increasingly will play a key role.

In addition to these patent applications filed this year, we also have a number of other inventions which will soon also protect the patent application. In short, we are a key player and IP owner in the area of sophisticated fraud prevention. And in addition to protecting our existing multi-factor authentication patents and patent applications, we have filed patents in multiple jurisdictions, including the EU, the USA, Russia, China, Brazil and others. We've been patiently building our intellectual property portfolio, commercializing our security solutions and establishing the relationships that we believe are essential to create maximum value for our shareholders.

Our vision of a transaction-based security model, whereby our partnerships have enabled us to some multibillion transactions tools, has taken more time than we expected, but we are confident in the continued growth throughout this year and further years.

On this positive note, I would like to conclude and turn the call over to Mark Nije, so that he may discuss our financials. Over to you, Mark.

Thanks, Pat. I will now discuss the company's financial results for the second quarter of 2013. I will begin with revenue results for second quarter. Revenue for the higher margin mobile and security solutions business increased approximately 61% year-over-year to a new level of nearly $4.5 million and accounted for nearly 90% of second quarter revenue. In the prior-year period, mobile and security revenue accounted for only 39% of total revenue. Total revenue for the period was $5 million, down 30% year-over-year when compared to total revenue of $7.1 million for the second quarter of 2012. The majority of the decrease was the result of the 88% drop in the lower margin landline revenue, down to $0.5 million.

Turning your attention now to second quarter reported cost of service and margin, as we define as revenue minus cost of service. Margin for the second quarter increased 86% year-over-year to $3.5 million and represented approximately 71% of revenue. This compares to margin of only $1.9 million or 27% of revenue for the prior-year period. The margin improvement was driven by an increased percentage of revenue coming from the higher margin of mobile and security activities. The increased percentage of higher margin revenue contributed to a $3.7 million or nearly 72% year-over-year decline in cost of services from $5.2 million in 2012 to $1.5 million this quarter.

Turning to SG&A. Reported SG&A of $4.5 million remained relatively flat for the second quarter compared to the $4.6 million in the prior-year period. Adjusted EBITDA for the second quarter was a loss of $0.9 million, which is an improvement of $1.8 million compared to the loss of $2.7 million last year.

With this brief financial update, I would like now to turn the call back over to our CEO for final comments. Steven, floor is yours.

Thank you, Mark. This concludes management's update portion of the call. I would now like to open up the floor for any questions you may have. Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And your first question will come from the line of Mr. Ed Woo from Ascendiant Capital. Please go ahead.

I apologize it will be [indiscernible] (00:27:55). Can you go ahead, sir, with your question?

Yes, Steve. A good quarter guys. I appreciate the update. I wanted to ask a general question about the number of users that the company is expecting from the Zain/ Axiom contract in Saudi Arabia. I know you guys alluded to a number of users are expected from Iusacell and Vodafone. We haven't heard anything with regards to Axiom and Zain, what we're expecting to achieve from them? Thank you.

Thank you. Yeah, a very good question, of course. Actually we have not given any guidance in this respect, and in all honesty we are also reluctant to do so. But in the past, both Axiom as well as Zain as well as a handful of analysts regarding the opening up of the Saudi markets, like three virtual operator entrants, have speculated that it could easily grow into a 10 million to 20 million subscriber business to be held by virtual operators. We believe that Axiom is together with Zain very well positioned to grab a big slice of that because, first of all, they are a local company with local presence, being the largest distributor of handsets, PDAs, airtime, currently in Saudi Arabia and in many other markets.

So they are very well-anchored locally, and we believe that in combination with being using the smallest of the three mobile operator networks being Zain, in combination with our sophisticated platform, positions Axiom in a very good entry to this market. Again, I think, that they could ultimately grab a very serious slice of a market that is estimated to be somewhere between 10 million and 20 million customers. But I would rather like to leave it at that because so far we have not given any guidance. And I just wanted to give you some color on this market, but I would like to leave at this.

Thank you.

Welcome. [Operator Instructions]

And your next question will come from the line of Mr. Ed Woo from Ascendiant Capital. Please go ahead.

Yeah. Thank you for taking my question. It looks like you guys are having a pretty good growth in Latin America and the Middle East, and now possibly a deal in the US. How do you see the opportunities on a global basis going forward? Are you going to stay within these three regions or you think there's more opportunities elsewhere?

Thank you. Let me first address this from the platform business point of view and then I may hand over the call to Pat for his specific views on the security side of our business. With respect to the platform business as I said a little while ago, the fact that we are now having three platforms in place that will hopefully start to generate substantial levels of revenue in each of the three regions, Europe, the Middle East as well as in Latin America, we feel that we are building up excellent use cases to intimately address the needs of many, many mobile operators around the world.

And surely, we'll ultimately not limit our focus to these three markets. But we believe that in those three markets, let's say Europe, Middle East and Africa, and the Americans, there are so many opportunities where we could serve as virtual operators as well as mobile operators with our platform, but this will be the first angle of our attention and we will concentrate resources in these regions, using of course the references that we are currently building up. After that, if good opportunities would arise in Asia and the Pacific and so forth, we would certainly entertain the idea to go after those as well, but that would not be our short-term vision. Pat, maybe from your side, you want to add something from the security business perspective?

Yeah. I mean, I think, my point of view, I think I made the point on the call that things have taken longer than we would have liked in terms of the traction that we're getting in the marketplace or proceed that we would have thought five months ago. But what's starting to happen now is the adoption of our products and services. And, in fact, if anything the market has gotten bigger because of this whole movement towards mobile and the new extension of that into the under-banked and unbanked areas that opened up the whole [indiscernible] (00:32:42).

Without a doubt the largest target market for us in the world is the US market. And we've made tremendous head roads and progress now in the UK. We've got a great benchmark against which we can launch out and get to developed countries. So we're extremely excited about Europe as a market where we are today. The US certainly is the largest market in the world, but also the Americans themselves and the potential that they offer as we start to look at some of the challenges that they have and the volumes of customers that fit within the banking framework in those areas as well. So I think it's quite exciting times ahead for the group in general.

Great. Going back to the platform that you have [indiscernible] (00:33:25) now, how much incremental cost [ph] does it take (00:33:29) to expand it to new region or is there a significant cost involved to be able to branch it out to possibly other regions of the world? [ph]

That was also (00:33:41) a good question. Well, let's spread out in basically three elements. First of all the hardware. Any new platform would cost normally a few million dollars to deploy. We are in a fortunate position to be able to fund that mostly with vendor financing as all these vendors like to be part of these next-gen platforms that service the mobile industry. So the hardware challenges, to finance them are relatively limited.

Secondly, of course, we have our software. As we discussed a few times before, we own most of the software that we do deploy. And aside of giving us pricing capabilities, that also provides us without additional investments, the possibility to provide end-to-end services without huge third-party costs. So also the investments in that area would be limited. I would think that probably the largest investment would build up regional teams with all the capabilities and knowhow and knowledge of the markets, knowledge of the specific cultural elements that may play a role in those markets. And that's actually the largest cash-out investment that we would be having to do in case we want to spread out.

Today, we have three teams focused on three markets supported by our overhead teams in Spain and in China and elsewhere, and we feel very comfortable that once we have these three platforms fully up and running, servicing millions and millions of customers, that we can easily spread out creative force or maybe down the road even at 2015 to address other needs in other regions because, ultimately, each team should be capable of running a couple of platforms in each region. So from that perspective, we believe that the scalability of the platform business is really there and only limited investments would be required to add up capabilities in new markets and open up new platforms over there.

Great. Well, thank you and good luck.

Thank you, Ed.

And the next question will come from the line of Mr. [ph] Robert Skaff (00:35:45). Please go ahead.

Hi, Steven and Pat. A great quarter. Thanks for the update. Steven, a couple of times you've said that the Iusacell is going to be a 1.5 million clients and they've got something like 6 million. We have capacity of 10 million. Why is there a constantly a reminder that we're going to have the capability for 20 million? Is there some new initiative that will – that makes it look like the opportunity in Mexico is over 10 million?

We believe that down the road that opportunity definitely is over 10 million. But let's step back. Of course, we are always building platforms based upon the requirements given to us by the mobile operator. Iusacell is the third carrier in Mexico with an ambitious expansion program. They switched from CDMA-only into GSM 3G and later on LTE as well. They created a network sharing agreement with Telefonica, providing them with exactly the same network as Telefonica in Mexico, basically providing an excellent coverage throughout the region, whereas in the past, they may have hampered by limited resources and limited coverage.

So this all adds to an ambitious plan by Iusacell to expand their markets and to expand the capabilities to offer sophisticated services driven by the Elephant Talk platform. That made Iusacell to believe that, with those in tools hand they surely can expand the business. Aside of the fact that, a market as Mexico is still growing. Even though penetration rates are relatively high, we believe that Iusacell will be able to increase its market share over time, and thereby adding a few million customers at least. That was the background why Iusacell stipulated in their requirements to have a platform with the capability to handle at least 10 million customers.

And, of course, imagine that over the next couple of years, they will indeed be able to drive the business in that direction. There would probably be additional capabilities to expand the market even further. And that's the reason why, ultimately, even though the platform today is not able to carry 20 million customers, but the architecture is made such that with limited additional investment, the platform can indeed be expanded into 20 million customers, thereby providing Iusacell the tool to seamlessly grow into their market.

Thank you. And you also mentioned the hardware of the vendors. Is it relatively off-the-shelf hardware or is it a specific IBM computer or Hewlett-Packard or what exactly is it?

It's a mix, basically, of very, very sophisticated processing platforms. You have to understand that the whole reason for our existence is to be able to process huge data amounts in real-time. So not in sequence, but in parallel. You need to have very big processing capabilities and storing capabilities to make that work, especially if you do this for millions and millions of customers simultaneously. That's really the driver of our business. That's kind of the unique selling point that we have.

And of course, platforms, the most sophisticated platforms like companies like IBM have are required to make this reality. So those are – even though they are highly specialized kind of generic processing platforms. Next to that you have, of course, specific mobile or telecommunications-oriented hardware that you need to seamlessly integrate with the rest of the platform. So if you look at overall, I would say that, possibly around half of such CapEx investments would be generic computing platforms and the other half will be highly specialized telecom-related platforms blended in together into our single-platform approach.

Thank you.

Welcome. [Operator Instructions]

And your next question will come from the line of [ph] Steven Bessem (00:40:01). Please go ahead.

Good afternoon, everybody, Steven and the team. Please apologize for my English. I'm not so fluent as everybody else. I'd like to start by saying that I've been a shareholder now almost three years and proud. And I would like to give a complement to Martin Zuurbier whose efforts are without limitation. And I believe he's a very important player in the success of Elephant Talk. Having said that, I have a question, several questions actually. I have a question about the stock-based compensation which has gone up, if I'm not mistaken from $1.5 million to $2.9 million in this quarter. My question is why? That's one.

I have a question about the warranties. Please stop me if one question is enough. I have long-term liabilities, the warrant liabilities has gone up from zero to $2.4 million in this quarter, and I'd like to know why? The net cash compensation has increased significantly, I'd like to know why as well? And last question – sorry Steven, but I'd like to ask it please, can you give me an idea on percentage-wise how much percentage of the fantastic revenue that we have comes from ValidSoft versus the efforts of Martin Zuurbier and his team? That's it.

All right. Well, it's a whole range of questions. Thanks, Steven, because they are all good. Actually we are not splitting out the revenues between the security and the mobile services operation for good reasons. And one of the reasons is that sometimes it's a blurred picture because both platforms or both activities reside on similar platform, use similar resources, use similar access. But I can assure you that those businesses are developing in the right direction, and we are happy to have those businesses as being part of our overall operation.

Then addressing the question with respect to the stock-based compensation. Yes, that indeed went up. And the main reason for that is that this spring was the first time that we conducted an overall performance-based analysis of our staff and that included granting specific rewards to reflect average, good and excellent contribution to the company. And that, basically, was the driver for opening up additional options to be rewarded, to be given to our staff to reward their efforts. With respect to the warrants, I would like to hand over the call to Mark, who is better positioned to address the growth in warrants liabilities.

Yes. Thank you, both Stevens. The warrant liabilities, last year same period we did not have any warrants attached to certain financing instruments, and since we closed a registered direct now in June, raising a $12 million, there were warrants attached to it as equity keepers. And on the US GAAP, we were required to value those warrants and enter them into the reporting. So that's the reason why last year there were no warrant liabilities in the books, and this year following the recent fundraise they were to be valued.

And that with respect to the net cash compensation, Mark, could you address that as well?

Yeah. Actually, I'm wondering Steve, what you were referring to the net cash compensation went up?

Well, I am not sure what Steven was referring to. Of course, if we look at the expansion of the company, for example the integration of the ETNA team in North America and a further growth of the capabilities within the company, led us to hire more staff. That might be part of the reason for more cash compensation. But aside that, I believe that, that was kind of in line with our general developments in SG&A. And as Mark pointed out a little earlier, actually SG&A was pretty stable from $4.6 million in Q2 last year to actually $4.5 million in the recent quarter this year. So actually from that respect, I don't think there was a substantial increase in cash compensation or in any other element in our SG&A.

And your next question will come from the line of [indiscernible] (00:45:31). Please go ahead.

Hey guys. It's [indiscernible] (00:45:34). Congratulations on another good quarter, and that's eighth sequential quarters of growth. I have two questions. The Iusacell, I know it was asked before, 1.5 million SIMs, but I think – I need you guys to be very clear, you believe very strongly that there will be many more SIMs coming after that is what I think I'm hearing. Please validate that.

And the second question I have is for Pat. I think – I'm not clear, when you mentioned deals with UK banks, I'm losing track. Can you please verify how many UK banks we have deals with, given that there are only three or four big banks in the United Kingdom? Thank you.

All right. Thanks, [ph] George (00:46:26). Let me first address the Iusacell question and then I will give the floor to Pat to answer the question about the UK banks. As you have seen in one of our releases earlier this year, I think it was June when we conducted the first call with the CEO of Iusacell, it was actually the CEO of Iusacell that was quoted to say that he expects by the end of this year to have at least 1.5 million of his subscribers on the Elephant Talk platform.

So far we have not given any guidance about a higher amount of subscribers down the road. But, of course, you can easily conclude yourself from the fact that the requirements of the platform called for 10 million – actually that's our platform, 10 million subscribers, and the fact that Iusacell has more than 1 million customers that, ultimately, indeed, we could expect more customers down the road. But I don't think we will have given any guidance in that respect, and I don't think it's appropriate to do so now. And I would personally already be extremely happy if we will indeed see the 1.5 million customers by the end of December because that would be a huge milestone of the company, more than doubling our current amount of subscribers on our platforms, and really adding to the use cases so that we can also address a lot of needs of comparable virtual operators and mobile operators, like Iusacell and their customers in that region and also in other regions.

So I believe that let's first focus on these 1.5 million customers. Let's cross that bridge, and then let's take it from there. And, of course, we ultimately will be prepared to handle many more. But I think it's now too early to simply speculate on what that number could ultimately be.

Pat, I would now like to give the floor to you with respect to the UK banks.

Yeah. Hi, [ph] George (00:48:22). Well, like I said, the UK market is not a huge market by any means. So there's definitely five major operators in terms of the [indiscernible] (00:48:32) services that we offer. So others are in the second tier behind that. So, I guess, Adeptra/FICO have relationships with every one of the major banks, one, and also the banks that they have relationship with, we have now – already they have now been awarded contracts in excess of 50%-or-so. So – and that's a fair statement to say that right now with the contract situation between Adeptra/FICO [ph] and those lines (00:49:00) that we are close to about 60% or nearabout the demand.

Okay. So that tells me that ValidSoft has agreements through Adeptra or FICO with all apart from one of the big UK banks, is that correct?

Certainly. If you look at what's been happening, and basically what happens is that, FICO and Adeptra have to be [ph] retender all their (00:49:30) businesses at the end of whatever that contract period is. And clearly as they go through that, so extending the services to those clients to include the products and services around securing the channel. That's absolutely crucial.

Okay.

There's no point in [indiscernible] (00:49:45) because that – it involves communication with your customer base if you can't build a channel. So by virtue of the – if you like to retendering for those businesses will also have to be included as part of those [indiscernible] (00:49:59).

Okay. I get it. That's actually very significant, more significant than I imagined. And for what it's worth guys, if I felt the need to ask that question my guess is that there are probably and likely many more shareholders wanting to ask that question or at least they're not clear about just how positive it really is. That's fantastic news. Thank you.

All right, [ph] George (00:50:24).

And our next question will come from the line of Mr. [ph] Robert Skaff (00:50:35). Please go ahead.

Hi, Pat. Quick FICO/ Adeptra question. I think it sounds like the installation is complete or near complete. How easy or difficult is it for any given FICO bank to implement SIM Swap or VALid-POS now? [ph]

Robert (00:50:56), Pat. Yeah, thanks for asking the questions. If you'll recall that in the course of my update I mentioned that during Q2, we had already FICO that have fully updated the say Adeptra platform to incorporate VALid-POS. SIM Swap is already in there. VALid-POS is now in there. And that means that our clients have a relatively easy task of incorporating that within their environment because the environment's already in there. [indiscernible] (00:51:24-00:51-29) and we will feel very comfortable that from the point of a bank SIM we want to press ahead with either SIM or POS, that we'll have [indiscernible] (00:51:38) period. We could have those lines in production. It doesn't really happen like that in reality because what happens is you get the [indiscernible] (00:51:50). But in terms of the ability to get the clients up and running, we can do that in a very, very short space of time.

Okay. Thank you.

And there are no further questions at this time. I will now turn the call back to Steven van der Velden. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you. In closing, I'm more optimistic than ever in the growth trajectory of our company. It was this optimism that left me to personally make a $4.5 million investment in the company recently. Management believes we are at a critical inflection point in the value of our enterprise as we continue to add users to our mobile platform in Mexico, Spain, Saudi Arabia as well as increase the number of transactions processed with financial institutions for our cybersecurity technology.

As such, I anticipate that our efforts will be favorably recognized in the public market providing significant shareholder value for our long-term investors and those who believe, as I do, in the strength of our monthly recurring subscription and transaction-based business model. Everyone at Elephant Talk Communications is very excited about the company's prospects of future growth. I would like to thank everyone for joining us on today's call. And thanks, again, to all of our long-term shareholders for their patience and commitment to the company. Thank you and have a great day.

Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the conference call for today. Thank you for participating. Please disconnect your lines.