Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Alan Sheinwald — Investor Contact, Capital Markets Group, LLC
Robert Harold Turner — Executive Chairman, Elephant Talk Communications Corp.
Mark Nije — Chief Financial Officer & Principal Financial Accounting Officer, Elephant Talk Communications Corp.
Lisa R. Thompson — Analyst, Zacks Investment Research, Inc.
John Nobile — Analyst, Taglich Brothers, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, and welcome to the Elephant Talk Communications Corporation Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call. Today's conference is being recorded. At this time, I'd like to turn the conference over to Alan Sheinwald of Capital Markets Group. Please go ahead.

Thank you, operator. Good afternoon. Thank you for joining us for the Elephant Talk Communications 2015 third quarter financial results conference call. On our call today will be Mr. Hal Turner, our newly appointed Executive Chairman of Elephant Talk; Mr. Mark Nije, Chief Financial Officer. As is customary, following management's discussion there will be a brief Q&A session open to all participants on the call, as the operator has already mentioned.

Before we get started, I'm going to review the company's Safe Harbor statement. Remarks made on this call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 as amended and in Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 as amended. All forward-looking statements are inherent, they are uncertain, and they are based on current expectations and assumptions concerning future events or future performance of the company.

Listeners are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which are only predictions and speak only of the date hereof. In evaluating such statements, prospective investors should review carefully various risks and uncertainties identified in this conference call and the matters stated in the company's SEC filings. These risks and uncertainties could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements.

With that out of the way, I want to welcome Mr. Hal Turner to Elephant Talk's team as our new Executive Chairman, and turn the call over to him for opening comments. Hal, the floor is yours.

Thank you, Alan. I really appreciate that and I thank all of you for joining us today for this 2015 third quarter financial results conference call. As you all are aware by now, I am very honored to have been chosen as the newly appointed Executive Chairman by the Board of Directors of Elephant Talk.

Just by way of brief background, my career has spanned many countries where I've had the great opportunity to work with global carriers, service providers, software developers and exciting new cutting-edge technology. Most of my work has centered on building world-class quality teams, leading sales growth with profitable financial performance, and reigniting promising technologies to realize their full market potential.

I've joined Elephant Talk because of what I consider to be the opportunity to do this one more time; and I'm reminded of what was said by one of the James Bond movie guys, when he said never say never. So I'm never saying never, and this is going to be a lot of fun I believe for all of us as we turn this company. We intend to build within the company a very professional sales culture that yields demonstrable, predictable and sustainable growth, while driving very clear accountability and responsibility for results throughout every aspect of the company.

In building our team, there'll be key executives that have worked with me in starting up and turning around other successful ventures who I will call upon to supplement enjoying the many excellent employees that form the current Elephant Talk and ValidSoft teams. From this work, we intend to shape an agile company that continues to evolve with customer needs, while driving deep sales and operating results and corresponding fundamental financial performance. I think Elephant Talk is the company in transition in terms of its leadership, its business operations and its financial results.

I joined this company as your Executive Chairman, because I believe in our technology and most importantly the long-term opportunity for growth in the marketplace. When I look at the products and services and I look at the market, the fit is very, very strong. I'm also excited about our intellectual property and our global opportunities to provide our enablement service to new service provider customers and their end user subscribers, as well as adding additional penetration for SIM cards for our carrier customers through our software-as-a-service platform.

In just a moment I'll be turning the call over to Mark Nije, who is our CFO, to discuss our 2015 third quarter results. But before I do that, I want to speak very openly about the communications and expectations of the company, and how we will be setting forth our expectations going forward and how I hope to improve with our whole team this critical aspect as we march forward. As we interact with you, our shareholders and our prospective investors down the road, I'm going to focus on resetting how we communicate those expectations that we talk about and how we implement this through our style of communicating material events at Elephant Talk when it's done and when there is a result to talk about.

In days gone by, potential customer contracts, new partners and even the timing of revenue generation were often key focus areas for discussion. Going forward, I'm going to prefer not to talk about these specific clients publicly unless it's required by our SEC reporting regulation. This is for two very important reasons. Number one, competition; and two, the commercially sensitivity aspects of exposing your customers not only for others to come and cherry pick them, but more importantly for exposure of what we're doing unnecessarily.

However, in terms of key metrics and how we will report on the business, I think it's very important that we define and identify key metrics that will allow us to predict the future and how we grow. And those two things for me are subscribers and the SIM cards that drive through the carriers that operate on our platform, because it's these two elements that are the basic monetization elements in our business. As we track those, it just transcends everything into our ultimate EBITDA and revenue performance. So the growth of subscribers or the SIM cards and the corresponding revenues that are generated will be the focus that we take. These two metrics have the simplest and the most absolute direct impact on our financial performance and reportable result.

In early 2016, after I've had the opportunity to be on board for a bit and working towards refocusing the company's strategic initiatives and building for growth, I intend to reevaluate instituting financial guidance. However, at the moment we simply are not in a position to do that with credibility and to really observe an abundance of care and caution in setting expectations with you. So I asked that you the shareholders give us this opportunity to earn your trust as a new team and the confidence that goes with that as we make this transition over the remainder of the year and into 2016.

But I want to be very, very clear about this. It is my intent to be completely transparent with all of you, provide guidance and set expectations that are achievable and importantly provide material disclosures within the framework of the SEC regulations. It is a real pleasure to speak to everyone today on this my first call. I am looking forward to keeping a very open line of communication with you as we go forward. I'd now want to yield over to Mark, who'll provide further detail regarding 2015 third quarter and 2015 first nine months financial performance, and I'll come back after that.

Mark, over to you please?

Thanks, Hal. I will now discuss the company's financial results for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 in further detail. As mentioned in previous calls, as a result of the application of US GAAP accounting rules going forward, we'll provide investors with both GAAP and non-GAAP revenue information. Secondly, you will hear throughout my presentation that this quarter and basically also the past few quarters, the exchange rate effects and effects on our numbers have been substantial following a devaluation of the euro against the US dollar. So when discussing the numbers, you will repeatedly hear when we refer to the exchange rate changes and impacts.

Turning to revenue now. Revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2015 was approximately $3.5 million, a decrease of around $950,000 or 22%, compared to $4.5 million for the same period the prior year. A negative euro versus US dollar currency impact of $550,000 accounted for 57% of the variance. The remaining $409,000 decrease in revenue was attributable to the termination of the Iusacell contract which accounted for approximately $1.4 million in the decrease, offset however by increases in the company's other mobile and security business revenue of approximately $900,000.

For the nine months ended September 2015, the revenues totaled approximately $27.7 million, a $12.8 million or 86% increase compared to the $14.9 million for the same period last year. This increase was a result of the full recognition of deferred revenue related to the termination of the Iusacell contract in June of this year of approximately $11.6 million. In addition, increases in the company's other mobile and security business revenue of approximately $3.2 million, however, offset by a negative exchange rate impact of around $1.9 million.

Now turning to non-GAAP revenue. The non-GAAP revenue for the three months of this year was approximately [ph] $3.4 million (00:11:18), a decrease of $4.3 million compared to the $7.7 million for the three months same period last year. The decrease in non-GAAP revenue was the result of a negative exchange rate impact of approximately $550,000, the loss of Iusacell contract and lower setup and implementation fees compared to the period of last year.

Non-GAAP revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 was $18.7 million, a decrease of $1.9 million or 9%, compared to $20.7 million for the nine months last year. The variance in non-GAAP revenue was primarily the result of current and deferred revenue associated with termination of the Iusacell contract in 2015 combined with the earlier mentioned negative exchange rate impact of around $1.9 million.

Cost of service for the three-month period ended September 30, 2015, was $1.4 million, a decrease of $200,000 or 13%, compared to $1.6 million for the same period last year. The decrease in cost of service was primarily the result of a favorable exchange rate impact of $184,000, reductions in combination of cash and non-cash stock based employee compensation of $206,000. These reductions were partially offset by increases in the cost of mobile bundled services of $186,000.

For the nine-month period, the cost of service was $4.7 million, a decrease of $380,000 or 7% compared to $5 million for the same period in 2014. When adjusted for positive exchange rate effects, the cost of service actually increased by $236,000 compared to the same period last year.

General and administrative expenses for the three-month period ended September this year, were $2.5 million and $3.2 million for the prior year, a decrease of $746,000 or 23%. For the nine-month period, the general and administrative expenses were $8.1 million compared to $9.8 million last year, a decrease of $1.7 million or 17%.

General and administrative expenses adjusted for exchange rates decreased for the three months and nine months periods by $465,000 and $629,000, respectively. The decrease in G&A expenses is primarily result of the cost reduction measures that started during the second quarter of 2015, including reductions in staff levels and corporate expenses. Product development expenses were reduced this quarter and sales and marketing expenses slightly increased. Nevertheless, for the three-month this year was $4.2 million, a decrease of $1.1 million compared to the loss of $5.2 million for the same period in 2014.

Net income for the nine-month period was $3.2 million, an increase of $20.2 million compared to the loss of $16.9 million for the same period in 2014. This increase in net income was mainly caused by the full release of deferred revenue of $11.6 million related to the termination of the contract with Iusacell as well as compensation paid by Iusacell for the termination of the contract.

Lastly, adjusted EBITDA was approximately a loss of $1.2 million for the third quarter of 2015 as compared to a $1.5 million profit for the same period the year prior. For the nine months, the adjusted EBITDA was $3.3 million compared to $1.9 million for the same period the year prior.

I would like now to turn the call back to Hal for closing remarks. Hal?

Thank you, Mark. I'd like to now turn my attention to briefly updating everyone on two key areas. First, I'd like to provide an update on ValidSoft, and then I'd like to share with you my vision for our company going forward. Both the board and I understand the importance of creating sustainable value for our business and for our shareholders. And that is why the board of directors, our senior management and the ValidSoft team, all agreed that we are not realizing the proper value for the ValidSoft assets and its intellectual property in the public market.

As earlier announced, we retained Dawson James to advise the company on strategic options regarding ValidSoft. We are vigorously pursuing all our options including sale of all or a portion of the company and we'll update this matter in the coming weeks. However, as of today we continue to operate ValidSoft as an integral part of our value proposition for Elephant Talk and its shareholders. If and when an opportunity arises to accelerate that value proposition, we're prepared to act in the best interest of the company and its shareholders in a transaction. We certainly look forward to providing you all with any material update and to be as transparent as we possibly can, given the competitive landscape and that our customers will allow. Please refer, if you will, to the earnings release for the brief update on ValidSoft operation.

In terms of our telecom services, the overall business and how we intend to reset its expectations, let me reiterate and elaborate on what I said earlier. I really understand that shareholders have come to expect management to talk and provide a lot of detailed future guidance about the results that we can expect in coming quarters and including in some cases even having named customers being discussed. However, given the situation that we find ourselves in currently, I'm asking for your patience and understanding that we need some time. What I can say to you is that, without doubt we expect new customers in new geographies including Latin America and in Europe in the coming months, and we will work very, very hard. We are renewing all of our efforts and focusing to get those results brought in as quickly as humanly feasible.

So, I'd like to turn now briefly to the vision and where we're going from here. The opportunity ahead for ValidSoft and for Elephant Talk as a company is global and the technology in my view is based upon experiences in the industry over approximately 40 years, and that is I think we've got a leading edge and I think we've got technology that is in absolute excellent fit for the markets that we addressed. There are many reasons that we should all be excited about the opportunities we see, and this is why I came to Elephant Talk. However, to date, our job and next week our job and over the remainder of 2015 and into 2016 is to ensure that we can deliver to all of you, our stakeholders, our customers, our partners, our investors and absolutely certainly and not least our employees, the value that is locked up inside the company.

With my team, I'm immediately implementing a detailed evaluation of all aspects of our business including sales, including operations, including all the processes and management from the ground up. You could think of this as zero-based budgeting, if you will. Together with the team, we will identify the key areas that are requiring strengthening and we're planning to address those with immediacy. We'll find the areas where we're strong and we'll ensure that we're well-positioned to capitalize on that strength. We also intend to communicate with you and our shareholders as we work through this process and provide as much light as is possible.

As I look at these markets that I refer to that we operate in, I'm very, very impressed. They are divided and available to us in the marketplace as many as 200 Tier 1 global carriers and postal, telephone and telegraph operators, PTTs. Those are the state-owned and operated entities. There are over 360 Tier 2 carriers and service providers and competitive local exchange carriers or CLECs. There's over 540 identifiable next-generation so-called over-the-top or OTT new entrants, who are having just dramatic subscriber growth. These are companies like Uber, Twilio, and in some cases direct enterprises. These are vibrant in growing markets.

And to address this opportunity, we tend to establish on the ground, in the market sales presence in each of the key market areas to include at least Asia; Europe, the Middle East, and Africa, EMEA; Central and Latin America, CLA; and of course, North America. These will be led by regional sales executives and supported by the collective resources within Elephant Talk. Our goal is to be one finely tuned real sales team. We will be more self-assertive and support responsive to our customers. That's what drives us. We expect that the operators and providers in each of the categories that I've mentioned will continue to grow and in many cases grow dramatically.

However, it's my observation that all of these operators are faced with common issues. That includes things like how to cost effectively and fully utilize their services and the capacity that they have built; and in some cases, how to leverage their branding. This is where Elephant Talk's mobile services platform which enables full subscriber management and billing services in connection with radio access networks, bridges the gap.

I believe Elephant Talk is absolutely ideally suited to become the core enabler of a complex interoperability and interconnectivity web of need that exist among wired operators, wireless operators, over-the-top operators and content providers. That's my vision of where we go from here. At the heart of this is our strategy to capitalize on the opportunity of helping the global telecommunications industry adapt to a common set of issues and challenges. And I hope that Elephant Talk, through our team and our leadership, will be sitting right in the middle of that, will be the solution of choice.

I expect that we will show people how to cost-effectively fully utilize their services in the face of intense competition, evolving technologies and a very complex and flexible and efficient infrastructures which exists and which Elephant Talk has a unique solution in place to allow them to grow. Our opportunity ahead of the company is very much a global one. It's one that I am confident that we have the technology platform to accomplish our goal. In doing so, I believe that we will achieve the financial success and create shareholder value, and I know we all want.

This actually will conclude the management update portion of the call. And I'd like to now open the floor up for any questions that you may have and address those for a few minutes. So, thank you for that; and operator, over to you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And we will go to Lisa Thompson with Zacks Investment Research.

Good afternoon. Welcome, and I'm very glad to hear all your thoughts coming into [indiscernible] (00:24:58)

Well, thank you, Lisa. Good afternoon to you.

It sounds very encouraging and very exciting. And I think you really have your work cut out for you, given the quarter just reported and the large negative cash flow and negative free cash flow. In the queue, it mentioned that the company would need to raise between $5 million and $7 million either through selling balance off or doing something else. Is that a number that you had a chance to look at and think about? And what are your thoughts on that and how long does this process take?

Good question, and thank you, Lisa. First of all, it's a notional number at this point because we absolutely have not worked through a real capital gain plan that looks at the changes we are making in the operation, the rate that we recover those changes, the impact on cash and the investments that we need to make in not only growing the sales organization, but continuing to grow our infrastructure as we have customers in new geographies.

Having said all of that, I believe that we will source a good bit of our capital needs through the operational efficiencies and improvements that we're in the process of accelerating as we speak. Tim Payne, who has been named as the Interim CEO is working very closely with me and with others that are advising us, has a pretty well-defined set of actions that we expect can be implemented over the coming two to six weeks. And we believe that as you look at Q1 and Q2, it will take us anywhere from two to three weeks after making changes to realize the cash flow.

At the same time, we are vigorously pursuing all of our options with ValidSoft. And given that there are pieces that are moving here and not yet fixed, I believe that we will probably consider a need for cash and make a decision on how we address that probably during the month of December – excuse me, November, but certainly no later than December. I hope that addresses your question.

That certainly helps and makes perfect sense. Is there any update you can give us as to the progress of new customers that are onboarding? Or is that has been recently signed or is that will not going to be topic of conversation anymore?

Well, I know that there certainly is an understanding and an expectation that new customers are pending, and I can tell you that we do expect to close some sales. But what I think is important is to focus back for just a moment on the metrics that I mentioned. When you look at a company like salesforce.com as an example, salesforce.com doesn't often announce the enterprise customers that they have signed up. What they do announce is their number of seats, the compounded annual growth of those seats, the cost to acquire those seats and that revenue.

And investors are able to see by the growth of the seat count that KPI how the business is doing, and the investors are also able to look on the balance sheet and see the growth of the backlog of sales to understand the value of those long-term contracts that hasn't yet been recognized in GAAP revenue. Well, if we focus on subscribers and subscribers generally will become the phrase that we use both for SIM cards and for actual subscribers that are running through the platform, that will be the very best proxy of our growth.

Now, it is my expectation that in the course – by the way, I've only been an employee 23 hours in the company, so I haven't quite gotten fully in-depth yet. But it is my expectation with this fine team that it is looking at this with us to be able to say, okay, here's our subscribers as of the end of Q3. Therefore, in Q4 we've done this amount of growth and then we will take a look at our pipeline and applying a more stringent viewpoint to that pipeline in terms of its qualification, are we addressing the problem or do we have a real solution, do we understand the budget, do we understand the decision making process because in my mind, unless you understand those things very, very crisply, it's impossible to put an accurate forecast in place.

But the question is, how does that carrier or MVNO roll out their service and penetrate? So in many cases, it's a marketing forecast that looks at their own marketing plans and that is to determine how their subscribers will grow. So this is my reason for not wanting to name a customer, because if I name a customer and tell you that we've signed a contract, what I'm not telling you is that it may take nine months, a year or two years to fully penetrate that customers' plans for sales and marketing and for those subscribers to grow. I rather less just in aggregate look at the subscribers and talk about it that way. Does that help?

Well, I'm having flashbacks to AOL though. Does that mean we're going to be doing like beginning subscriber, ending subscriber churn, average revenues per subscriber or will you give us that retroactively?

Well, the good news is that there's very little churn in this, because typically once the MVNO is in place, it is their churn that is in front of our net subscriber growth. So we won't be talking about it that way, but it is very important to understand that the unit economic measure for this company is either a SIM card or a subscriber and just as a proxy we're going to talk about subscribers.

And you're going to give us that going forward or will you also go back and... [indiscernible]

(00:31:35)

...going forward, but I am going to work with the team to establish a baseline from which to report to you going forward.

Okay. Great.

I don't know...

Thank you, Hal.

Yeah. Yeah.

I'll give you few more hours.

Thank you.

Well, that's great.

I think we're going to have a 24-hour celebration.

Yes. We should, each anniversary. Well, that sounds great. I'm very looking forward to seeing what happens and the plans for the future looks great.

Thank you very much.

Thank you so much.

You're welcome.

And we will now go to John Nobile with Taglich Brothers.

Hello. Good afternoon and congratulations on [indiscernible] (00:32:22).

Hello, John. Good afternoon to you and thank you very much.

Hey. [indiscernible] (00:32:28) but anyway, I was hoping you could – I'm just curious actually if you began to support any new customers from your new relationship with the Tier 1 US mobile operator?

At this point, no. That is a very, very high priority for Tim Payne and his team and it's top of mind. I will tell you that while no new subscribers have been added as a result of the relationship, there is a very, very attractive and growing pipeline of opportunity that comes to us from that Tier 1 provider and their support in opening those doors is immeasurable. So, I do believe that we have some good things to look forward to in the coming six, nine months and a year. And I assure you that Tim and his team and I and all of us, are working diligently to make that happen, but no reportable results yet.

Okay. Anything we should know about maybe were you expecting something this quarter or by this point or you said six to nine months, pretty optimistic. But looking maybe one quarter and to first quarter of next year, does it look like there might be something to report at that point?

Yes. Yes. As we have looked at the current run rate of the business and we've looked at the opportunities that have been identified that can begin to produce subscribers in growth for the company particularly in Q1 and Q2, we think there are at least two really solid opportunities and potentially as many as four, but we're working hard to reaffirm that. But I do not want to leave you with the impression that nothing's going to happen at all for six to nine months. I'm expecting some activity in Q1 and Q2, but reality is that we just – since now 23 hours and 30 minutes, we haven't sat down and gone through a real review of each of these opportunities and recast our sales strategy to make it happen, but that will occur very, very quickly. [indiscernible]

(00:35:03) just curious without naming the name, if we have an idea of how big their subscriber base may be?

Well, I think the important thing is to understand that, in the case of this particular Tier 1, this is being used as part of their own expansion of their services and not within their core network. So this is part of their sales and channel partnering relationship. So this is how they are looking to bring on new subscribers to take advantage of capacity within their own radio access network using an MVNO strategy with Elephant Talk as the driver.

So it's not like a global carrier that's got 20 million subscribers that's doing a flash cut to change out to Elephant Talk; this is part of a global carriers plan to add new resellers through their own mobile virtual network operators and use the Elephant Talk platform to bring in those new subscribers. [indiscernible]

(00:36:23) in the past you talked about the relationship with Verizon, and I was just wondering if you can update us if there was anything new to report in that relationship, or if there was a chance could actually provide revenue in the fourth quarter?

Really I'm not able to comment on the company's relationship with Verizon, because I'm just not able to get into it at this point.

All right.

However, I want you to know that our team, my own personal relationships and those of people that I intend to supplement into our organization give us access at decision making levels in most of the players in the world. So, we look forward to that. But I also want to point out something. It's never just about the personal relationship to make a decision. It's always about, do you solve a business problem? Do you have a cost-effective solution? Can you help me as an operator solve a problem that I have in terms of competition and technology? And that's how we are positioning Elephant Talk going forward. So while we do have relationships, the important thing is to convert those into demonstrable decisions that bring value to that operator and translate services for us. [indiscernible]

(00:38:01) another specific customer, but more of a general question. Last call it was mentioned that the company was in the final stages of re-entering Mexico. So I just wanted to get an update on that. How does that currently look? Is there anything new to report as far as that area is concerned?

There is not. We're working diligently with prospective partners there. Nothing has been finalized, but in my mentioning of sales operations, Central America, Latin America is certainly big in our focus and North America. So obviously, Mexico sits right there and it is a huge, huge, prospect and potential in my opinion. I also think that looking at the potential prospective partners that we have there, there is a good list, but I think there are others that we will explore also.

So this falls into one of those categories where hopefully in the coming – particularly Q1 and Q2, we'll have something to talk about that will allow me to give some sort of guidance relative to subscribers that grow on our platform because of that.

Great. Well, I appreciate the comment and I'm looking forward to getting back actually to talk about the subscribers in future calls. I just wanted to thank you and I wish you the best for probably growing this company going forward. Thank you.

John, thank you so much. And I look forward to meeting you and others and appreciate your help and support, and we will certainly report to you. Look forward to this call every quarter and report back to everybody. So, thank you.

And we'll now go to [ph] Dennis Tolen (00:39:56), private investor.

Hi. Thanks for taking the call. Appreciate the fact that you're new, but unfortunately there have been some things that we've been told in the past that I would like to double check with you.

Okay.

The restructuring that was underway during the year we were told would eliminate $5 million in expenses and approaching positive EBITDA towards 2016. I'm assuming the business hasn't stopped while all this was going on. Can you tell us those numbers? I mean, based on what you said, positive EBITDA is going to be a while, but where do you...

That's correct.

...stand on the actual restructuring that was implemented by your predecessor?

That restructuring certainly achieved some cost savings. However, given the things that Mark Nije spoke about particularly including the loss of Iusacell, those savings are no longer sufficient. And we are looking at everything from the ground up, and I do expect that the additional acceleration of changes, reorganization and capturing of cost savings will make improvements in late November and December, it will be into Q1 before we see a complete flow through of that.

But my fervent objective is to bring the business to breakeven cash neutral on its current sales run rate, so that as we do add subscribers, as we do add new relationships then we have a profitable growth basis and then we add back in investing cost that's earned through sales success. So, I would summarize it by saying that the reorganization was useful. It had some cost savings, but given the current circumstances as is evidenced by the numbers and the numbers speak for themselves, as it relates to the EBITDA loss, we must dig deeper and we are and we will, and again this is something that we're doing with campaign and the team that I've put together to assist in that. [indiscernible]

(00:42:38)

Okay. Just one last question about that. EBITDA, I think the most stringent covenant you had is the EBITDA coverage based upon what I'm looking at now and extrapolating forward. It would appear to me that you're going to [ph] need violation (00:42:58) of that EBITDA coverage test had you in your 23 hours plus, had any contact with the lender, and where you stand in current compliance with all loan covenants?

So the answer to the question of in my 23 hours have I done that, the answer is absolutely yes, because that was my top priority. Contact has been established. I do have a call tomorrow to discuss it in depth. And if you look at the black letter of the agreement, certainly the covenants are not being met. The very good news is, our lender understands the steps we're taking through the phone call that I had. In-depth we'll go into it tomorrow. He understands the steps that we're taking, the plans that we have in place and the pieces that are moving relative to our consideration with ValidSoft and also the potential for new capital to be raised as we determine what our needs truly are.

Having said all of that, I'm very confident that the lender will continue to work with us and that we're not in jeopardy. I want to emphasize that I didn't join the company to take it into bankruptcy; I joined the company to grow it, to work with the team to fix the problems and that's exactly what we're going to do. Rational minds with the lender and rational thought as it relates to our circumstances and how we fix it will carry today. I'm very confident with the board's support, with the management team support that we'll make this work.

How much cash do you have on hand?

Mark, I'm going to have to punt to you on that, because I simply do not know.

Well, like I mentioned before in earlier calls, the cash balance within us fluctuates immensely because of the large customers that we have and lot of suppliers that we have, but it's clear that the cash situation is tight.

Okay. Thank you very much.

You're welcome. Thank you so much for your questions. Operator, I think that we are pretty much out of time for questions at this point.

I'll turn it back to you for closing remarks, Mr. Turner.

All right. Well, thank you very much. So I'd just like to summarize. First of all, I want to thank everyone. You know that we have challenges, but I know that we have opportunity. You know about that some, you'll know about it more as we get to know each other and talk about subscribers and how we're doing. Our mission to alter the course of Elephant Talk is a worthy mission. It's a worthy aim and that's why I joined. We are absolutely ready to get the job done.

And on behalf of everybody at Elephant Talk Communications and ValidSoft, I thank each of you for joining us, I thank you for your support to date, and a very special thank you to all of these long-term shareholders for your patience and commitment to the company. I appreciate your questions today. I understand your impatience. I ask for forbearance. So I thank you very much and I wish each of you an excellent day.

Operator, thank you again to everybody. Operator, back to you.

Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today's conference. We thank you for your participation.