Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Steve Gersten — Investor Relations Contact, Pareteum Corp.
Robert Harold Turner — Executive Chairman & Principal Executive Officer, Pareteum Corp.
Vic Bozzo — Chief Executive Officer, Pareteum Corp.
Lisa R. Thompson — Analyst, Zacks Investment Research, Inc.
Bryan Kobel — Analyst, R.F. Lafferty & Co
Tom Curtis — Analyst, Dawson James Securities

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Please stand by, we're about to begin. Good day and welcome to the Pareteum 2017 First Quarter Financial Results Conference Call. Today's conference is being recorded. [Operator Instructions]

At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Steve Gersten, Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you, Beth, and good afternoon or good evening to everyone. Thank you for joining us today for Pareteum Corporation's first quarter ended March 31, 2017 analyst conference call. With us today are Hal Turner, Executive Chairman; Vic Bozzo, Chief Executive Officer; and Ted O'Donnell, Chief Financial Officer.

Earlier today, after the close of the markets, Pareteum released financial results and filed its Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2017. If you have not received Pareteum's earnings release, please visit Pareteum's Investor page at www.pareteum.com.

Following management's discussion, there will be a Q&A session. During the course of this conference call, the company will be making forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934.

The company cautions you that any statement that is not a statement of historical fact is a forward-looking statement. This includes any projections of earnings, revenues, cash or other statements relating to the company's future financial results, any statements about plans, strategies or objectives of management for future operations, any statements concerning proposed new products, any statements regarding anticipated new relationships or agreements, any statements regarding expectations for the success of the company's products in the U.S. and international markets, any statements regarding future economic conditions or performance, statements of behalf, and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing.

These statements are based on expectations and assumptions as of the date of this conference call and are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. Some of these risks are described in the section of yesterday's press release titled forward-looking statements and in the public periodic reports the company filed in the Securities and Exchange Commission. Investors or potential investors should read these risks. Pareteum assumes no obligations to update these forward-looking statements to reflect future events or actual outcomes and does not intend to do so.

With that, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Hal Turner, Executive Chairman of the company.

Steve, thank you very much not only for driving today's call, but for all the hard work that you and Michael do on behalf of Pareteum and our stakeholders. We appreciate you very much, so thank you.

So, good afternoon to everyone in the U.S. and good evening for those who are joining us from Europe or Asia. I want to thank you for joining our call today for our Q1 quarterly analyst and business update. It's really only been a few weeks since our Town Hall conference call and then my subsequent shareholder letter update. But during that time, we have made extremely notable progress and there are a number of updates that we have for you today.

So, with me on the call today are Vic Bozzo, our CEO; and Ted O'Donnell, our CFO. And following our very brief remarks, Vic and Ted will join me in our Q&A session. And it's during that time that you will hear them comment on relative points regarding our progress as we address your questions and provide our answers. You have all hopefully had an opportunity to see the earnings release and the files 10-Q, so I'm not going to read that to you other than just noting a few what we think are important highlights. We will offer additional comments during that Q&A session, and we'll invite your questions at that time. So, let's get started.

As we ended the first quarter of 2017 following what I consider to be very significant progress in our restructuring and turnaround, the refinements and improvements to Pareteum are very much ongoing. We expect to always be in a mode that we refer to as make it better mindset. And that's really what our name derives from, the Pareto principle, where we always focus on the small number of things that yield the greatest results.

Much of the foundational work required to focus on sales and growth within the business have been achieved. In the quarter, the business performed as expected. This performance is the result of our efforts to solidify and streamline our financial foundation and continue that very highly disciplined financial stewardship of the company.

During the first quarter, we focused significant efforts on software development, and this was part of our Software-as-a-Service or SaaS platform for global mobility and managed service platforms. The new capabilities that were developed and are now being commercially offered were for services like 4G broadband and have been sought by our long-time customer, Vodafone, and now, because of that development, become available on a global basis. This is a very meaningful opportunity for us.

We've also added advanced messaging to our capabilities by developing extremely powerful API capabilities, that's Application Programming Interfaces. This supports the vast opportunities that we call the Internet of Things. This simply means that the application and solution integrators in the world as well as developers can now use our software to build end-to-end turnkey solutions. You may know that this is how Uber and WhatsApp – that's just to name a few of the better known examples – develop their business.

We intend to use our resources to identify and find that next future wave whether it's a smart connected car or a smart home, and the list really goes on and on and on. It's a great, great opportunity to have in front of us as we execute on our mission of being value creators. And we take this very seriously versus being the evisceration of value like we have seen in our company in the past.

It is this growing market of all things connected where billions of devices will require capabilities to communicate, to meter that data usage, to charge the data usage, to bill for that data usage and to report on what's been monitored. We call this service suite, our application's exchange and development platform. It is for the very broadly defined IoT market and some of those vertical segments that I just mentioned who will use the service. Make no mistake, this is a very vibrant new growth area for the company and the one that we're very, very excited about. Vic is going to speak about this and some of the sales progress that we are making with a number of our customer deployments, and that'll come up in a few minutes.

As noted in the earnings release, the first quarter reflects results of our efforts to clean up our balance sheet. This includes $1.5 million payment that was made to our senior secured lender, Atalaya. A new agreement was reached with Atalaya to make a very positive series of amendments to the existing debt arrangements. We've also executed a number of transactions designed to simplify our capital structure and reduce or eliminate a number of the very complicated variable instruments that have been on our balance sheet for quite some time.

We're building a business that we expect to better reflect its inherent and potential value and to deliver sustained results. Sustainability and dramatic growth requires more than just the leading-edge technology that we're very fortunate to have. It requires talented leaders, it requires strong leadership and strong relationships. In the first quarter and into early April, we were able to significantly bolster our executive and sales teams. I'm very gratified that each of these individuals see our vision and they see it as we build it and they're helping build it. These individuals recognize the potential ahead of us and they've chosen to join our company freely and willingly on this journey.

I'd like to now turn to some of our financial highlights and briefly touch upon a couple of things. We reported in Q1 2017 revenue of approximately $2.8 million, and that was compared to $3.3 million last year, same quarter. This decrease resulted from our sale of ValidSoft and our customer's retail subscribers seasonal churn.

Our gross margins, which are expressed as a percent of revenue, increased from 66% to 70%, and this is due to the direct reduction of cost during 2016. Our operating expenses were $4.8 million for the quarter decreasing 37% from the $7.5 million same quarter last year as a result of the company-wide restructuring program implemented throughout 2016. Our loss from operations improved by 53% to a negative $1.9 million for the quarter compared to a negative $4.3 million loss in 2016.

Our net loss per weighted common share, average share, was $0.14, and this was a fairly dramatic improvement by 79% from the $0.66 per share in 2016. Our adjusted EBITDA in the quarter was a negative $198,000 and reflecting a 91% improvement from the negative EBITDA of the – negative $2.1 million reported last year.

Collectively, the Atalaya amendments that I referred to earlier, provide our company with significant flexibility to not only run and operate our business, but starting in the second quarter, significantly enhancing our cash flow by reducing our debt servicing needs throughout 2017 and 2018. It's our goal to continue to make demonstrable and operational progress and to maximize the value of this additional cash flow to further support the growth of the business.

I want to especially thank Ted, [ph] Dan Rios, (11:16) who's our Controller, and Alex Korff, who's our General Counsel, and our whole financial and corporate team for their continued hard work toward the success of our business, which, on their watch, is underpinned by diligent financial and legal stewardship. It is greatly appreciated by all of us, gentlemen.

Ted will have some comments during our Q&A as he addresses some of your questions.

Now, I have some very exciting news to announce, and it is my great pleasure to speak about something that I think is a major milestone for us, particularly when you look back over the last four years. We're acutely aware that you can't cost-reduce and expense-save your way to growth and prosperity, although I do think our team has done an extraordinary job in preserving the business through our actions to restructure and conserve cash. But we all know we must sell things. We must grow our top-line revenue, and that is why we are especially excited by our first major new sales success.

The following headline will appear in a press release that will be issued before market opens tomorrow, and I will read this to you. Pareteum Enters Brazilian Mobile Services Market with Seven-Year Virtual Network Enabler Agreement. New Services Platform Deployment to Support the Launch of Multiple Wireless Brands and Services.

Ladies and gentlemen, we've entered into an agreement with a very well-established Brazilian financial services and marketing company to provide mobile networking connectivity and subscriber management services, which will support their plans to provide mobile connectivity and IoT applications to retail and enterprise customers. This is a major mobile virtual network enablement sale. It is a major managed services platform sale.

In fact, as Vic and I looked at this, we think it's the first one since 2013. This comes with significant long-term growth potential, and this is forecasted by our new customer. Tomorrow's press release is going to highlight the paid upfront service establishment fees and guaranteed recurring monthly service revenues that has a minimum total contract value of $2 million approximately.

This upfront money is very important to us because it offsets the expenses related to installing and implementing our managed services MVNE platform, which, again, is the Mobile Virtual Network Enablement. The more important element is this customer's projection, which we have examined and validated in our minds for future business and what this platform could unleash for Pareteum in the future. Beyond our guaranteed minimum Total Contract Value, TCV, our customer expects that over a three-year period, that we will be managing and collecting monthly recurring revenue for as many as 3 million subscribers and supported connected devices.

These customer forecasted subscriber volumes have revenue-generating potential that gets to the 8-figure-dollar range. That's very significant to us. This clearly has the potential to move our top line performance dramatically. Also, we've been very active in Brazil, as many of you may know, for quite a while. We've been working with an array of partners and potential customers. We view this newly executed agreement and the implementation of our managed services platform in Brazil as the milestone event that will let us leverage these past relationships. We expect this newly opened opportunity to facilitate those relationships that have been established and potentially create incremental new growth in future revenues.

This is why we are so very encouraged and why we have reasons to be optimistic, not only about Brazil, but what this will mean throughout the rest of the world as we compete in the eyes of other major global carriers. We will scale over the course of this agreement many of these relationships. I specifically want to acknowledge the perseverance of Vic, Rob Mumby, [ph] Paolo Nasomito (15:36) and our whole Spain-based team that supported this transaction. They know that we're all in sales and these guys are sales warriors. That includes Nick and Chris, you know who you are, and we've proven once again that it only takes a small number of real professionals to get the job done expertly. So, Vic, thank you and thanks to the team. It doesn't take 300-plus persons to do the job.

So, at this time, I'd like to now yield to Vic Bozzo for his brief comments on our recent business developments, and then Vic and Ted and I will take your questions. Vic, over to you.

Thank you, Hal. Quite an exciting time inside Pareteum. As we continue to focus on our three sales initiatives, which I'll speak about, our development and deployment teams have been hard at work. As you recall, we took on two new projects with Vodafone.

In my experience, after analyzing these requirements, we delivered what amounted to be a one-year project, by all standards, in less than four months. And I'm happy to say, our Vodafone roaming project began loading new SIMs this month, and our broadband project, which you may have read about with Vodafone's recent press release and announcement, will go live this month.

While we await the ramp of subscribers, delivering this project on time and faster-than-industry norms is a great testament to our focus and a barometer of good things to come. We're making good progress on our Global Cloud Mobility initiatives and moving to deploy live Pronto, Sol and our latest Internet of Things customers, THYNGS. On these three sales initiatives, I think the most important comment is the caliber of the people who have joined the company from industry leaders such as Twilio, Verizon, British Telecom and others.

The global connectivity cloud brings us into new markets as Hal described. We have a robust pipeline and I hope to be able to share even more news like Brazil in the not-too-distant future.

Thanks, Hal.

Vic, thank you so much. And ladies and gentlemen, with that, we would like to open up for any questions or comments that you might have.

Steve?

Operator, can you queue the group, please?

Absolutely. [Operator Instructions] And we will take our first question from Lisa Thompson of Zacks Investment Research.

Good afternoon. So, let's talk about results then. In the morning, when the press release comes out, will we know who the customer is?

Lisa, we will not be announcing the customer's name, and I'll tell you why. It's our experience that when we name the customer, it makes them a target for competition. And even though we have named in the past Vodafone, I wish I could take that name away in some degree. So, we will not be naming the customer because of the competitive sensitivity. But I can tell you it's a well-established financial services organization who has a number of subscribers, and they are leveraging their capabilities now to go fully into the mobile space.

So, when you say they have subscribers, subscribers for what?

Financial services covers a broad array of things. So, I don't want to comment too much further than that but it goes everywhere from validation of transactions, from payment systems to authorization also to security of financial and mobile payments. They're ideal for us quite frankly.

So, does that mean they have customers reporting over to you or just a new start-up service that they're going to offer that they never did before?

It's a new service for them but it does come with their existing relationship of a pretty dramatically important city automation, which is in the IoT space. It also comes with their relationship that has to do with churches and ecumenical offerings throughout Brazil. So, we have expectation that the subscribers are going to follow rather quickly.

I would like to have Vic place a comment on that simply because he's been spending more time on this than I recently although I did spend some time in Brazil. Vic, would you like to further address Lisa's question on this?

Sure. So, the market is pretty explosive down there, but the key is that very few people have connectivity to the actual operator who can provide the wireless service. And we are working with someone who is connected to the number one wireless company there. So, it's a very strong group for us and it also enables us to bring all of our previous discussions into a beachhead platform for us. So, we'll have a full accessibility throughout Brazil to bring any of our existing relationships as well.

I remember the church thing from a few years ago and I thought it was some – where you were going to have like the diocese is going to use it for all their employees, all the churches. Is that the same thing because you said financial services? It sounds like it's a bank.

So – go ahead, Vic.

Okay. I was going to say that we're seeing, in the industry, a blurring of the lines between what's a subscriber. So, it could be everything from a point-of-sale machine that's sitting inside of a taxi cab all the way to a smartphone user who's looking for a lower cost of service or looking to add broadband services. So, we're seeing a wide range of opportunity there but we expect already have identified three to four MVNOs, let's call it brand-specific MVNOs that are already ready to begin porting on to the platform. The key is getting the platform deployed.

Okay. Great. And can you give an update on like Vodafone Enabler and the roaming business? How are they doing?

Sure. Actually, business is quite strong. What I referred to earlier in my comments was that, this week, Vodafone announced that Lowi, as you know, we power Lowi system. That Lowi has added broadband services to the platform, and that opens up the entire kind of what we would refer to here in the U.S. as kind of the cable and – the convergence of cable and mobile. So, it's quite an exciting advancement. So, we're seeing opportunity there as well as multiple new MVNOs that have come up.

And Vic, I think it's fair to say for Lisa that last week you and I spent the whole week in Spain and with Vodafone. And the strategic meetings we had and showing us their plans relative to not only the MVNOs that they support off of the platform that we power, but the marketing programs for their own brand certainly spell just basic increase in business that is expected this year and certainly into next year from Vodafone as well as the Vodafone roaming services application, which go outside of Spain.

Okay. All right. And maybe – I mean, there doesn't seem to be a 10-Q out yet and you've got an abbreviated balance sheet on the press release. Can you talk a little bit about your current state of financing and if you see any more need for raising cash? And then also vaguely what's the fully diluted share count out there now?

Okay. I'll address topically the raise money cash question and then I'll yield to Ted for the more specific answers. We certainly have in our disclosure of both the 10-K and the 10-Q that we expect to raise more money in 2017. Our plan is certainly coming together, so that we believe that the value of our company will be better recognized. So, we have no immediate plans for raising capital but we will, at some point during this year, be in the market based upon reflection of our higher value and based upon these sales. I would also say that the austerity programs that we put in place as well as the accommodations that have been reached with Atalaya give us much more runway with our cash and therefore give us some comfort in this.

As it relates to the specific share count, it's just under 13 million. I think it's like 12.9 million. And Ted, do you want to expand on this and clarify any of the points that I might have inadvertently misstated?

And Lisa had also gone ahead and asked [ph] for the diluted count (25:51) which is right around $20 million, just a little bit below. And I just wanted to go ahead and point out that in addition to the cash and cash equivalents [ph] that we all have out there, (26:02) you go ahead and included the restricted cash, it's a little over $2 million.

Right. Okay.

As of 3/31.

All right. So, you're saying the [ph] $20 million (26:12) shares fully diluted, that's like the all-in number?

That's the all-in number, exactly.

Okay. And the [ph] $12.9 million (26:19), is that treasury stock or something?

Issued and outstanding.

Issued. Okay. Okay, primary shares then. All right. I guess that's it. Is there anything else we ought to know?

Stay tuned, Lisa. That sales pipeline is looking pretty robust according to Vic and team, and I'm pretty excited about it. So, we look forward to your future comments and questions. Thank you.

Great. Thank you.

You're welcome. Steve?

Hey, Beth, can you queue the group?

Absolutely. Our next question will come from [ph] Georgia (27:00) [indiscernible] (27:01), a private investor.

Hi guys, can you hear me?

Yes [ph] George, (27:06), we can hear you fine. Thank you. It's good to hear your voice.

Thank you for taking my call. Hal and team, so obviously, congratulations on this deal in Brazil. Obviously, this is the first deal that's of a significant size as it were. I have a couple of questions about the deal, which we would expect I would imagine. You did state you're getting some cash upfront as is the norm. Did I hear that correct? If so, how much is that, please?

We are getting cash up front and that amount is $300,000, and that comes to us in an initial partial payment. And then as the system is turned up, which is expected to be over a four- to six-month period, the balance of the cash comes. And then the contract calls for a minimum billing, which escalates over a six-month period, and that's where the $2 million minimum contract value expectation comes from.

Excellent. Great deal. Congratulations again.

Thank you.

This deal seems to be very exciting not because of the size, although that is exciting clearly, but it sounds like it's a first deal whereby it's a genuine hybrid of some of our more traditional offerings and also the burgeoning and exciting world of IoT. Am I thinking about that they're still in the right frame here? Am I framing that correctly?

You are, [ph] George, (28:46) and if you would like for us to get Vic to expand on that a bit, we can, but you're absolutely thinking about it in the right way.

Okay. All right. So, to me, one of the reasons I'm an investor is because of the differentiation that the company offers encompassing more traditional areas plus the new burgeoning of IoT. So, it sounds like this still is a personification as an example of that. My assessment is, is this fairly accurate would say on that?

It is accurate and you've touched upon a key element there, which is the competitive differentiation and our ability to take that core basic software forward. So, the biggest differentiation is that we own and control the software and therefore we can open it up and create these application programming interfaces for developers and for solution integrators. And that's what leads it into the IoT spaces, smart cars, connected cars, smart cities, smart meters, smart, and it goes on and on and on.

Yeah, yeah.

And so, you are absolutely thinking about it the right way and it is because we have virtualized this for cloud delivery that we can also offer the big platform like we're doing in Brazil but we can offer smaller versions of that and access on a cloud basis at a greatly reduced price, which will expand our market.

Okay. Very good. Just a couple more questions and I'll jump back in the queue. Clearly, the differentiating factor, that the fact that the company owns its own IP for this is clearly very attractive. So, how should we be thinking about the existing and new pipeline of qualified opportunities? This deal in Brazil I'm sure wasn't overnight. I know you and Vic have worked your magic with Mr. Mumby, I'm sure. I can smell some of the Twilio activity there as it were.

How these new deals in the pipeline, I'm guessing they take four to six and even up to nine months, how would you characterize the existing opportunities that are in the pipeline in terms of how long you've been at it? I'm not looking for a forecast here, you do that internally I'm sure. But I'm just trying to understand what the mix of those deals are. Are they similar to this Brazil deal whereby it's a mix of IoT and traditional or some stand-alone IoT? Because it's very, very exciting for me, I'm just trying to get my arms around it, trying to understand the pipeline. Does that make sense?

It does, [ph] George. (31:41) So, the first response is that there are several large deals in the pipeline that are of the same magnitude or similar magnitude for the Brazilian deal. This larger deals are also of a magnitude that could equate, if not surpass, over a few year period what we're currently doing with Vodafone. So, those are large managed services platform. You are correct that most of those deals would take anywhere from a 6- to a 12-month sales period. The very good news is that the people we've recruited in, including Vic and his team, came with some level of relationship with rolodex and known opportunities that has allowed us to leapfrog forward in what could have been expected to be a 6- to 12-month period.

So therefore, for the balance of the year, we see at least another one large deal over the course of the next couple of months, and I would say the balance of Q2 and certainly into early Q3. A lot of dependencies on that, but that's what we're aiming toward and we have visibility that could produce that result. For the balance of the year beyond that, we certainly see the opportunity for at least another one or possibly two large deals.

Now, beyond that, we've got a number of what we call the Global Mobility Cloud deals, which cover the smaller operators. You'll remember names that we've announced such as Sol Mobile and Pronto, which are now beginning to come online. There are a lot more of those types out there as well as a generous mix of IoT opportunities as characterized by the taxicab application, THYNGS.

So, it is a combination, however, the predominance of revenue will come from the managed service of the large platform for the balance of this year. And in 2018, we'll begin to see the Global Cloud revenue show up in a percentile basis and certainly then followed by IoT.

Vic, anything you want to add to that that I might have missed?

No, I think it's pretty comprehensive. We do see that in each of these large MVNE deals like Brazil, we do see, as you point out [ph] George (34:06), a combination of IoT and traditional Lowi-type business on them. And I think it's safe to say that almost every MVNE-type managed service provider is going to go after all types of those businesses. And what makes us very unique is that we enable them to do that from the same software platform.

So, what we're hearing is that they may have an MVNE platform today, but to add IoT they got to go buy a different one. In our case, the same one works for both.

Beautiful. Okay, guys, I'll jump back into the queue. I just want to say congratulations on the turnaround and it sounds like you guys are now having fun, which I think – which makes me feel good as a shareholder. So, thank you for that.

You're welcome.

Thank you, operator. Thanks for taking my call.

Thank you. You're welcome. Steve?

Okay. Back to the operator.

And our next question will come from Bryan Kobel of R.F. Lafferty.

Hey guys, congrats on the deal in Brazil.

Thanks a lot, Bryan. How are you doing?

I'm great, man. I'm great. So, I wanted to, I guess, get an idea how this deal relates to your prior efforts in the region and if that's enhanced them at all, and if you guys see sort of more fruition coming from those relative to this deal?

The answer, bottom line, is yes in all the ways. I'm going to ask Vic to expand upon that. But clearly, our former discussions with the churches, our former discussions with various integrator partners and companies such as Cleartech and others will now be enhanced because of this.

Vic, do you want to put some color to that, please, sir?

Yeah. So, what I would say is interesting. It's probably the same across the world. There is always a neck of the funnel or pardon the pun. There's always a place where everybody comes together even if they're a marketing company or they're a network company, and that is you need wireless access.

In the U.S., we know there's very few people who can actually provide you with wireless access. The same goes for Brazil. So, in order for us to get many of those companies to have a place to bring their subscribers, we first needed to work and sell our technology to a group that had access to the wireless network. And that's what this deal was really about and it enables us to bring all of those other subscribers to the network.

So, would it be fair to call this sort of like a hub-and-spoke model and is that fair to say you're going to port this in other countries in that particular vein?

Yes.

Yes, it is a yes.

Bottom line, yes. And the porting comes through the cloud, which takes the price of access down dramatically.

And what I think also adds to the exciting nature of this is, now that taxicab company that wanted – that has taxies not only in the U.S. and Singapore but also in Brazil, has a place to actually aggregate that same wireless connectivity and a platform to do it from. So, it – we're, in a way, we're helping our customers as well to find more customers.

And to your point, Hal, you kind of just [ph] slipped (37:44) in there that it creates sort of a lower cost of access. Do you view it I guess as each personal access is a bit that sort of cloud [ph] or each (37:55) data point to the cloud? Is that incremental margin to you? I guess, [indiscernible] (38:00) okay.

Yes. Yeah. Absolutely. In fact, those will be the most profitable in terms of margins. You will note, from our financials, that our margins increased from 66% to 70%. As we add more of these cloud deals, those margins will actually go into the high 70s and it could even go, on the software portion, up into the 80s. So, it's a real margin driver and it's all incremental. The basic cost has already been deployed.

By the way...

So...

Go ahead.

Got it. So, effectively, once you get the hub, from that point on, everything that you add, which obviously makes the process a lot easier. But all those folks that you start adding all the sort of surrounding constellations around it are going to be significantly more profitable for the company. So, really, you're sort of like a [ph] Suncoast (38:47) trying to find that hub where it's going to be breakeven/ [ph] those (38:49) money/lower margin, but getting that anchor leads to significantly 90% margin on everything else?

Absolutely. Spot on. I was just going to make a comment. One of the most amazing things in my mind is that this THYNGS, T-H-Y-N-G-S customer, the Las Vegas taxicab, that's being served out of the Netherlands are cloud popped out of the Netherlands. So, that's a bit of example of the power of the cloud. And what Vic was referring to as a point where we can aggregate the wireless traffic.

That's an amazing point actually. Quite appreciate it, guys, and congratulations again and looking forward to following your continued success here.

Thanks, Bryan.

And our next question will come from [ph] Dennis Dillon (39:40), a private investor.

Hi guys, thanks for taking the phone call and congratulations on everything you've done so far. I've been a long-term investor and I'm finally glad to see some positive things and management on board. My question really relates to the restructuring and the restructuring costs. It looks like the cost have come down. Can you just give us an update as to where you stand in that process?

Yes, absolutely. I'm going to ask Ted to primarily comment on this, but I would just simply say that the vast majority of the changes we have taken have already been done and the cost absorbed. So, the things we do at this point forward are refinements, so we don't expect a significant amount of going-forward restructuring costs.

Ted, do you want to add some color to that and maybe a little more flavor for [ph] Dennis? (40:38)

Yeah. The largest piece was completed in Q3. If you go back and look at those financial statements, you will go ahead and see all the elements for ValidSoft as a part of that sale, goodwill, intangibles, all those things were written off and the impairment recorded at that point.

In the fourth quarter, we went ahead and broke out the restructuring costs to go ahead and help provide Pareteum [indiscernible] (41:02) financial statement of users. They can go ahead and see these things as they have – they went ahead and grew through the third quarter and now we'll have to start at that. The first quarter was just some severance that we went ahead and entered into, but you can see, as far as how that's going to ebb back towards, not a whole a lot from $638,000 and last year down to $129,000. That's an 80% reduction year-over-year.

And the company is always going to do [indiscernible] (41:32), look for ways to fine tune [ph] and match expenses, costs, (41:37) to help maximize shareholder value. And I think by going ahead and breaking these line items out and the way that we've done it now and talk about with our shareholders that it would be extremely helpful breaking out recurring versus non-recurring costs.

Great. Thanks very much.

Thank you, [ph] Dennis. (41:54) By the way, one analyst published last year referred to everything but the kitchen sink went into our restructuring cost and write-down. So, I think we've got most of it taken care of.

Great. Thank you.

You're welcome.

Okay. Great.

Steve?

Steve?

Operator, next question? [Operator Instructions]

Our next question will come from [ph] Greg Randall, (42:30) a private investor.

Good evening, gentlemen. Congratulations on your Brazil deal. I guess I have two clarifying questions. Your baseline revenue for that particular deal, $2 million, would that be over seven years?

That is a minimum over seven years and that's the combination of the upfront fees and the monthly minimums. So, let me just give you a point of fact. Those monthly minimums are very synonymous to the same monthly minimums that we experienced with Vodafone when we started and with the ZAIN when we started. And in every case, there's a threshold that will be reached in a reasonably near time where the subscribers and the monthly billing for the support of those subscribers will begin to far outweigh the monthly minimums. That's why we're so bullish on the upside of the contract versus focusing just on the $2 million total contract minimum value.

Thank you. The 10-Q is not out and I'm just wondering if there was any deferred revenue component in your Q1. And if there was, is it any different from basically Q4?

Ted.

There was some deferred revenue. In Q4, we had net revenues in excess of billings, which is a little bit different from deferred revenue. Deferred revenue is when we go ahead and receive cash ahead of revenue recognition. So, as far as the difference there, we were able to go ahead and receive some revenues in from the folks from Vodafone and we're able to go ahead and book about $170,000 worth of deferred revenue.

That was Q1, correct?

That would be in Q1, yes.

Very good. Thank you, gentlemen. I appreciate it.

You're welcome. Thank you. Steve?

Operator, next question, please?

And our next question will come from [ph] Howard Weinberg (44:39), a private investor.

Good afternoon, gentlemen, and thank you for taking my call.

You're welcome. Good afternoon, [ph] Howard (44:48).

And as everyone else, congratulations particularly to Vic I guess on this new deal in Brazil.

Absolutely.

My question is – I don't believe it was answered in the other narratives – but why is it important for you to do global business, that Global Cloud business and not just sell to the Mobile Virtual Network enablers customers if you will?

Okay. Vic, you want to handle that one, please?

Sure. I'll take it. Thank you. So, there's many types of wireless applications as we know. Hal has mentioned them, connected cars, Wi-Fi hotspots, ATMs, taxis, interactive billboards, all of these devices have a wireless SIM just like your phone. Those wireless SIMs must have connectivity, but they also need someone to meter it, bill it, monitor it and charge on behalf of the carrier. That's really what we do. As I said before, it's the same software that we use for both.

But by adding the cloud version of our platform, it enables us to prospect, as Hal said, anywhere in the world. And whereas in the past, we had to effectively find and build, operate and transfer a full package every time we identify the customer. In this case, we can literally turn them on from wherever they are in the world. There's more of those type of applications than there are of the Brazil-type MVNE applications. But generally, they're faster time to market. And when you cascade them together, you get massive amounts of subscribers as well.

So, every time we bring up one of these MVNE situations like at Brazil, we also open our opportunity to anybody in the world who might have an application that needs to run in Brazil.

Got it.

Vic, [ph] Howard (46:54), can I just add one..

Go ahead, please.

..one brief analogy. It's like the MVNE platform Brazil, that's like going to Savile Row. It's whole cloth, it's cut, made to order, made custom. The Global Cloud is alterations, off the rack, and it's a lot less expensive and allows us to get to a lot more people. That's the primary difference.

Got it. So, the second part then is, so how do we see the percentage of business between the two in the future?

Okay. About... [indiscernible]

(47:22) in the MVNE?

Yes. Almost 100% of our revenue this year, slightly less will come from the Mobile Virtual Network Enablement platform. That's the Vodafones and the Brazils and those applications. As we move into the fourth quarter this year, you'll begin to see the Pronto's and the Sol Mobiles begin to come on board. It will not be materially meaningful to the total revenue this year but, as a percent next year, we're hoping to get that into the 10% to 15% range. We would like to see the IoT revenue certainly in the 5% to 7% range.

Our overall goal, over the coming three years, would be to take the Global Mobility Cloud up to at least 50% to 60% of the total revenue. And that will also have the effect of taking the revenue concentration and dependency that we've got on Vodafone and ZAIN at this point.

So, the best of [ph] all (48:25) worlds in use is that Vodafone is buying more from us. The challenge for that is we've got to outsell the Vodafone revenue growth with IoT and Global Mobility to make sure that investors understand that we're managing the risk in the business.

Got it. Thank you.

You're welcome.

And our next question will come from Tom Curtis of Dawson James.

Hey, Hal.

Hey Tom, how are you doing?

I'm doing well. Doing well. Congratulations on the Brazil deal. That sounds very exciting.

Thank you, sir.

My question is actually about the ZAIN's deal here in the U.S., and could you give us more color on that deal and what your expectations are?

Absolutely. And I'm going to let Vic go through it. But I think you're going to be very impressed to understand that we're powering those screens in the back of the taxicab. And with our technology, we're going to be able to put Wi-Fi in there, too.

So Vic, you want to talk about it?

Sure. So, you can imagine that when get in the car, number one, I would say that when you think about Las Vegas, for example, that's one area. But this opportunity is global in nature and it's global in nature because it's a similar concept, it's a similar company, and the company is already actually providing these services in other places.

The main key and the main challenge for anybody who's doing this kind of global business is that they need to negotiate individual deals every time they go to a different country, right? So, they may offer the same platform, the same screen, the same point-of-sale machine, which is when you put your card in that machine and it charges you, you need metering and billing and you also need wireless access.

So, you can imagine if they do that in more than one place, they need a network that can do that for them. And that's really the importance of building the network connectivity, of having someone in Brazil, as an example, that allows us to allow that company to go into that market.

So, in general, we're providing our platform and we're also providing the wireless connectivity similar to the way we do it for [ph] , let's say, SpeakUp (50:52) in the Netherlands as an example. And the advantage of the cloud is that we can run it from anywhere. And so, we are able to leverage our CapEx that we spent to build that platform out in the Netherlands already.

So, you could see this not only in the US, this could go worldwide with the taxicab industry though?

Absolutely. Absolutely. It's already in progress.

Well, that sounds like it's bigger than Uber though.

Well, it could be.

The opportunity, yes. [indiscernible]

(51:24) you think about it.

Yeah, the opportunity that levers out across other industries is really what makes us exciting. And part of these are – I view these as they're case examples of what's going on potentially in mass transit, what's going on in the smart city, what's going on with the bank who has to monitor all their ATMs as an example. Anything you can think of that has that wireless device is going to need someone like us to make that metering and charging happen and bridge that for some of the service providers as well.

Great. Thanks very much.

Tom, thank you. Steve, I think we've got time for one more question before we have our wrap-up comments.

Okay.

And our final question will come from [ph] John Phillip, (52:11) a private investor.

Hi folks, can you hear me?

Yes. Hi, [ph] John. (52:18) It's Hal. How are you?

I'm good, Hal. Thank you. And I want to thank you, guys, you have a great vision for this business. and obviously, for setting that vision, that's our first. That gives us something to shoot for. My question is more basic and it's – well, I admire the vision, I'm afraid for our survival, and I just want to ask about the sequential revenue change where it looks like we lost $300,000 in quarterly revenue from Q4 to Q1. And if you could share with us what we lost, what type of business did we lose in Q4 to Q1 for that revenue drop.

Okay. So, very straight forward, the revenue drop is due to two factors, but the sequential is really focused on the retail customers of our customer, Vodafone, in Spain. So, during the holiday portion of the year, there is always a fairly significant end-of-year promotion where they're giving special deals to add a lines, special deals for data packages, special deals for voice packages, and this is in anticipation that people are calling more relatives throughout the world, this sort of thing.

So, there's a loss of that on a seasonal basis that has had some impact on that sequential quarter-over-quarter loss. But there's a more fundamental piece to this, and that fundamental piece is the simple fact that both Lowi, which is the second brand of Vodafone, as well as some of the Vodafone MVNOs that operate in Spain, notably Lebara and others, clearly, they did not experience growth as they had in the past. It is this broadband product set that will reignite the growth in Lowi, and that's what I vaguely referred to as some of the expansion forecast that Vodafone has provided us.

Also, Lebara, who is really an ethnic-focused market operator in Spain, they have been able to negotiate through Vodafone and gotten some additional product capability and speed capability and pricing capability that will allow them to grow again. They have notified us of a large marketing promotional event that they will start in the summer and will run throughout the third quarter.

So, those are the two primary reasons. One is the seasonal loss of retail customer revenue because of the promotions and, second, the slowing of growth of those operators that I mentioned who operate off of our platform. But now we believe the renewed vigor in growth that's coming from a number of initiatives including our product and also pricing that Vodafone is offering.

Vic, you want to add to that? Vic?

Yeah. No, I think that's very – I kind of summed it up but we also are working very hard with them as they launch new initiatives. And candidly, the Vodafone roaming service is a global MVNO in nature, so it gives us a lot more access to a lot more subscribers.

So, I guess to the best of your knowledge there is no – it's nothing to do with Pareteum or the service that have led to the reduction in rev. it's more of a...

No. No. In fact, our service levels actually have exceeded our previous year in terms of our – their acknowledgement of our KPIs.

Great. Okay. Thanks, guys. Appreciate this.

Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today's question-and-answer session. I would like to turn the call back over to Mr. Turner for any additional remarks. Mr. Turner, you may proceed

Beth, have we lost Hal?

He is still connected, [ph] I show. (57:26)

Hal, are you there?

Steve, would you like me to make the final closing?

Yes.

Okay. So, our final thoughts. We had spoken at length in that past about the many ways we're working to build our company. Your company as we see it. Certainly, some of these things, like our latest contract, are more visible and immediately identifiable than others. The actions we are taking will contribute to the success of Pareteum.

I also want to reaffirm our pledge to you that the entire organization is fully committed and supportive of the go-forward plan in attaining demonstrable results and sustained growth. Realization of our vision includes sustaining our competitive advantages and creating great value. It is the long term we're focused on. It is especially comforting and encouraging to know that many of our most important customers and partners, including Vodafone and Atalaya, are fully committed and standing with us.

We continue to advance our business and we're making progress in nearly every important metrics, KPI as we call it, we can track. But beyond hard numbers, we shouldn't overlook some of the intangibles. For example, why our customers like Vodafone committed to our business? Why are they choosing to grow with us? Why our new customers, both established operators and entrepreneurial companies such THYNGS or AirFox looking to us as a key enabler of their business. Why are we able to attract the kind of industry talent we have and that we expect to join our company as we grow?

To us, the answer is clear. The markets we are addressing are vast and at a state of fundamental change. And Pareteum brings together the vision, all things connected, the technology built almost wholly on our own software, and the ability to deliver value, people, solutions, pricing, service, quality, services roadmap to the markets and customers that we serve. Our goal now is to continue to move the business forward, maintaining a disciplined approach to business management, capitalizing on the global trends driving the connected world. As we succeed, we are confident in our ability to create value for all of our stakeholders and realize our vision, any connected device, communicating anytime, anywhere, on demand. Thank you [indiscernible] (59:52)

Vic, don't conclude yet. I'm back. I'm sorry, I got cut off.

Okay.

Ladies and gentlemen, you've just heard the best example of teammates and teamwork, period. Because I got cut off and without missing a beat Vic filled in, so thank you very much. This does conclude our call. We very much appreciate it. We look forward to hearing from you. And we intend to have another Chairman's Letter out somewhere toward the end of June, a sort of a mid-quarter update on how we're doing. In the meantime, we look forward to your support. Thank you very much.

And once again, ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today's conference. We thank you, all, for your participation. You may now disconnect.