raw transcript


Particle Drilling Technologies,


Inc.
 
PDRT
 
Q3 2006 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 9, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Particle Drilling's Third Quarter


Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Following today's


presentation, instructions will be given for the question-and-answer session. If anyone needs


assistance at any time during the conference, please press the star followed by the zero. As a


reminder, this conference is being recorded today, Wednesday, August 9, 2006.


I would now like to turn the conference over to Jack Lascar. Please go ahead.


Jack Lascar,


Thank you Steven [ph] and good morning everyone. We appreciate your joining us for Particle


Drilling Technologies' conference call to review quarterly results and the operational performance of


its Particle Impact Drilling system.


Before we begin, I have a couple of housekeeping items I will like to go over. If you would like to be


on our e-mail distribution list, we see future news releases, please call us at DRG&E and relate that


information to our office that number is 713-529-6600. An archive of this call will be available later


this morning on the Investor Relations section of the company's website at


www.particledrilling.com. A telephonic replay of the conference call will be available through August


16th, 2006. Access details are provided in yesterday's press release.


Please note that information recorded on this call speaks only as of today, August 9th, 2006


therefore time-sensitive information may no longer be accurate as of the date of any replay. The


discussion today may contain forward-looking information that is based on management's beliefs as


well as assumptions made by and information currently available to management. Although the


company believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are


reasonable, the expectations are subject to numerous uncertainties and management can provide


no assurance that such expectations will prove to have been correct.


The important risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from those


described in any forward-looking information provided during the discussion today. Such risks and


uncertainties may include, but are not limited to, Particle Drilling's ability to raise equity capital if


necessary; and its ability to obtain equity financing on acceptable terms if at all; a severe worldwide


slowdown in the energy services sector; working capital constraints; and other risks described in


the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


Further, Particle Drilling is a development stage company that operates in an industry sector where


security values are highly volatile and may be influenced by economic and other factors beyond the


company's control such as announcement by the competitors and service providers.


I would like to turn the call over now to Jim Terry, Particle Drilling's Chief Executive Officer.


Jim Terry, President & CEO


Good morning ladies and gentlemen and thank you for taking the time to listen to this call and for


your continued interest and support of our company. Today I have with me Chris Boswell, our


Senior VP and CFO; Tommy Hardisty, our Senior VP in charge of Business Development; and our


newest member, Greg Galloway, who is VP of Operations and Engineering.
raw transcript


Particle Drilling Technologies,


Inc.
 
PDRT
 
Q3 2006 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 9, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


I will start with a little history about the events that drove our priorities for Q3 explaining the results


of those activities and then discuss our objectives and expectation for Q4. Following that, Chris


Boswell will discuss Q3 financial results and then I will open it up to questions from the audience.


On a way of explanation there are three major components of the Particle Drilling System. The


actual component is comprised of the size field particles, exits of special drill bits, high velocity to


fracture the rock in front of the bit, this being the most important component in feature of this.


The other two components are in the circuit and the access deployed of the PID bit. First


component injected in the field Particle into drilling fluid is to see the PID bit and the second


extracted process is done for reinjection of completing the cycle. Based on the vast majority of our


research, development, and testing efforts have been applied to down hole portion of the system.


We achieved several milestones in the first commercial trial, which was completed as you know in


May.


Single greatest achievement of the first well was the confirmation that was the system's drilling


performance measured as the rate at which the drill bit penetrates the rock. The speed of our


calculated expectations at best rate than ever attempted before. This confirms the drilling with


particles and the specifics of outlook to remove the hard rocks, works at depths over 10,000 feet in


a live well environment and at rates of at least three times faster than conventional bits does in


deep work.


In fact, instantaneously penetration rates improvement to previous [indiscernible] were achieved on


this block. For the company in late January of this year, there is still uncertainties about system


performance success, particularly with regard to the surface component. There was a lot of


information available with results of previous testing activities both at FairFax and Catoosa, I'll


discuss with you the first one, that shallow gas in more of a laboratory environment and will be


accounted on a live well drilling effect.


Fact is that some of the testing can and was extrapolated to real well environment, but not all


variables lend themselves to drive results when based upon extrapolation, simply we can't know


[indiscernible] and some things can only be learned in live well environment. Consequently, we


were not surprised to have learned new things from the first trial in fact we expected it. We were


however surprised that the solutions to component improvement, the relatively straightforward,


readily available, and easily implemented.


Having said all that, our conclusion is the second most important achievement on the first well was


the learning that could only take place on a live well at depths ranging conjunction with the standard


drilling rig. The opportunity to operate the PID system for over a week also provided us with a very


large and relevant data set we have not had previously.


Now up to some books data combined with observations made during the well – during the drilling


of the well made clear what areas of the systems worked well, and identified areas that required


improvements. Our efforts are on the completion of the first commercial trail and focused on the


improvements required prior to conducting a second commercial trial. We are now days away from


mobilizing for the second field trial. So, I will take some time to explain specific modifications we


have made for the PID system. While we may have made some modifications to improve to the


downhole PID bit, the majority of effort has been directed to the surface components that extract


the steel practices from the drilling fluid.


This surface component was soft [ph] for nearly 90% of the Particle zone downtime associated with


the first well. In previous testing, this component functioned properly but its weakness was exposed


due to the increased volumetric and other variables associated with drilling of oil pipelines deeper


and in previous testing of that component. The average pace for particle distraction in Permian,