raw transcript


Pennsylvania Real Estate


Investment Trust
 
PEI
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 4, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Pennsylvania REIT Second


Quarter 2005 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants have been placed on a listen-


only mode, and the floor will be opened for questions following today's presentation.


It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to your host, Jeffrey Goldberger. Sir, the floor is yours.


Jeffrey Goldberger, Investor Relations


Thank you, Ashley [ph]. Before we begin, I would like to remind everyone that this conference call


will certain contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21-E of the Securities


Exchange Act of 1934 and the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-


looking statements relates to expectations, beliefs, projections, future plans and strategies,


anticipated events or trends and other matters that are not historical facts. These forward-looking


statements reflect PREIT's current views about future events and are subject to risks, uncertainties,


assumptions and certain circumstances that may cause future events, achievement or results to


differ materially from those expressed by forward-looking statement.


Additionally, there can be no assurance that PREIT's actual results will not differ significantly from


the forecast and estimates set forth in the call. PREIT's business is subject to uncertainties


regarding the revenues, operating expenses, leasing activities, occupancy rates and other


competitive factors relating to PREIT's portfolio and changes in local market condition, as well as


general, economic, financial and political condition including the possibility of outbreak or escalation


of war or terrorist attacks any of which may cause future events, achievement or results to differ


materially from those expressed by the forward-looking statement. In particular, the successful re-


development of any property is subject to a number of risks, including among others that PREIT's


re-development plans might change, its re-development activities might be delayed, anticipated


project costs may increase and the company might not enter into one or more of the leases


described on this call. Un-anticipated expenses or delays could adversely affect PREIT's


investment returns on a re-development project. In addition, PREIT might not enter into


agreements for or consummate either of the mall financings for which it has received commitment


letters.


PREIT does not intend to or disclaims any duty or obligation to update or revise any forward-


looking statements or industry information set forth in this conference call to reflect new information,


future events or otherwise. Investors are also directed to consider the risks and uncertainties


discussed in the documents PREIT has filed with the SEC, and in particular, PREIT's annual report


on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004.


With that said, I would like to turn the call over to Ron Rubin, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


of PREIT. Ron, it’s all yours.


Ronald Rubin, Chairman of the Board of Trustees and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you very much. And, good afternoon ladies and gentlemen, and thank you for joining us as


we discuss our results for the second quarter and our plans for the future. Joining me on the call


today are Ed Glickman, President; Bob McCadden, our CFO; Joe Coradino, the Head of our Retail


Division; and, also, in the room are Jon Weller and George Rubin, Vice Chairman of the company;
raw transcript


Pennsylvania Real Estate


Investment Trust
 
PEI
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 4, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Dave Bryant and Bruce Goldman, our General Counsel. After the remarks have concluded, the call


will then be opened for any questions that you might have.


During the second quarter, our previously announced re-development and re-positioning activities


began to accelerate at a good pace. We are pleased with this progress, and continue to expect to


realize significant benefits from these efforts. Today, we announce the addition of Whole Foods to


Plymouth Meeting Mall in Plymouth Meeting, Pennsylvania showing one of the creative strategies


we are employing to enhance the value of our retail assets.


We are also adding retailers such as Barnes & Noble, Borders, Dick's Sporting Goods, Best Buy


and exciting restaurants throughout our portfolio. By adding new tenants and creating momentum


and excitement at our properties, we intend to give shoppers more reasons to come to our malls, to


stay at them longer and to buy more from our merchants.


With that, I will now turn the call over to Ed Glickman.


Edward A. Glickman, President, Chief Operating Officer and Director


Thanks, Ron. As noted by Ron, we have made some very exciting progress with our re-


development initiatives. In addition, while the company’s total FFO and NOI increased quarter-to-


quarter, our same-store NOI declined by 2.4% and our total FFO increase was diluted on a per


share basis by additional share issuance. Much of this decline can be attributed to the dislocation


caused by the concurrent re-development activities taking place at 11 of the company’s properties.


The balance of the decline results from lower than expected occupancy rates at a number of


properties not currently under renovation.


Our response to the situation has been to intensify our management of our assets and to initiate re-


development programs to strengthen our properties. Specifically, we have been stepping up the


pace of asset re-development, acquiring land in proximity of our properties to maintain the market


dominance of our retail location. To-date, we have done [ph] is that Magnolia Mall, Plymouth


Meeting Mall and is set forth in today’s announcement with respect to New River Valley Mall.


Enhancing the physical environment at our centers, hiring additional leasing representatives to


intensify leasing efforts, increasing our focus on specialty leasing in our re-development properties


to create replacement NOI prior to lease-up and enhancing our business processes to speed up the


leasing cycle time. In pursuing our re-development opportunities, our strategy is focused on


weeding-out weak centers and aggregating under-utilized space into which we can locate junior


address such as Borders, Barnes & Noble and Dick's Sporting Goods to create the platform for


other lifestyle tenants. Around these new merchants, we perform a renovation to further enhance


the shopping experience. To facilitate these projects, we have reached out and engaged some of


the world-class architects.


During previous re-development projects completed by the company, we experienced some interim


fall-off in occupancy and NOI. As expected, we are experiencing the same at our current projects.


This results from the aggregation and warehousing of space to facilitate re-location and this build-


out of the new junior anchor. The lack of the number of concurrent projects degraded the impact


on occupancy and NOI. In a perfect world, we would space these projects out over time so that its


impact would be less noticeable against the backdrop of the portfolio as a whole. But, given the


large number of assets deployed the company simultaneously and a need for re-positioning at a


number of these assets, we have compressed our timeframes for initiating these projects.


Today, we have disclosed information on 10 active projects. We are in an earlier stage of planning


on a number of additional initiatives. We realized that a major re-development program like ours


will have a short-term negative impact on occupancy. However, we believe it’s absolutely