Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Heather Crowell — Senior Vice President-Corporate Communications & Investor Relations, Pennsylvania Real Estate Investment Trust
Joseph F. Coradino — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Pennsylvania Real Estate Investment Trust
Robert F. McCadden — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Pennsylvania Real Estate Investment Trust
Daniel Joseph Busch — Analyst, Green Street Advisors LLC
Ki Bin Kim — Analyst, SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, Inc.
Michael W. Mueller — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC
Floris van Dijkum — Analyst, Boenning & Scattergood
Linda Tsai — Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc.
Christy McElroy — Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc.
Michael Jason Bilerman — Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. (Broker)
Karin Ford — Analyst, MUFG Securities America, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning. My name is Amy and I will be your conference Operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the PREIT First Quarter 2017 Earnings Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]

I would now like to turn the call over to Ms. Heather Crowell, you may begin.

Good morning and thank you all for joining us for PREIT's first quarter 2017 earnings call.

During this call, we will make certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws. These statements relate to expectations, beliefs, projections, trends and other matters that are not historical facts and are subject to risks and uncertainties that might affect future events or results.

Descriptions of these risks are set forth in the company's SEC filings. Statements that PREIT makes today might be accurate only as of today, April 26, 2017, and PREIT makes no undertaking to update any such statements. Also, certain non-GAAP measures will be discussed. PREIT has included reconciliations of such measures to the comparable GAAP measures in its earnings release and other documents filed with the SEC.

Members of management on the call today are Joe Coradino, PREIT's Chairman and CEO; and Bob McCadden, our CFO.

It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Joe Coradino.

Thanks, Heather, and good morning, everyone and thanks for taking the time to join us today. Our first quarter results were disappointing, but anticipated and necessary. There were necessary in order to ensure the continued strengthening of the portfolio to enhance long-term shareholder value.

We've been in front of the rapidly evolving retail business as evidenced by our record leasing volume for the past two quarters, our anchor replacement track record and our pipeline of tenants for future occupancy. We've executed five anchor leases since the beginning of the year with three being traditional department stores in the past two months, highlighted by the execution of a lease with Belk last night for Valley Mall.

As we have the honor of kicking off earnings season for the mall REITs, we thought we would start with a provocative statement. We agree that the historic view of mall, one that relies heavily on apparel and accessories really is dead and a new model is rising. We also agree that there is too much retail in this country but we are alive and well with a bright future and continue to execute on achieving the anticipated growth outlined in the multi-year plan we issued last quarter.

Here is why. We sold a significant amount of underperforming properties, nearly 40% of our portfolio in markets retailers will ultimately vacate. Prior to 2012, we operated in 13 states, 20 markets, 33 million square feet with sales of $365 a foot. Today we boast a portfolio of quality properties in compelling markets where more than half of our NOI is generated from high barrier to entry major markets.

And in properties we continue to own and improve, we have dramatically differentiated our tenant base and are responding to consumer preferences. On a same-store basis, we have nearly 1 million square feet more space dedicated to dining, entertainment, fast fashion, off price, big box and health and wellness than we did five years ago.

Today's consumer craves a variety of offerings and is agnostic as to where they shop. They wanted all and a personalized social experience in one place. We're taking a consumer driven approach to crafting our tenant mix. We've long been transforming the traditional mall model. Our first Marshalls opened at Cumberland Mall in 2002. Our first Whole Foods opened at Plymouth Meeting Mall in 2010 and our first DICK's Sporting Goods as a mall anchor opened at Patrick Henry in 2006.

Since 2012, PREIT has been successful in transforming the company and improving the quality of our portfolio, our financial flexibility, our people and our relationships, positioning the company for the growth cycle we're in. We have been refining the retail real estate experience by proactively replacing department stores and diversifying our tenant mix to enhance the consumer experience and reflect our visitors' aspirations.

The de-toxing, yes, de-toxing we are in the midst of, provides the freedom to [ph] craft this (04:52) special mix of tenants that reflect the mall experience today. We understand that the shareholders and the media are captivated by the department store closings that have taken place as well as the in-line bankruptcies. As a result, we believe our current share price reflects an overreaction to a retail cycle and fails the value of the underlying real estate or the value creation opportunities.

All businesses evolve over time and we believe we have a unique opportunity to continue to diversify our tenant base. Traditional department stores have grown over the years primarily through consolidation. They spend little effort rationalizing their store bases or investing in the store experience. In fact, the department store is not as relevant to the consumer as it once was. In well located real estate, the closure of these stores is a positive.

There are significant consumer dollars, some $2.5 billion, up for grabs for retailers who capture their shopper. As it relates to in-line store closures, there is a strong link between the retailers currently filing or considering filing a private equity investment. These retailers frequently took on significant debt, capitalizing in a low interest rate environment, lost focus, took money out of the entities and did not invest sufficiently in their core business. This outcome was predictable.

So the in-line and anchor vacancies together creates supply and the demand comes from a variety of venues. There has been a real blurring of the lines between real estate formats, power centers, malls, strip centers. It's not the format, it's about the location, the market position, and the demographics. Dining, entertainment, outlets, off price, boxes that were traditionally power center players, grocers, health and wellness, these are all tenants that weren't historically part of a mall arsenal, but their presence has been growing and continues to expand at our portfolio of properties, that in nearly a million feet of these sought-after tenant store properties in the last five years and we have an additional 200,000 square feet of space in these segments currently in our pipeline.

Every business evolves and innovators often get criticized. We executed a disposition program that was questioned. We bought Springfield Town Center, we're questioned. And we've embarked on a proactive redevelopment anchor replacement program that's being questioned. Our view point that quality is paramount led us to take these steps. To put it in perspective, we often talked about selling 16 malls but these properties represented more than that.

Prior to 2012, we operated in 13 states, 20 markets with 33 million square feet of space and sales at $365 a foot. Today we boast a portfolio of quality properties in compelling markets where more than half of our NOI is generated from properties in major metropolitan markets where the opportunities to finding locations as central as ours are scarce.

Let's define quality. So quality doesn't have to mean luxury. We've been on the road and talking with over a dozen new investors in the past few weeks and touring them through our portfolio. It has been beyond refreshing to watch them taking the scenes in the heart of our portfolio and not just our top assets but what you would label as B-plus assets. It's provided an opportunity to take the wind out of the sails of the notion that only trophy malls will survive.

These are properties that are at the core of their community where people are out shopping on Wednesday afternoon and where retailers have recently invested in upgrading their stores. The interested parties have included a number of pure value investors to rededicate this. So they've not previously taken as hard a look as they're taking now. So we encourage you to come tour our properties with us, any of them and see for yourself that people really do still enjoy a quality mall experience.

There is ample evidence that our move to quality was effective, including our limited exposure following the 2017 store closing announcements with only 15 locations impacted. By way of example, we had no stores on the [ph] pay less closing list (09:24). We now have 17% of our portfolio dedicated to dining and entertainment and we are seeing a real impact from these efforts.

Earlier this month, Lego Discovery Center (sic) [LEGOLAND Discovery Center] (09:37) opened at Plymouth. This will be their only location in the market. It has more than replaced the traffic generated by the former Macy's with evidence of increased [ph] car (09:50) shopping. Next our ability to replace department stores is also a testament to the quality of our locations. Of 11 closed locations since the beginning of 2016, we've executed leases for nine replacements, fully executed leases and have executed LOIs on the balance.

We've executed five leases with replacement anchors just since the beginning of 2017. The continued improvement in sales, occupancy and NOI at Springfield Town Center is yet another validation. Sales are at $525 per square foot [ph] without an app (10:26) and we have few new tenants under construction. We're maturing intensification opportunities of Plymouth Meeting and Exton, with Springfield Town Center to follow, highlighting the underlying value of the real estate we own.

Ancillary revenues continued to grow, we have signed new deals with major players that previously, having consummated transactions with us, are executing the expanded Solar Array Program, new charging stations and growing our Easter photo sales and transactions. Over 40% of our same-store NOI is generated by our top five assets that produce sales of $588 per foot. We're introducing a dozen new to portfolio of tenants with our first tower under construction at Cherry Hill.

On an absolute basis, we have very limited exposure to Sears, one of the top credit risk tenants. This is a result of our swift disposition program and our ability to consummate deals to replace them before taking back their stores. And one last, and probably most important point, on the evidence of our effective move to quality, is the top notch team we've created. We have secured a deep bench of highly capable experienced professionals that rise to the occasion to stand out in a smaller, more nimble organization, bringing new relationships and a fiercely competitive spirit. More than 50% of our corporate office employees joined the company within the past four years.

We also think it's worth discussing tenant sales performance this quarter. While we acknowledge that certain retailer sales have soften, we want to point out a few unique characteristics of this quarter. There were Macy's liquidation sales going on which drove traffic to these stores. As we all know Easter shifted back into April this year and we did see sales move with it. But perhaps more important in our portfolio is the eight department stores in transition. Over the long term replacing these stores is an absolute positive, but we expect there will be short-term deterioration in traffic and sales.

We continue to make progress on our redevelopment and anchor replacements with several of our projects being delivered early. We're excited about the anchor boxes we're gaining control of as we have continued ability to drive NOI through parcel reconfiguration and the addition of outparcel.

As we mentioned last night, we executed a new lease with Belk at Valley Mall, a very exciting addition. Earlier in the month, we executed a lease with Herberger's to relocate and expand into the former Macy's space at Valley View Mall. The transaction that requires only a limited capital investment beyond acquiring the parcel. And demolition will begin this summer to make way for Von Maur at Woodland Mall. We believe the execution of three leases with expanding traditional department stores in a two month timeframe distinguishes us from our peers and speaks to the quality of our portfolio and our team.

With that, I'll turn it over to Bob to further update you on our redevelopment progress and discuss our quarterly results. Bob?

Thanks, Joe. It's been an active quarter on the redevelopment front, construction is underway at Capital City Mall for DICK's Sporting Goods at Magnolia Mall for Burlington and at Viewmont Mall for DICK's Field & Stream and HomeGoods, all of which will open this fall in former Sears locations.

I want to point out that we took possession of two of these stores late in the first quarter and we'll have the new stores opened and operating by holiday 2017. Every step of the anchor, box turnaround process has been carefully planned as in the process of being executed.

Our fashion outlets at Philadelphia, construction and leasing progress continues in this transformative project in Downtown Philadelphia. At The Mall at Prince Georges we are well along with construction on this cosmetic refresh and executing the remerchandising plan that will bring new and exciting tenants to this well located property. At Plymouth Meeting, as Joe mentioned, we opened a 33,000 square foot LEGOLAND Discovery Center to great fanfare. This unique to the market attraction has been selling out regularly, has driven traffic to level that exceeded a now closed department store.

Plymouth Meeting is a great example of how we can effectively differentiate our properties. Over 45% of the properties' comp store sales are generated from dining and entertainment tenants. We just signed another entertaining concept that will bring additional traffic to the property. Our Macy's plans continue to evolve, based on the property bullseye location, we are running parallel paths with multiple tenant replacement options. Stay tuned for more exciting news.

At Moorestown Mall, we have executed LOIs for a Macy's replacement that we're also really excited about. The replacement tenants will be first to market and among the very first in the country. From a capital to spending perspective, we invested $33 million in our redevelopment and anchor replacement projects this quarter. For the remainder of the year, we anticipate spending an incremental $160 million to $180 million, as our construction and tenants [ph] bid at work (15:48) ramps up.

Turning to operations, we're faced with the headwinds from department closing, in line tenant bankruptcies and negative sentiment in the press about our sector, we performed in line with our internal expectations for the quarter. We reported FFO of $0.35 a share. After taking into account the $0.07 of dilution from asset sales, our earnings were up $0.01 from last year's quarter.

Since the beginning of 2016, we sold eight low productivity malls including Beaver Valley and Crossroads Mall which closed in the first quarter as part of our strategic move to quality. Same-store NOI at $59.1 million is flat to last year's first quarter. Some key factors impacting the results include top line revenues which were impacted by approximately $1.5 million from tenants filing for bankruptcy in 2016 and 2017.

The financial impact includes unsold vacancies or restructured rents for certain tenants who remain in occupancy. In total, we had 89 stores impact it and we have seen 39 of these stores close over the past 15 months. At the end of the quarter, approximately 75% of the impact of the stores were covered.

Results were also impacted by lower co-tenancy rents at properties with closed anchors. The co-tenancy impact for the quarter was approximately $300,000. But the retail news isn't all grim since the beginning of 2016, we have executed new or renewal leases with expanding tenants such as L Brands, H&M, Foot Locker, [ph] Capital (17:21) and American Eagle with its area concept and 344,000 square feet incremental revenues from these expanding tenants contributed to our performance.

We'll see a positive contribution from our remerchandising and anchor replacement efforts later this year when the first phase of The Mall at Prince Georges redevelopment comes online and tenants filling five currently vacant anchor boxes begin paying rent in the fourth quarter. Physical occupancy for our same-store malls finished the quarter at 92.9% which was down 90 basis points compared to last year's quarter, reflecting the impact of closed anchors. When taking into signed leases, our lease occupancy increases by 190 basis points to 94.8%.

We have a 725,000 square foot pipeline of leases for future openings. When these tenants open over the next few years, they will contribute over $30 million of incremental revenues to our top line. From a timing perspective, we'll open 560,000 square feet this year, with an annualized rental stream of $9.7 million at our share. The rest will open in 2018 except for Von Maur which is scheduled to open in 2019. We expect to add to the pipeline as we move a number of anchor replacement transactions from LOI to lease.

Renewal spreads were positive, reflecting the benefits of an improved portfolio. Looking forward, we expect spreads to be in the same ballpark for the next few quarters. Average rents for small shop mall tenants at our same-store malls increased by 1.6% to over $58 per square foot. Our sales growth continued as we close the quarter with sales of $465 per square foot, up $8 from $457 a foot reported at the end of last year.

Operating margins at our same-store properties increased by 40 basis points to 60.4%, reflecting continued emphasis on cost management and a mild winter across mid-Atlantic region where we have a significant presence. We did see significant increase within real estate taxes at a number of our properties this year. While most of the increases were anticipated, we intend to appeal the unexpected increases consistent with our tax appeal program.

From a GAAP perspective, net income attributable to PREIT common shareholders was $6.6 million or $0.10 a share compared to a loss of $0.03 per share in the prior year's quarter. The difference is due to dilution from asset sales and a gain on sale of real estate which occurred in the first quarter of 2016.

Turning to the balance sheet, we have utilized the proceeds from asset sales and the January 2017 preferred share offering to fund our redevelopment spending and reduce debt balances by $167 million since the end of last year. The combination of lower outstanding debt balances and lower rates contributed to a $3.9 million interest expense savings for the quarter.

Next week, we expect to borrow $150 million under our seven year term loan and repay all amounts outstanding under our line of credit. At the end of the quarter, we had approximately $243 million of borrowing capacity available under our banks facilities. Our average interest rate, excluding non-cash amortization, was 3.75%, a 36 basis point reduction from a year ago. Our debt maturities are well laddered, with approximately 85% of our loans maturing after 2018.

We ended the quarter with 88% of our debt carrying either fixed rates or swaps. In connection with the planned term loan draw next week, we enter into additional swaps that will result in 96% of our debt, effectively being fixed, leaving us well positioned to mitigate the impact of any increases in short-term interest rates.

With respect to guidance, we are reaffirming our current year FFO guidance and revising our estimate of GAAP earnings to give effect to higher expected depreciation expense. FFO for the year is expected to be between $1.64 and $1.74 per diluted share while net loss is expected to be between $0.15 and $0.05.

As we discussed previously, NOI in the first half of the year is expected to be relatively flat. So you can expect the second quarter's performance to look similar to the first quarter. We'll continue to be negatively impacted by the bankruptcies before revenues from tenants in our leasing pipeline kick in during the second half of the year. We're still in discussions with a number of these tenants and our guidance reflects our best estimate of the outcome of these discussions at this point in time.

And with that, we'll open it up for questions. [Operator Instructions]

Your first question today comes from the line of DJ Busch of Green Street Advisors. Your line is open.

Thank you. You talked a lot about the change in the landscape of retail, the department stores issues that are out there, but you also are signing three department store or new department stores leases at some of the vacancies that have cropped up. I'm just curious why not take this as an opportunity to reduce your exposure to department stores further if you do think that industry is going to continue to shrink, Joe.

Well, first off keep in mind that we have about a dozen department store boxes. And we announced three of them. Those three that we announced in all cases [ph] the Belks (23:08) we see is a great retailer. And an opportunity to bring them into a market Valley Mall in Maryland where we have a higher income consumer that was – they sort of starve for fashion we think was the right decision. And we think that they're a good solid retailer with the solid future in front of them.

In think in the case of Von Maur again, small company with 40 some stores. It was the number one requested department store in the Grand Rapids markets, so we are really meeting the consumer need. Herberger's at Valley View was a tenant that is already in the mall and is a high performer, unable to expand, this provided an opportunity to really jump from the 40,000 foot box to 100,000 foot box with little investment on our part.

But generally to answer your question, we are reducing reliance and exposure to department stores. And much of what we'll be doing in the balance of those boxes is bringing in all price discounters, sporting goods, first to market concepts, et cetera, dining, entertainment. So for the most part, I think we're consistent with your statement at the beginning. We saw those three instances as exceptions where we could really meet the need of a consumer in the market that was being unmet by a department store that we think is a performing department store that has some runway in front of them.

Okay. And then when we're looking at the anchor replacement summary and your discussions with potential new tenants to take some of these vacancies. Are the discussions different or the demand different for when you are trying to court new tenants to take a vacated Sears just given that Sears has probably larger issues versus someone like a Macy's where it's going through some struggles with probably is a going concern for the foreseeable future. Are the conversations or demand different for those boxes just given the dynamics of the two different department stores?

I'm not sure I'm clear on your question. But I'll try and answer what I think you asked around demand. Given that a number of our properties where we have department stores are well located, there is fairly robust demand in fact at Plymouth Meeting right now. And at Moorestown, we did finally make a decision. We had probably double or triple the tenants that we needed to be able to fill the boxes.

So there is demand out there. I think as I said in my script, I think that we're all of a sudden seeing tenants that might have before looked at open air concepts or power centers or outlet centers, be relatively agnostic as it relates to property type. And they've become prospects for the vacant department store boxes. So demand is certainly there. I wasn't quite sure what you meant about the Sears part versus the Macy's.

Yes, my point was when tenants are looking to take some of these spaces, they can look at Sears and think of it as that's a business issues, Sears is struggling and it may not be an indication of how that center is doing whereas if its Macy's, it could potentially be an indication that, that property is not something that they want to invest in longer-term or be in longer-term. That's kind of what I meant between the differences [ph] of the two (27:28).

I understand. I understand. If it's got a Sears in it and the Sears is closing or had a Macy's and the Macy's is closing why should we go there, right. What is wrong with it? I'll tell you, we have not encountered that. You saw our Q4 2016 and Q1 2017, record leasing. We have got people on planes flying all over the United States. I'll be on a plane in about three hours actually to meet with a tenant.

The demand is pretty robust and again we like to think that part of that is the fact that most Macy's is closing in markets where they're oversaturated with Macy's. Do we need a Macy's in Cherry Hill and Moorestown, I doubt it or Plymouth Meeting and will they grow, I doubt it. And so it really provided an opportunity for retailers that couldn't find – pick Plymouth Meeting, a location were 92 million cars a year traverse the road network around there.

So, we have not seen retailers who have been negative based on the current tenancy. I think most retailers recognize that Sears' problems are Sears' problems. Macy's on the other hand – and to a certain extent JCPenney was really about store rationalization in light of Macy's case having acquired other store chains for years and never rationalizing finally doing that, impacted to a certain extent by online shopping and the ability to have somewhat of a reduced store count.

So, it's been a net gain for us. And we're actually pretty psyched. If we look out 18 months from now, it's a pretty powerful portfolio. And obviously there are some things we can't announce or haven't announced, but stay tuned for more exciting news.

Okay. Thanks, Joe.

Thank you, DJ.

Your next question today will comes from the line of Ki Bin Kim of SunTrust. Your line is open.

Thanks. Joe, when you're signing these new leases recently, are the actual terms in the lease changing at all. Is there a more favorable lease termination language or anything of that sort?

Are you asking on the new leases once they're signed, what's the nature of the terms, are they different and better than the previous ones?

Yes. And because I know a lot of time you just focus on renewal rates and things like that, but I was wondering if the actual lease structure is changing...

No, I understand, obviously these department store leases were signed during the ice age and between the co-tenancy language, the control, the cross easements, et cetera, et cetera, all of those points that end up being expensive to you as you look down the line to potentially their redevelopment [ph] or ad (31:15). We're certainly making changes from co-tenancy language to how one participates in the easement agreement and making a lot of progress in that arena and doing better. I think if you did a comparison to what the prior documents have to what they are today, you'd see a net positive.

But how about for the tenant, what does a typical like lease terminations language look like today?

Lease termination language you mean putting an anchor and giving the right to terminate?

Or a [indiscernible] (32:02) comes in. I'm sure there's a lease term to it, so what is the penalty for them if they want to leave earlier than the lease duration?

It is a default. If you are asking if we are doing deals with anchors where they have a right to vacate under certain conditions, that's not been part of any of the deals that we've signed.

Okay. The American Eagle [indiscernible] (32:41) puts out the lease negotiations. Are those in the renewals stats, the kind of decreased rents?

They were in the fourth quarter of 2016's lease activity summary in our supplemental.

Okay. And just frankly your balance sheet, you guys have a pretty significant capital deployment plan, $400 million to $500 million for the next couple of years. Just curious about how you're going to fund that at all. I know you've kept a preferred equity alive, so that's part of it but just curious where the sources and uses. And if you can also comment on the $150 million loan at Mall at Prince Georges that's coming due, [indiscernible] (33:27)?

So let's cover – we laid out in February our capital plans which I would, Ki Bin, just kind of point you back to in terms of the sources and uses, I think it includes a number of items including construction loans, sales of assets, et cetera. We actually paid off The Mall at Prince Georges loan earlier in the year with the line of credit, I think we covered that on our fourth quarter earnings call.

Okay. I think I was looking at the wrong, little bit old data. Got it. How about the asset sales portion of it? You still have a bunch of strip centers or a couple of strip centers that I know at one point you are looking to sell. Not much news has come out of it, anything new?

Well, first of, as it relates to asset sales, we are continuing to work on the sale of our joint venture interest in our power centers, number one. Number two, we've engaged a broker, we're in the initial stages of, working at a JV for some of our higher quality assets and putting that in with a package of some core assets, that's the second effort. A third effort is that we have opportunities to exit some of our office properties which we are engaged in currently. And our land sales we are working on sales of a land as well which we're making progress on. So all of that is sort of in the queue to execute our capital plan. And to the extent we can, accelerate it a bit.

Okay. Just to clarify, you said you're looking to JV some of your better assets, were you talking about malls or were you talking about something else...

Yes, I was talking about malls.

I see. All right I'll get back in the queue. Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Michael Mueller of JPMorgan. Your line is open.

Yeah, hi. I guess looking at your occupancy right now for shops of about 90.5%. Can you talk a little bit about expectations as you move through the balance of 2017 where you think you could end the year on that aspect on an occupied basis, as well as when you say look out the 2018 what sort of targets can you think are achievable as well?

So, Mike, I think we expect to end the year somewhere in between 93% and 94% in small shops space at the end of the year.

And that's occupied, not leased. That's occupied.

That's occupied, yes, physical or economic occupancy. In our four-year plan, we actually have that moving up to closer to 95%. So we expect given the pipeline of leases that we have and certainly we have other things in the queue that we haven't yet brought to lease. We would expect to maybe take a halfway step there in 2018 and then get fully there the following year.

Okay. You mean halfway to the 95%?

Halfway to the 95%.

Got it, okay. And then I guess it wasn't a big number but the co-tenancy impact of about $300,000. Can you talk a little bit about some of the background of what triggered that? So was it in malls where there's more than one anchor vacant, or is it just maybe that's the only anchor that was vacant in that mall, but it was part of a lease or was it just part of a negotiation where this was back and forth and you ended up settling on that. But just any sort of color because people ask about co-tenancy all the time?

Yes, I think that's given the fact that we have eight vacant anchors at the current time, I think that number is not that unreasonable if you look at it on a per property basis. So it's generally I'd say I think we talked about previously, it's a handful of leases at a handful of properties, ranging from as few as to maybe half of dozen or so at some of the other properties. But it's generally most of it, tied to the anchors. And in some cases, some of the old leases, as Joe alluded to, the anchors were considered to be there at least expected to be there forever. So some tenants have leases that we were tied to specific named anchors. So when those tenants vacated then co-tenancy would kick in.

Got it okay.

But again before we leave that point, Mike, just wanted to point out that we don't have any malls with more than one vacant anchor.

Okay. Okay. I think that will be it for now. Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Floris van Dijkum of Boenning. Your line is open.

Great. Good morning, guys. Question, Bob, on the revolver that you guys have outstanding that you've drew down on, presumably when you're talking about your capacity, is most of that capacity on that remaining on that revolver?

That's correct.

And that has an extension option I believe until 2020. When does that have to get refinanced?

We have, it expires by its initial term in 2018. We have two one-year extension options so we could, we can go to 2020 under its terms.

Okay. And then a question for you guys on, any more update on the FBI relocation. What's the latest that you guys have heard?

The latest we've heard, and this is probably a little aged maybe six weeks is that they were down to the location in Fairfax County adjacent to Springfield Town Center, but I'm certainly not going to make a prediction on what's happening in Washington D.C. under any circumstances.

Okay. So, I guess we'll have to wait.

Yes. We're going to have to – we'll wait and see. We've obviously been in touch with our representatives in D.C. and doing everything we can to stay as informed as we can, and encouraged a decision to go to Fairfax County.

Right. Another question I have, I guess one follow-up on Moorestown. You sort of alluded you had a lot of interest in that, but you don't actually own that box, right? Have you got an agreement ready to purchase that box from Macy's?

We have reached agreement with Macy's and documents are moving back and forth right now.

Okay. And presumably, you'll give us more details once all of that has been agreed?

Yes. As Bob alluded to, Floris, these will be two first to market tenants. They're not currently in the area. One will be one of the first concepts in the country, so it'd be quite exciting when we conclude it.

Got it. And presumably that also means if you're splitting up the box, you'll probably have some more cost, will that be included in all of the [ph] purpose and the (41:38) investment?

Yes. Actually at Moorestown, we envision the box being split up into three pieces, with the third piece being in addition to the two let's call them stores. The third piece being a food market.

Got it. Great. Thanks, guys.

Your next question comes from Linda Tsai of Barclays. Your line is open.

Yes. Hi. In your 4Q press release, your CapEx guidance was the range of $225 million to $250 million in 2017. With a potential for some of these department store anchors to come back to you faster and sooner over the next few years, how are you thinking about CapEx in the coming years particularly is it relates to redevelopment of these department store boxes?

So, when we set out our guidance, we were pretty prolong with the number of these transactions. So our capital spending both for this year as well as we laid out in the four-year plan, we're still very comfortable with those number and ranges.

Okay. And then, can you highlight what Von Maur might be doing differently from its peers that makes it more in demand. I realize that having a much smaller store base to begin with probably helped?

Well, I think for the most part, they're a fashion department store that serves a market where they're well known and there's significant income available. I mean I would consider them on a level of a Nordstrom both in terms of merchandise mix as well as service, and they have a very well defined market. In the case of Grand Rapids, the city of about 1 million people living there, our trade area around Woodland Mall has incomes over $100,000. So, it was the right choice for Von Maur and again the customer based on [ph] Intercept (43:58) and information we got from our customers. It was the number one store in demand. So, we think they'll perform quite well there.

Thanks. And then finally at the beginning of the call you discussed the presence of too much apparel in the space. In your view, how long do you think this bloodletting will continue in terms of news of store closures? Do you see this as like a two- or three-year process?

Well, you use bloodletting, I use detoxing, either one works. When we look through our watch list, first off we obviously review it regularly and the tenants in our watch list are performing right now with trends that are pretty much in line with last year and have occupancy costs that are sustainable. The stores are profitable and again their occupancy cost is reasonable. The average is slightly above our average of around 13%. So, we don't think we have significant store closure exposure in the portfolio. Again we've pared our portfolio down to 23, soon to be 24 high quality properties.

But your other question around the apparel, we continue to see that number more if we pointed out a number of 17% dining and entertainment, we see that number going probably to 25% over some period of time. And also as I mentioned, we also begin to see certainly health and fitness being important component to mall which is not apparel based. So, there is significant movement away from apparel irrespective of whether or not there are bankruptcies or not bankruptcy. We're being proactive about getting space back and introducing those various uses to the malls.

A case in point, at Plymouth Meeting Mall, our non-apparel tenant base is 45%. That number in the near-term is probably going to move north of 50%. Now, the good news is the other tenants are seeing the benefit of that from the fact that we have diversified our tenant base significantly away from apparel. And so there is demand for apparel in the mall now. So I think it will continue to morph. As I think one thing that customer has voted for. We think it's pretty clear they had voted for fast fashion, off price. They are two key categories. And even as we introduced apparel, their areas at all of sudden have become a fair game for malls.

Right. Thank you.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Christy McElroy of Citi. Your line is open.

Hi. Good morning, everyone. Joe, can you discuss the recently announced board departures? Why they left and what are the plans to replace those seats?

Well, in terms of the board departures, the two departures were made for personal reasons and they were both long tenured board members that exited for personal reasons. We also noted in our filing that we nominated George Alburger, who was the former CFO of Liberty Property Trust to join the board. George brings significant financial and capital markets operational experience. He also by the way spent a number of years in the retail real estate business prior to joining Liberty. So we think George is, assuming that he receives the appropriate shareholder vote, going to be a great addition to the board.

Okay. Now, you've done this portfolio upgrade. You have this multiyear plan, but with the stock underperformance the market doesn't appear to be recognizing that. If there is an inherent discount to private market value and your stock and your efforts don't appear to be helping now that discount, how do you think about the possibility of M&A or privatization today or going forward?

Well, first and foremost, we've done a lot of work underway right now with upwards of a dozen anchors, various redevelopments et cetera. Our sense is that over – as we begin to bring them to fruition that the hysteria, the overreaction disappears. The short sellers get squeezed out – nice piece you put the other day by the way on that exact topic, and we begin to see share price appreciation in multiple growth.

Having said that, as it relates to a strategic transaction, Christy, you know the answer to this question, the answer is that we view our job as to drive shareholder value and to the extent there is an opportunity to be a private or public to do so from a strategic perspective, our board will consider it.

Joe, it's Michael Bilerman speaking. In your opening comments, you've talked about the increased interest from institutional investors seeking to visit your properties, tour your properties. I'm curious whether you've had private market interest as well, and are there private [ph] marketing (50:35) that are looking that this is an opportunity potentially given all the mass hysteria that there is around sort of retail real estate?

Hi, Michael, I was waiting for you. So, not at this point. All of the folks who we toured and been on calls with by the way and have them going on tomorrow as well, have been public market investors. I would not be surprised if our space, not PREIT specific begins to see interest from private markets investor but we have not at this point.

And then I guess, Bob, is there anything on sort of the lending side to malls, the lenders are sort of taking all these information and looking at potentially providing loans on malls. Has that changed? Is there anything you can sort of talk about in that front?

Well, right now, as I mentioned earlier, we haven't been active in the borrowing market because our maturities are kind of pushed out in the future, but we have ongoing discussion with lenders. And they are focused the same way they've always been on the quality of real estate and the quality of tenancy. So I don't think those fundamentals have really changed in the last 12 to 18 months. I think they continue to focus on good assets and good locations.

And then on the board other than George, are you going to replace, or you've seen a downsize of the board?

Well, obviously, diversity is certainly important to us. So, we'll continue to look for a candidate that would bring diversity to our board. And that's an ongoing process that we're engaged in right now.

Okay. I thought Rosemarie was – she got on the Board in 2012, was she older than that?

Well, no, she was on the board before – if you go back, she was on the board for a number of years. I think since the initial...

1997.

...1997 to 2011, when I stepped in as CEO, I asked her to come back, which she did, so this is a sort of – she's had a second run at it if you will.

Okay. All right. I forgot about that. All right. Thank you.

All right. Thank you.

And your next question comes from the line of Karin Ford of MUFG Securities. Your line is open.

Hi. Good morning. With the sale of Beaver Valley and Crossroads, those were your two remaining noncore malls. With the evolution of the retail environment, have your thoughts changed on maybe any additional malls falling newly into the noncore pool [indiscernible] (53:44) the malls are in the low $300 sales per square foot numbers or do you have plans for all of those?

I think as we look at our portfolio today, we continue to look for opportunities to improve it and further dispositions, particularly exiting markets that are not primary markets are on the table. We've not made any decision at this point, but certainly we're looking hard at our portfolio.

Okay. And can you give us some characterization of the institutional interest you've seen thus far in the JV interest in the core pool?

The way in which we're approaching the JV transaction, very select group, I think less than a dozen. It's very early, most of those discussions will occur at ICSC in Las Vegas. So it's a little preliminary to respond to that.

Okay. And final question from me. You said I think that the fashion outlets were progressing well. Can you just give us more color as to how leasing and construction and everything is falling together there?

Construction, I was amazed to walk through it the other day, hadn't been there in a couple of weeks. Construction is progressing. We're actually beginning to reconstruct at this point. Vertical transportation is being installed. So the project is moving forward from that perspective. From a leasing perspective, we sit at about 70% committed tenants that's either signed leases or LOIs. And that effort is obviously continuing very stronger, we're looking to have a big showing in Vegas that will be highlighted there. We think we'll come to that convention with a very positive story around co-tenancy, et cetera.

And any update on a potential residential component there?

Only that there are discussions that are ongoing at this point.

Okay. Thanks very much.

Thank you.

And there are no further questions. I now turn the call back over to the presenters.

Thank you, and thank you all for being on the call. Couple of closing comments. The work we're doing in transforming the traditional mall model into an exciting venue that offers a diverse array of dining, entertainment and the most sought after retail venues, complemented by boutique, grocers, health and fitness, among others, as we drive the vision of our company.

In 24 months, we'll take our places in a mall company with sales of $525 a foot, a dozen new anchors, our new top asset opened and operating in Philadelphia, NOI exceeding predisposition levels, 25% of our space committed to dining and entertainment, Sears exposure minimized, thousands of apartments units opened or under construction on our sites, and a multiple in line with the quality portfolio we have created.

Thank you, all. I'll look forward to talking with you soon.

And this concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.