Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Heather Crowell — Vice President-Communications & Investor Relations, Pennsylvania Real Estate Investment Trust
Joseph F. Coradino — Chief Executive Officer & Trustee, Pennsylvania Real Estate Investment Trust
Robert F. McCadden — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Pennsylvania Real Estate Investment Trust
Daniel J. Busch — Analyst, Green Street Advisors, Inc.
Lina Y. Rudashevski — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC
Ki Bin Kim — Analyst, SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, Inc.
Michael J. Bilerman — Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. (Broker)
Linda Y. Tsai — Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning and welcome to the PREIT First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call. All participants will be in listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] Please also note this event is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Heather Crowell. Ms. Crowell, please go ahead, ma'am.

Thank you. Good morning and thank you all for joining us for PREIT's first quarter 2015 earnings conference call. During this call, we will make certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Federal Securities laws. These statements relate to expectations, beliefs, projections, trends and other matters that are not historical facts and are subject to risks and uncertainties that might affect future events or results. Descriptions of these risks are set forth in the company's SEC filings. Statements that PREIT makes today might be accurate only as of today, April 29, 2015 and PREIT makes no undertaking to update any such statements.

Also, certain non-GAAP measures will be discussed. PREIT has included reconciliations of such measures to the comparable GAAP measures in its earnings release and other documents filed with the SEC.

Members of management on the call today are Joe Coradino, PREIT's CEO; and Bob McCadden, our CFO. It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Joe Coradino.

Thank you, Heather. Today, we see demonstrable evidence of PREIT's dramatic transformation. Portfolio sales were $414 per square foot. We sold or are in the process of selling lower quality malls. We've acquired Springfield Town Center and have announced our plans to redevelop The Gallery. We are a new company. Our results for the quarter were strong and the future is bright, as these two premier assets stabilize and we continue to realize growth in our improved portfolio.

As we approach PREIT's management team's third anniversary, we reflected on the goals we set it on November 2012 Investor Day. Since they were 2015 goals, we thought it was appropriate to present a scorecard to place our accomplishments into context. In 2012, we laid out the following goals.

Our leverage was probably the worst in this at sector of 62%, we set a goal of below 55%. Our debt/EBITDA was 8.8% and we set a goal of 7.5%. Same-store NOI growth was inconsistent at best, and we set a goal of 3%. Our occupancy levels had historically trailed our peers and we set a goal of 95% compared to 92.6% at the time. We also set a target occupancy close to 12.5%, which compared to 11.4% at the time. Sales at the company were $379 per square foot and we targeted over $400 a foot.

We are pleased with the progress we have made and are even more excited about our future opportunities. By executing on the plan we laid out, we've not just met but have exceeded many of these expectations. Leverage is below 50% and a strong balance sheet continues to be a major priority for the company.

Our occupancy costs have improved by 130 basis points to 12.7% and total same-store mall occupancy is projected to be 95% by year-end. But the most indicative of the trends for a company we are today is the sales productivity, now generating $414 per square foot having blown past our $400 goal.

This is a function of our remarkable portfolio improvement efforts. We have led the way in the sale of lower productivity malls, and our intense focus on merchandising our assets has resulted in fundamental improvements in our portfolio, and our outlook on the future is bright.

Improvements in the quality of our portfolio, and overall health of the retail industry is reflected in sales growth from a low point of $334 per square foot at the end of 2009 to $414 today, $80 a square foot or 24% increase. We sit today with 11 assets generating sales over $400 a foot, nearly twice as many as a year ago.

Valley and Viewmont malls, two of the properties that recently surpassed this milestone are great examples of assets that have been successfully remerchandised. We executed on remerchandising plans where we reconfigured existing spaces and added catalyst tenants for the respective markets, Forever 21, ULTA and Buffalo Wild Wings at Viewmont, and several restaurants at Valley Mall.

We ended the quarter with total occupancy of 81.4%. We added Apple at Willow Grove a few years back and the results of that addition are bearing fruit in the sales trajectory at that asset. Cherry Hill Mall is knocking on the door of $650 per square foot, and we have a merchandising plan in place to get the asset to the $700 per square foot mark. Recently, we have signed leases with lululemon, Tumi, and adidas, and have a number of transactions in the pipeline with other noteworthy concepts.

Having blown past the $400 per square foot mark, today we are setting a new target at $450 per square foot. This is a milestone that's achievable based on efforts that we are currently undertaking. Let me talk a little bit more about our tenant sales performance this quarter.

Same tenant sales increased 9% in January, 2.4% in February, and 4.5% in March, strong results by any standard. Every way we look at sales performance for the quarter, for the last 12 months, comp tenants for all tenants, indications are positive. We think this speaks to the results of our remerchandising efforts undertaken over the past few years, providing more compelling options to our shoppers.

Now, let me update you on these continuing initiatives. We have three assets under agreement of sale; Palmer, Uniontown, and Springfield Park and continue to pursue the sale of additional lower productivity assets and are currently considering additional offers. At Springfield Town Center, we're very excited to have closed on that acquisition, which underscores our portfolio transformation.

Since the grand reopening in October, the property has performed extremely well and we are confident that we will be able to drive tenancy and sales and integrate it into PREIT's premier platform. The leasing of Springfield Town Center is going well. We ended the quarter with total occupancy of 81.4%. We fully executed leases for 89.7% of the space having signed over 55,000 square feet of new space since the year began.

Notable recent openings were Nordstrom Rack, New York & Company, Finish Line and Hot Topic to name a few. We're projecting year-end occupancy over 90% including such tenants as Dave & Buster's, Zales, Zinburger, and Wood Ranch Barbeque. And during the quarter, we received a significant commitment from Macy's for a major upgrade and renovation of their store.

After the close of the quarter, we announced our plans to redevelop The Gallery into The Fashion Outlets of Philadelphia. We're excited about the project and optimistic that we'll receive the necessary approvals from City Council.

By way of update, we received unanimous approvals on the TIF and the transaction from two essential public agencies, the Philadelphia School Reform Commission and the Philadelphia Redevelopment Authority respectively. The necessary ordinance have been introduced at City Council and a public hearing on the matter will take place on May 28, going to final vote on June 18.

As we have outlined, the plan calls for a $325 million capital investment and we are seeking $90.5 million in public financing in addition to other forms of consideration to be recognized over time. We're encouraged by the response from elected and appointed officials, tenant interest has been strong and we're looking forward to highlighting this project with our partner Macerich, at ICSC in Las Vegas.

Having completed the Springfield acquisition and making significant progress in our objectives at The Gallery, we're also finalizing our redevelopment plans for Exton Square Mall, where we'll be gaining control of one of the most valuable pieces of underdeveloped land in the Greater Philadelphia market.

In a market, with truly superior demographics, we're in negations with a number of cornerstone tenants to anchor this exciting redevelopment. We expect this will be another property that becomes a premier asset and we look forward to detailing our plans in the near future.

Now, before I turn the call over to Bob McCadden, I just want to add a couple of things. As if we didn't communicate enough progress today, when we exclude the two malls under contract, our portfolio is even stronger with sales at $420 per square foot. And last night after we issued our earnings release, we've signed an agreement to sell our 475 acre parcel on 1-75 in Gainesville, Florida. Further progress on the disposition front. So a dramatic improvement in metrics led by sales completed acquisition at Springfield Town Center on our way with Gallery and Exton up next. We are a new PREIT.

With that, I'll turn it over to Bob.

Thanks, Joe. After finishing strong in 2014, we carried that momentum forward into the first quarter of this year to deliver another quarter of strong operating results. Let me cover the key highlights for the quarter. FFO as adjusted for the fourth quarter was $28.2 million or $0.40 per diluted share, comparable to last year's results when we reported FFO as adjusted of $28 million or $0.40 per share.

Same-store NOI for the quarter was $61.7 million, a $3.5 million or 6% increase over the 2014 period. Excluding lease termination revenue, same-store NOI was $61.3 million, a 5.6% increase over the prior year period.

Portfolio total occupancy was up by 140 basis points from our reported occupancy a year ago, partially driven by calling lower performing properties. Same-store non-mall anchor occupancy was relatively flat despite the acceleration of bankruptcies we saw in the first quarter. Over the long-term, we view this as an opportunity to replace underperforming tenants. We're making meaningful progress towards backfilling the 230,000 feet of space, vacated by these tenants as of March 31.

Our focus is on quality replacements that will generate results consistent with our portfolios quality. We believe that our improved sales performance environment will allow us to deliver strong results in the future in terms of renewal spreads and attracting new retailers to the portfolio.

Key drivers for performance during the quarter were a 1% increase in revenues over the prior year's quarter. Revenue growth during the quarter was adversely impacted by the tenant bankruptcies mentioned earlier. Revenues from these tenants in the first quarter of 2015 were approximately $900,000 lower than the same period last year. This impacted our revenue growth rate by approximately 90 basis points. The vacancies from these tenants also impacted our same store non-anchor occupancy by about 200 basis points for the quarter.

Average growth rents versus small shop tenants at our same-store mall properties were up 3.9% as compared to in-place rents as of a year ago, driven by a 3.6% increase in our premier malls and a 4.7% increase in our core growth malls.

On a combined basis, CAM and real estate tax expenses were lower by 2.9% compared to last year. Taxes were up by 2.6%, while CAM expenses were down by 6.2%. The 2014 quarter was impacted adversely by higher weather-related expenses such as snow removal and utilities. Our income contribution from redistributed utilities came back to normal levels.

Bad debt expense was about $300,000 worse than last year's first quarter, reflecting a $400,000 impact from the first quarter bankruptcies. Interest expense for the quarter was $2.8 million compared to $22.9 million last year, reflecting lower average borrowings, lower capitalized interest, slightly higher average rates and a $500,000 loss on hedge ineffectiveness for the quarter.

Average borrowings were $112 million lower than last year as we applied the proceeds from asset sales to reduce debt. The effective interest rate on our borrowings of 5.15% was 16 basis points higher than last year's quarter. At the end of the quarter our average borrowing rate was 4.55% and the weighted average time to maturity in our mortgage loans is now 4.6 years.

G&A expenses for the quarter were $8.9 million, a decrease from last year's first quarter reflecting continued reductions in our home office costs. We have been reducing our G&A expenses as we've sold assets and with the addition of Springfield Town Center and when the redeveloped The Gallery comes back online our G&A as a percentage of revenue will decline further benefiting from increased scale.

Outstanding debt at the end of the first quarter including our share of partnership debt was $2.1 billion, an increase of $334 million from the end of 2014, reflecting borrowings used to finance the cash portion of the Springfield Town Center purchase price. Our bank leverage ratio stood at 49.6%, a 10 basis point reduction from March 2014's ratio.

Our maturity schedule in 2015 will give us an opportunity to reduce our average cost of debt. Following the April 2015 repayment of the mortgage loan of Magnolia Mall, we have approximately $215 million of mortgage loans maturing this year at an average rate of 5.77%. Since the loans mature in the latter part of the year, we realized some benefit of the interest savings in 2015, but the bulk of the benefit will be realized in 2016 and beyond.

Regarding our outlook for 2015, we are reaffirming our expectations of FFO per diluted share to be in the range of $1.82 to $1.87 and FFO as adjusted will range from $1.87 to $1.92. We now expect that GAAP earnings per diluted share will be a net loss between $0.27 and $0.32 reflecting the impact of the first quarter's impairment charge.

With that we'll open it up for questions.

Thank you. We will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from DJ Busch of Green Street Advisors. Please go ahead.

Thank you. Joe, the sales productivity was pretty strong across the board. I was just wondering if you dug a little bit deeper and how much of that increase was from retailers that are still in the portfolio and they're growing their same-store sales versus some of the tenant follow-up that you may have had in the first quarter that are – and underproductive retailers that have exited their space?

Well, we had essentially took out the retailers that – say, went away. We would have had about a $10 sales increase, still they're quite respectable.

The $10 is actually the impact of the bankrupt tenants. So $10 – it'll be $10 less.

Okay. So closer to $400 or just over $400, if those retailers were still in the portfolio?

Yeah $405.

Okay. Joe, you mentioned you've made a lot of progress. On the disposition front, you got two pending sales now. I think if those close, that gives you about 31 malls. When you look at the portfolio, what is the right number of centers for Penn REIT to own, I guess in a couple of years from now, what do you think that count will be in your portfolio?

Well, I don't sort of look at it as a count. DJ, I look at it as having a quality portfolio with sort of A and B plus assets and given the fact that we are continuing to redevelop, reposition, et cetera, the count is difficult to nail down. I mean, I think we'll continue to sell off the ones that we've announced. There's probably some others in the portfolio that we will look to sell, some of which we're in discussions with now.

And again, continue to sort of strategically look at the portfolio from two perspectives. One, as we talked to you all a lot about sales per square foot from a metrics perspective, but there is also probably as important is how compelling we are to retailers. I think we've seen as we've continued to sell off from the bottom that we are in a better position in terms of our renewals, new deals, et cetera to attract retailers. So I don't think it's a pure count number. I think it's more a decision made on the potential upside that one could achieve from an asset reposition.

Washington Crown is a great example of that, right. I think we – I think at Washington Crown, we would have sold that asset three years or four years ago and we may still, by the way. But we've now seen sales increase dramatically there as a result of bringing in upwards of half a dozen new medium box tenants in there. So we're not – again, I don't think it's a number. I can't give you that number. We'll continue to cull. We definitely will get smaller, but where we end up at remains to be seen.

And to that point, almost every mall, I guess that's deemed non-core. I guess, opportunistic is somewhat non-core in a different name, is over $300 a square foot. Now as you've operated these malls for a long time, is there any strategic reason or compelling reason to own a mall that's doing under $300 sales per square foot. I know that's only one metric, but it is a metric that represents a lot of other characteristics of the mall. Is there any reason to own those or is there any ability to create value by owning malls of that level?

Well, two answers to that question. Probably, not for a public company, right. Probably not a reason to own most lower quality malls unless you, as I said earlier, can drive that number upwards, which we've done in a couple of instances. Or in some cases in the hands, it has upside – it has a better upside in the hands of an entrepreneur, who is going to operate it differently from both a cost basis and expense basis, as well as looking at sort of adaptive uses, bringing in education, government, hospital, kinds of uses that are quite different than our core retail business.

So again, sometimes it's appropriate for us to continue to own them if we believe we have upside in them. I mean, a good example of that that we continue to keep in our portfolio is Beaver Valley Mall. It's a center that is doing average comp sales of around $290 a foot, right. But it happens to be about a mile away from a proposed cracking plant that Shell is building, that will generate thousands of jobs.

So we sit and say to ourselves, it's not ripe yet, right? We are seeing sales increase there, we are seeing tenant interest, we're seeing hotel interests, they're going on to add parcels. And so there is a compelling reason to continue to own that, right, because we think there maybe additional upside and part of that is going to be driven by what happens to the natural gas market et cetera. So in any event, did that answer your question?

Yeah, yeah. That was very helpful. Thank you very much.

Our next question comes from Lina Rudashevski of JPMorgan. Please go ahead.

Hi. Thank you. I was just wondering, can you provide a timeline and some rough dollar amount for the sales that you announced?

You're talking about – are you talking about our new goal of $450 or – I'm sorry?

For the disposal...

The asset sales.

Yeah.

I thought you meant sales per foot.

Yeah.

I mean look selling malls like we've announced is a quite adventurous process and we're moving as expeditiously as possible. Our intention is to try and close those transactions mid-to-late summer, but that could move, but again our goal is to enter before not owning those assets.

Okay. And what rough dollar amount do you think you could sell those for?

We're not prepared to – we're still in negotiations. We are not prepared to discuss that on the call.

Okay. Thank you.

Our next question comes from Ki Bin Kim of SunTrust Robinson Humphrey. Please go ahead.

Thank you. It seems like [ph] The Galleria market (23:54) project is coming along a lot further lately. Just curious, what other – besides TIF and grant money from the city or the state, what other – maybe intangibles are they providing to make sure that's a project could have the highest probability of success, meaning, are they committing more kind of public service around it, whether that be more street cleaners or police or whatever it is to make sure this is – that has a best chance for a success?

Hi, Ki Bin. It's really two things that we referred to when we call it other consideration. One is the elimination of our lease payment that we have an obligation to – currently have an obligation to pay. And number two, it continued payment into a fund that is to maintaining up keep of the mall.

Right. Kind of a – maybe a little bit of a different approach to the service as you mentioned by funding our ability to do that.

Right.

How much of that roughly?

At this point, we're really not prepared to say that publicly. We are – the bill was just read in council last Thursday and we're going through a period of time right now, where we're meeting with all of the individual members at council et cetera. And we're trying to keep it as sort of quiet as possible right now. So I'm sorry, I can't outline those numbers.

No, worries. I think we completely understand that. The second question, referring back to the 238,000 square foot of tenant bankruptcies, $900,000 revenue hit. From a timeline perspective, I don't know if I remember correctly, I think you said half of that space was released. Could you give us an update on when that actually hits the revenue stream?

No – go ahead Ki.

No, go ahead.

So I think on the first – I guess at the year-end earnings call, we generated last year about $8.5 million of revenue from the bankrupt tenants and we were forecasting that we replace about half of that revenue in 2014.

Obviously, we kept, 2015 – some of that we kept in place in the first quarter, as all of the closures didn't take place immediately. And we'll continue to keep a handful of those tenants in place as a – even though they filed for bankruptcy they continue to operate a select number of stores in certain properties. And we'll have backfill replacements as well as specialty leasing revenue coming from those tenants, those spaces, mostly in the fourth quarter.

So you'll see the negative impact of that impacting the second quarter and third quarter, but we just started to see that in the fourth quarter of 2015 as well as in the 2016 where there is a number of spaces where we're looking to aggregate space for the inclusion of large format retailers. So we have a number of those teed up for 2016 openings.

Okay. All right. Thank you.

Our next question comes from Michael Bilerman of Citi. Please go ahead.

Yeah. Good morning. How are you?

How are you doing, Michael?

Great. So either for Joe or for Bob, I think you spent well over about a $1.5 million in your sort of activist defense costs between $1 million this quarter and over $0.5 million last year. And can you just help us understand sort of what went into that $1.5 million? I think publically the only thing you did was you had two letters filed in response to land and buildings, there was no proxy filed, there was no lawsuits. So it just seems like a lot of money, so can you help us walk through what you spent it on?

Well, first off – by the way, we are Beatles fans too. We like the theme of Here Comes The Sun for today in any event. Yeah, I mean we would have liked to have not spend any of that, by the way, Michael, so there would be no confusion. I mean, it's essentially – look, there is a lot more going on behind the scenes than just the public filings. And it was essentially legal fees and investment banking fees, and fees to pay our group and put a lot more time into this, and it's a lot more time consuming than we certainly would have liked and we do everything we can. We do everything we can to keep our cost down on all fronts here. And already had the same concern that you did with that – that that's a – it's a lot of money. But based on the investigation, the research and the banking we did by the way, we didn't pay what was asked.

Right. But I guess, what goes, lawyers are hourly, I assume the banking fee has a – maybe a success fee associated with that. I'm just curious what that – was there a larger sort of strategic alternatives process being done, because arguably $1.6 million and a lot of hours, even at a $1,000 an hour. It just seems like a big number, I didn't know if whether there were something more particular that was going on?

I think that was really the cost of managing our way through the engagement with land and buildings. We took it very seriously. We evaluated every proposal and that was cost of doing business. I mean, I don't know what else to tell you other than that.

And is there any – I assume now that you put the mark on the board, there shouldn't be any other costs that come the rest of the year?

Pardon me. Michael, could you ask that question again, I'm sorry?

Now that you've settled and you've put the marker on the board, is there any other ongoing cost to Goldman or Wachtell or [ph] Jewell, Frank (30:33) that we should be aware of through the rest of the year?

No. There is no activist cost going on right now.

Okay. Maybe just a question on the balance sheet. Bob, you talked about the $250 million of debt that's rolling later this year and the ability to refinance that accretively. You're also sitting with about $210 million on the line. I don't think the sales proceeds are going to be much more than $50 million, correct me if I'm wrong. But I guess how do you – what's your balance sheet plans to refinance, lower the line and how should we be thinking about the debt side as we move through the year?

A couple things. Obviously, we're not going to comment on the sales proceeds. As Joe mentioned, there are other assets being sold including the land parcel that was mentioned first on the call today. But we expect to see additional financings put in place, one of the elements that is part of The Gallery transaction is a EB-5 loan that would help support or help fund a portion of The Gallery redevelopment cost, you're familiar with that program.

Yeah.

And in addition, we're currently talking with our banks about expanding our bank credit in the form of additional term loans or expanded line of credit.

So do you have a sense of – because obviously you redid a lot of the credit, I guess if you're going to keep that floating, there won't be much move and if you move to a more fixed, I guess there could be – is there a certain amount of dilution that's baked into this year at all from an interest expense perspective?

Yeah, we have actually – subsequent to the end of the quarter, we've actually entered into swaps for all the term-loans. All of our term loan debt is now swapped, at least for five years.

What is the book – we have the carrying values for Palmer and Union, which I know one of them you wrote down, each of those is about $20 million net book value, call it $30 million gross. What's your basis in Springfield Park and the land in Gainesville? So at least we have a starting point to think about size. I know you don't want to say what the sales price is, but at least using un-depreciated book we can at least – and depreciated book, we can get in a ZIP Code of potentially what the proceeds are. So do you have a Springfield Park, your share and the gains on the land?

Our share of Springfield Park gross is $8.5 million, net is $6.2 million, net book value. And Springhills which is our land in Gainesville is carried at $19.2 million.

Okay. And then the only thing that I has debt on it is Springfield Park, your share of the debt is like $2.4 million?

Correct.

Okay. And nothing – and everything else would be free and clear?

Right.

Okay. And was that – none of that dilution potentially, or accretion if you pay down debt is in guidance, right?

Well, we make certain assumptions when we provide guidance in terms of our refinancing rate. So that would be included in our 2015 guidance. Our expectations for – we don't have anything baked in for the asset sales. Traditionally we haven't reflected that in our guidance till the sales are completed, but with respect to the refinancings that we have teed up, we do have that in our earnings numbers.

All right. So basically $70 million of the depreciated book value between the three assets and the land, $90 million gross book value between the three assets and the land. That's about right?

Yes.

In that ZIP Code? Okay, great.

Yes.

Thank you so much.

Our next question comes from Linda Tsai of Barclays. Please go ahead.

Yes, hi. Sorry if I missed this. Relative to the development plans for Exton Mall, is this something you've been planning for a while and just want to get the Springfield Town acquisition closed. I guess I'm asking why now and how many other malls in the portfolio do you have these type of opportunities?

Well, with respect to Exton, yes, we've been planning it for a while. Keep in mind that adjacent to Exton Mall is about a 12 acre parcel that has a Kmart on it today, whose lease expires by its terms in 2017. And so we always anticipated that we would be getting that, because they have no options et cetera. So we anticipated we're getting back to them and happens to be contiguous to Exton Mall at a – as I mentioned at a great piece of property at Route 100 and Route 30 in a very strong demographic market.

So, yes, it was something we have been planning for a while. And as we continue to get closer to an expiration to that lease, we have received a significant amount of tenant interest in that and then put in place a redevelopment plan that we think would really enhance the property.

So yeah, that's something that has been in the works. We also think we have opportunities not similar to that at properties like The Mall at Prince Georges, outside of Washington DC and also Woodland Mall in Grand Rapids, Michigan. And we are in a preliminary, call it a predevelopment stages around planning those as well. That was really the point I was making that we think we have significant upside in the company through some of the assets that we own that become even more pronounced as we sell off from the bottom and complete other redevelopments.

Great. Thank you.

Our next question is a follow up from Ki Bin Kim of SunTrust Robinson Humphrey. Please go ahead.

Following up on that Exton Square Mall question. If I remember that mall correctly, it has a very unusual configuration with the Sears being basically right in the middle of the mall and almost not blocking off traffic, but it is a very unusual configuration. So should we take those news as maybe you're getting that lease back?

No. Actually – by the way it's a Macy's, in the middle of the mall, and there is also a – it is a strange configuration. It's a Macy's in the middle of the mall and Sears, Boscov's are the other two anchors and recently JCPenney closed there. So the plan is to repurpose the JCPenney box and at least the thinking right now is to leave Sears, Boscov's in place, repurpose Penney's. And if you think about the adjacent land, it's actually in front of the mall to create a retail promenade of shops that lead you right into the mall.

There would be – and if you think about that marketplace, it is a very affluent marketplace and also a very – it's growing very quickly as first Catholic high school in Philadelphia region was built there over 25 years. So it's a good strong market and we have a dramatic amount of tenant interest and I'm not exaggerating.

Okay. So, yes, I mean it was a Macy's, but so no change expected from Macy's at all?

Other than using that – no change to Macy's, we've looked at that. That would be a bit too drastic.

Okay. Thank you.

This concludes our question-and-answer session. I would like to turn the conference back over to Mr. Coradino for any closing remarks.

Thank you all very much for participating in the call today. We're a different company than we were three years ago. We've got a quality portfolio with significant opportunities for upside through redevelopment, repositioning and remerchandising. And we are particularly excited about the upcoming ICSC Convention. We really view it as a huge opportunity to present a new plea to the retail community. Thank you all very much for being on the call. And have a great day.

Thank you, sir, for your time. Today's conference has now concluded. And we thank you all for attending today's presentation. You may now disconnect, and have a wonderful day.