raw transcript


Pennsylvania R.E.I.T.
 
PEI
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 2, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon, and welcome to the Pennsylvania Real Estate Investment Trust’s First


Quarter 2005 Earnings Conference Call. At this time all parties have been placed on a listen-only


mode, and the floor will be opened for question following the presentation. And it is now my


pleasure to turn the floor over to your host Jeffrey Goldberger, with KCSA Worldwide. Sir, you may


begin.


Jeffrey Goldberger, KCSA Public Relations Worldwide, Investor Relations


Thanks you, Melissa [ph]. Before we begin, I would like to remind everyone that this conference


call will contain certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 21-E, of the


Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


Forward-looking statements related to expectations, beliefs, projections, future plans, strategies,


anticipated events, or trends and other matters that are not historical facts. These forward-looking


statements reflect PREIT's current views about the future events and are subject to risks,


uncertainties, assumptions and changes in circumstances that may cause future events,


achievements or results to differ materially from those expressed by the forward-looking


statements.


Additionally, there can be no assurance that PREIT's actual results will not differ significantly from


the forecasts or estimates sets forth above or that PREIT's returns on its acquisitions will be


consistent with the estimates outlined in the related press releases. PREIT's business is subject to


uncertainties regarding the revenues, operating expenses, leasing activities, occupancy rates and


other competitive factors relating to PREIT's portfolio and changes in local market conditions, as


well as general economic, financial and political conditions including the possibility of outbreak or


escalation of war or terrorist attacks, any of which may cause future events, achievements or


results to differ materially from those expressed by the forward-looking statements.


In particular, PREIT may not enter into one or more of the leases referred to under "Leasing


Update" or enter into agreements for, or consummate, either of the mall financings referred to


under "Other Events." PREIT does not intend to and disclaims any duty or obligation to update or


revise any forward-looking statements or industry information set forth in this press release to


reflect new information, future events or otherwise. Investors are directed to consider the risks and


uncertainties discussed in documents PREIT has filed with the SEC and, in particular, PREIT's


Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004.


With those remarks completed, I would like to turn the call over to Ron Rubin, Chairman and Chief


Executive Officer of Pennsylvania Real Estate Investment Trust.


Ronald Rubin, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you very much. And good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen and thank you for joining us as


we discuss our results for the first quarter and our prospects for the year ahead. Joining me on the


call today are Ed Glickman, President; Bob McCadden, CFO; Joe Coradino, the Head of our Retail


Division. And also, in the room are John Weller [ph] and George Rubin, Vice Chairman of the


company, Dave Bryant, Treasurer; and Bruce Goldman, our General Counsel. After the remarks


have concluded, the call will then be open for any questions that you might have.
raw transcript


Pennsylvania R.E.I.T.
 
PEI
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 2, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


As anticipated, we had a strong first quarter, which demonstrates the success we have had with our


core business strategy. Building on the momentum, we have generated over the past couple of


years, we continue to take significant steps to enhance our portfolio and maximize shareholder


return. During the quarter, we acquired Cumberland Mall in Vineland, New Jersey and Gadsden


Mall in Gadsden, Alabama. We also have several redevelopment projects in progress and they are


moving forward at a good pace.


In the months ahead, we will continue to pursue opportunities within our core markets and targeted


regions in the Southeast to provide additional growth potential, and hopefully to leverage the


development, redevelopment, leasing and general management strengths of the company. We are


looking forward to the upcoming ICSC conference in Las Vegas. Those days are usually very


productive ones for the company. I am sure that we will see some of you there. And with that I will


turn the call over to Ed Glickman.


Edward Glickman, President, Chief Operating Officer


Thanks Ron. The company’s business plan for 2004 was focused on integration. We tripled the


size of our business while meeting the financial and operational goals which reflects on our first


year post merger. In 2005, we are focused on execution, taking the assets which we have acquired


and driving their performance to new levels through intensive management.


We are pleased to announce that in the first quarter, we earned funds from operations of 89 cents,


an increase of 4 cents over the first quarter of 2004. This increase reflects an underlying increase


of 2.4% in same store NOI as well as the benefit of our recent acquisition, the achievement of


Stability [ph] in our G&A cost following the cessation of operations in Johnstown. Our stated goals


to revitalize our newly acquired assets by repositioning them to better serve our shoppers’. Our


repositioning strategies combine remerchandising with physical renovation to enhance our


customer’s experience of our property. This process can take up to 5 years from inception to


realization.


Overall occupancy in the recent portfolio was 91.2% compared to 91.9% in the first quarter of 2004.


Our power and strip assets were 97.6% occupied compared to 98.4% in the first quarter of 2004.


Sales per square foot in our malls ended the first quarter at $329 per square foot, up 2.8% from


$320 at the end of the first quarter of ’04. Average mall based rents as of March 31, 2005, or


20/3/01 up 2.4 percent. Our power and strip centers showed slight improvement in minimum rent


levels.


During the initial stages of the repositioning process, we aggregate space for new tenants by


leaving out existing merchants who are underperforming. In the first quarter, we closed


approximately 95,000 in line square feet in advance of re-leasing such space for new tenants that


we have already identified for ’05 and ’06 openings in these locations. We expect to close over


200,000 additional in line square foot during the remaining three-quarters of this year and again


have identified centers for these locations. Space created by repositioning centers while in our


existing vacancies give us the inventory into which we can place new tenants that we expect will


better serve our customers. To that end, in the first quarter of 2005, we signed 109 leases for over


327,000 square feet with in line merchants.


At the close of the quarter, we have over 740,000 square feet of new in-line leases awaiting


execution with over 300 transactions in work-in-process in our legal department, a number of which


we hope to conclude at or prior to the ICSB convention. On the anchor side, we have 16 anchors


expiring for 1.4 million square feet during 2005. By the beginning of the year, we had noted some 6


anchors that they intended to renew their existing leases. By the end of the first quarter, we had


received notice of 8 additional renewals for 561,000 square feet. At present, we believe that both


of the remaining anchors totaling 82,000 square feet with late year accelerations will also renew.