corrected transcript


Pennsylvania Real Estate


Investment Trust
 
PEI
 
Q2 2007 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 31, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen this is the operator. Today’s Pennsylvania Real Estate


Investment Trust’s Second Quarter 2007 Earnings Conference Call will begin now. All lines have


been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers’ remarks, there will be a


question-and-answer period. [Operator Instructions].


It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to your host, Garth Russell with KCSA. Sir, you may


begin your conference.


Garth Russell, Investor Relations KCSA Worldwide


Good morning, everybody, and before we turn the call over to management, I am going to read the


forward-looking statements.


This conference call will contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Federal


Securities Laws. Forward-looking statements relate to expectations, beliefs, projections, future


plans, strategies, anticipated events, trends, and other matters that are not historical facts. These


forward-looking statements reflect PREIT’s current views about future events and are subject to


risks, uncertainties, and changes in circumstances that might cause future events, achievements,


or results to differ materially from those expressed are implied by forward-looking statements.


PREIT’s business might be affected by uncertainties affecting real estate business, businesses


generally as well as specific factors discussed in documents PREIT has filed with the Securities


And Exchange Commission. And in particularly, PREIT’s annual report on Form 10-K for the year


ended December 31, 2006. PREIT does not intend to update or revise any forward-looking


statements to refect new information, future events, or otherwise.


It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to your Chairman and CEO, Ron Rubin. Ron, the floor is


yours.


Ronald Rubin, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you very much. Welcome to Pennsylvania REIT second quarter 2007 investor conference


call. Joining me on the call today are Ed Glickman, President; Bob McCadden, CFO; Joe


Coradino, Executive Vice President and the Head of our Retail Operations. Also in the room with


me today are George Rubin, Vice Chairmen of the Company and Bruce Goldman, our General


Counsel. We will discuss our results for the second quarter of 2007 and some of our claims for the


future. After we conclude our remarks, the call will be open for your questions.


As I have said previously, the company continues to benefit from our redevelopment program. As


you will hear from Ed, Joe, and Bob, our complete redevelopment projects as expected are


generating improved occupancy and sales, and we expect the same with the current projects that


are underway. These projects are elevating the quality of our portfolio as shown by our continued


increase in sales per square foot and the introduction of some first to the market-to-the-market


tenants at many of our assets. Today, you will hear about these accomplishments and about the


status of projects in our active pipeline. There are many ground-up projects that we’re also going to


discuss with you in addition to the redevelopments.


We continue to be pleased with the improvements we’re making to our portfolio and with the


response by retailers to the opportunities being created. As you can see by our accomplishments,
corrected transcript


Pennsylvania Real Estate


Investment Trust
 
PEI
 
Q2 2007 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 31, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


our progress and our plans, we are clearly focused on maximizing long-term returns for our


shareholders.


And, with that I will turn the call over to Ed Glickman.


Edward A. Glickman, President and Chief Operating Officer


Thanks, Tom. We had another good quarter. FFO for the second quarter was $0.82 per diluted


share, a 1.2% increase from the $0.81 in the first quarter of ‘06 and above the first call consensus


estimate. FFO for the first six months was a $1.62 per diluted share, a 2.5% increase from $1.58 to


the first six months of ‘06. Total NOI for the portfolio for the quarter was 72.9 million, approximately


the same as the first quarter of ‘06. For the first six months, NOI was 146.4 million a 1.3%


decrease compared to the first six months of ‘06.


Retail same store NOIs for the quarter was up 0.7 million, an increase of 0.9%. Year-to-date same


store was down by 0.7, a decrease of 0.5%. Where our NOI improvement shows first that the NOI


of the eight properties where redevelopment and renovations were substantially completed last


year, grew by 13% over the second quarter in ‘06. At the same time, our property operating


statistics continued to improve. Sales productivity was up to $364 a foot, 3.5% increase over the


last year. In fact we now have 17 properties performing above $350 per square foot compared to


13 a year ago. These higher performing assets now represent 65% of this quarter’s NOI compared


to the 53% a year ago.


Non-anchor occupancy to the mall portfolio was also up 50 basis points to 86.5% from 86% a year


ago. At the 8 properties under redevelopment where renovations were substantially completed last


year and non-anchor occupancy increased to 92.6% at June 30th of ‘07 from 89.8% a year ago.


Average base rent for the retail portfolio was up to $27.06, 1.9% rise from $26.55 a year ago.


During the quarter, we executed 184 non-anchor leases for approximately 470,000 square feet.


73,0000 square feet of previously leased space was released at a new average base rent of


$30.94, an increase of 20.8%. 224,000 square feet of renewals were completed at new base rents


averaging $29.45 a foot, an increase of 9.4%. 170,000 square feet of previously vacant space was


leased at $26.05 a foot.


In 2007, the company estimated approximately $97 million to its development and redevelopment


work. Included in this event are our expenditures from the following development projects: First


during early 2007 we substantially completed our Plaza at Magnolia Power Center, and close the


sale of the Coles parcel this quarter. Our Home Depot at Lacey Township, New Jersey will open in


the fourth quarter of this year. Our new River Powder Center will be substantially complete by the


end of this year. We will be breaking ground on modern road township in Pennsylvania next week


for a target anchored tower center.


Lastly, we have received Board of Supervisors initial approval for a New Garden Pennsylvania


Town Center and expect to break ground in the middle of 2008. To continue our work, we expect


to commit up to $200 million during the balance of the year. In addition, today we are redeeming


our 11% preferred shares at an average price of 131.8 million. To finance these capital


requirements, we recently issued 287.5 million of convertible bonds and completed an exceptional


$150 million refinancing of our mall at Prince Georges Plaza.


On an interim basis, proceeds from these plans have been used to reduce our line of credit


balances and we are now redrawing our lines to fund our capital requirements. In this presentation


Bob will give you additional details on these transactions.


And now Joe Coradino will provide you detailed information on our redevelopment properties. Joe.