Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Heather Crowell — Vice President – Corporate Communications and Investor Relations, Pennsylvania Real Estate Investment Trust
Joseph F. Coradino — Chief Executive Officer & Trustee, Pennsylvania Real Estate Investment Trust
Robert F. McCadden — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Pennsylvania Real Estate Investment Trust
Ki Bin Kim — Analyst, SunTrust Robinson Humphrey
Daniel J. Busch — Analyst, Green Street Advisors
Ben Yang — Analyst, Evercore Partners (Securities)
Quentin Velleley — Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Inc. (Broker)
Michael W. Mueller — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC
Craig Richard Schmidt — Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Dave Wigginton — Analyst, DISCERN Investment Analytics, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Pennsylvania Real Estate Investment Trust Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference call. During today's presentation all lines will be in a listen-only mode. Following the presentation, the conference will be opened for questions. [Operator Instructions]

I'd now like to turn the call over to Heather Crowell, VP, Corporate Communications and Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Thank you and good morning, everyone. Welcome to PREIT's second quarter 2013 conference call. During this call, we will make certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Federal Securities Laws. These statements relate to expectations, beliefs, projections, trends, and other matters that are not historical facts and are subject to risks and uncertainties that might affect future events or results.

Descriptions of these risks are set forth in the company's SEC filings. Statements that PREIT make today might be accurate only as of today, July 24, 2013 and PREIT makes no undertaking to update any such statements. Also, certain non-GAAP measures will be discussed. PREIT has included reconciliations of such measures to the comparable GAAP measures in its earnings release and other documents filed with the SEC.

Members of management on the call today are Joe Coradino, PREIT's CEO; and Bob McCadden, our CFO.

It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Joe Coradino.

Thank you, Heather. We had a good quarter and following our reorganization and the reenergizing of the company, we have the right team in place, a team that is galvanized and producing results. A year ago, we told you that our priorities were clear: consistent operational excellence, improving our balance sheet, and elevating the quality of our portfolio. These priorities have remained paramount.

Today we're a healthier company with solid growth in same-store NOI occupancy and rents, a strong flexible balance sheet resulting from asset sales, re-financing efforts and our recent common equity offering, and a higher quality portfolio for a successful and ongoing dispositions and re-merchandizing efforts.

As we continue to make progress on our strategic objectives, we're now turning our attention toward expanding our platform through organic opportunities as well as identifying external growth prospects. First, I'll walk you through some of the highlights from the quarter and then review our plans for growing the company.

On the balance sheet front, our bank leverage or debt to gross asset value is now below 50% for the first time since 2005. Earlier in the quarter, our common equity offering generated net proceeds of over $220 million with a number of rededicated investors re-entering the company stock. The proceeds were used to pay down outstanding debt.

We also closed our new unsecured credit facility during the quarter that provides for additional liquidity and lower interest rates. And now, substantially all of our debt is fixed to swap-to-fixed as of June 30, 2013.

With respect to our operational performance, we continue to show improvement in our metrics. Same-store NOI improved by 3.8% for the quarter and 3.2% year-to-date. Same-store NOI excluding lease termination revenue improved by 4.9% for the quarter and 4.2% year-to-date. Same-store mall occupancy increased to 93.2%, an increase of 150 basis points over last year. Non-anchor occupancy was 89.6%, an increase of 200 basis points, driven largely by a 330 basis point improvement in our premier malls.

Gross rents for the quarter were up 2.5% in our mall properties, driven by a weighted average 4% increase in our premier and core growth assets. Renewal spreads were 5.2% for the quarter and stand at 5.1% year-to-date. Our sales of $384 per square foot reflect progress toward our goal of having a $400 per square foot portfolio.

We're obviously not thrilled with our tenant sales growth but also aren't overly concerned. Sales growth has moderated in certain categories. But as we introduced new tenants to our portfolio and upgrade our tenant mix, we are replacing short-term tenants whose sales performance or contribution to the merchandise mix at our properties is not consistent with our emphasis on improving the quality of our portfolio.

We do continue to make progress on improving the quality of our portfolio through dispositions, asset repositioning, and the addition of first to market retailers. Our asset disposition program progresses with two additional properties, South Mall and Commons at Magnolia placed under contract during the quarter.

In addition, Christiana Center continues to move toward closing, having received approval from the special servicer. We are currently concluding the marketing process for Beaver Valley and North Hanover and anticipate receipt of bids over the course of the next few weeks. Interest has been robust having received over 100 NDAs and we remain optimistic that we will move to closing.

We continue to generate over 80% of our same-store NOI from our premier and core growth properties, which generated sales of $422 per square foot. During the quarter, we opened stores or signed leases with noteworthy first to market tenants as a way to further differentiate the shopping experience at our properties. Two examples of these are Canadian retailer Dynamite opened one of its first three U.S. locations at Cherry Hill Mall. H&M and Soma will be opening their first western Michigan stores at Woodman Mall. The Children's Place opened its only store within 50 miles at Valley View Mall in Wisconsin.

We are in the process of growing our business, executing opportunities for organic growth and pursuing avenues for external growth. Organically, we continue to advance opportunities to re-deploy capital at properties where we can add significant value. We are executing the Moorestown re-development where we are bringing dining, entertainment and first to market retailers to differentiate the property from a nearby Cherry Hill Mall.

We're working toward a pre-holiday opening of Regal premium theater experience, Marc Vetri's Osteria, and Firebirds Wood Fired Grill. We're also excited to announce the execution of a lease for Jose Garces' Distrito, a Mexican concept which operates in three other locations including its popular Philadelphia venue. We are thrilled to welcome this Iron Chef and James Beard award winner to utilize the third of Board of Liquor licenses obtained by PRIET.

Alongside Marc Vetri's Osteria having two acclaimed celebrity chefs opening locations at this suburban Philadelphia mall are serving as a magnet to attract other best of regional retailers to further differentiate the property.

We also continue to make progress on furthering the plans for The Gallery project in downtown Philadelphia and during the quarter closed during the acquisition of the building at 9th and Market Streets. Earlier in the year, we launched an intensive leasing effort taking the stay on two distinct pairs, one highlighted by food and fast fashion and the other our luxury department stores anchored center. This is our focus at Las Vegas ICSC and we are now engaged in meaningful discussions with a number of impact retailers as we work to define the project.

We are also pursuing other projects at our higher quality productivity properties including repositioning anchor boxes which will generate the best return on our invested capital. Beyond this, we are advancing remerchandising efforts at a number of our core growth properties with several leases and active negotiation. While this is more modest capital investment, we expect these efforts to result in higher tenant sales productivity and in NOI growth of these properties.

Externally, we are reviewing more opportunities that we identify within our core competencies and that are accretive to our metrics and we are seeking our selected off market assets and are a strategic fit for our portfolio.

We have finalized our partnership with Simon Property Group on Gloucester Premium Outlets and Gloucester New Jersey. This project came about as a result of our position as the dominant retail landlord in the greater Philadelphia marketplace. Partnership shouldn't come as a surprise to anyone given are pre-existing relationship with Simon, which we feels at least to mitigate our risk, as we benefit from their industry leading experience in the outlet arena. We look forward to sharing a more defined growth plan as we review all of our opportunities within the context of our capital allocation strategy. And with that I'll turn the call over to Bob McCadden to give you more color on quarterly and year-to-date financial performance and our revised earning guidance. Bob?

Thank you, Joe. We're focused on continuing to deliver strong results as evidenced by our second quarter numbers and our upward revisions 2013's FFO guidance, which I'll touch on later. With that as a backdrop, let me review our second quarter results.

FFO as adjusted was $28.3 million or $0.42 per diluted share for the quarter ended June 2013 reflecting net adjustments of $4.3 million for employee separation expenses, accelerated amortization of financing costs, and interest rate hedging losses. This compares to $21.6 million or $0.37 per diluted share last year.

Same-store NOI for the second quarter was $66.7 million, a $2.5 million increase as compared to 2012 second quarter. Excluding lease termination revenue, same-store NOI was $66.6 million, which was a $3.1 million increase over the prior year's quarter. The improvement in same-store NOI resulted primarily from increased rental revenues driven by improvements in occupancy in a higher average rate.

A number of factors impacting our overall operating results including the sale of three properties in the first quarter. The sold properties in Christiana Center, generated $3.4 million of NOI in this year's second quarter and $1.3 million -- I'm sorry -- last year's second quarter and $1.3 million in the June 2013 quarter. The newly acquired 907 Market Street property contributed $1 million of NOI in the second quarter.

As of June 30, 2013, non-anchor occupancy had our same-store retail properties increased by 180 basis points to 89.9%, while total retail occupancy increased by a 140 basis points to 93.3%. Average gross rents for small shop tenants in our same-store mall properties were up 2.5% as compared to in-place rent as of a year ago.

In the quarter, we recorded employee separation costs of $1 million, accelerated the amortization of $100,000 of deferred financing costs, and had hedge ineffectiveness of $3.1 million. The net impact of these items was $6.5 per share. Interest expense for the quarter, excluding various charges was $28 million or $7.2 million lower than last year's quarter. This improvement reflects lower average borrowings and lower average rates. Average borrowings were $320 million lower than last year and the effect of interest rate on our borrowings during the quarter was 5.62%, a decrease of 46 basis points from last year's quarter. As a result of our lower leverage ratio, pricing on credit facility borrowings will be reduced to LIBOR plus 170 basis points from 185 basis points as of today.

Outstanding debt at the end of the second quarter, including our proportionate share of partnership debt was $1.9 billion, a decrease of $350 million from June 2012. This year's quarter included dividends on preferred shares of $4 million related to the 2012 preferred share issuances as compared to $1.8 million in last year second quarter. In May, we repaid the $56.3 million mortgage loan in Jacksonville Mall and this asset currently remains unencumbered.

In connection with this payoff, we recorded non-cash interest charges of $2.9 million related to swap cost that had been deferred in other comprehensive income. We also exercised the first of two expansion options in the Logan Valley mortgage loan pending an updated appraisal. We're currently evaluating proposals to re-finance the mortgage loan of our Wyoming Valley Mall, which expires in September.

Finally, we notified the lender for the mortgage loan at Exton's Square Mall of our intent to repay the loan on October 1. In the near term, following repayment of this mortgage, this property will become unencumbered increasing the pool of unencumbered assets in our portfolio to over 20. G&A expenses for the quarter were $9.6 million, which represented a $600,000 reduction from last year's second quarter. The lower level of G&A expenses reflects -- reduced executive head count another corporate cost savings.

On the leasing front, we executed 144,000 square feet of new non-anchor transactions and renewed 249,000 square feet. With these renewals, we generated an increase of 5.2% compared to expiring gross rents. On the anchor and large format front, we executed five renewals for 395,000 square feet with a combined uplift of 1.7% for the quarter. Sears has closed their store at New River Valley Mall in Christiansburg, Virginia where we had a signed letter of intent with a notable national anchor to replace them. In July, we renewed our final anchor tenant with a 2013 exploration.

Comp-store sales continue to improve and were $384 per square foot at the end of the quarter. If we exclude the non-core mall properties which are being marketed, sales per square foot would have averaged $394. We're adjusting our earnings guidance for 2013 by raising the lower end of our range by $0.04 per share and the mid-point by $0.02 per share to give us back to our continued NOI growth and greater visibility into our operating results for the balance of the year. We expect GAAP earnings per diluted share will be between $0.70 and $0.76, including an expected gain on the sales of Christiana Center, we expect FFO per diluted share to be in the range of a $1.78 to a $1.82 and FFO as adjusted to be in the range of a $1.87 to a $1.91.

The assumptions underlying our revised earnings guidance are generally consistent with those set forth at the end of the last quarter. Aside from the completed 2013 sales, the purchase of 907 Market Street and the pending sale of Christiana Center, our guidance does not counter plate any other material property dispositions or acquisitions. In addition, our guidance does not assume any additional capital market transactions for the balance of the year.

With that, we'll open it up for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Ki Bin Kim with SunTrust. Please go ahead.

Hi, it's Ki Bin Kim. Thank you. Quick question on the joint venture potential refinement for outlet center, what is the strategic rationale for you -- for them to partner with you given that you guys are on the land?

Well, I think the strategic rationale, just a couple of things, one we have an obvious dominance in the Philadelphia market with 8 of the 20 malls in the marketplace. Number two, we saw there is an opportunity where someone was going to develop an outlet center there, given our position in the market, we were able to let's say insert ourselves in that process and bring it to Simon and they obviously are interested and are proceeding with us in the development of that property.

Does -- did it has to do anything with radius restrictions that are in the leases with certain retailers that made it restricted for Simon to do an outlet in that area?

No. Actually I saw your comment regarding that. It really didn't; it was not related to that at all.

Okay. And just to get it, I know it's early but maybe a broad sense, would you maybe give a little detail on size and scope of that project? And like I said, I know it's early but whether yields be in line with what Simon has been getting so far on their outlet developers which are close to 10%?

Well, first off, it's going to be a 200,000 square foot center, but we're still working through the pro-forma, et cetera, and it would be premature to get into any detail beyond that.

All right. And just last question. You have several assets out there in the market for dispositions and you said demand looks robust. The increase in Treasury rates, how has that changed the expectations for a lot of these buyers, which I'm guessing are financial buyers, whether it be at the cap rates going in? Could you maybe describe a little bit of that change in demand at all or your expectations?

As I mentioned during the call, the interest in those properties is quite robust, I think driven to a certain extent by perceived redevelopment opportunities. And we have not seen a significant reduction in buyer interest at this point. Clearly, there is more to an acquisition and redevelopment or reuse play than interest rates. But at this time we feel good and have not seen a drop off in interest, in spite of the interest rate increase.

Yeah. I mean just one follow-up on that. So, you did mention a lot of plans to redevelop-well, I guess to position certain retailers in your malls. You went in your comments through a long list of ones that you highlighted, but in totality, what are these order retailer that you're going to try to push out, what are they generating the sales per square foot and -- but one thing you've identified that they are going to come in, what is that spread of what you expect new sales per square foot to look like. And I guess from a dollar standpoint, how does that -- all square footage, what is the scope of that program?

I'm sorry. I heard the end of your question. I apologize, I missed the beginning. Are you asking about existing assets for sale, for properties where we're going -- we're looking to acquire anchor boxes? That's why I was confused.

I was talking about, when you mentioned in your opening remarks about repositioning certain retailers. So, maybe picking out a lower productive retailer and brining one that's better suited for that mall or tenant mix. I was wondering if you could provide some details around what that previous sales per square foot will look like for on average and what a new retailer that's positioned correctly could look like in your malls, and maybe I think like of kind of square footage or dollar rate the total program.

I don't think we could provide a dollar amount to the program at this point. But I can answer your question. We're not necessarily looking at properties where they're poor performers. Right It may involve situations where anchors are oversized. It may involve situations where there is an opportunity to developed based on getting some level of approval from anchors, et cetera. But I would say, that aside, there's opportunity aside other instances where we are working at taking back anchor positions. They're typically performing in the $200 a foot range, I mean not at a high level. And we think we can add tenants in those spaces that'll outperform that.

Okay. All right. Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Daniel Busch with Green Street Advisors. Please go ahead.

Thank you. Just a couple of follow-ups on the outlet development. Couple of the articles referred to the partnership with PREIT-RUBIN. Is there a reason that the language was set or reason why that that joint venture is going to be done in the offshoot of, I guess the PRIET-RUBIN subsidiary?

I think I can answer that. The reference of PRIET-RUBIN was typically if we go into a development project, we may use our taxable REIT subsidiary as a place to pass the deal before we make a final determination at this structure. So, it will be an asset that's owned -- essentially will be owned by PRIET itself, PRIET Associates is the operating partnership.

Okay, okay. And then, I know...

Dan, it's not a very -- it's not a very good branding idea. I was not happy to see PRIET-RUBIN in your article either.

And I know it's too early to talk about the size and the scope, but is the partnership going to be a traditional 50/50 joint venture or is it going to be some sort of preferred interest?

No, it's going to be 25 to 375. This time, it will hold.

Okay. Switching gears -- you paid off the Jacksonville Mall loan, forgive me if I missed it, but are you planning to refinance Jacksonville Mall? And just looking at some of the operating metrics for that mall, it looks like sales have been struggling there and given that a 20 Premier properties, can you give us a little color on what's going on at that property in specific?

Now, it will continue to be a Premier property, part of what's going on there is cyclical, it's happen, before, it will happen again. And that is through deployment. We lost about 11,000 customers and they will be back in October and November. So, I think it's just a blip on the screen if you will. And so we have every confidence that Jacksonville will continue to be one of our top performers.

And as far re-levering that property?

No, I think our plan was, this is a good asset and we are planned currently as to leave it unencumbered.

Okay. And I guess one last question on rent growth. It looks like the rent growth particularly at the Premier malls has picked up at the opportunistic malls I guess it's still a flat or non-existent. Can you talk about your ability to push rents at the higher quality properties versus, you call it the B properties, what are you seeing there?

I think it's clearly reflection of the -- it's a function of demand. If you look at our occupancy metrics at the Premier assets are clearly are the mid to upper 90s. I think we've always said along our ability to push rent is going to be a function of driving occupancy. So, we're taking number of steps at the middle part of our portfolio and lower-end and you've seen, I think it increases in occupancy pretty consistently over the last year or so. So, we're going to continue to push occupancy. And once we reach a certain level, I think we'll have the better ability to push rents as well.

What is that stabilized occupancy rate, I guess that you guys are targeting for the portfolio?

For the portfolio, I think we've set a kind of longer-term goal of around 95%.

Okay. Great. Thank you, guys.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Ben Yang with Evercore Partners. Please go ahead.

Hi. Thanks. Joe, you mentioned not being overly concerned about the slowdown in tenant sales growth, but it seems like every quarter about half of your malls report increasing sales and half report declining sales and even if you're focused on your premier core malls, more than half of these malls had declining sales. And I guess, I would have expected at some point we see a majority of your properties report increasing sales. I mean, is that a fair expectation that there should be a more broad based increase or would you maybe characterize about half of your portfolio being perpetually challenged, maybe given the markets that they're in or the competitive position?

Yeah. There is not a single simple answer to that question. So, let me take a shot at simplifying a complex answer. Number one, we have a number of larger format tenant's drug stores who typically underperform that are included in our sales category. Over time, we're going to be rolling them out of those centers and bringing a higher productivity retailers into those spaces. Number two; we have a number of cell phone operators who are not reporting all of their sales. They report equipment and not service contracts. So, we're not getting a complete count. That's something that over time we need to rectify or reconsider at least how we're reporting that. And I would add to that that there are number of short-term general manager generated transactions that came online since we began that program. And as a result, and they will put on permanent leases in hindsight, license agreements might have been a better solution, and so that they would not have been calculated in sales.

And finally personal service, uses such as haircutting et cetera are in our calculation. A part of this by the way is the fact that there is no standardize way to record sales in our industry. And so, that's really been what I allude to when I say we are not concerned about it. We are not concerned about it because we understand the problem and understand the solution. It's not a question of that; we are obviously seeing renewal growth, right. So, clearly it's not impacting our ability to increase our rents on renewals. So, bottom line is we are really not concerned about it and it's a solvable problem.

Okay. So, I understand that maybe some of the malls have an explanation, but I mean are there any Premier acquired malls that you maybe should consider selling, given that despite the higher sales maybe they don't offer any meaningful kind of upside in same-store NOI, you can't take that drug store and put in a higher rent paying tenant. Are there any mall that fall in that bucket that you might consider selling at this point?

Not at this time and we've obviously segmented our portfolio. And we have a number of opportunistic assets on the market. I think what we want to do is finish what we started, which is to sell what's on the market and we'll obviously continue to look at opportunities to further prune the portfolio, because again one of our key business objectives is improving the quality of the portfolio and if we have an asset, it doesn't meet that qualification, it's something we'll look to dispose off, but at this time, we want to finish what we started.

Okay. And then just final question, any thoughts on when we might see a more broad based increase in sales about the portfolio?

That will be difficult to guess. I mean we're obviously, as we -- in our just -- we forecasted it's a back to school numbers downward from last year. So, we've got an interesting back-to-school season in front of us and the economy tends to be and this is not a financial word, a little squishy. And so I mean we're not optimistic -- not terribly optimistic about the balances this year. So we are taking many measures to drive traffic, I mean social media, contest for back to school, et cetera but again we are a little cautious as we move into back to school and holiday.

Okay, great. Thanks, Joe.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Quentin Velleley with Citigroup. Please go ahead.

Hi, good morning. Joe, it sounded like you're more positive on acquisitions. So could you maybe talk a little bit more about that, how should we be thinking about some of the opportunities? And also how would you be thinking about funding acquisitions?

Well, obviously as we've begun to improve ourselves operationally, gotten our leverage better position and improved our portfolio quality, we are turning our attention to opportunities to grow our platform. We're looking at situations where we could find them. And clearly we're in a mature industry, we understand that. But we're looking for opportunities one-off privately-owned, et cetera, where we could find opportunities that could be-where we would essentially recycle some of the proceeds from the sale of our non-core assets. And again, the assets that we would buy, we're not looking to add to our opportunistic bin, if you will. We're looking to acquire assets that are either accretive to our metrics, which is again that 90% in line occupancy and $400 per square foot sales metrics, or ones that we can see a path to getting there in the relative near-term. It's a challenging effort but one that we have begun to embark on.

Okay. And then with the three mall sales, you've got Allentown, it sounds like North Hanover and Beaver Valley are close. Just from a modeling perspective, I know you don't have those sales and guidance, but how should we be thinking about average cap rates and the total value of those three assets if you can speak broadly about that?

Yeah, Quentin, this is Bob, I guess with respect to the -- we're still waiting for the bids from the prospective buyers, we don't want to influence their pricing, and we will have more to talk about this I guess in the next quarter call, but it's premature to talk about pricing at this stage.

Okay. Thanks.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Michael Mueller with JPMorgan. Please go ahead.

Thanks. Hi. Just kind of a follow-up to the prior question. Did you mention, Joe, in your comments about the timing for Christiana? I missed that.

I don't think I mentioned it specifically, Michael, but we finally have gotten special servicer approval. This must seem like it's becoming our life's work here. We've finally got a special servicer approval. We are looking at a August close, end of August, early September close. The ducks are now in a row.

Got it. Got it. And then going to Quentin's question, those three assets where it seems like -- the comments where you had bids on three assets or interest in three of the four, correct?

Well, the bids for two of the properties, North Hanover and Beaver, are expected in the next two to three weeks.

Okay. And do you think there is a likelihood that you see a transaction in 2013 on those?

We are optimistic that that will be the case.

Okay. And last question, Bob, I think you talked about the 917 Market NOI of about $1 million in the quarter. I mean that's a pretty decent run rate considering closed in April. Is that correct?

Yes. It's $1 million for the quarter.

$1 million. And that pretty much captures almost the full quarter impact though, right?

Right. Just understand too that, as we mentioned in the past, the Kmart lease that's in that building expires in 2014. We are not at the point where we are again ready to talk about the gallery re-development, but that would be an integral part of our decision and the economic decision on the Gallery. So, if we were in a position to move forward, that lease would likely not be renewed next year.

Got it, okay. Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Craig Schmidt with Bank of America. Please go ahead.

Yeah. I guess I have a question with The Gallery at Market East. What is the potential for the redevelopment dollars at that project? What kind of returns are you thinking of and maybe just an overall vision of what the retail is going to look like in that project?

Craig, while we've been talking about and I mentioned a little bit in my script is. We're really approaching the Gallery from two distinct directions. From a -- let's call it a leasing, but more accurately vision perspective. So on one hand we are meeting with all of the fashion anchored department stores to look at a potential redevelopment of the Gallery that would be a very high-end fashion oriented development that would we believe be consistent with the New Center City population in Philadelphia. In the converse, we are at the same time working on a vision for the Gallery that we call fast fashion and food, which is essentially to work with some of the fast fashion retailers that you know from the H&Ms to the Forever 21, to the UNIQLOs et cetera and include with that some exciting restaurants and prepared food operation for the property. Little bit of a different direction, but again if you think about the New Center City population, it's a location between the Convention Center and store district on the Market East station, that those, both of those visions are workable. And we had targeted late this year for making an announcement as to the direction, we're going to head. We're in pretty deep discussions with retailers in either category. From a capital expenditure projection, perspective excuse me, I think it is to be premature to give you a number again as we move forward to find a vision and start to finalize transactions will be in a better position to determine the size, scope, cost and return to the project.

Great. Thanks. And also thanks for the department store lease expiration charts that you've included in the supplemental for a while. I just wondered, given the store closing at New River, do you also have potential replacements at Nittany and Washington Crown Center given that lease expiration coming up in 2014 and 2015?

No, nor do we have any indication of those anchor foreclose there.

Okay. So they're doing as you can tell reasonably well and then most likely to renew?

Yes. As a matter of fact Craig, bonds on just renewed to Washington Crown.

Okay. Thanks a lot.

Washington Crown is actually quite a good story by the way, in terms of what is going on there, we've got a number of stores, medium format boxes under construction, an asset that could've been on the list to dispose, it seems to be in a middle of a resurgence.

Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of David Wigginton with DISCERN. Please go ahead.

Thank you. Good morning, guys. I wanted to circle back to your long-term in line occupancy target of 95%. And you're just under 90% right now. So, I believe you've mentioned previously that your goal is to achieve that objective by, I guess 2015. So, it's little over 500 basis points of occupancy increase between now and then, which doesn't seem like it's too far away at this point, now that we're halfway through 2013. I was wondering if you -- how much of visibility you have into that and how just from a modeling perspective, how we should think about that in the sense of I mean they're going to be very back-end weighted to 2014 and early 2015 or is it going to be ratably kind of spread out over the time between now and then?

Well, if you look at where we have big chucks of vacancy, based on what we have in the books today if you will, we probably have a 150 basis points of lease space for 2013 openings that's not reflected in our occupancy yet. That would include the theater at Moorestown and includes some of the Moorestown redevelopment. That will continue into 2014 with a completion of Moorestown. Again some of the other retailers that Joe kind of alluded to, not by name but kind of strong regional retailers will also be taking occupancy in Moorestown in 2014. We can hit and make progress at Plymouth Meeting Mall, where we've had historically high vacancy rates. And the Gallery is another large project where we have lower than portfolio average occupancy where we think there is a great opportunity to move those occupancy levels up. So I don't know if it's going to be all backend but I think it's going to come over time over that period but the back ending, because some of the numbers that we talk about also include the 95% would probably be at peak holiday period so we have also the benefit of the temporary leasing during the holidays.

Okay. So the 150 that you mentioned is that -- I mean is that expected to start this year or is it going into 2014?

No, the 100 -- 150 basis points we should see in 2013.

And then how much -- you mentioned there is something also I guess at Moorestown that's going to spill over into 2014, I mean, do you have any sense of how much that is or?

You're talking about -- you're just talking about couple of restaurants.

Okay, okay. So if you're at a 150 that gets you to about 91 and then you've got another 400 to go. So I guess, if those are the properties, how are the leasing efforts going? And I mean, are you getting any traction at this point, so where you could comfortably -- I mean obviously you've put the target out there of 95%, I'm just wondering how the progress is going at the properties you mentioned above.

And Washington Crown is another one that Joe alluded to. We have the number of boxes that are teed up take occupancy in the next 8, 12 to 18 months. So, I think it's really across the portfolio. I don't think we're achieving high occupancy rates at our premier malls. The core growth occupancy rates are just about at the 90% level today. We see those moving into the kind of the low to mid 90s over the next couple of years. So, and then if we take out the non-core malls out of the numbers and make some progress and be opportunistic, I think it's a game plan that gets us to -- close to that number.

And by the way, when you think about portfolio quality continuing to improve, occupancy going up, it puts us in position of, it puts us in a very good position in private discussions with retailers, which ultimately will allow us to put better tenants into our sales, right. It's all part of that same formula, if you will.

Right. So I guess just looking at a couple of specific properties in the quarter, Prince Georges and Palmer Park saw some pretty dramatic decline in occupancy from the first quarter. Are those just temporary and are you going to be able to get those back up or what specifically happened at those individual properties?

At the mall at Prince Georges', we are actually opening up TJ Maxx...

Junior Anchor is going to be opening up in here prior to year end. Palmer Park...

Is that part of the 150 basis points that you mentioned above.

Yes.

Okay. And then I guess, Palmer Park?

I guess we had a tenant that was actually feed-up to open it in -- this year.

So, will they open next year or?

Yes, they'll open in 2014.

Okay. And just, I guess the last question is, looking at your lease spreads and your anchor renewals in the quarter, they were down quite a bit. Can you maybe talk about what the decline was? And I mean is that a trend that's going to continue or are you having to cut rents to keep them there? What's sort of I guess behind that fall in the quarter?

That was actually one anchor tenant where we -- again when you look at the percentage, the dollar amounts are relatively small. You're talking about the difference between $3.23 and $3.59. So we don't think it's a material change. All the other anchors that renewed were renewed at the same rental rates. We don't think that's indicative of a trend.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question is a follow-up question from the line of Ki Bin Kim with SunTrust. Please go ahead

Thank you. Just a couple of quick follow-ups. The 150 basis points of additional occupancy, how would you categorize those rents in terms of where it is relative to your current portfolio rent?

That's a mix of small shop and large format tenants. Without kind of doing more analysis, I don't know, if I could give you a...

Well, maybe on the small shop space?

Small shop space, I think it's reflective of the – again, depending upon where the property is, I think the rents are comparable to what we would see in the respective properties.

Is that basically saying it like flat lease rents then?

No, these are new.

Okay.

New leases. Right.

New leases, so you'd expect to see some upside.

Right.

But again, we don't have the specific information with me right now.

And by the way, Joe, you are kind of cutting in and out. I may not hear you.

I said they are new leases so you would expect to get upside, but we do not have the specific information to be able to answer the question precisely.

All right. Thank you. And on a similar note, did you guys-I might have missed it-provide same-store NOI guidance for this year?

We can't understand what he's saying.

Slow down a bit, maybe.

You're breaking up on us as well.

Oh. Same-store NOI guidance for the year? Did you guys already talk about that? I might have missed it.

No. I think we didn't specifically talk about it other than refer to our last quarter guidance. We'll probably be, I think we originally guided to kind of the 2% to 3% range. We'll be probably at the upper end of that range for this full year. Even though we're above it for the first six months, we had some pretty strong additions last year. June we had the Philadelphia Media Network open at the Gallery. So when you look at the second half comps, it will be a little bit more challenging, if you will. So we're still holding to our original range, but we'll be toward the upper end of the NOI guidance.

Okay. Thanks, that's helpful. And, the last question, it seems like you have quite a few Sears locations and a couple of JCPenneys coming due in 2014. I'm guessing a lot of the redevelopment plans that you talked about are for those boxes, but could you maybe give us a sense of how that would impact or disrupt temporarily same-store NOI or sales? I'm not sure how much rent those anchors are paying, but maybe probably a little more color on how we should thing about same-store NOI growth and maybe some upside?

Yeah, at this point we don't have any specific plans to recapture any anchor boxes, so again, it's premature to talk about what the potential upside is. And until we reach a determination otherwise, we're making the assumption that those anchors are going to renew in 2014.

And we're pleased with what we're hearing out of JCPenney right now. I think they're moving in the right direction. We'll obviously be anxious to hear their earnings call in about a month and see how they perform. But right now we're seeing more traffic in the stores, more people in the stores. It's very different than it was several months ago. There is more of an opportunity with Sears right now. And in terms of taking back stores, we're working through that, but it's early and it would be premature to talk about the impact on the Center. But we'll certainly factor that in to any transaction we might enter into.

Right. But so far have you had any conversations coming from them that they indicated that they don't want to renew on any of those boxes?

No, we have not.

Okay. Thanks.

Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] I'm not showing any further questions at this time. Please continue.

Well, I would just like to thank everyone for participating on the call. We enjoyed the questions, they were challenging. And we look forward to continuing to share our accomplishments and our path to growing the company in the future. Thank you very much and enjoy the rest of the summer. We'll see you all in the fall.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude our conference call for today. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.