Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Heather Crowell — Senior Vice President-Corporate Communications & Investor Relations, Pennsylvania Real Estate Investment Trust
Joseph F. Coradino — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Pennsylvania Real Estate Investment Trust
Robert F. McCadden — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Pennsylvania Real Estate Investment Trust
Ki Bin Kim — Analyst, SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, Inc.
Christy McElroy — Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc.
Karin Ford — Analyst, MUFG Securities America, Inc.
Michael W. Mueller — Analyst, JPMorgan Securities LLC
Floris van Dijkum — Analyst, Boenning & Scattergood, Inc.
Linda Tsai — Analyst, Barclays Capital, Inc.
Caitlin Burrows — Analyst, Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning. My name is Julie, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the PREIT's Q4 2017 Earnings Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]

I would now like to turn the call over to Heather Crowell. Heather, you may begin.

Thank you.

Good morning and thank you all for joining us for PREIT's fourth quarter 2017 earnings call.

During this call, we will make certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Federal Securities laws. These statements relate to expectations, beliefs, projections, trends and other matters that are not historical facts and are subject to risks and uncertainties that might affect future events or results.

Descriptions of these risks are set forth in the company's SEC filings. Statements that PREIT makes today might be accurate only as of today, February 15, 2018, and PREIT makes no undertaking to update any such statements.

Also, certain non-GAAP measures will be discussed. PREIT has included reconciliations of such measures to the comparable GAAP measures in its earnings release and other documents filed with the SEC. Members of management on the call today are Joe Coradino, PREIT's Chairman and CEO; and Bob McCadden, our CFO.

I'll now turn the call over to Joe Coradino.

Thanks, Heather, and good morning to all.

In celebrating the Philadelphia Eagles' Super Bowl victory, Eagles center Jason Kelce eloquently said, hungry dogs run faster. Hearing that it occurred to us that this has always been preached motto, hungry dogs run faster. We've demonstrated this in a number of ways over the past five years. We were the first to pursue and conclude a large-scale, low-productivity mall disposition program, we've been bringing in dining and entertainment to our properties for years. We were the first to aggressively take on replacing department stores, and we think now is a good time to point out that as far as we can tell, our Q4 same-store NOI results were ahead of the entire mall REIT sector, and we put out 2018 expectations in line with hope high productivity peers for our wholly owned portfolio. Our core operations are doing quite well.

So for PREIT, 2017 was a year of running faster, even as we faced headwinds. And we believe that the results we shared yesterday and our projections for 2018 and beyond prove that we've distinguished ourselves as a quality mall REIT, having delivered on all elements of our strategy. We delivered on our anchor replacement strategy, leading the industry in leasing 9 of 11 vacant stores, setting the stage for future growth and strengthening our foundation.

We delivered on our capital plan, strengthening our balance sheet by raising over $450 million, reducing our borrowing costs and securing liquidity to fund our value-creating redevelopment program. We delivered strong same-store NOI and occupancy growth, along with record new leasing activity in the face of a contracting retail environment. Mall occupancy grew 180 basis points since the last quarter, with same-store NOI of 3% for the quarter, both driven by leasing activity that was nearly double our 2016 activity.

We also delivered on Renewal spreads. In the fourth quarter, we improved our Renewal spreads to 10.8% for tenants under 10,000 square feet and the year to solid 5.1%. These results confirm that our strategy to drive to quality was the right approach. Moreover, our instincts to pursue certain initiatives ahead of many of our peers were spot on and positions the portfolio well. It's noteworthy that the 17 malls we sold, 25 anchors have closed or set to close. And these are generally in markets where further capital investment would not be a prudent decision.

As you've heard from our peers, the industry is in a state of evolution. And we believe we have been a step ahead of the sea changes, and through our intensive portfolio management strategy have positioned ourselves with an asset base that generates tenant demand, where tenant sales are improving and our redevelopment projects are generating strong returns, while vacant boxes are abundant around the country, we've adeptly dealt with closings, many of which were preplanned.

On the anchor replacement front as 2017 kicked off, PREIT had 11 vacant anchors. During 2017 and January 2018, five of these anchors have been replaced with operating tenants. As we move into 2018, PREIT executed leases for four additional replacements. This leaves two vacancies both with leases pending execution. The results of this initiative is 17 sought-after tenants, spanning seven diverse uses, paying rents eight times greater than the space was previously generating. But the story expands beyond these impressive figures and replacing dated department stores, we're transforming our properties, driving new customers and reinventing our platform.

Through our portfolio repositioning effort, our exposure to potential additional department store closures has been dramatically reduced, and we continue to look to proactively take back stores where prudent. We've reduced our Sears store count from 27 to 8, which includes Willow Grove Park subleased to Primark. We have gone from 31 J.C. Penney stores to 16. We went from 25 Macy's to 14, and we only have two Bon-Ton stores. Demand for quality space is robust, and we've capitalized on this, having executed 76% more new leasing than in 2016 for a record amount of space in 2017.

As a result of our tenant diversification strategy, the tenancy takes a new shape than in years past. As we look at the leases we signed in 2017, excluding the few traditional department stores we signed, two-thirds of the space we lease was committed to a mix of tenants that are the foundation of the mall of the future. Dining and entertainment made up 19%, off-price accounted for 14%. Fitness was 9%. Sporting goods accounted for 8%. Fast fashion was 8%, and shoes and accessories made up 9%.

As we move into 2018, we're in a strong position to drive revenue into the future, having executed leases for future openings for 33% more space than we had at this time last year. As you know, many legacy retailers filed for bankruptcy protection last year and one early this year. As the choppy retail waters of 2017 became apparent, we quickly adjusted our operating plan to mitigating the impact of rent relief and early closings through an aggressive focus on driving ancillary revenues and expense reductions, in an effort to maintain our operating margins and NOI objectives without sacrificing quality. We renegotiated contracts to reduce expenses. We reduced staffing as appropriate, and we instituted new revenue sources through the introduction of digital advertising boards.

In addition to our intense focus on operations and evolving our mall experience, we executed on our plan to strengthen our balance sheet, which continues to be a top priority. Since detailing our capital plan in January of 2017, we've raised gross proceeds of over $700 million, resulting in net proceeds of over $460 million. Notable accomplishments include the sale of three low productivity malls and a non-core office building.

On the financing front, we secured the $250 million term loan tied to Fashion District Philadelphia, and early refinancing of Lehigh Valley Mall generating excess proceeds and reducing the interest rate, refinanced Francis Scott Key Mall, and issued two new preferred shares series for $292.5 million at significantly lower coupon rates from our existing preferred shares, and the redemption in full of our 8.25% Series A Preferred Shares.

Being nimble was key to success in retail, and we're pleased to have raised the liquidity to fully fund our value-creating redevelopment projects, well in advance of the spending needs. As such, we continue to work through additional non-core land and asset sales.

Our redevelopment efforts are also generating outstanding results. At Mall at Prince Georges, we've delivered on our redevelopment plan. We look forward to the openings of DSW, ULTA Cosmetics sic [ULTA Beauty] and Express later this year along with three fast casual eateries, solidifying this [ph] DC powerhouse (09:41) that continues to perform even while under construction. The common area renovation is complete, new leasing is 95% committed and the project will be completed in June.

At Woodlands Mall (sic) [Woodland Mall] in Grand Rapids, Michigan, we're making good progress on the merchandising of the new wing that will lead to Von Maur. For the planned new remerchandise space, we are 65% committed with a robust pipeline of interested tenants for this 2019 project.

In Philadelphia, this is a year we'll open up Fashion District. We've incorporated our share of NOI in our guidance and look forward to releasing details, including the opening date and our tenant roster later this year. We continue to work with third parties to explore the vertical development of this project, to incorporate multi-family housing. It's noteworthy that on our completed projects and those nearing completion, such as Capital City, Mall at Prince Georges and Viewmont, we believe in delivering these projects under budget, on time and at returns that are accretive to these assets, and given the newly curated tenancy are cap rate transformative.

Now, before I turn the call over to Bob, I wanted to take a minute to update you on governance and sustainability improvements we've implemented. Last week, our board appointed JoAnne Epps as a new Trustee. She brings a unique background and a wealth of experience and look forward to her contribution and fresh perspective as we continue to evolve PREIT.

We also continued to evolve our sustainability efforts. In 2017, we added three new solar arrays to the two that existed in our portfolio, and now offer electrical sic [electric] vehicle charging at stations at four properties. PREIT properties now produce more than 8 million kilowatt hours of electricity from solar panels per year. The environmental benefit accrued through the production of renewable energy at these five properties is equivalent to a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from more than 1,200 passenger vehicles annually.

Additionally, as part of our Woodland Mall redevelopment, we recycled more than 20,000 tons of concrete from demolition to be reused as building pads, parking lot base and site grading during the expansion phase of the mall.

Now, I'll turn the call over to Bob to cover our 2018 guidance, quarterly and full-year results and our capital plan. Bob?

Thanks, Joe.

Our 2018 FFO guidance has raised a number of questions. It's quite simply the result of our move to quality and a simplification of our asset base.

So let me take you through a reconciliation of 2017's actual FFO results to the midpoint of our guidance range for 2018. Let's start with FFO in 2017 where we reported FFO of $130 million or $1.67 per share. We will experience dilution of $6.8 million or $0.09 a share from dispositions. This includes one of the property we anticipate selling this quarter.

On a normalized basis adjusting for this dilution, our starting point for this year is $1.58 per share. Our 2017 results include a number of items where we expect lower contribution in 2018. Historical tax credit income will be $1 million lower. Corporate revenues and other income will be lower by $2.5 million as a result of lower sales, land sale gains, and other items.

2017's same-store revenue included $1.7 million of accelerated lease intangible income, which is not expected to recur. These items account for $0.07 a share, taking us to $1.51. Excluding lease termination fees, our same-store NOI at the midpoint of our guidance range has $4.5 million of NOI or $0.06. Lower lease termination fees and slightly higher interest expense net of G&A cost savings and lower preferred share dividends results in an approximate $0.03 reduction taking you to $1.54 per share. The incremental contribution from Fashion District and a slightly higher share count account for the remaining difference to the midpoint of our FFO guidance range of $1.55 per share. The short-term dilution is the natural consequence of our strategic move to quality; by shedding non-core assets and redeploying the capital into our remaining portfolio, we are building a stronger foundation for future growth.

So let's go on to talk about our capital plan and operating results.

We have made significant progress on our capital plans since beginning of this year. Last month, we and our partner closed on the $250 million five-year term loan for Fashion District. The joint venture initially borrowed $150 million with remaining $100 million available to us via a delayed draw option. We used our share of the proceeds to reduce borrowings under our credit facility.

As of today, we have no outstanding amounts under the facility. Having closed on the term loan, we now have immediate available liquidity to fully fund our anchor replacement and redevelopment program. In January, we also expanded our $69 million floating rate mortgage loan on Francis Scott Key at the existing spread and swapped the loan to a fixed rate of 5.01%. With the available one-year extension option, the final maturity of this loan is 2023.

Earlier this month, our joint venture closed on a three-year extension of its mortgage loan on the land parcel across from Fashion District. We are in documentation to finance the construction loan on Gloucester Premium Outlets with the new loan, which is expected at proceeds at or above the current loan balance and will close out loan by the end of the first quarter.

After all these 2018 maturities are addressed, our next significant mortgage maturity won't occur until 2021. We continue to improve our balance sheet, after giving effect to the first quarter's financing activity, we have approximately $325 million of total liquidity available to us. At the end of December, our bank leverage ratio was 50.65%, and our net debt to EBITDA was approximately 8 times.

Our cash interest rate was 3.98%, a 4 basis point reduction from a year ago. 92.9% of our debt is either fixed or swap and debt maturities are well laddered. We are well-positioned to manage through a period of rising interest rates. We are in various stages of completion with other transactions that we anticipate will generate up to $70 million of incremental proceeds during the balance of the year. This include the sale of our remaining non-core office property, various land parcels, and other assets.

We invested $37 million in our capital program during the fourth quarter and $196 million for all of 2017. At the end of 2017, we had approximately $300 million remaining to spend on our redevelopment and anchor replacement program. We expect to spend about $180 million to $200 million this year and the balance in 2019.

Turning to operations. We performed in line with our expectations and ahead of consensus for the quarter. We reported FFO as adjusted of $0.51 a share and a net loss of $0.05 a share. Same-store NOI excluding lease terminations at our wholly owned properties increased by 4%. Contribution from anchor replacements, other new tenant openings, higher ancillary income and cost savings more than offset $1.9 million revenue impact from bankruptcies, and co-tenancy adjustments.

We also absorbed an additional $500,000 of bad debts related to fourth quarter and first quarter 2018 bankruptcies and higher than expected snow removal costs due to inclement weather in December. In contrast to the performance of our wholly owned properties, same-store NOI, ex lease terms at our joint venture properties, declined by 4% in the quarter. Bankruptcies accounted for $300,000 of the decline in joint venture NOI.

Overall same-store NOI ex-lease terminations blended to a 3% growth rate for the quarter. We ended the year with total mall occupancy of 95.9%, non-anchor occupancy was up 10 basis points compared to last year at 93.8%. Total leased occupancy was 96.6% and non-anchor leased occupancy was 94.9%. As we look forward at our same-store properties, we assigned leases for a total of 600,000 square feet of new tenants that will open in 2018 and 2019, which will contribute approximately $7.2 million in annualized rent at our share.

With respect to guidance, we introduced our FFO and net income guidance for 2018 with FFO per share expected to be between $1.50 and $1.60. GAAP earnings are expected to range from a loss of $0.16 to $0.03. I've already discussed the reconciliation of the 2017 results, but I'll walk you through some of the underlying assumptions.

2018 same-store NOI growth, excluding lease terminations, is expected to be a positive 1.25% to 2.25% comprised of a positive 1.5% to 2.5% growth rate at our wholly owned properties and negative 2% to 3% at our joint venture properties.

Bankrupt tenants, net of replacements, are expected to reduce 2018 revenues by an additional $1.3 million on top of the $5.6 million impact we experienced in 2017. Co-tenancy adjustments are expected to be approximately $2 million in 2018 compared to $1.3 million in 2017, reflecting the full year impact of anchor closings.

In the case of bankruptcies and co-tenancy adjustments, the impact will be more significant in the first part of the year and will be mitigated as replacement anchors open in the third and fourth quarters of 2018. We'll open anchor replacement tenants at Magnolia, Moorestown and Valley Malls in the second half of the year, as set forth in our anchor replacement schedule in the supplemental.

We assume lease termination revenues of $1.5 million to $3.5 million compared to $3.2 million in 2017. Capital expenditures, including recurring CapEx and tenant allowances, are expected to be in the range of $220 million to $240 million. And we anticipate recognizing a gain of approximately $2.5 million from the sale of our joint venture interest in a non-core office property in the first quarter, and this will be a non-FFO gain.

Finally, our guidance does not assume any other operating asset sales, capital market transactions, other than mortgage loan financings in the ordinary course of business.

And with that, we'll open it up for questions. [Operator Instructions]

And your first question comes from Ki Bin Kim with SunTrust. Ki, your line is open.

Thank you. Can you first talk about the cadence in same-store NOI that we should expect in 2018 given the – some of the moving parts that you mentioned?

So, I think the first quarter will probably if you look at it on a quarter-by-quarter basis will be the lowest growth quarter, and we'll start to see acceleration in the second quarter and through the end of the year.

Okay. And I think just historically speaking there's been some – maybe the [ph] Street estimates (21:54) have been a little too bullish in certain years, just given some of the moving parts. Maybe you could help just wrap it all around for us and all else equal once you finish your redevelopment projects including FOP, your guidance for next year is $1.55, what is the longer-term FFO potential from Penn REIT after some of these projects are completed?

I think a year-ago we laid out our capital plan and outlook for the next couple of years through 2020. I think the bankruptcies have probably set us back a little bit from a timing perspective, but we still expect to be on target to reach the goals that we set out a year-ago.

Okay. I guess I was trying to see if is the dollar – from $1.55 is the growth potential like $1.85, something more concrete like that.

At this point, we're not really prepared to give guidance beyond the current year, Ki Bin.

Okay. And can you just remind me how your lease modifications work? I believe that you have to have an extended term for those leases to be in the lease spread page in your supplemental, but for the ones that are just pure rent modifications, what does that look like and how does that impact your view on 2018?

Well, I think our guidance as I mentioned reflects specific lower revenues from bankrupt tenants, where most of the lease modifications are occurring, so that's really baked already into our estimates for the year.

Okay. Thank you.

Your next question comes from Christy McElroy with Citi. Christy, your line is open.

Hey, good morning, all. Just first on Fashion District and thinking about the $1.5 million to $2.5 million of NOI from that project this year, how should I think about the timing of rent commencement, is that the majority of that in Q4? And then sort of related to that, how should we be thinking about the capitalized interest that will start expensing of those cost? Will you start expensing everything, or is it more gradual since the project isn't fully stabilized?

As it relates to the income – hi Christy, it's Joe.

Hi.

As it relates to the income from Fashion District, yeah, that will be the fourth quarter – all fourth quarter.

Okay.

And it relates to capitalized interest, that'll come in in phases as the property comes online, those spaces that come online, the corresponding amount of allocated dollars will stop capitalizing interest on those spaces, but it will take – the cessation of capitalized interest will occur over a period of time.

Okay, okay, got you. And then just thinking about the sources and uses, I heard the $180 million to $200 million of spend on redevelopment, I think I heard you say $70 million of proceeds from sales. I assume the rest of the spending is funded off of the line of credit, just how should we be thinking about the movement of capital and your leverage profile and how you would end the year from a debt to EBITDA perspective just given that not a lot is flowing yet from the projects in 2018?

Okay. So as I mentioned, we still have – the joint venture has $100 million of undrawn capacity under the FTP term loan, so that will be probably our initial source of funding for a Fashion District and the balance will...

Yeah.

... come from line of credit until the proceeds from the asset sales are realized. On a debt to EBITDA, we're sitting at the end of December of 2017 at about 8 times, that will peak at about 9.1 times at the end of 2018, and then as the NOI starts coming on from FTP and the other anchor replacements that – we expect that to kind of be the peak of our leverage at the end of 2018.

Okay. All right. Thank you.

Your next question comes from Karin Ford with MUFG Securities. Karin, your line is open.

Hi, good morning. Thank you for all the color on what's baked into the guidance from bankruptcy and co-tenancy perspective. I was just curious if those numbers include any prospective bankruptcies that haven't been announced yet, or is that – or box closures for that matter, or is it just what you know and what's happened already year-to-date?

So the numbers that I cited were related to 2017 bankruptcies. When we build our guidance for the year effectively, we bake in to our numbers on a unit-by-unit basis, what we think the likely outcome will be from existing tenants. So to the extent we anticipate closures or any rent modifications, that's baked into our baseline growth level, and it's not included in the numbers that I quoted. They're really related to bankruptcy or bankrupt tenants that have already announced.

Got it. And are you expecting any box closures in 2018?

I think at this point we feel good about the future regarding box closures and we're – as I said we've really dramatically reduced our Sears count. We're down to 2 Bon-Tons, and any box closures that might occur this year we think would be proactive, where we went out and decided to take back a particular anchor store, we had a tenant to step in. As we continually look at opportunities to, again, mitigate exposure to sort of risky anchor shall we call it.

Got it. Next question is it looked like Valley View Mall moved from being held for sale to back into the operations. Why did that fall out, and did you – are you seeing a change in the bid for asset sales?

Well, it's – as it relates to Valley View, it's a pretty good asset, I mean, look, we've sold off 17 malls. We certainly are proficient in doing that. But when we looked at Valley View, it has rising NOI. We successfully replaced an anchor, and we didn't want to do a relatively what we thought was a high cap rate deal, and we decided to sit back and wait for a little bit of a better time. And really, we've got a non-core office building that we're about to close on in the – this quarter, and we've got a lot of focus, obviously, in anchor replacements and in-line leasing. And we'll sit and wait for better times, if you will.

Got it. And last question just going back to Christy's question on leverage. So with – you're headed towards 9 times debt to EBITDA by year-end, any thoughts on reconsidering the JV sale of a core asset, or any additional asset sales to bring that number down?

Well, we continue to engage in dialogue regarding JV asset sales. At this point, nothing has really whet our appetite, if you will, because those kinds of deals are deals that pricing is critically important. And given the fact that we've secured the capital to fund the redevelopment, and while 2018 is a peak year for us from a leverage and debt-to-EBITDA perspective, as the redevelopments come online and much of that is already executed deals, where you're under construction and you have firm opening dates, et cetera. So it's not a risk, if you will, a high level of risk. So again, we're – we'll continue to look at JVs, as we look at all opportunities to improve the balance sheet, but it's not at all costs, if you will.

Thank you very much.

Your next question comes from Michael Mueller with JPMorgan. Michael, your line is open.

Yeah. Hi. Couple things. First of all, I'm curious, I mean, the stock was halted for an hour, hour and a half or so yesterday. I mean, do you have any color on why that happened, and why you reported pre-close?

We made a mistake and hit the wrong button at the wrong time.

Okay.

Corrected it quickly and issued our release prior to market close, after deliberations with council on the New York Stock Exchange, and we think that's – it was really a blip and it's behind us.

Okay. Switching gears now on asset sales, Joe, I think you mentioned something was going to close – or Joe or Bob, I think you mentioned something was going to close in the first quarter, and then you also talked about non-core office, maybe some land, just can you size up the total dollar amount that you're expecting for 2018 in terms of asset sales?

Mike, it's Bob. We mentioned it's about $70 million.

Okay. So that includes what you were talking about at first, something closing in the first quarter as well?

Right. So that's the only operating asset that we'll be selling in our – at $70 million number. The rest would be land parcels and other non-income generating assets.

Okay. So the only operating asset is going to be the office portfolio then...?

Right.

...or the office buildings? Okay, got it. And is that – most of that number, a good chunk of it or like about how much of it?

It's about a third.

Okay. And the rest land? Got it. And then last question on CapEx and TIs, you mentioned – apologize if I missed this, but the $220 million to $240 million number that obviously has some bigger projects in there. What would you think about normal course TI's leasing commissions outside of major projects?

So between recurring CapEx, TI, it's probably at $40 million.

Got it. Okay. That was it. Thank you.

Your next question comes from Floris van Dijkum with Boenning. Floris, your line is open.

Great. Thanks. I wanted to – Joe, I wanted to make sure I caught this right. You said that on the anchor replacements, the 9 of 11 that you have signed up, is that correct that we have you – we should expect an 8 times rent multiple on those spaces?

That is correct, Floris.

So what would be the return that you would have gotten on the investment into those boxes?

High single-digits.

High single-digits, great. And the 300 – and just a follow-up question on the capital spend. You mentioned $320 million left to spend, that presumably does not include potential Bon-Ton recaptures or any further Sears recaptures, correct?

Yeah. Just to correct, the number is $300 million, Floris, if I – just wanted to make that clear. And that does not include any capital expenditures for any potential Bon-Tons.

Okay. Great. Thanks, guys.

Yeah. Thanks, Floris.

Your next question comes from Linda Tsai with Barclays. Linda, your line is open.

Thanks. It sounds like closures in your unconsolidated properties are weighing on your SSNOI outlook. How long might it take to get the SSNOI growth into the positive range? And then what do you think is a more of a sustainable/stabilized growth rate for those properties? Is it in line with the consolidated?

It's probably going to be a little bit less than the consolidated because of a number of those unconsolidated ventures are the power centers would have lower growth trajectory. We're anticipating that most of the bankruptcies that currently plague that part of our portfolio get filled by the end of 2018 and we should start to see return to growth in 2019?

And then would you ever consider selling out of your power centers?

Yes. We certainly would, and we continue to work on that.

Thanks.

I mean, any non-core assets that we have, I mean, they give you- there were several questions regarding our FFO guidance and really what's driving that is our moving to or continuing to move to our core business, right, and moving to quality, simplifying the portfolio, and getting out of non-core businesses, and the sale of the power centers is certainly on our list.

Your next question comes from Caitlin Burrows with Goldman Sachs. Caitlin, your line is open.

Hi, good morning. You talked about liquidity, but maybe as it relates to your dividend, the disclosure shows that the payout ratio on FAD was up to 91% in 2017. I guess just how do you think about the sustainability of the $0.84 annual dividend at this point and balance that use of cash with other potential uses?

So Caitlin, this is Bob. We're very comfortable with the sustainability of the dividend and our multi-year forecast shows actually increases in our dividend once we complete the current redevelopment and anchor repositioning cycle. So we're not going to give a specific target for a potential dividend increase, but certainly it's something our board looks at quarterly and we're optimistic about where the company has had it, so we're not even considering any adjustment downward to the dividend.

Yeah, this is Joe. I would just sort of ditto that and say that we're completely comfortable with our dividend. Now, again, much of the work that we're doing is execute at leases with construction in progress.

Okay. And then, just on the consolidated portfolio, in particular, you gave same-store 2018 guidance of 2% to 2.5%, but that also includes some of the development openings later this year, but that stabilized in 2019. I was wondering if you could give any detail on the NOI you expect those development openings to contribute to 2018, kind of what that means for the rest of the portfolio, and/or said differently the same-store growth excluding the impact of development.

Yeah. I mean, I don't know that we can break that piece out because the – it's basically anchor replacements not so much the – I think we talked about Fashion District as kind of a pure redevelopment. The only other pure redevelopment that we have would be the Woodland Mall, which is under construction. So I don't think we're in a position to be able to kind of break out that piece.

What about like the Mall at Prince Georges Capital City and Magnolia, that's what you're referring to?

Well, the Mall at Prince Georges, this is really just a – is a remerchandising. There was no anchor replacement there, just adding new retailers to it, the ULTA, the DSW, as for instance, H&M et cetera. And so I'm not sure we can break those out easily.

Okay. But there is some NOI build that will start this year, but it will...

Yeah.

...stabilize in 2019 and take it from there?

Yeah. I mean actually, I can give you a kind of a big picture view. If you look at the revenue contribution that we expect from the whole anchor replacement program, we expect by 2020, this is – when everything's open and fully annualized, and this is anchor replacement as well as this includes the program at Woodland Mall. Incrementally, it's about $17 million of additional revenue coming out of our current program, again, excluding Fashion District.

Okay. Thanks. That's helpful. [Operator Instructions]

Your next question comes from Ki Bin Kim with SunTrust. Ki, your line is open.

Thanks. What would the 2018 same-store NOI guidance of 1.75% be endpoint without the contribution from incremental NOI from the Springfield Town Center project?

Yeah. We're not – Ki Bin, we don't break out individual NOIs from specific properties. But overall it's the – the same-store growth is $4.5 million or 1.8%.

Okay. And can you remind us how the Vornado promote would work on a Springfield Town Center, and when is that eligible?

At this point, we don't anticipate making any promote payments to Vornado as it relates to the Springfield Town Center project.

Okay. And I know you mentioned some CapEx guidance for 2018, but what would your FAD guidance be compared to that $1.55 FFO guidance for 2018?

Somewhere in the dollar range.

Okay. That's it for me. Thank you.

Your next question comes from Karin Ford with MUFG Securities. Karin, your line is open.

Hi. What is the year-end occupancy assumption that you have baked into your same-store guidance?

So, we have a 50 to 100 basis point improvement in non-anchored leasing.

Okay. Thank you. And then, your adjusted EBITDA to fixed charge coverage ratio came down to about 1.89 times this quarter, and you obviously have a little bit of a lag between when EBITDA comes on versus your increasing leverage this year. Are you comfortable that you're not going to come near to your 1.5 times covenant level?

Yeah. We're really nowhere close to breaching any of our covenants. We have sufficient cushion in all of our financial covenants.

Okay. Thanks.

There no further questions at this time. I will now turn the call back over to Joe Coradino for closing remarks.

So we continue to view the business through a lens of evolution. The work we did in 2017 in replacing anchors, bringing in new and diverse tenants, is expected to continue in 2018 as we open up a variety of new tenants and continue to evolve our approach to enhancing the customer experience.

In 2018, we'll bring fitness centers, grocers, off price, dining and entertainment venues to our ever-evolving properties. Our team is energized to expand our revenue sources through innovative pop-up experiences, activated customer conveniences, and new business development. We'll also continue to exploit the underlying value of our locations through the execution of our multi-use densification strategy, which we anticipate will be a significant source of growth for our portfolio in the future.

So remember, hungry dogs run faster. Thank you all and have a great day.

This concludes today's conference call and you may now disconnect.