Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Heather Crowell — Senior Vice President-Corporate Communications & Investor Relations, Pennsylvania Real Estate Investment Trust
Joseph F. Coradino — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Pennsylvania Real Estate Investment Trust
Robert F. McCadden — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Pennsylvania Real Estate Investment Trust
Karin Ford — Analyst, MUFG Securities America, Inc.
Katy McConnell — Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. (Broker)
Floris van Dijkum — Analyst, Boenning & Scattergood, Inc.
Spenser Allaway — Analyst, Green Street Advisors

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning. My name is Jodie, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the PREIT Third Quarter 2017 Earnings Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you.

Heather Crowell, you may begin your conference.

Thank you. Good morning, and thank you all for joining us for PREIT's third quarter 2017 earnings call.

During this call, we will make certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Federal Securities laws. These statements relate to expectations, beliefs, projections, trends and other matters that are not historical facts and are subject to risks and uncertainties that might affect future events or results.

Descriptions of these risks are set forth in the company's SEC filings. Statements that PREIT makes today might be accurate only as of today, November 2, 2017, and PREIT makes no undertaking to update such statements.

Also, certain non-GAAP measures will be discussed. PREIT has included reconciliations of such measures to the comparable GAAP measures in its earnings release and other documents filed with the SEC.

Members of management on the call today are Joe Coradino, PREIT's Chairman and CEO; and Bob McCadden, our CFO.

I'll now turn the call over to Joe Coradino.

Thanks, Heather; and good morning. Thank you all for joining us. We're pleased with our results this quarter, which are a testament to the success of our strategy. We're strengthening our portfolio and our results demonstrate that we're narrowing the gap between ourselves and the other high-quality mall REITs, including sales performance, same-store NOI growth, sequential occupancy gains and anchor replacements at a sector-leading pace.

Just as we led the way with non-core asset dispositions, we're leading the way in transforming the anchor landscape. It's a long-term business and malls in particular are undergoing a renaissance that we're excited about. It's no doubt a challenging environment, but let's discuss what we've been able to accomplish and what we're doing to fortify our portfolio as we enter a new age of retail.

Our accomplishments this quarter are impressive and we believe a direct result of the quality of the portfolio we have crafted over the past five years. Sales have reached a new high at $475 per square foot, despite having anchors in transition at half of our malls.

Same-store NOI, excluding lease terminations from our wholly-owned portfolio, grew by 3.2%, while our entire portfolio increased 2.5%, negatively impacted by our joint venture assets, which declined 2.3%. Year-to-date average renewal spreads were 5.8% for all non-anchored tenants in our wholly-owned portfolio, impacted by rent relief packages with tenants would file for bankruptcy protection.

We raised $289 million, generating over $100 million of net proceeds to advance our capital plan. We are completing the final steps of our capital plan that will allow us to fully self-fund our redevelopment and anchor replacement pipeline. We opened 578,000 square feet of new space, contributing to a 200-basis-point sequential increase in mall non-anchor occupancy. And year-to-date, we have leased 3 times the amount of space compared to last year.

We're establishing unique environments for our shoppers. We talk about diversifying our tenant base. We're referring to reducing our reliance on traditional mall retailer, including department stores, apparel and accessories. We're transforming our anchor mix with 10 of 11 anchor replacement solidified in less than a year. Our anchor leasing team has been firing on all cylinders and deserves a shout-out for this amazing accomplishment in record time.

In the past quarter, we opened replacements with six diverse tenants in four department store boxes, with three more spaces under construction. We replaced three former Sears stores. At Viewmont Mall we opened a Dick's Sporting Goods, Field & Stream combo and a new-to-market Homegoods.

At Magnolia Mall, we opened a new-to-market Burlington and have the balance of this space under construction for Homegoods and Five Below. At Capital City Mall, we opened Dick's Sporting Goods and have a premium Fine Wine & Good Spirits store opening in a few weeks. At Valley View Mall, Herberger's replaced Macy's. The average downtime on these replacements was less than nine months. We are replacing these anchors within the same year that they close, underscoring the quality of the portfolio, the demand for space, and our proficiency in executing.

The anchor improvement story continues, having recently executed leases at Valley Mall with US Fitness Holdings, where a regional top-tier fitness facility to operate a 70,000 square foot inclusive of an indoor and outdoor pool. Completing the box Tilt Studios will open up a 48,000 square foot entertainment facility, that offers bowling, rides, laser-tag and arcade games.

These diverse uses will joint Belk, a high-end fashion department store, who will replace a proactively recaptured Bon-Ton.

At Moorestown Mall, two new-to-market retailers were opened in the Macy's space. And while we are in a liberty to identify them by brand, they will offer off-price home furnishings from top designer brands and an outdoor geared retailers in the off-price segment. All of these tenants are expected to open in Q4 2018 and were underwritten in our multi-year capital spending projection previously outlined.

At Willow Grove Park, within weeks of executing a lease to bring a high-end dine-in movie theatre to replace JCPenney in 2019.

Regarding anchors, let's recap our staggering achievements over the past year. 11 anchors were proactively recaptured or closed; 10 replacements are either open under construction executed or near execution. This leaves us with one, where we are finalizing on lease with some lead replacement tenant at Plymouth Meeting [indiscernible] (06:46) the best intersection in the Philly Metro, where 92 million cars pass by annually. Recent additions include LEGOLAND Discovery Center, CYCLEBAR, Build-A-Bea and the most recent addition is [indiscernible] (06:59) a live action high-tech escape room recently voted one of the top five in the country by USA TODAY.

These tenants joined an already galactic lineup that includes Dave & Buster's, Whole Foods, J. Crew Mercantile and several top-tier dinning establishment.

Outside of the anchor space, we're focused on adding sought-after brands. This past month, we've opened two new H&Ms, our first ZARA, and two new prototype watch stores. And we have executed leases for tenants not yet open that will contribute over $11 million in annual gross revenue when they come online.

In addition to the tenants previously mentioned, these exciting additions include Whole Foods at Exton, a new-to-region Dave & Buster's at Capital City Mall, first-to-portfolio [ph] into (07:50) Miss Iny at Cherry Hill Mall, Charming Charlie at Springfield Town Center and Tilt Studio at Patrick Henry Mall.

While this list of tenants validates the demand for space and quality assets, it also highlights our approach in bringing new and different uses to our properties to create experiences that are compelling to our customers. Where we have replaced department stores results have been impactful. At Viewmont Mall, where we have seen traffic and dramatic sales increases in the former Sears' wing and the property has seen sequential sales growth, which we expect to continue.

At Magnolia Mall, reports from the new anchor are strong. We are seeing increased activity in the formally under-utilized wing. We're confident that the work we're doing is paying off through increased traffic, improved retailer sales as well as a strong NOI growth coming from these assets.

The results validate the independent forecast we had completed where portfolio sales are estimated to exceed $525 per square foot, exclusive of our [ph] Philly (09:01) redevelopment. The forecast completed over the summer includes assumptions regarding all the work we have just laid out and took into account historic population trends as well as comparative center sales trends. Now our comp sales aren't the panacea. Organic growth is an indication that the moves we are making are strengthening our assets and increasing market share.

And as we continue to execute on our redevelopment and remerchandising pipeline, we expect the value we have created in our portfolio to be recognized in our share price. In Philadelphia, we unveiled a new name for our project Fashion District Philadelphia. While we always anticipated a project that included tenancy beyond outlets, the name change was really driven by the continuing improvement in Philly's brand, driving tenant demand for flagship, full-price stores by some originally targeted for outlet concepts.

The project has evolved and is changing the Philadelphia retail scene. The new Burlington store is open, where our work transforming their former location into a new [indiscernible] (10:17) premium AMC theater to be the first new multiplex theater to open in Center City, Philadelphia in decades. It will anchor the third level, which is historically the most difficult to lease in retail.

We also signed H&M for the largest Philadelphia location and are bringing several outlets to the market brands, which are new to Philadelphia. From a physical perspective, the [indiscernible] (10:44) completely identifiable at this point and the exterior building [ph] for site (10:48) is going up.

At MPG, we just announced a tenant lineup at the suburban [ph] DC Gym (10:55). New retailers include H&M, ULTA, DSW, Five Below and Flight 23. New expanded prototypes were completed for Victoria Secret and Bath & Body Works [indiscernible] (11:10) were added. Old Navy opened a new right-sized prototype store. We have announced three new quick service dining additions. All these improvements serve to only strengthen this asset, which is headed to the $500 per square foot mark in sales.

We also had a strong quarter with respect to our capital plan, raising $100 million of net proceeds. The capital plan is a top priority and we are close to putting another non-core office building under agreement. Bob will walk you through the details of what remains to be spent.

So we're excited about the work we're doing. I am certain it is creating a stronger platform.

With that, I'll turn it over to Bob to cover our quarterly results, expectations for the balance of the year and details surrounding our capital plan. Bob?

Thank you, Joe. Before I cover the operating results and discuss earnings guidance in detail, let me start with an update on the capital plan.

As Joe mentioned, we've been extremely active with capital raising activities since our last call. We completed the sales of Logan Valley Mall and the 801 Market Suite office condo, yielding over $60 million in proceeds. Since the beginning of 2016, we have sold nine non-core malls and other properties rising over $300 million, which is being used to fund our anchor replacement and redevelopment program.

In September and into October, we issued 125 million of Series D Preferred shares at 6.875%. We used the net proceeds to redeem our 8.25% Series A Preferred shares, which will result in annual dividend savings of $1.6 million.

Earlier this month, our Lehigh Valley joint venture completed an early refinancing of its existing mortgage loan, which had a maturity date of 2020. We took advantage of an opportunity to extend the maturity, reduce the rate and generate excess proceeds.

The new 10-year $200 million non-recourse loan carries a fixed interest rate of 4.06%. This transaction generated over $35 million of proceeds to us and will result in annual savings of $1.1 million. We're in great shape as it relates to our upcoming mortgage maturities. The loan on Francis Scott Key Mall maturates at March of 2018, and we're in documentation with the existing lender to extend the loan for an additional five years.

The loan on Gloucester Premium Outlets matures in June of 2018, but can be extended for an additional year. We are currently discussing financing options with our JV partner, Simon; and we'll have more to report next quarter.

After these 2018 maturities are addressed, our next significant mortgage maturity won't occur until 2021. We continue to advance discussions with a bank syndicate [ph] for a loan in (13:58) Fashion Districts. We're targeting proceeds in excess of a $100 million at our share from this financing, which is expected to close in the first quarter of 2018.

We continue to improve our balance sheet. Since the beginning of 2017, we reduced our outstanding debt by a $162 million. At the end of the quarter, we had $290 million of total liquidity, including a $190 million of borrowing capacity available under our bank facilities.

At the end of September, our bank leverage ratio was just under 48% and our net debt-to-EBITDA was 7.2 times. Our cash interest rate was 3.80%, a 9-basis-point reduction from a year ago. 95.6% of our debt is either fixed or swapped and debt maturities are well-laddered. We're well-positioned to manage through a period of rising interest rates.

We are in various stages of completion with other transactions that we anticipate we'll generate up to $70 million of incremental proceeds by mid-2018. These include the sale of remaining 9 core office properties, various land parcels and other assets.

With respect to development, we invested $65 million on our capital program this quarter and a $159 million to-date this year. As of September 30, we had approximately $330 million remaining to spend on this program. We expect to spend around $40 million in the fourth quarter and approximately $175 million to $200 million next year and the balance thereafter.

Turning to operations, we performed in line with our internal expectations and analyst consensus for the quarter. We reported FFO as adjusted of $0.42 per share and net income of $0.05 per share.

Continuing with the theme, first noted during the second quarter, we saw a divergence in performance between our wholly-owned and joint venture properties, which were disproportionally impacted by bankruptcies and store closings. This divergence was reflected in relative NOI contribution, occupancy and leasing spreads.

Same-store NOI, excluding lease terminations at our wholly-owned properties was up 3.2%, while it was down 2.3% at our joint venture properties blending to an overall 2.5% growth rate.

Bankruptcies had an overall $1.3 million impact in the quarter. Excluding this impact, same-store NOI growth would have been approximately 4.7%. Non-anchor occupancy at our wholly-owned same-store malls was down 30 basis points compared to last year. Non-anchor occupancy at our joint venture properties fell 170 basis points to 92.1%.

Average rent spreads for our wholly-owned properties during the quarter were 5.5% compared to a negative spreads of over 20% at our joint venture assets.

As we look forward, we will have added or will add a total of 660,000 square feet of new tenants at our same-store properties in the second half of the year, which will contribute approximately $30 million in annualized rent in our share.

Turning to guidance. We are updating our FFO guidance to give effect the $0.05 per share dilution in the third quarter asset sales and anticipated fourth quarter charges of $0.05 a share with redemption of our Series A Preferred shares and $0.02 a share related to the early payment of the mortgage loan at Lehigh Valley Mall. In addition to these factors, we're also updating our net income guidance for gains on sales of real-estate and asset impairments

FFO, as adjusted for the year, is expected to be between $1.62 and a $1.67. We expect to come in toward the lower end of our same-store NOI guidance range, which implies a fourth quarter growth rate of 4.2%.

Before we open up for questions, I want to turn it back to Joe for a comment.

We are going into Q4 and 2018 with momentum: a transformed anchor base, a solid representation of sought-after merchants weighted towards restaurant, entertainment, best fashion and off-price. We expect bankruptcies to moderate and renewal rates to normalize in the mid-to high-single-digits.

With that, I'll open it up for questions. [Operator Instructions]

Your first question comes from the line of Karin Ford of MUFG Securities. Your line is open

Hi. Good morning.

Good morning, Karen.

Good morning. Just wanted to talk about – I appreciate the comments on where you stand on this year's same-store NOI growth. Just looking into next year now that you have a lot more visibility on the leasing you've done here in the second half, how are you feeling about the 2.75% to 3% same-store NOI growth you had in your three-year plan for next year?

Karin, I think that was actually an average range over a period as opposed to a specific 2018 target. We expect, as you would imagine, with a lot our redevelopments coming on stream late in 2018 and will be completing in 2019, you're going to have a greater growth in the back half of that forecast period and maybe more moderate growth in the early part of that.

Okay, great. Fair enough. A second question is, can you just give us an update on the sale of – a potential JV interest in some of your core malls? And how is pricing going as you continue to market those assets?

Well, first off, I mean, we've really – while we've continued the discussions on the JV interest in some of our core malls, we've really focused on disposition of non-core office properties and been quite successful at that. Have another one about to go under agreement soon. We see the absence of trades that's occurring. I think the buyers that are out there for malls, I mean, they read the news and know the sentiment in the market, and they're spilling blood in the water right now.

So from our perspective, we're not in a situation where we have to sale. So we're being very thoughtful and very careful and slow-playing it because pricing is important to us.

Great. And just last question from me. It sounds like Simon is planning to do a big densification project at King of Prussia Mall. Do you think that that could hurt Cherry Hill or any of your other malls in the trade area? And what are your thoughts on densification opportunities?

Well, we're in midst of densification – preliminary densification opportunities ourselves. So we think it's a good thing. I think that King of Prussia, the trade area associated with is pretty dispersed from certainly Cherry Hill or any of the other assets that we have. So we don't see it as being competitive from a sales perspective. We really see the opportunities that we have in our portfolio in places like Plymouth Meeting and Exton. And, in fact, at Exton, we do have an agreement to proceed with a couple of hundred units there with a joint venture developer.

So in any event, we think densification is clearly the way to go. Residential is a good use right now. And I don't see King of Prussia as being something that causes concern for any of our assets.

Thanks very much.

Your next question comes from the line of [ph] Hong Zheng (22:25) of JPMorgan. Your line is open.

Hi guys. Good morning. It was touched on a little – you guys touched on it a little bit in the prior question. But can we expect any further mall sales from here particularly in your lower productivity malls?

Well, we currently have Valley View Mall under listed for sale. So we'll continue to work on that. And I would say, we'll always look for opportunistic situations to continue to drive quality in the portfolio. And so we're calling the portfolio, bringing the portfolio to drive that quality or something that is a need to us, if you will.

Got you, thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Christy McElroy of Citi. Your line is open.

Good morning. This is Katy McConnell on for Christy. Can you update us on the trajectory for narrowing a lease to commence spread? And how much of that should contribute to that acceleration in 4Q NOI growth? And then, on the flip side, how are you thinking about the potential for further tenant fallout heading into 2018?

So let me talk about our renewal spreads, Katy. I think I've mentioned that – the spreads for the same-store properties were 5.5% and negative 21% to joint venture properties, which significantly diluted our operating results. The primary driver for the lower spreads this quarter was the concession. Concentration of expansion deals that were done with tenants in bankruptcy and others on the watch list.

We executed in the quarter 10 lease modifications with merchants, reorganizing at a bankruptcy protection, rate renewals for the retailers on our watch list. So on a relative basis, these 2018 transactions represent about third of what we concluded this quarter and significantly influence the quarterly results. But, as Joe mentioned in his remarks, we expect the impact of bankruptcies to moderate going forward and return to more normal levels than our average returns – renewal spreads return back to the mid to high-single-digit range.

Okay, great. And then, any commentary on your expectations for fall-out in 2018?

We do not think that bankruptcies in 2018 are going to be at the level that we've seen in 2017. So we think they're going to moderate. I think our watch list is shrinking a bit. And we also think that we've gotten out in front of many of the problems already. So we think 2018 is going to certainly be a better year than 2017 from a bankruptcy perspective.

Great. Thank you.

Your last question comes from the line of Floris van Dijkum of Boenning. Your line is open.

Great. Thanks. I saw some encouraging increases obviously at MPG and also at Willow Grove. You're spending a lot of money on these anchor redevelopments. When should investors expect the portfolio is going to show more of these increases in sales? And do you expect that we're going to hit the trough sometime in early 2018? Or how are you looking at that?

Were you talking about sales, Floris?

Yeah. So sales...

I think at this point, we're already beginning to see sequential increases in sales where we have opened new anchors. We're seeing it at Viewmont, we're seeing it at Magnolia with Burlington, Viewmont with Dick's Sporting Goods and Field & Stream and Homegoods. So we're already beginning to see that. We were up in every asset – every property from a sales perspective other than 8. Now when you keep in mind that half of our portfolio had anchors in transition. And I think we are beginning to see the results and we'll continue to in the coming months.

Great. That's it from me.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of DJ Busch of Green Street Advisors. Your line is open.

Good morning. This is actually Spenser Allaway on for DJ. I just had another one in terms of dispositions. I know you guys have been really focused on sales of non-core assets. Obviously, you guys have had a lot of success. But can you guys provide an update on where you are in trying to joint venture some of your [indiscernible] (27:36) assets?

That continues to be a work-in-progress as I reported a couple of calls ago. That is an agreement that was crafted prior to even the public company being formed and has a very difficult buy/sell. So while the assets are generally quality assets, it has been difficult to bring init to conclusion although we continue to work on it.

Okay. Thank you.

Your next question comes from the line of Karin Ford of MUFG Securities. Your line is open.

Hi. Just a couple of follow-ups. You mentioned the rise of the Philly brand. Can you just give us your thoughts on what could be the potential for Philly winning bid for the Amazon proposal? And how that could potentially boost the overall economic growth of the region?

First of all, [indiscernible] (28:39) wouldn't that be great? Look, the Philly sites that have been put forth are all in relative close proximity to our project. But I think it's a lot bigger than that in terms of what it could mean for Philadelphia. Let's not forget the fact that Philly's hot anyhow, right? We're a city that in all aspects, it's [ph] going to move. (29:16) And the Amazon bid would make a huge difference for us even in spite of the fact that we're on the move. So I know there is a two sites adjacent to [ph] Penn's (29:32) campus. And there's also some other sites that while not in Philadelphia are pretty close to Philly [ph] Camden, for instance. (29:41)

So all that is something. I don't have any insight into what the status of the bid is, but it's something that we participated and we're helpful in crafting the response.

And just sticking on the Amazon theme, are you more or less interested in having Whole Foods as a part of your properties now that they're linked with Amazon?

I think it's a good thing. We have one Whole Foods open at Plymouth Meeting. We have a second one that is turned over to the tenant and about to open Q1 of 2018. I think it makes it even a better use. They've announced that they're going to be deploying a number of store openings with their 365 concept that we're looking at a number of locations ourselves.

I can speculate. And it would be speculation that I begin to see the Whole Foods starts to service a pickup and distribution center for customers wanting to either pick up or bring back merchandise. I could see – I can envision Amazon book stores being incorporated in the Whole Foods stores. So I think it is a real net positive and we'll continue to look to do business with them.

Great. Can you give us an update on the status of the residential piece of the Fashion District project?

We're in discussions as we speak. A lot of engineering work is being done, communication between the parties. And obviously, that's something that we think it would be a real benefit to the project, because for a couple of reasons. One is built in customers with residential above the project, plus nothing like that exists in Philadelphia, right, it would be a first. A retail project with a residential over-build. So we're working on it and continue to mature it.

Great. And then, just last one for me. Do you have any incremental visibility on any additional department store closures or any proactive take-backs of any more departmental stores?

Actually, good you asked that question. We've done a pretty thorough review of our portfolio and feel pretty good about it. Number one, we have – what is if not the lowest, I think next to lowest exposure to Sears', lowest exposure to Bon-Ton. We've been quite proactive in our approach to department stores, given the fact that either through closures or take-backs 13 stores, 12 of them are spoken for, one is on the way to being spoken for. So we're pretty close to saying we're done. We think we're well-positioned for department store exposure going forward, particularly, again given the fact that we were extremely proactive in that arena.

Great. Thank you.

There are no further questions in the queue at this time. I'd like to turn the call back over to Joe Coradino for final remarks.

Well, thank you all for participating. We enjoyed speaking with you. I know we'll see many of you in the next few weeks in Dallas. Thank you all. Have a great day.

This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.