Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Heather Crowell — Vice President-Communications & Investor Relations, Pennsylvania Real Estate Investment Trust
Joseph F. Coradino — Chief Executive Officer & Trustee, Pennsylvania Real Estate Investment Trust
Robert F. McCadden — Chief Financial Officer & Executive Vice President, Pennsylvania Real Estate Investment Trust
Ki Bin Kim — Analyst, SunTrust Robinson Humphrey
Craig Schmidt — Analyst, BofA Merrill Lynch
Michael W. Mueller — Analyst, J.P. Morgan Securities LLC
Christy McElroy — Analyst, Citigroup Global Markets Inc. (Broker)

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Welcome to the PREIT Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Call. All participants will be in listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] After today's presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask questions. [Operator Instructions] Please note, this event is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Heather Crowell. Ms. Crowell. Please go ahead.

Thank you, and good morning, everyone. Welcome to PREIT's third quarter 2014 earnings call. During this call, we will make certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws. These statements relate to expectations, beliefs, projections, trends, and other matters that are not historical facts and are subject to risks and uncertainties, that might affect future events or results.

Descriptions of these risks are set forth in the company's SEC filings. Statements that PREIT makes today might be accurate only as of today, October 29, 2014, and PREIT makes no undertaking to update any such statements. Also, certain non-GAAP measures will be discussed. PREIT has included reconciliations of such measures to the comparable GAAP measures in its earnings release and other documents filed with the SEC.

Members of management on the call today are Joe Coradino, PREIT's CEO; and Bob McCadden, our CFO.

It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Joe Coradino.

Thank you, Heather. Good morning everyone. We had a great quarter. We continue to deliver strong results, capturing the benefits from our improved portfolio through progress we've made in PREIT's transformation to a quality mall company. Our focus is on quality, while improving our balance sheet and operational results is sharper than ever. Our strategy is designed to drive long-term shareholder value as the market has continually rewarded companies with high-quality properties of higher multiples.

The continued execution of our strategy is transforming our portfolio and is narrowing the NAV gap. Same-store NOI growth turned positive for the year, in spite of the effects of a harsh winter that impacted our first quarter results. And the outstanding quarter, where we recorded 6% growth in same-store NOI has resulted in year-to-date growth of 2%. Renewal spreads continued to be strong at 4.8% year-to-date.

During the quarter, renewal was executed for leases with [ph] parts (02:28) greater than five years were 18.1%. Occupancy gains continued in the portfolio with same-store malls increasing by 80 basis points for non-anchor space. That is in spite of declines at several premier properties with tenants are in the process of moving in for holiday.

Leasing volume has been remarkably strong this year. To the end of the quarter, we've executed over 395,000 square feet more of new leases than we had this time last year. As of the end of the quarter, we have over 400,000 square feet of leasing executed in our whole loan portfolio that haven't yet taken occupancy. When JVs are added to this total, we have a robust 557,000 square feet of rent paying tenants not factored into a 930 occupancy figures.

On the disposition front, we have continued to methodically reduce our exposure to non-core properties, and in the past 22 months, we have sold [indiscernible] (03:32)12 properties and an interest in The Gallery. We have paid over $400 million in proceeds. In addition, we've had Uniontown Mall in Uniontown, Pennsylvania to our non-core pool leaving us with two malls currently being marketed. We also have an offer on our non-income producing land and we're making progress in selling interest in two of our power center joint ventures.

The benefits of our improved portfolio were taking effect. We've reduced our department store exposure having sold properties that are experiencing department store closings. We have also been able to secure better rates with small shop renewals for the longer term. As leases mature, we expect to see a greater impact from the effects of our portfolio improvement.

As many of our peers, we believe the retailer sales environment is changing. Comp sales were up sequentially by 1.6%, which we [indiscernible] (04:37) with. On a total basis, they were relatively flat. The consumer is still somewhat cautious in our view, and we expect sales to improve slightly in the third quarter. In spite of the current sales environment, we believe there continues to be opportunity to drive rents in our portfolio.

Over the past two weeks, Springfield Town Center in Virginia and Century 21 at The Gallery opened to tremendous success. Springfield Town Center is exceeding even our most optimistic expectations with improvements over our initial underwriting. Upon opening, it was 81% occupied. We have commitments for over 80% of the non-anchor space, and expect to achieve over 90% non-anchor occupancy by the end of 2015.

The tenant lineup is incredible. The crowds of people are unrelenting and the initial sales performance is exceeding retailer expectations. We've heard stories of executives washing dishes, merchandize being shipped from other area stores and staff being added. The retailers, the customers, and fleet couldn't be happier. It's noteworthy that in-place tenants are already talking about expanding or introducing other concepts they operate.

The property is equipped with amenities that are designed to attract and retain customers, like charging stations, free WiFi, children's play area, and a dedicated court equipped with a children's library. We're particularly excited to have entered into agreement with Deliv, to offer same day delivery service in this property. It's a first for us and a relationship we are looking to expand as we continue to find ways to embrace the omni-channel platform.

With this tenant mix in affluent trade area in unbelievable location, we are confident Springfield Town Center will exceed our expectations. Century 21 opened to the public here yesterday and we're tremendously pleased with the warm welcome they've received from Philadelphians. This marks the first step in the renaissance to The Gallery with Macerich as our partner. We are poised to deliver a world class project. Our discussion with the public sector continue to progress with the expectation that City Council will consider a public financing package in December and ratify it in early 2015. As this process unfolds, we intend to update you on our vision, scope, schedule and returns.

We're methodically executing on asset sales in a manner that sets us apart from our peers, and seizing the rare opportunity to add an A quality asset. The pending acquisition and lease up of Springfield Town Center, and the redevelopment plan for The Gallery are transformative for our portfolio. We are improving the quality of our leasing team, expanding relationships with growing retailers such as UNIQLO, Field & Stream, ULTA Cosmetics, Vera Bradley, and Michael Kors, all of them we signed leases with this quarter.

From a balance sheet perspective, we sit today with leverage of under 49%, representing continued sequential improvement. We had previously communicated a range of sale venture proceeds being sought of $150 million to $400 million. Since the announcement of the pending acquisition of Springfield Town Center, we've raised approximately $162 million with another $93 million in the queue.

Our leverage at the end of September was 48.9%. After we complete the acquisition of Springfield Town Center and assuming we call for the $93 million in pending transactions, our pro forma leverage will remain less than 50%.

As it relates to growth, in addition to our goal of exceeding our projections with our two great opportunities, The Gallery and Springfield, we're also focused on harvesting the natural growth that we expect from pruning of the lower quality properties.

Our dominant position in the Philadelphia region has generated several redevelopment opportunities that we believe will drive asset values, sales and NOI. We have an opportunity to add density to the extremely well located Plymouth Meeting Mall site and are pursuing entitlement for a joint venture with a high quality extended stay hotel with PREIT's contribution being a vacant land parcel.

Similarly we have a great opportunity to reconfigure Exton Square Mall situated in the best demographic market our current portfolio has offered resulting from the closing of the JCPenney store and a near-term opportunity to recapture an existing Kmart store on the well-travelled road. We look forward to sharing details about these projects and others with you in the near future.

For now, I'll turn the call over to Bob McCadden, to give you more color on the company's operating performance.

Thank you, Joe. We had another strong quarter with solid growth in same store NOI and an 8.9% increase in FFO as adjusted per share. We are adjusting our previously announced guidance expectations for FFO to reflect the dilution from the sale of North Hanover and Nittany malls in September of approximately $0.03 per share and other factors which individually are not material.

Let me cover some of the financial and operating results in a bit more detail. Same-store NOI for the quarter was $63.7 million, a $3.6 million or a 5.9% increase over the corresponding 2013 period. Excluding lease terminations, same store NOI increased by 6%. The improvement in same-store NOI was led an increase of over 9% at our corporate assets, and NOI was up in all property peers except in our non-core group.

Non-anchor occupancy in our same store properties was up 80 basis points to 91.4% and total occupancy increased by 50 basis points to 95.4%. As Joe mentioned, we have a sizeable backlog of executed leases pending occupancy. Approximately 290,000 square feet of retailers are slated to open in the fourth quarter of our wholly-owned properties, and an additional 150,000 square feet of retailers will open at our joint venture properties. But we anticipate further occupancy gains by year-end.

Following the sale of the 50% net interest in The Gallery to Macerich in July, we have reclassified the property into redevelopment. You will see this presentation in our supplemental. There is lot of confusion around our reported result, so let me try to clarify it for you. We experienced a 250 basis point improvement in operating margins for the quarter. The improvement in operating results came from a combination of top-line revenue growth, which accounted for about half of the improvement and operating expense savings which contributed the balance.

Rental revenues were up 2.8% for the quarter, reflecting increased occupancy and higher average rents. I've put the expense reductions into three categories, which each accounted for about a third of the improvement. The first would be plan, CAM, and other expense reductions. Secondly, lower utility costs resulting from a mild summer. And three, the impact of higher real estate tax assessments that were recorded in the third quarter of 2013.

While some of the CAM and other expense savings are expected to be of a permanent nature, we anticipate operating expenses will increase in the fourth quarter reflecting a seasonality of CAM costs, utilities and other expenses such as property marketing. As a reminder in 2013 third quarter, we received notice of additional real estate tax assessments at a number of our New Jersey properties.

These additional tax assessments were for calendar year 2013. So we had recorded catch up adjustment against 2013's first quarter, and second quarter, and last year's third quarter. However, this was largely offset by additional real estate tax reimbursements that were also recorded in last year's third quarter.

At the end of September, we've opened about 170,000 square feet of new tenants including Century 21 at The Gallery; Wells at Washington Crown Center, UNIQLO at Willow Grove Park, and ULTA at Valley View Mall. Next month, we anticipate opening new Dick Sporting Goods stores at Francis Scott Key and Valley View malls. A remerchandised Viewmont Mall of the fourth quarter openings of Forever 21 and new Victoria Secret prototype and Buffalo Wild Wings.

Including the tenants mentioned above, the healthcare office expansion at The Gallery and other retail tenants were at the portfolio we anticipate adding over 500,000 square feet of new leases to [indiscernible] (13:59) by the end of the year. Interest expense decreased primarily from overall debt balances at lower average interest rates. In the third quarter our average debt balance was a $131 million lower than a year ago and the average interest rate of 5.18% was 36 basis points lower than in the third quarter of 2013. Our liquidity position remains strong with over $480 million of cash and unused borrowing capacity under our bank credit facilities.

Interest expense decreased primarily from lower overall debt balances and lower average interest rates. In the third quarter, our average debt balance was $131 million lower than a year ago. And the average interest rate of 5.18% was 36 basis points lower than in the third quarter of 2013. Our liquidity position remained strong with over $480 million of cash and unused borrowing capacity under our bank credit facilities.

Regarding our outlook for 2014, we expect the GAAP earnings per diluted share will be a net loss between $0.54 and $0.58. We expect FFO adjusted to be in a range of $1.94 to $1.97 per share and FFO per diluted share to be in a range of $1.81 to $1.84. The revised guidance includes expected dilution of $0.03 per share from the third quarter sales of North Hanover and Nittany malls. We are maintaining our expectations for full year same store NOI growth of 2% to 2.4% excluding lease termination fees.

Finally, while we continue to market a number of assets for sale, our guidance does not contemplate any other material operating property dispositions or acquisitions. In addition, our guidance does not assume any capital market transactions, other than financing transactions and it's occurring in the ordinary course of business.

With that, we'll open it up for questions.

We will now begin the question-and-answer session. In order to allow time to hear all questioners, please limit your question to one question and one follow-up. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Ki Bin Kim with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey. Please go ahead.

Thank you. So it does seem like there are lot of moving parts this quarter. But I want to focus on, I think you've said 500,000 square feet of leases that were signed but not paying, which I think was the same number last quarter. Could you just give us a little guidance on how much of this – I think you touched on it too – we should expect in the next four quarters? And what are the lease spreads you're achieving on those leases?

These are actually – we're talking about new leases. So, we typically don't report spreads on new leases. About 290,000 square feet is going to – in the wholly owned properties will take occupancy before the end of the year. We already have 65,000 square feet in occupancy as we sit today toward the end of October. And we have another, call it 150,000 square feet at our joint venture properties and that number includes Century 21, which opened this week.

Okay. And so, how does that play in to your same-store revenue number that you should report or that should be – how should that impact your same-store revenue number in the fourth quarter? And I'll leave it there.

Well, obviously, we expect that to have a positive impact from the revenue number for the fourth quarter. But we would anticipate a much more significant impact in 2015 because we're only going to have many served up in for a month or two before the end of 2014.

Okay. I guess, I was asking on kind of normalized quarterly basis. How many basis points that should approximately add to your top-line on a full quarter run rate basis?

Yeah. I'm not...

Just wanted to get a sense of what the trend was versus your rental agreements on year-over-year at this quarter, that's why I asked?

I am not sure, I can give you a specific response to that question, Ki. So we'll have to think about and get back to.

All right. Thank you.

Our next question is from Craig Schmidt from BofA. Please go ahead.

Thank you. The base rents fell sequentially pretty significantly from second quarter to third quarter, but the expense reimbursements actually increased. I wonder what was causing that differential?

Those are couple of things. I think that the same-store pool has changed. We've reclassified The Gallery out of the same-store, and as well as the sale of two assets that closed during this quarter. North Hanover and Nittany malls were also excluded from the same-store pool for the third quarter. So that those changes would account for part of what you're seeing, Craig.

Wouldn't that reduce the expense reimbursement?

No. Typically, the expense reimbursement ratio is lower and the properties are no longer in the pool than they were previously.

Okay. And then the stabilized return on Springfield Town Center, that you raised on [ph] 5.5 to 6.7 (19:16), is that primarily due to the $80 million of property development rights? And into the calculation, what did you assume was the one-time earn out payment to Vornado?

Yes, we haven't provided that one time earn-out payment.

Craig, this is Joe. All of those things are factored into it. The value of the peripheral ground, upside on lease [indiscernible] (19:44) and the onetime payment to Vornado are factored into that. We didn't provide specific color on each item.

Okay. Thank you.

Our next question is from Michael Mueller of JPMorgan. Please go ahead.

Yes, hi, I guess sticking with Springfield for a second. You talk about the stabilized yield down the road. But just given the leasing progress you're talking about, is there any change to the initial yield that you expect once you buy it?

Mike, we don't have specific color on that yet, but as we – I would suspect by the end of the year, we'll provide some additional color on that, because part of what we're doing there was that we finally believe it's just a matter of getting the tenants teed up to, two or three times of the year when tenants typically open. So that piece is still in flux, but we will provide some color in the near-term on that.

Okay. And then, just, you gave some color on asset sales. What the plan was, what you have done so far? I mean, what can you reasonably expect to execute from this point until Springfield closes or year-end 2014, whichever metric you want to talk about, I mean how much more do you think it'll hit by then?

Well, we think roughly maybe $40 million will be closed before the end of this year of the $93 million. And we're optimistic we can make progress on the balance. If it doesn't close by March 31, we are hopeful that they would close in the second quarter of next year.

Okay, that was it. Thank you.

Our next question is from Christy McElroy from Citi. Please go ahead.

Hi, good morning. Just wanted to follow-up, Bob on the $0.04 guidance decrease, the $0.03 of dilution that you spoke about from Nittany in North Hanover steamed below high given that the $32 million deal closed in early September. What was the average cap rate on that scale? It seems like it would have to be well into the double-digit to get to that kind of dilution. And can you also detail sort of the other factors that you mentioned that impacted the change in the FFO range?

Sure. With respect to – the reason why we have – there will be a greater dilution than what you're seeing. It is essentially great now, most of the sales proceeds are sitting in cash on our balance sheet, since we don't really have any short-term debt that we could repay with the proceeds. So, you typically would see roughly dilutive effect. We can actually redeploy those proceeds and the paying of higher coupon debt. So we're at a point now where all of our bank credit is reduced to zero and we're basically holding the cash pending the acquisitions of Springfield Town Center in the first quarter.

So what was the cap rate?

We haven't disclosed the cap rate

Okay. And in terms of same-store NOI growth in Q3, just trying to get a sense for how much of that 6% was driven by one-time expense savings versus more permanent changes, you talked about a number of different factors that impacted expenses. So, stripping out sort of the one-time impacts in Q3, what would same-store NOI growth have been?

It's hard to look at one-time savings, because some of the stuff, it's a dynamic business. So we have a number of contracts for service providers, some of that is impacted, as we renegotiated contracts or contracts came up for renewal in the second and third quarter. So that has an impact. I think if you look at the tax piece, real estate tax piece that clearly was a one-time benefit – [indiscernible] (23:49) last year, but we got the benefit of it this year. But we also, as we mentioned I think early in the year, we've made some reductions and reducing customer service centers at some of our low sales productivity properties that will generate annualized sales in excess of a $1 million a year, but there's a lot of clinical designs that add up to dollars.

On fourth quarter, should we expect to see another expense decline on same store?

No. I would expect sales – expenses to revert to more normalized levels. And one of the point just to remind you, last year we actually had a real estate tax assessment appeal that broke in our favor last year. So here we may or may not see something similar to that this year. So all other things being equal, we expect same store operating expenses to be, I don't expect to see the same type of decrease that you saw in the third quarter.

Okay. Thank you.

Our next question is from Ki Bin Kim from SunTrust Robinson Humphrey. Please go ahead.

Thanks. Just a couple of quick follow-up questions. If I remember your accounting, your methodology correctly, your occupancy is always based on a physical basis. And even though occupancy might increase, your tenant sales may not, because it – I think you wait a full year for any kind of sales to be reported. I guess my question is, is that correct? And I think there was an Apple store in – I think Willow Grove that might not be in your tenant sales numbers. When is that going to be in your numbers? And the second part to that question is, I know it's a lot, sorry – what is your total tenant sales across your malls without that 10,000 square foot definition?

So, first off Ki Bin, the tenants become comp after 24 months, not 12 months is one answer. The other regarding the Apple store that will comp in Q4 this year, and it should represent a significant uplift. I mean, I guess the other thing is, if you think about sales generally, you've got a couple of things I think you need to look at. One is particularly in our premier properties, there's a lot of moving around of tenants from high performance Victoria's Secret in Cherry Hill. The UNIQLO is just moving in, and not being in comp yet, a lot of moving around.

Clearly, the juniors category is struggling, I think across our industry, which is another factor. And Apple, the iPhone 6 came into being last week of September. So I think when you factor in some of the movement into premier properties, would that becomes comp when you think about the juniors category, some of them beginning to turn themselves around, but the long-term prognosis for sales, I think it's a positive one.

Okay. And did you have the total mall sales data? I mean, that's a metric that some other REITs have started to report, just curious if you guys have that information year-over-year?

Yes. Ki, I think Joe mentioned in his remarks that the total sales were relatively flat this year compared to last year.

Okay. Fine, I might have missed. And then just...

And your other question on occupancy, yes, we don't include signed leases unless the tenant has physically taken occupancy.

Okay. And just a follow up on Joe's – last you commented about Apple moving into fourth quarter the comp data. Do you have any sense of what that does to your reported sales numbers on a kind of same store basis?

It will be very helpful, Ki.

All right. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

This concludes our question-and-answer session. I would like to turn the conference back over to Joe Coradino for any closing remarks.

I'd like to close by just saying we had a great quarter. We're delivering on our transformation to a high quality mall company. We will remain committed to driving shareholder value. We're confident that the continued implementation of our strategy and realization of our goals would yield great results. We look forward to seeing many of you maybe next week. Have a good day.

The conference is now concluded. Thank you for attending today's presentation. You may now disconnect.