corrected transcript


Pennsylvania Real Estate


Investment Trust
 
PEI
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 31, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good afternoon. My name is Jason, and I will be your conference facilitator today. At


this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Pennsylvania Real Estate Investment Trust’s


Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the


speakers’ remarks there will be a question and answer period. [Operator Instructions]


It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to your host, Garth Russell. Garth, you may begin.


Garth Russell, KCSA Worldwide


Good morning, everybody, and I am just going to read the forward-looking statements, and then I


will turn the call over to management.


This call will include certain forward-looking statements within the meanings of Section 21-E of the


Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1955.


Forward-looking statements relate to the expectations, beliefs, projections and future plans and


strategies, anticipated events or trends and other matters that are not historical facts. These


forward-looking statements reflect PREIT's current views about future events and are subject to


risks, uncertainties, assumptions and changes in circumstances that may cause future events,


achievements or results to differ materially from those expressed by forward-looking statements,


including, but not limited to, management’s determinations from time-to-time whether to purchase


any shares under the announced repurchase program, limitations on shares repurchased, and


future borrowing arrangements, and changes in market conditions.


Additionally, there can be no assurance that PREIT's actual results will not differ significantly from


the forecasts and estimates set forth in this call or that PREIT's returns on its acquisitions will be


consistent with the estimates outlined in the related press releases. PREIT's business is subject to


uncertainties regarding revenues, operating expenses, leasing activities, occupancy rates and other


competitive factors relating to PREIT's portfolio, and changes in the local market conditions, as well


as general economic, financial and political conditions, including the possibility of outbreak or


escalation of war or terrorist attacks, any of which may cause future events, achievements or


results to differ materially from those expressed by forward-looking statements.


In particular, the successful redevelopment of any property is subject to a number of risks,


including, among others, that PREIT's redevelopment plans might change, and its redevelopment


activities may be delayed, anticipated project costs may increase, and the Company might not


enter into one or more of the lease agreements referred to in the discussion of the redevelopment


activity. Unanticipated expenses or delays would adversely affect PREIT's investment returns on a


redevelopment project. In addition, PREIT might not enter into an agreement for or consummate


the mall financing for which it has received a commitment letter. PREIT does not intend to, and


disclaims any duty or obligation to update or revise, any forward-looking statements or industry


information set forth in this press release to reflect new information, future events or otherwise.


Investors are also directed to consider the risks and uncertainties discussed in documents PREIT


has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and, in particular, PREIT's Annual Report


on Form 10-K for this year’s ended December 31, 2004.


I am now going to turn the call over to Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Ron Rubin. Ron.
corrected transcript


Pennsylvania Real Estate


Investment Trust
 
PEI
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 31, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Ronald Rubin, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you very much, and good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for joining us as we


discuss our results for the third quarter and our plans for the future.


Joining me on the call today are Ed Glickman, our President; Bob McCadden, our CFO; Joe


Coradino, the Head of our Retail Division; and also in the room are Jon Weller and George Rubin,


Vice Chairmen of the Company; Dave Bryant, our Treasurer; Bruce Goldman, our General


Counsel; and Mario Ventresca. After the remarks have concluded, the call will then be opened for


any questions that you might have.


During the third quarter, we continued to execute on our previously announced redevelopment


initiatives. We are satisfied that we are making real progress with our redevelopment strategy and


recognize the pressure that the program is placing on our earnings. We are accelerating this


program to the best of our ability, confident that it is the correct approach to the building of


shareholder value. We are also continuing to examine our portfolio for other mixed use and other


opportunities.


The company provided today its 2005 and 2006 guidance. The guidance will be discussed during


this call.


With that, I’ll now turn the call over to Bob McCadden.


Robert McCadden, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thanks, Ron. I am going to briefly review the company’s third quarter operating results, review


guidance for the balance of 2005 and 2006, and make some company -- comments on the


company’s balance sheet.


Beginning this quarter, the company is presenting FFO per diluted share in addition to FFO per


basic share. Previously, the company reported historical operating results and provided earnings


guidance only in terms of FFO per basic share, as the difference between the two measures had


historically been immaterial or about one cent per share in most fiscal quarters. We have included


an attachment to our press release that includes comparative FFO per share amounts for all of


2004 and the first three quarters of 2005. Following this transition quarter, we expect to report


operating results and provide guidance with FFO per diluted share as the principle non-GAAP


reporting measure, to be consistent with our industry peers.


FFO for the third quarter of 2005 was $36.2 million, a $1.6 million, or 4.6%, increase over the


corresponding period last year. FFO per diluted share was 88 cents in the third quarter of 2005, or


3 cents per share higher than last year. FFO per basic share was 89 cents, also 3 cents higher


than last year. FFO in the quarter included a $3 million gain from the sale of undeveloped land.


Excluding the $3 million gain, FFO per basic share for the quarter would have been 82 cents, which


was within the range of previous guidance of 80 to 83 cents provided in August of this year.


For calendar 2005, the company estimates that net income per diluted share will be between $1.12


and $1.20. FFO per basic share will be between $3.72 cents and 3.80, and FFO per diluted share


will be between $3.67 and $3.75.


Turning to 2006, the company estimates that net income per diluted share will be between 59 cents


and 71 cents; FFO per basic share will be between $3.62 and $3.74; and FFO per diluted share will


be between $3.57 and $3.69.