Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Douglas L. Drysdale — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Pernix Therapeutics Holdings, Inc.
Sanjay S. Patel — Chief Financial Officer, Pernix Therapeutics Holdings, Inc.
Elliot H. Wilbur — Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC
Irina Rivkind Koffler — Analyst, Cantor Fitzgerald Securities
Oren Gabriel Livnat — Analyst, JMP Securities LLC
Louise A. Chen — Analyst, Guggenheim Securities LLC
Donald Bruce Ellis — Analyst, Avondale Partners LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Pernix Therapeutics Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call. My name is Karen and I'll be your event specialist today. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. We will conduct a question-and-answer session at the end of the prepared remarks and additional instructions will be provided at that time. As a reminder, this call is being recorded for replay purposes.

On the call today is Doug Drysdale, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Sanjay Patel, Chief Financial Officer.

Please be advised that Pernix has issued a press release this morning containing financial results for the quarter and year ending December 31, 2014. The release, including the financial tables and reconciliation of non-GAAP financial results, is available on the company's website at www.pernixtx.com. The company also expects to file its current report on Form 10-K with the SEC by the end of the day on Monday, March 2.

During today's call, the company will be making forward-looking statements and it is possible that actual results could differ materially from current expectations. Please note that under the Safe Harbor rules, Pernix is under no obligation to update the information contained in these forward-looking statements even if actual results or future expectations change materially.

The company recommends that you refer to the cautionary statements contained in its SEC filings for a more detailed explanation of the inherent limitations of such forward-looking statements. The company will also discuss non-GAAP financial measures during the call. A reconciliation of the company's non-GAAP financial measures can be found in the earnings release issued today.

At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Doug Drysdale to begin the discussion of Pernix's quarterly performance. Doug?

Thank you, Karen. Good morning, everyone. And welcome to the Pernix Therapeutics fourth quarter and full year 2014 conference call. A copy of our press release outlining our financial results and some supporting slides are available now on website at www.pernixtx.com.

This morning, I'll provide an update on our operational and business progress since the close of the third quarter and Sanjay will then provide a more detailed description of our fourth quarter and full year financial results.

As you'll see from our press release, the fourth quarter was a strong quarter, in which we saw meaningful growth, driven by our CNS brands, Treximet and Silenor, leading to a positive full year 2014 close. Specifically, the company's fourth quarter net revenue grew by approximately 125% versus the same period last year. Our full year results were positive as well, with sales increasing 43% compared to 2013, including just four months of Treximet sales.

We met our guidance for 2014 and materially increased our gross margins. Our financial turnaround in 2014 clearly demonstrates that our strategy for growth and our restructuring activities to transform Pernix have been successful. Accordingly, we are reaffirming our guidance for 2015 and Sanjay will cover our guidance in greater detail later in the call.

The Pernix team accelerated activity on many fronts in 2014 and the fourth quarter was no exception. We submitted an sNDA for an expansion of the Treximet label to adolescent patients, continued to drive Silenor prescriptions, changing the trajectory of this product's sales trend, made encouraging progress in managed care and payer initiatives, while evaluating a multitude of business development opportunities, progressing those that are a good strategic fit for Pernix and passing on those that are not.

The fourth quarter of 2014 saw strong progress in our efforts to rebuild Pernix from a regional cough and cold company into a national specialty pharma company initially focused on treating CNS disorders. Fourth quarter net sales of our migraine product, Treximet, were $38.5 million. We saw an almost immediate flattening of the historical declining TRx trend over the fourth quarter, following the initiation of our sales promotion.

In January, we brought on a new Vice President of Sales, who is dedicated to the further development of our sales force. And our new Treximet marketing campaign is now being put into action, focused on the patient. And we fully expect to see growth in prescriptions of this important treatment for migraine sufferers as we move out of the first quarter.

We have continued to make investments in our sales professionals as well as our marketing communication efforts, including a number of consumer initiatives that will take place in the coming months. We also know how important patient access is and plan to surely have samples of Treximet available for the first time since 2011.

In addition, we have initiated a number of programs to reduce the financial burden on patients as well as coverage challenges often seen by physician offices.

Many of these Treximet programs are similar to initiatives we put in place in 2014 to grow our sleep aid Silenor. Our sales professionals have worked hard to educate and increase awareness of Silenor and there remains a great opportunity with both physicians and patients in realizing the benefit of Silenor over traditionally used sleep aids.

Consumer awareness is a priority in 2015 and we have already begun to see the effects of our early programs. Some managed care organizations and PBMs are realizing this benefit particularly around the safety and side effect profile and have instituted guidelines to place Silenor ahead of traditionally prescribed sleep aids that would be realized in the first quarter of 2015.

More specifically, effective January 1, Silenor is now in a preferred position in three out of the top four Medicare Part D plans, offering expanded access to many of the nation's elderly patients suffering from insomnia. Also, effective January 1, the restriction on Silenor coverage at a top payer has been removed, further expanding patients access to Silenor.

Weekly prescription counts of Silenor have increased more than 75% since we began promoting the product in early 2014 and new prescriptions in the fourth quarter increased 113% versus the same period in 2013. In fact, the brand growth trajectory continues to improve, with prescriptions in the last two weeks increasing more than 16% on a weekly run-rate basis.

We plan to continue to progress our efforts, in particular with consumers, through media and online engagement initiatives. I encourage you to take a look at silenor.com, if you have not already done so, to learn about the burden of insomnia and how Silenor works in a different way than more commonly used sleep aids.

With both Treximet and Silenor, as well as Khedezla, patients have a new option in receiving their medication directly to their homes, bypassing the challenges that can occur with some payer formularies. The Pernix pharmacy direct program helps patients and physician offices save time and money in ensuring patients receive their intended prescription. We've been piloting this program for a few months in a few cities and are planning to expand access geographically in the coming months.

Regarding our product development activities, as I mentioned, Pernix submitted an sNDA for the use of Treximet in adolescent patients in the fourth quarter and we expect approval late in the second quarter 2015. Preparations are already underway to launch this new dose of Treximet, providing relief for millions of adolescent patients for which there is no currently improved sumatriptan containing treatment.

We have also commenced the development of an alternative dose version of Treximet, aimed at extending the life span beyond 2018. We are currently in discussions with the FDA to finalize the details of this program and we anticipate it could add years to the life of the brand.

For Silenor, we have initiated an arousability study that will compare cognitive function upon night time awakening in patients taking Silenor versus zolpidem. Additionally, given the safety profile of Silenor, we plan to continue our development programs for taking Silenor over-the-counter. More details will be provided on our Silenor OTC switch plans as we firm up that program. We expect to request a meeting with the FDA to discuss this important program in March 2015.

Finally, our business development efforts continue at a rapid pace, as we evaluate, pursue, and in some cases, decline opportunities in adjacent and complementary specialty areas. Our deal pipeline is dynamic and contains a wide range of active deals at any one time. We currently have multiple opportunities at advanced stages and continue to work in a disciplined manner to acquire additional assets for Pernix.

In summary, our fourth quarter and full year 2014 results show the successful evolution of Pernix. We're continually striving to deliver shareholder value and we remain focused on accelerating revenue growth and profitability. Our current CNS portfolio holds much organic growth potential and when combined with our strong deal pipeline, we are confident 2015 will be another strong year for Pernix.

Now, let me hand the call over to Sanjay to provide more detail on our quarterly and full year financial results. Sanjay?

Thank you, Doug. And again, welcome to everyone on the call.

We are pleased to report that strategic initiatives and business development activities undertaken in 2014 have had a meaningful positive impact on our financial condition and results. As Doug mentioned, strong net sales for Treximet and Silenor drove top line growth during the fourth quarter and full year. This combined with improvements in selling, general and administrative functions, as well as careful restructuring activities, contributed to a record year for net sales and adjusted EBITDA.

As you will see in this morning's press release, net sales for the fourth quarter were $53.8 million, which represents a 71% increase versus the previous quarter and a 125% increase versus the fourth quarter of 2013.

Our gross profit margin for the fourth quarter of 2014 was 72% versus 58% for the same quarter last year. The increase this quarter was primarily driven by the inclusion of Treximet and improved profitability for Silenor.

Turning to the full year 2014, net sales were $121.7 million, up 43% from $84.9 million in the prior year. Net sales for 2014 were ahead of our previously stated guidance, reflecting a strong finish to the year.

Total operating expense in 2014, excluding amortization, was $119.3 million compared to $131.5 million for 2013. Operating expense included SG&A expense of $63 million compared to $62.6 million in 2013. The increase in SG&A was driven by investments in selling and marketing expenses for Treximet and Silenor and legal settlement reserves offset by a reduction in operational and legal expenses. SG&A as a percent of net sales was 52% in 2014 compared to 74% in the prior year.

R&D expense for 2014 was approximately $3.9 million compared with $4.8 million in the prior year. The decrease in overall R&D spend was primarily attributable to the transfer of in-process R&D at Cypress to Brackenridge as part of the sale of certain generic assets in September 2013.

Consistent with prior quarters, we are reporting adjusted operating results, which are non-GAAP measures that we believe are important for evaluating our financial results. 2014 adjusted EBITDA was $23.8 million versus a loss of $5.7 million for the prior year, and in line with our guidance of $22 million to $24 million. On a non-GAAP basis, 2014 adjusted net income was $9.9 million versus an adjusted net loss of $2.2 million last year.

Fourth quarter adjusted EBITDA was $22.9 million versus $1.1 million for the same quarter last year. On a non-GAAP basis, fourth quarter adjusted net income was $14.5 million versus $6.3 million for the fourth quarter of 2013.

As of December 31, 2014, we had cash on hand of $34.9 million with $292.3 million of debt, including $65 million of convertible notes, and $220 million of Treximet notes.

We would also like to update everyone on the GSK matter referenced in this morning's press release. GlaxoSmithKline has claimed that Pernix owes damages relating to an alleged breach of a covenant contained in our Asset Purchase Agreement pertaining to a pre-existing customer. As of December 31, 2014, GSK alleged damages of approximately of $8.5 million related to 2014 sales of Treximet and has indicated that it will have further claims through the end of 2015.

We believe that we have a strong and valid defense against their claims and will vigorously contest their claims if an action is instituted. We're also active in negotiations to resolve this matter.

We have booked a reserve of $3.5 million for 2014 for a legal settlement related to this matter. Any material liability, in excess of our reserve, resulting from this claim, could negatively impact our financial results.

Consistent with our regular practice, our financial guidance does not account for one-time charges, legal settlements and other discreet charges, and we are reaffirming our guidance for this year. Pernix estimates 2015 revenue will be approximately $230 million with adjusted EBITDA of approximately $95 million.

This concludes my prepared remarks. I will now ask the operator to open up the line for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Elliot Wilbur from Needham & Company.

Thanks. Good morning. First question relates to Treximet and probably best addressed by you, Doug, strong performance in fourth quarter. And obviously, if you annualize fourth quarter results, gets you pretty close to what you're guiding to in terms of a full year 2015 sales. Just curious how sustainable you think the 4Q Treximet run rate is? And I guess the reason I asked the question is that, obviously, tracking weekly prescription trends via some of the third-party services, the reported number seems to be quite a bit higher. So, I don't know if there's just a differential in terms of something not been captured or perhaps the gross and net discounts have improved since you acquired the asset, but maybe just comment on the sustainability to the run rate over the balance of 2015. And then, if you have any thoughts on the disconnect between weekly Rx rates and the reported run rate?

Hey. Good morning, Elliot. Yeah, I think we're pretty happy with Treximet results. I'd say that the gross to nets in 2014 were slightly better than we've initially estimated, but our run rate for 2014 is consistent with our prior assumptions in terms of drop through. We're happy with the way things are going with Treximet. We saw – if you look at the weekly prescription trends, we saw, I think, an immediate impact on the declining TRx trend. This product has been declining for a number of years because of lack of promotion. And really, from September right away through the end of the year, we saw a flat line. And that's a pretty quick response.

We're seeing some impact in January from high deductable plans. And that's not really a surprising to see that across the category. And we've got some high deductible coupons in place specifically targeting these patients, samples coming in March, in fact, in the next week or so, and marketing campaign really just kicking off for Treximet. It takes some time to get us things up.

So we could expect it. And in our guidance, we have growth of the brand from about April in our forecast. So we have no real concerns about the problems at all. I think the reception from customers has been fantastic and continues to be so.

Okay. Thanks. And then, if I can follow-up with additional question on strategic activity. Obviously, not expecting you to divulge all the secrets of your deal book. But given that individual CNS product assets remain highly coveted and very expensive, maybe you could just talk about some of the alternatives you're seeing out there that look particularly attractive, I guess, based on asset availability and relative valuation and thinking about additional therapeutic assets and categories outside of the CNS area? And as a follow-up to that, maybe comment as to whether or not you're seeing sort of relative value separation between individual product assets and company valuations?

Okay. Thanks for the question. Deal activity, if anything, since we came into the business has just accelerated. And so it really is getting more and more intense. And I think part of that is, as we've built out the deal team, we're discovering more opportunities. So we see a lot of opportunities out there and much of our focus is around individual assets rather than companies. That's I'd say the majority of it swings that way, still very much a focus in CNS to leverage the current commercial platform.

As we've mentioned before, we like the pain space a lot and we're seeing a lot of activity in the pain space, and we also like women's health. And I think I mentioned before a number of times that we see an opportunity with our current products in migraine, insomnia, and depression to promote those products to OB/GYNs and the addition of the women's health product would help us leverage a new commercial platform.

We're also looking at other specialty areas. I mean those three areas I mentioned are kind of our prime proactive focus, but we get a number of opportunities come through our door in other specialties, other kind of orphan or semi-orphan type areas, where a very small sales force would be required, and we look at those very actively as well.

I think valuations remain relatively high and have done for some time. But certainly as you see with Treximet, we found an opportunity there where we found we can add significant value very quickly. And we're still seeing opportunities like that, including opportunities that we are looking at where we're not in active sell processes, where we're either alone or maybe one of just a couple of interested bidders rather than a full on sell process. And that's obviously something we prefer.

So I don't think there's any real negative change in the deal environment. If anything, our activity is higher than it has been in 2014.

Okay. Thanks and just one last question for Sanjay. Looking at the adjusted EBITDA, and I guess more specifically adjusted net income numbers that you're beginning to report now, if my calculation is correct, they come up with an effective tax rate on the adjustments of somewhere around 19%. So that would obviously imply that the effective marginal tax rate on – the Treximet amortization is a quite a bit lower. Maybe if you could just give us a little bit better sense of sort of how that asset's been accounted for? And if possible, maybe just give me a better sense of kind of what the marginal tax rate assumption is on the amortization expense?

Sure. Thanks, Elliot, for the question. First thing I'd point out is that we had four months of Treximet at the end of last year. The way to think about this is the purchase price of approximately $250 million is being amortized over 3.2 years and that provides about $80 million of tax shield per year. So looking forward for 2015, there are two different tax rates that you have to factor in when you look at the different add backs. Add backs that are – within the U.S. infrastructure, our tax that are 37% marginal rate add backs that flow through Ireland are taxed at 12.5%. The blended rate is approximately 24%, still subject to revision by EY. They provide us estimates there. But the way to think about it when you do the math is really just to use that $80 million tax shield for this year and then back into your effective rate from there. Does that help?

Yes. Thank you. Thanks for taking the questions.

Thanks, Elliot.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Irina Koffler from Cantor Fitzgerald.

Hi. Good morning. Just wanted to check if there was any inventory stocking for Treximet or Silenor in the quarter? And could you characterize the prescription volume of these brands through your pharmacy direct program? Is there some number of prescriptions that we're not seeing? Thanks very much.

Thanks, Irina. This is Doug. Thanks for the question. No, we have no unusual inventory levels at this point in time. Things are kind of run of the mill, normal course of business. In terms of the pharmacy direct plan, it's still in early stages. We've been piloting it in a few cities and so prescription levels are relatively small compared to national picture. And the reason for doing that is we've been working on fine-tuning the different parameters to tackle different aspects of the product dynamics. And we have different objectives for each of the products. For Treximet, trying to avoid generic sumatriptan, naproxen split. For Silenor, we're avoiding doxepin 10 milligram dispensing. And for both those products, we're also trying to drive new demand and switching from other brands. So we have different objectives. And while trying to meet those objectives, we're playing with the different parameters to make sure we get it right before we roll it out nationally.

So far on a small scale, we've seen an increase in fill rate of about 25% with prescriptions in those pilots where we've been testing the program. So it's very encouraging. We're still fine-tuning. But over the next couple of months, I think we'll be rolling it out more nationally to create a new channel and build relationships directly with patients.

And then, just as a follow up, is the SG&A run rate that we saw this quarter, is that a good proxy for next year?

Yeah. There should be no real increase in the SG&A. The only element in that SG&A is the – that's been unusual is the GSK reserve that's in there, but other than that the operating cost should remain pretty stable.

Okay. Thank you.

Thanks, Irina.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Oren Livnat from JMP Securities.

Hi, guys. Thanks for taking the question and congrats on a solid quarter. Can you help maybe us better understand the Glaxo issue? I guess what are the dynamics there? I guess they're claiming a certain amount of damages for 2014. Is that related to some certain percent of sales so we can maybe try to start extrapolating through 2015 what their additional claims might be?

Yeah. Oren, thanks for joining the call. Thanks for the question. So, I can't say too much about the situation. It's evolving. We have a very good relationship with GSK and they're obviously an important supplier to us. And I want to respect their confidentiality. We've only really gotten the legal team involved within the last week or so. So it's still fairly fresh. We've got a clear picture of 2014. 2015 is a bit uncertain, but, I mean, I assume you could take 2014 and look at that going forward. But it's hard to say really just because we – it's still evolving. So the dispute is a discrete commercial matter. It's really involves one contract, one customer. And as I say, we have a good relationship with GSK and I'm confident that we will resolve the matter.

All right. Thanks. I guess that maybe or maybe not speaks to the gross net discounts, I'm not sure, on Treximet. The first question asked about that level and whether that's sustainable. I guess by my math, it's about a 25% discount from WAC we saw this quarter and you commented that it's turned out better than you expected. Can you help us understand that? I mean, obviously, you're contracting with payers and doing a co-pay assistance. So, do you have a good sense of what this real underlying sustainable go-forward gross to net discount off of WAC should be?

So, what we've always said is that when we implemented our price increase, we expected a net kind of doubling of the price after discounts and rebates. And that's gradually come into effect. Some of the contracts that we put in place over the end of 2014 came into effect at different points in time, so kind of phased in. So, that's why you're seeing some sort of slight inflation [ph] of growth in it (26:19) in some ways because those contracts came in at different times. So for 2015, I'd just use that same assumption that net pricing per unit should be roughly two times what we saw historically before the price increase.

Maybe I don't have a good grasp of what the net pricing was before you put the pricing in, can you help me there?

Yeah. At the moment, we're running at about 65% gross to net and you can see the net sales in our release. And I'd say, it's going to come down a little bit from there, but not too much.

All right. Thanks so much.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Louise Chen from Guggenheim.

Hi. Thanks for taking my questions. I had a few. So, first question I had was with respect to the GSK breach of covenant. I was just curious if you could give a little bit more color with the contract and the customer, what they're alleging that you breached, if you could do that please? And then secondly, with respect to Treximet, the longevity of the product, you talked about alternate dosage form. Can you talk about your strategy behind that? Are you going to pull the existing product from the market? Is this a compelling opportunity where you think patients will just switch on their own? Like, how should we think about the switch rate? And then lastly just on Silenor, what are you thinking of peak sales potential of both brand and OTC for that product? Thanks.

Hey, Louise. Good morning. Thank. Thanks for joining. Thanks for the question. So, let's take these one at a time. On the GSK matter, I really can't say any more than I've already said. As I mentioned, it's a discreet matter. It seems to be a very isolated matter and we're confident we'll resolve it. I have to respect confidentiality and we're in the process of negotiations and discussions. So I can't say any more than I've already said.

Regarding Treximet, so where we are with that is that we've – with the alternate dose form is that we've submitted a briefing document to the FDA with our plans and we requested a meeting. They told us the meeting's not necessary, which is always good, sufficient. And we should get some responses back from them by the end of April on our plans to develop that dose form. So I can't say too much about what it is because we're obviously concerned about generic competition and giving generics a heads up. But our plan would be – with the current document that we've submitted to the FDA, the plan would be to remove the existing product from the market. And I don't want to get too much into the rationale and the way we would do that just yet until we finalize those plans with FDA, but that is the plan. It wouldn't be a switch strategy. It would be a replacement strategy.

And currently, if we go down the path that we've proposed to FDA, we expect the final study report and the completion of those studies in March 2016 roughly, March or April 2016. That'll give you some idea of timeline and also the work that we've been doing. And Silenor, Silenor is really – I think that the channel I think – quite honestly, we're far, far from reaching peak sales of Silenor in our view. And we continuously look at what we're doing and question ourselves, whether we're doing enough. That's really the main question for us. Are we spending enough on marketing? Do we have enough sales people there on the product? At the moment, the product has something like 0.1% market share of the sleep aid market. So it's an incredibly small part of the market and we think it has a substantial upside potential compared to other sleep aids that clearly became a lot larger. So hard to put a number on it right now because we're at such very early stages of launch and we still have significant amount of managed care access potential for improvement. And so at this stage, it's still a long way to go before we start to put a number on the peak.

In terms of OTC, again, I think it's a very large opportunity. About 10% of adults in the U.S. take some form of sleep aid and most of those are over-the-counter. There's not really an equivalent as to Silenor that's available over-the-counter, most of these products, older than our, are different forms of diphenhydramine combined with other products. And we're seeing some good success with some of those brands that have been launched OTC, for example, [ph] Zequil (31:09) sold I think about $100 million in the first year. So I think there's a lot of potential OTC there. And we're quite some way from launch of that product. It would be around 2018, 2019. So it's a little bit early to be giving commercial forecast for that product at this stage.

Okay. Thank you very much.

Thanks, Louise.

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of [ph] Mohan Placket from Velsef Capital (31:35).

Hi, guys. I have just two questions. How much debt capacity do you have before you have got equity markets for the deals you have in the pipeline? And you said bulk of the deals are product based and not, say, for an acquisition of a company. So I'm guessing inversion is not something that you're looking for 2015?

Maybe I'll start with the overall strategy and you talk about capacity, Sanjay.

Sure.

So just in terms of strategy, you're right, [ph] Mohan (32:10), we have continued debt capacity. We're currently today leveraged about three times 2015 EBITDA and we expect to be around two times 2015 EBITDA by the end of the year. So, we're deleveraging pretty quickly. Our focus is on products and on marketing products in particular. And so we're always able to leverage those assets as we bring them in. At some point deals get to a certain size where some equity maybe preferable to keep the leverage down, but I can't see us raising equity outside of a deal acquisition, quite honestly. What was your other question? Sorry.

I can take the other one. So, regarding debt capacity, I think if you look in the indentures that we have for our Treximet notes, it's a good guidepost for our comfort level. In general, and this is a broad overarching statement, we're comfortable going up to a leverage of around 4 to 4.5 times. The key with levering up a business is being able to delever quickly. As you'll see with the Treximet notes, we structured those in a way for a very rapid pay down. And as Doug alluded to, we'll go from three times gross leverage currently to about two times by the end of this year.

The other thing I'd point out is that our convertible notes are long in the tooth. So at some point, there may be an opportunity to do something there. But in general, if we've got assets that are bringing cash flow to the table, we'll use debt to the extent possible and we'll use equity sparingly and cautiously. We're shareholders just like you. [ph]

Mohan, (33:58) did that answer your question?

Yeah. I had another question on inversion. Is that something that is an active possibility for 2015?

Yeah, that was the one that I skipped. So, yeah, we still believe that as we look at deals and the deals get larger and we become more acquisitive, particularly in M&A rather than products and acquisitions, that we need to work to keep our cost of capital down and to have an efficient tax structure. So that's important to be competitive when you look at who we're competing against. So, yes, inversions are still on the radar screen. We have looked at many and we've rejected many. And the reason for that is that we're not going to be acquiring companies based upon tax structure alone. We look at those opportunities for a good strategic fit and they must have a good growth potential that doesn't slow the growth of the rest of the business, as well as having – help with tax optimization. So, still very much on the table and we keep looking for the right one.

I have just one more question. If there is one or two main things that – so you've looked at a lot of deals. If there's one or two things that is the main roadblock for the deal to go forward, what could that be?

In terms of inversions?

No, no, in terms of deals in general that you have in the pipeline.

I think, if anything, we haven't seen too many of that ended completely. I think if we look back over the last six months, there's may be one that we lost out on to really timing more than anything else. We're in the middle of closing Treximet. And there are a couple of others that we walked away from because of price and we saw those close at prices far beyond of what we would have paid and we'll see how those deals play out as those companies integrate those products. I'd say that the biggest hurdle in terms of timing for us is just seller reluctance or seller apprehension, seller speed, often as we see sellers working at a pace that is different to ours. So, right now, we're not seeing too many other roadblocks apart from the usual due diligence and valuation that you'd expect us to go through as we evaluate opportunities.

Okay. Thank you.

Thanks, [ph] Mohan (36:34).

Thank you. And our next question is a follow-up from the line of Elliot Wilbur from Needham.

Sure. Thanks. And maybe just a follow-up on the earlier line of question around the Treximet alternative dosage form. It looks like based on the slide deck you put out today that you're hopeful for a Q2 2017 launch of that formulation. But between now and then, is there anything that we on the outside looking in will get in terms of visibility on that product, whether it be simply being posted on clinicaltrials.gov or maybe something that gives us a little bit of information and detail on exactly what that strategy may be?

Yeah, it's a good question, Elliott. So, some of that will come down to the FDA's responses. So what we propose with FDA is a program where we run an efficacy study for the new dose form with the goal of achieving or obtaining some marketing exclusivity. If that's not possible to gain actual marketing exclusivity from FDA, then we would not run the study and save the money, of course. But I think even in that situation, we're pretty sure that because of timing that it would take some time for generics companies to formulate a new dose form, run bias studies, re-file the generic application and get approval, given generic approval is a fairly long time. We still see a fair amount of de facto exclusivity in the marketplace. So, either way, we see an opportunity to expand and extend the lifecycle of Treximet, but the amount of disclosure in terms of clinical studies will just depend upon FDA's response to us by end of April.

Sure. Got it. And then just one additional follow-up here on Treximet as well. Ordinarily pediatric extensions are something that's greeted with a big yawn in the financial community in terms of having a meaningful impact on a particular product. But looking at the data metrics that are available that may not be the case with Treximet, it seems like the product is very underrepresented in the pediatric population versus the rest of the triptan world. And I'm just wondering if you have plans to maybe alter the current call pattern to address that, and what you think is realistic in term of potentially an incremental bump up from the pediatric extension?

We're currently evolving our co-plan. So our co-plan from January onwards, for example, is different than it was in September, just small tweaks as we shift from kind of existing prescribers out to new potential prescribers. And so, we're evaluating what that co-plan should be for the launch of the adolescent dose kind of mid-year-ish. And so, yeah, we'll be looking to find ways to optimize calls on the right customers for that.

And I agree with you, I think that the – it's great to be able to provide access to adolescent patients to an approved combination product, the first combination product for migraine approved in adolescents, but also from a marketing point of view as well as being a new indication. I think just having something new to say about a drug that has not been promoted at all for several years is good for the sales teams to have fresh information to share with physicians that helps with access and just helps overall awareness of the brand. So we're excited about the indication.

Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Donald Ellis from Avondale Partners.

Thank you very much and good morning. Few questions, most have been answered, obviously. With respect to research and development expense in the quarter, is that a reasonable number to use for 2015 quarters?

I'm sorry. I was distracted. Can you repeat the question?

Research and development, $2.2 million in the quarter. Is that a reasonable number to use for 2015?

The way I would look at is the following. We have two broad programs for Silenor and Treximet progressing through 2015 and 2016. And those two programs together, which include the OTC study, the arousability study, the sNDA for Treximet, et cetera, should be about $25 million in total spend over two years. So I would expect somewhere in the neighborhood of $10 million to $15 million for this year and $10 million and $15 million next year.

Next, regarding the reserve you funded for the Glaxo litigation. Was that in SG&A in this quarter?

Yes, it was.

Okay, great. The last question is about regarding the interest expense for the quarter. I'm having a hard time reconciling it, because I assume none of it was result of the $220 million note that starts in February 2015. So what was the $10 million included interest expense?

Yeah. So, the $10 million is mostly the – there's a portion from the Treximet notes because as you're aware, those are interest only until August of this year and the balance is from two different components, the 8% on the $65 million convertible notes and then various amounts drawn under our revolver during the period.

You're right, that, Don, the first interest payments on the Treximet notes were February. So it's the revolver and the convertible.

Got it. Okay. Last one, did I hear – was it, Doug, that you had said that you're expecting that the new launch program for Treximet to start to accelerate prescriptions around April?

Yeah, hopefully, before that, but that's what we have in our internal forecast. I was trying to be a bit more conservative. And we always assume that the beginning of the year, as you've seen in the last several years for many products now, beginning of the year, it's tough with so many high deductible plans now in play since kind of the financial crisis, seems to be the new pattern. So we would expect an the impact in the beginning of the year. So in our internal model, we've got April. And part of that is, I think, to samples as well, which come in March. So, it was just always Silenor. We had an initial kind of uptick from initial promotion. When samples kicked in, it kicked up again. When the marketing campaign kicked in, it kicked up again. And we expect to see the same with Treximet. So that's kind of the way we've laid out our internal forecast.

When last year did you guys re-launch Silenor? What quarter?

We first started promoting with the sales team in May.

Okay. And that's what they started taking off. Okay. That's all my questions. Thank you very much.

Great. Thanks, Don.

Thank you. At this time, there are no more questions. This concludes today's Pernix Therapeutics earnings conference call. Thank you and have a nice day.