Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Tracy Simmons Clifford — Vice President of Accounting and Corporate Controller, Pernix Therapeutics Holdings, Inc.
Douglas L. Drysdale — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Pernix Therapeutics Holdings, Inc.
Louise A. Chen — Analyst, Guggenheim Securities LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning and welcome to the Pernix Therapeutics First Quarter 2014 Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. All lines have been placed on mute. [Operator Instructions]

At this time, I'd like to turn the conference call over to the company's Principal Accounting Officer, Tracy Clifford. Please go ahead.

Thank you, and welcome to Pernix Therapeutics' first quarter 2014 financial results conference call. On the call today with me is Doug Drysdale, President and CEO.

Before we begin, I would like to point out that the company issued a press release this morning containing financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2014. The release, including the financial tables and reconciliation of non-GAAP financial results is available on the company's website at www.pernixtx.com. The company also expects to file its current report on Form 10-Q with the SEC by the end of the day today.

Before we begin, allow me to read the following Safe Harbor statement. This call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Statements including words such as estimate, plan, project, forecast, intend, expect, anticipate, believe, seek, target, or similar expressions are forward-looking statements. Because these statements reflect the company's current views, expectations and beliefs concerning future events, these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties.

Investors should note that many factors, as more fully described under the caption Risk Factors in our Form 10-K, Form 10-Q, and Form 8-K filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and as otherwise enumerated herein or therein, could affect the company's future financial results and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements contained in the company's quarterly report on Form 10-Q. The forward-looking statements in this press release are qualified by these risk factors. These are factors that individually or in the aggregate can cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. The company assumes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.

During the call, we may also discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures such as EBITDA. The company believes that EBITDA which we define as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization is a meaningful non-GAAP financial measure.

At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Doug Drysdale to begin our discussion of the company's quarterly performance. Doug?

Thank you, Tracy. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to this morning's call. I'll be providing updates on our business activities included in this morning's press release as well as commentary on our activities since the close of the quarter, including the launch of our new product KHEDEZLA for major depressive disorder. Later in the call, Tracy will provide a more detailed description of our first quarter financial results.

The first quarter 2014 saw several actions aimed at reshaping and repositioning Pernix for future growth. Good progress has been made and further actions to reduce our G&A spending run rate and improved margins will continue through at least midyear, with benefits being realized in the third quarter.

In addition, we are working to drive revenue growth through price increases and improved promotional activity on our core brand. At the end of April, we relaunched our non-narcotic insomnia product, SILENOR, and introduced our new product for major depressive disorder, KHEDEZLA, to high-prescribing psychiatrists and primary care physicians. These launches are important milestones in leveraging greater value from our professional sales team and establishing Pernix in the CNS and psychiatry space.

Over the past three months, the management team has taken several actions including reshaping the company's board of directors to include new directors with pharmaceutical experience that can support management as the company seeks to make product acquisitions. During the quarter, the company announced the addition of John Sedor and Tasos Konidaris to its board. We are pleased to have such seasoned directors on the Pernix team.

In terms of management, we have added several new executives including Terry Novak as Chief Operating Officer, and Rick Shalaby as Senior VP of Sales and Marketing, as well as filling other key positions in compliance, supply chain and marketing.

We entered into an agreement with Cardinal to exclusively manage our distribution and logistics. The company will close its distribution centers in Magnolia, Texas, and Madison, Mississippi by June 30, 2014, resulting in net cost savings thereafter. We completed the sale of our Houston-based manufacturing facility, the Woodfield Pharmaceutical, which we expect to provide the company with approximately $5 million in annual operating savings.

We had performed detailed market analysis of each of our products, branded and generic, and have implemented price increases and several core products. This will improve the margins on these products for the rest of 2014 as fresh inventory reaches the channel. We have entered into a lease agreement for office space to relocate our corporate headquarters from Houston, Texas to Morristown, New Jersey, an area rich in pharmaceutical talent, providing the company with a sustainable pool of experienced employees as the company expands its specialty brands offerings.

We launched KHEDEZLA ER Tablets for major depressive disorder, at the end of April. KHEDEZLA or venlafax desvenlafaxine is a bioequivalent version of Pristiq, a product with sales of approximately $700 million in 2013. Pernix's team of 90 sales professionals is targeting high prescribers of Pristiq, including select psychiatrists and primary care physicians. We're also implementing our trade and managed care strategies to enter a good channel distribution and reimbursement coverage.

And, finally, we are excited to be re-launching SILENOR, the company's non-narcotic insomnia product to high-prescribing psychiatrists and primary care physicians, further leveraging our sales organization within the specialist community. We now have all 90 sales professionals promoting SILENOR, and have engaged a marketing agency to help us reengineer our marketing campaign or implementation later in the year.

These actions and many others are the pillars of our base business turnaround. We expect strong sales and improved margins in the second half of 2014 supported by recent price increases. Combined with the actions we have taken to reduce our operating costs, Pernix expects to deliver improved margins over 2013. We are making good progress, and I look forward to sharing more news with you as the year unfolds.

Over to Tracy now for the first quarter 2014 financial results.

Thank you, Doug. For the first quarter of 2014, net revenues decreased by approximately 14% to $19.1 million, compared to $22.1 million for the first quarter of 2013. Net product revenues consisted of 58% revenue contribution from generic products and 42% revenue contribution from branded products in the first quarter. We realized increases in gross sales revenue for CEDAX and SILENOR and certain other branded generic products as a result of price increases partially offset by decreases in revenue from certain legacy cough and cold products that were phased out in 2013.

The increase in gross product sales revenue of approximately $2 million was offset by an increase in revenue deductions of approximately $4.4 million and a decrease in other revenues such as manufacturing and co-promotion revenue of approximately $600,000.

The increase in gross to net deductions is primarily due to an increase in price adjustments of approximately $4 million, which is attributable to our coupon program. We changed our coupon program in January 2014 to increase the pay no more than value to the customer. And we also added our authorized generics for CEDAX and ZUTRIPRO to the program. This increased our coupon redemption expense significantly on our cough and cold products. We're currently benchmarking our coupon program against our competitors and will be making adjustments this month to our coupon caps to reduce our redemption cost on these products moving forward.

In addition to coupon cost, we also realized increases in our customer admin fees, managed care rebate expense, product returns and government rebates, all of which were primarily attributed to the product price increases. The increases in these deduction were offset by decreases in customer rebates, chargebacks and other discounts as a result of the product sales mix.

For the first quarter of 2014, we are reporting a net loss of approximately $9.5 million or $0.26 per basic and diluted share, compared to a net loss of approximately $7.9 million or $0.23 per basic and diluted share for the first quarter of 2013.

The first quarter 2014 loss included an impairment charge on the carrying value of our manufacturing facility of approximately $6.5 million. As Doug previously noted, we closed on the sale of this facility on April, the 21st.

We believe that adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP measure, is important in evaluating our financial results. For the three months ended March 31, 2014, adjusted EBITDA was a non-GAAP net loss of $2 million or $0.05 per basic and diluted share. The adjustments between EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA for the three months ended March 31, 2014, included approximately $1.9 million of stock-based compensation expense and $1.6 million in the cost of sales related to the increase in the basis of inventory in connection with the acquisitions of Cypress, Hawthorn and Somaxon.

For the quarter ended March 31, 2013, adjusted EBITDA was a non-GAAP net loss of $1.4 million or $0.04 per basic and diluted share. The adjustments between EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA for this period included approximately $400,000 in transaction expenses in connection with our acquisitions, $700,000 of stock-based compensation expense, $3.8 million in amortization of the increase in the basis of inventory related to the acquisitions, $2.1 million related to the increase in the value of the put right in connection with the Cypress-Hawthorn acquisition, partially offset by a change in the fair value of contingent consideration and connection with the Cypress-Hawthorn acquisition of approximately $300,000.

Cost of product sales was approximately $10 million for the first quarter of 2014 as compared to $13 million for the same period last year. This resulted in a gross margin of 56% for the first quarter of 2014 compared to a gross margin of 57% for the first quarter of 2013. This calculated gross margin for both periods excludes the cost of sales attributed to the sales of the acquired inventory for Cypress-Hawthorn and Somaxon, which has a significantly higher basis than the inventory purchased post-closing.

The remaining increase in the basis of the inventory acquired in connection with Cypress and Hawthorn acquisition is approximately $1.1 million, and will be amortized on a pro rata basis as the acquired inventory continues to be sold and included in cost of sales on those periods.

Selling, general and administrative expenses in the first quarter of 2014 decreased by approximately $500,000 to $13.6 million compared to $14.1 million for the first quarter of 2013. Overall compensation expense represented approximately $7.9 million or 58% and $6.8 million or 49% of total SG&A for the respective periods.

The increase in overall compensation expense of approximately $1 million is primarily related to the issuance of stock options to members of the new management team and the acceleration of the vesting of the options issued to our former CEO upon his departure, partially offset by a decrease in base compensation as a result of consolidation and integration of certain Cypress positions after the three months ended March 31, 2013.

The increase in overall compensation expense was offset by a decrease in other SG&A expenses of approximately $1.5 million, which was primarily a result of the decrease in professional and legal fees of approximately $1.2 million and a decrease in deal expenses of approximately $400,000.

Depreciation and amortization expense was $2.2 million for the first quarter of 2014 compared to $1.8 million for the prior year period. The company recognized an income tax benefit of $5.9 million in the first quarter of 2014 compared to an income tax benefit of $3.1 million in the first quarter of 2013.

Weighted average common shares outstanding for the quarter-ended March 31, 2014 was 37.3 million per basic and diluted share as compared to 35.1 million basic and diluted share for the same quarter over the prior year.

As of March 31, 2014, the company had cash balances of approximately $55.9 million and approximately $5 million outstanding under its credit facility, which was subsequently paid. We currently do not have any balance drawn under our credit facility.

That concludes my financial review this morning. And, now, I'll turn the call back over to Doug.

Thank you, Tracy. That'll conclude our prepared remarks for this morning. And, now, I'll ask the operator to please open the line for questions. Thanks.

Thank you, sir. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Louise Chen of Guggenheim. Your line is now open.

Hi. Thanks for taking my questions. So I just had a few. First, when was the exact timing when the price increases became effective? Just want to make sure we're modeling that going forward. And then, secondly, your CFO search, any update there? And then lastly on the gross margin, when should we start to see that improve meaningfully throughout 2014? Thanks.

Morning, Louise. Thanks for your questions. In terms of timing of price increases, we took the majority of them right at the end of 2013. And then I think the SILENOR price increases – and, Tracy, you can correct me if I'm slightly off on timing, the SILENOR price increases came in, in the beginning of January – end of January, sorry, along with ZUTRIPRO. And we initiated second SILENOR price increase in April, I believe, Tracy? March or April. So it's – all of them were implemented by the end of the first quarter with the majority being at the end of 2013.

In terms of the CFO search, it's ongoing, active, and we have had plenty of good candidates, still trying to find the ideal fit. It is important to have the right chemistry and the right person when you have a fairly small management team. So that's an active and ongoing search with lots of good candidates.

And the gross margins, I think you'll see gross margins increased from here on in. I think we would have seen a good increase in the first quarter if it were not for the coupon issue that Tracy mentioned. That's really a one-time event that we've now corrected. But price increases are really starting to take effect now as the depression inventory comes through the channel and we should see margin improve from here on in. So thanks for your question, Louise.

Doug, I just wanted to add just a few points for Louise's modeling. On the SILENOR, Louise, we did have an increase effective of 11/26, and then we'll have another increase in April, effective just at the beginning of April, April 2. And then on CEDAX, our increase went in 10/01 of 2013, and then we had some other increases on some of the other products, some of our generic portfolio that went into play in December of 2013, and then a few of our cough and cold products that went in, in February 2014. So a little bit varied across the board but the core products were CEDAX in October of 2013 and then SILENOR, as I mentioned, in November and then, again, in April.

But can you elaborate a little bit more on the magnitude of the price increase, just to help us with modeling?

Yes, just one second. So on the CEDAX, we actually took in October, it was actually right at 100%...

Okay.

...price increase on the WACC there and, SILENOR, the November increase was 30%. And then the generic price increases were varied across several products that I would say it's safe to say that it was between 90% and a 100% on some of those lower cost generics. And then some of our cough and cold products that we increased in November, was a 60% increase there.

Thank you.

And then on the point that Doug made on the coupon, we've made the changes to hopefully right-size those changes we made there, but it will likely take about 30 days for us to be able to see that just as that change works its way through the reset and couponing system and all the new materials are out there. So we're hoping that we'll see the effective change by mid-June.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] At this time, I'm showing no further questions. I'd like to turn the call back to management for any further remarks.

So I think that concludes the call for today. As I've said during our comments, first quarter is really the beginning of the turnaround. I think we've made some good actions to solidify our base business and we've made them very quickly. We're starting start to see the impacts of those changes now. And we've been very active at looking for deals, looking for new products which we expect to add over the coming months. So thanks for joining the call. Thanks for the questions and look forward to giving you an update next quarter.

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. This does conclude today's program. You may all disconnect. Everyone, have a wonderful day.

Thank you.

You're welcome.