Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Tracy Simmons Clifford — Vice President of Accounting and Corporate Controller, Pernix Therapeutics Holdings, Inc.
Michael Cooper Pearce — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Pernix Therapeutics Holdings, Inc.
Irina Rivkind — Analyst, Cantor Fitzgerald Securities
Louise A. Chen — Analyst, Guggenheim Securities LLC
Josh J. Riegelhaupt — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Pernix Therapeutics Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

I will now turn the call over to your host, Principal Accounting Officer, Tracy Clifford. Please go ahead.

Thank you and welcome to the Pernix Therapeutics' third quarter 2013 conference call. On the call today with me is Mike Pearce, Chairman and CEO.

Before we begin, I would like to point out that the company issued a press release this morning containing financial results for the quarter and year-to-date period ended September 30, 2013. The release, including the financial tables and reconciliation of non-GAAP financials is available on the company's website at www.pernixtx.com. The company also expects to file its current report on Form 10-Q with the SEC by the end of the day.

Before we begin, allow me to read the following Safe Harbor statement. This call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Statements including words such as estimate, plan, project, forecast, intend, expect, anticipate, believe, seek, target, or similar expressions are forward-looking statements. Because these statements reflect the company's current views, expectations and beliefs concerning future events, these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties.

Investors should note that many factors, as more fully described under the caption Risk Factors in our Form 10-K, Form 10-Q, and Form 8-K filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and as otherwise enumerated herein or therein could affect the company's future financial results and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements contained in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K or our other SEC filings or other public statements.

The forward-looking statements are qualified by these risk factors. The company assumes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future developments, or otherwise.

During the call, we may also discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures such as EBITDA. The company believes that EBITDA, which we define as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, is a meaningful non-GAAP financial measure.

At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Mike to begin our discussion of the company's quarterly performance.

Thanks, Tracy. During this morning's call, I will provide updates on key business activities included in our press release this morning, plus offer additional color on developments subsequent to the close of the quarter. Later in the call, Tracy will provide more detailed review of our financial results for the quarter and year-to-date period ended September 30, 2013.

First, let me provide you the brief overview regarding the closing of our sale of certain non-core Cypress generic assets to Breckenridge. As I mentioned on our last earnings call, one of our critical objectives was to divest certain non-core assets. Under the terms of the agreement, Breckenridge paid Pernix $29.7 million, net of certain customary closing and transition costs with approximately $20 million at or prior to closing on September 11, 2013, and $9.7 million, which is to be paid in two equal installments over the next two years on the anniversary dates of the closing. We also enjoy flexibility to monetize these future payments, if desirable. Pernix retained approximately 65% of 2013 Cypress product portfolio revenues. This transaction enabled us to pay off the outstanding balance of $7.7 million under our term loan and moved the company forward with a fortified balance sheet.

Since our last quarterly earnings call, in addition to the Breckenridge transaction, we completed several important initiatives that are expected to sharpen focus and further secure the company's financial and competitive position. These initiatives include the following: licensing of rights for our Dr. Cocoa OTC cough product candidate to Infirst Healthcare; entry into a co-promotion agreement with Cumberland Pharmaceuticals for our Omeclamox GI product; FDA acceptance of our R&D application to begin the clinical trial for our late-stage pediatric product in development; achievement of sequential SG&A reduction of approximately $2.0 million from Q2 to Q3, pursuant to our expense reduction plan. We continue to methodically evaluate additional opportunities to further reduce SG&A expenses. As I emphasized on our call last quarter, we will not compromise future growth prospects.

A few additional thoughts; as discussed during our previous earnings call, we made a strategic decision that Pernix will not independently launch Dr. Cocoa at retail. We do not have discretionary resources to prudently and effectively launch Dr. Cocoa in the U.S. OTC market. As you know, to do this type of launch the right way in a highly competitive market with DTC advertising, would require substantial investment and that is not consistent with our pledge of rigorous financial discipline and capital allocation at this time.

As an attractive alternative, we are pleased to announce an agreement with Infirst Healthcare. We were able to succeed in our objective to share an upside economics, while ceding operational control and launch expense to another party. This decision on Dr. Cocoa will enable us to focus on our branded and generic business and on improving sales force productivity. We are excited about the prospects for Dr. Cocoa, under the command of Infirst CEO, Manfred Scheske, formerly the President of consumer health for GlaxoSmithKline, and backed by investment giant, Invesco. Further details can be found in our 10-Q filing.

In the subsequent events column, we entered into a promising co-promotion agreement with Cumberland Pharmaceuticals regarding our Omeclamox product in early November. The Pernix sales force will continue to market the product to primary care physicians, and Cumberland will focus on the GI segment of providers. The Cumberland folks have been first class to work with, and we believe this relationship can transcend the typical co-pro dynamic. Additional details can also be found in our 10-Q filing.

Let me turn to our pediatric product in development. We received welcome news on November 5, that the FDA has completed the review of our IND submissions and has concluded that the clinical trial may proceed. This is a few weeks later than previously anticipated, but this delay is not meaningful in the grand scheme of things. We expect to begin dosing our first patient in this pediatric upper respiratory clinical trial in late November or early December 2013. For competitive reasons, we will disclose detailed information on the clinical study when the clinical study design is publicly available on clinical.gov (sic) [clinicaltrials.gov] (8:19), approximately 45 days from the November 5 FDA letter.

As previously discussed, Pernix believes the revenue potential of this product maybe transformative for the company. We look forward to providing you with an update on this clinical study in the first quarter of 2014. For competitive reasons, there doesn't appear to be an upside to providing more detail today, but we think we're on the right track and have received confirming input from larger industry participants, while protected by confidentiality agreements. We also continue to do our work towards advancing Silenor as a candidate for an Rx to OTC switch and we remain excited about the potential of this product as well.

On the financial front, we're proving that we can reduce expenses intelligently and continuously. For example, SG&A expenses during Q3 were $11.7 million adjusted to $11.1 million when excluding approximately $600,000 of one-time expenses related to the Breckenridge transaction. That's compared to SG&A in Q2 of $13.1 million for a sequential period reduction of approximately $2 million. In addition, we have implemented net personnel reductions, which will generate additional annualized savings of approximately $2 million as separation costs abate at the conclusion of 2013. We managed this accomplishment while re-hiring on the revenue producing side in the field sales force.

And a final comment on the topic of expenses. As part of a continuing review of operations, we believe that significant expense reduction opportunities can be targeted in areas of manufacturing, logistics, distribution, supply chain, sales process and corporate overhead during the balance of 2013 and Q1 of 2014. A natural reaction is to assume automatic head count reductions and sometimes this is true. But process and asset management solutions often deliver bigger rewards and are more sustainable.

For instance, we've been very candid including during the Q2 earnings conference call that our manufacturing facility operates at unacceptably low levels of utilization and is a drag on our income statement. While the traditional range of solutions could be considered, an avenue we are investigating is a capacity joint venture. The idea being that another similarly situated specialty pharma company interested in controlling their own manufacturing supply destiny could help fill the facility with orders and deliver economies that drive down COGS for all participants, ramp utilization and facility-level employment to create value. No assurances where all this leads, but other similar possibilities exist in areas such as supply chain and contract sales organizations as well. The point being, in summary, that we have a long way to go and many opportunities to harvest, when it comes to expense reduction to further enhance the income statement of Pernix in 2014 and beyond. That's the expense side.

Turning to revenue, we're not satisfied. You are your record. And our record of meeting quarterly expectations on revenue has not been acceptable over a long period of time. You can shrink your way to solvency, but you need to grow your way to prosperity. We believe we have compelling major value drivers in upcoming years, the pediatric development prospect and potential Silenor OTC switch to name just two. But we simply need to do more with what we have in the meantime and augment the current product offering with tactical ads.

In mid-September, we made organizational changes on the sales side and have also made some pricing strategy and tactical adjustments to improve sales force execution. This leads us to the unwelcome reduction in revenue guidance for 2013, which we disclosed in the earnings release earlier this morning and which Tracy will describe in greater detail, along with the mitigating factors.

Pernix is a collection of valuable assets in our view, but we need to be more than a collection. In order for the company to eventually be viewed as more than the sum of its parts, we need to do a better job of optimizing these assets and achieving internal leverage to drive returns and achieve necessary scale. We are committed to doing just that and improvements are underway.

I will now turn the call over to Tracy for a more detailed review of our results for the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2013.

Thanks, Mike. I will begin with the discussion of net revenues. The company's net revenues increased 1% to $18.3 million in the third quarter of 2013, compared to $18.1 million for the third quarter of 2012. The company experienced growth in net revenues due to sales revenues of branded and generic products that the company acquired from Cypress Hawthorn and the Silenor product acquired in a merger with Somaxon.

And the increase from the acquired products was offset by a decrease in the company's legacy portfolio of products, which was due in part to the discontinuation of certain generic products as a result of related patent litigation settlement terms and of certain brand and generic cough and cold products that had been recalled and were slated later in the year for discontinuation. As it relates to revenue contribution, 50% of our revenue was from generic product sales and 50% was from brand product sales.

Moving on to bottom line results for the quarter, the company recognized a net loss of approximately $6 million or $0.16 per basic and diluted share for the third quarter of 2013, compared to a net loss of approximately $270,000 or $0.01 per basic and diluted share for the same quarter of the prior year. Adjusted EBITDA, which represents, as previously stated, earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, and further adjusted by certain non-cash and/or non-recurring items, is a non-GAAP measure that we provide for informational purposes. Adjusted EBITDA for the third quarter of 2013 was a loss of approximately $2 million compared to earnings of approximately $1.2 million in the same quarter of the prior year.

The adjustments between EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA for the three months ended September 30, 2013 included approximately $576,000 in deal-related expenses, $622,000 in stock compensation expense, $412,000 in the cost of sales related to the increase in the basis of inventory acquired in connection with the Cypress Hawthorn and acquisitions, and $2.1 million related to the increase in the value of the put right issued in connection with the Cypress Hawthorn acquisition. These were offset by a $522,000 decrease in the fair value of the portion of the contingent consideration due to Cypress. You can refer to the table at the end of our press release that was distributed this morning for a reconciliation of net loss to EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA.

As it relates to expenses, cost of product sales was approximately $9.6 million for the third quarter of 2013, as compared to approximately $7.8 million for the third quarter of 2012. This resulted in gross margin of 50% of net sales, excluding the increase in the cost of sales attributed to the sales of acquired inventory, which has a significantly higher basis than the inventory purchase post-closing. This gross margin compares to a gross margin of 57% for the same quarter of the prior year. The decrease in the gross margin is due to a higher percentage of sales of products subject to profit sharing arrangements with the addition of the profit sharing arrangements that we acquired in the Cypress Hawthorn and Somaxon transactions, offset by sales of lower price products and the in-house manufacturing of certain of our products.

SG&A expenses in the third quarter of 2013 were $11.7 million compared to $9.8 million for the third quarter of 2012. Approximately $1.6 million of the increase relates to an increase in overall compensation expense that was primarily attributed to the addition of Cypress Hawthorn employees effective January 1, 2013, partially offset by decreases resulting from the reorganization of the consolidated company and elimination and consolidation of certain management level and staff positions. This remaining increase was primarily due to the incremental increase of the facilities and overhead operating expenses from the acquisitions of the operations of Cypress Hawthorn and Somaxon, subsequent to September 30, 2012, offset by certain synergistic savings in the operations of the consolidated business.

In addition, during the three months ended September 30, 2013, we incurred, as previously stated, deal expenses of approximately $576,000 related to the sale of the Cypress assets previously discussed.

Research and development expense was approximately $633,000 compared to approximately $333,000 in the same quarter of 2012. This increase was primarily due to expenses related to the in-process research and development including the compensation of individuals in the R&D department acquired in connection with the acquisition of Cypress Hawthorn and furthering the development of our late-stage pediatric product.

Depreciation and amortization expense was approximately $2.7 million for the third quarter of 2013 compared to $886,000 in the third quarter of 2012. The company recognized an income tax benefit of $2.7 million for the third quarter of 2013 compared to an income tax benefit of approximately $404,000 for the third quarter of 2012. Weighted average common shares outstanding was 37.1 million basic and diluted shares for the quarter-ended September 30, 2013 and 29.1 million basic and diluted shares for the same quarter of the prior-year.

Now, as to the results for the year-to-date period ended September 30, 2013; for the nine months ended September 30, 2013, net revenues increased by approximately 41% to $60.9 million compared to $43.1 million for the prior-year period. The increase in net revenues is attributed to the same reasons as previously discussed for the quarter fluctuations. The net loss for this period was approximately $20.1 million compared to net loss of approximately $11,000 in the year-to-date period of the prior year.

The adjusted EBITDA was a loss of approximately $7.3 million compared to earnings of approximately $4.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2012. SG&A expenses in the nine months ended September 30, 2013 were $39 million compared to $24.3 million for the prior year period. Approximately $7.9 million of the increase relates to an increase in overall compensation, primarily due to the addition of Cypress employees, effective January 1, 2013, the addition of Pernix manufacturing employees in July 2012, which were offset by decreases, as previously discussed, resulting from the organization of the – reorganization of the consolidated company.

The remaining increase was primarily due to the incremental increase from the acquisitions of the operations of Cypress, Hawthorn, Somaxon, and the manufacturing facilities subsequent to September 30, 2012.

In addition, we incurred approximately $1.1 million in transaction expenses related to the acquisitions and to the sale of Cypress assets in September of 2013, approximately $694,000 in increased expenses related to our OTC division and approximately $1.2 million in increased legal fees from product-related litigation that has now been settled.

As previously noted, the company also invested in its R&D projects during 2013. R&D expenses were approximately $3.6 million in the current year compared to $512,000 for the same period of the prior year. Weighted average common shares outstanding were 36.2 million basic and diluted for the nine months ended September 30, 2013, and 27.8 million basic and diluted shares for the same period of the prior year.

Turning now to the balance sheet: as previously noted, at the closing of the sale of certain non-core assets of Cypress to Breckenridge, we paid in full the outstanding balance on our term loan with MidCap Financial of $7.7 million. The balance outstanding on our revolver with MidCap as of November 8, 2013, is approximately $15.5 million, leaving $4.5 million in potential borrowing capacity.

As of September 30, 2013, the company had $9.7 million of cash, $23.3 million in accounts receivable and $16.5 million in inventory. The company revises its previously announced net revenue guidance for the full-year 2013 to $80 million from the previous range of $90 million to $100 million. Net revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2013, is anticipated to be approximately $22 million. The adjusted revenue guidance is a reflection of year-to-date results and other factors, including a recent modification of the company's agreement with ParaPRO, which will likely lead to a $2 million reduction in net revenue recognized from the sale of Natroba and authorized generic spinosad and head lice products sold during the three-month period ending December 31, 2013, but which are anticipated to have minimal negative impact on gross profit contribution.

Finally, the recently announced Omeclamox co-promotion agreement between the company and Cumberland Pharmaceuticals, while cash positive, is anticipated to negatively impact net revenues during the three-month period ending December 31, 2013 in the amount of approximately $1.5 million.

That includes (sic) [concludes] (23:21) my financial review this morning and now we'll turn it back over to Mike for his final comments.

Thank you, Tracy. In closing, let me summarize the key points I want to convey on this call

We have fortified our financial position by divesting non-core assets. We have sharpened operational focus with Dr. Cocoa OTC licensing to Infirst and the Omeclamox co-promotion with Cumberland, among other initiatives. We have reduced 2013 revenue guidance. We acknowledge that this is unsatisfactory and we are implementing solutions. We have achieved significant SG&A cost savings in the third quarter of 2013 and we foresee additional cost savings during the balance of 2013 and Q1 of 2014.

We are on track to begin dosing patients in our pediatric upper respiratory clinical trial in late November or early December. We also remain highly committed and highly focused on our other key development goal: advancing Silenor as a candidate for an Rx to OTC switch. In 2014, we are committed to an expense structure appropriate for run rate revenue. A key objective in 2014 is a self-reliant capital structure.

Operator, please open the line for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Irina Rivkind with Cantor Fitzgerald. Your line is open.

Hi-ya. Thanks for taking the questions. So I just wanted to understand what your current expectations are around the cash you'll need to pay the Cypress shareholders. Is there a payment in December? And also, potentially the put, and what gives you confidence that they won't exercise the put? And then the second question is just around revenues in 2014. It sounds like you're looking to grow from your pipeline products, but it doesn't sound like they're going to be ready in 2014. So are you expecting top line to grow in 2014 from 2013? Thanks.

Hey, Irina. This is Mike. First question, how do you intend to meet your obligations on the put and other items, contingent consideration to previous owners of Cypress Hawthorn? My answer to that is that we have consistently viewed the put and other contingent consideration in the context of the overall merger agreement. We have initiated the indemnity claim process we believe are – were well supported by the facts. At the same time, we are in dialogue with the former owners. I wouldn't go so far as to describe it as a symbiotic relationship, but I believe both sides realize that getting past these issues will allow more time and resources to be focused on a positive outcome for everybody's Pernix Holdings. I'm guardedly optimistic, and I think that there's a lot of rationale for cooperation. No assurances though. It's a work-in-progress, but specifically, we like our position and we view the put in the context of the overall merger agreement. So we're not concerned about how we're going to address that matter when the time comes.

As far as 2014 versus 2013 on revenue, we do expect to grow. We expect to grow the existing portfolio. We expect to grow with tactical ads and we expect to be able to augment the bag, the product offering on both the branded side and generic side with initiatives that a lot of time and efforts been spend on, and that, if all goes well, we'll be – soon to be in the product mix. These are tactical acquisitions, tactical licenses as opposed to internal development projects.

Thank you.

Our next question comes from Louise Chen with Guggenheim. Your line is open.

Hi. Thanks for taking my questions, quite a few. First question I had was on the economics of your deal with Infirst Healthcare, what type of royalty are you looking at? And then, also what kind of distribution capability do they have to launch this product and the timing of the launch on that?

And then second question is on your SG&A run rate. You said by first quarter of 2014, you should be fully implemented on your cost reduction program. Just wondering, the quarterly SG&A run rate, how does that compare to the 11.2% adjusted number that we see this quarter? And then last question is just a lot of moving parts on Pernix. So, maybe just an update on your thoughts and where you expect the company to be over the next few years, like what's your goal in terms of a strategy for the organization? Thank you.

Thank you, Louise. Also even though this is kind of a break in protocol, there's one other thought I wanted to add to Irina's question, because I think about this often and I think it's pertaining to the whole Pernix equation, when I took this seat in May, Irina made the point that she observed it would take one year to clean up the mess or legacy issues, however you want to define it, and I respect the basis of review, she does her homework and is very rigorous. But I felt strongly it wouldn't take a year. I still feel that way now. We've resolved many of the legacy issues. There's plenty of light at the end of the tunnel. And there are some positive things percolating under what, on the face, is a flat revenue number. So I'm still quite positive, quite optimistic that we've done a lot of the heavy lifting and we'll start to see some of the rewards of our efforts.

All right. Louise, getting back to your questions, let's talk about Infirst for a moment. One, the terms of the agreement, the specifics will be incorporated in our 10-Q filing later today. There is a component for royalty; there will be a mid single digit royalty. There is also an opportunity for Pernix to – Pernix Manufacturing to provide specified products as part of the supply agreement. So there's a win there for us also and that's important to us. There may be some other minor considerations, whether it's fee-for-service or FGI transfer or whatever, but not material to the overall agreement.

One logical question is, why Infirst instead of a bigger name company? And the answer to that would be that Pernix was already familiar with Infirst through prior business dealings and was comfortable that Dr. Cocoa's success would be vitally important to Infirst. There is no chance of getting lost in the shuffle. As a practical matter, the juncture at which Pernix's ability to launch this venture came into question was precisely the timeframe when initial commitments to retail and the trade needed to be reaffirmed. And the summer is also time when certain of the industry names you might be thinking about were already fully committed to supporting existing brands of their own and budgets allocated. But even if we were looking at five or six of the celebrity names and Infirst next to it, we would still have been very interested in the Infirst option, because these guys are going to be thoughtful and aggressive in exploiting the Dr. Cocoa brand opportunity to its fullest and this is super important to them. And their management's experienced CEO, Manfred Scheske, has competed on the biggest stage and has succeeded, like GlaxoSmithKline. So, it can't be taken lightly. They're fully committed to doing a very successful launch in the U.S. market. And I think the resources are obviously behind them and I think that the proof will be in the pudding. But we like their chances and we think that after reviewing Infirst and several other things that came our way, this looks like the horse to bet on and the jockey to bet on.

As far as SG&A run rate, in my comment about entering 2014 with the capital structure itself reliant, we can do more. We've got to do more with the revenue assets we have in-house. There are other companies in the industry that do more with less. And so we believe we're going to grow and we're going to grow at a satisfactory pace. But I'm also going to go with the plan where we assume an expense load based on run rate revenues as we exit 2013. And then when we outperform on revenue, we'll benefit as it drops to the bottom. I don't want to get in a situation where we have an expense load based on bunch of extremely optimistic forecasting, which even if it comes true, we've keyed our expense to that. I want a key expense to run rate revenue, and that no matter what happens in 2014 that we will not be dependent on the kindness of strangers when it comes to our balance sheet capital requirements and needs to expand the business. So that's on that front. And I do think we'll be in a position where the Q1 will have the necessary changes implemented, adjustments implemented.

As far as, and this also goes back to one of Irina's questions or the sub-text of the question, which is we have our current revenue, we have our current product offering, we think we can do better. We think we have a couple of very exciting projects, huge value drivers in our mind, coming down the pipe, but we still have a 2014 situation that has to be addressed. And my view on that is we can do more with the assets we have revenue-wise and we can also do some tactical ads on end-of-life products from other parties and licensing deals. And in this scenario, on our small revenue base, even a $10 million idea or a $15 million idea that's promotion sensitive is something that we can benefit from greatly and I think that we'll be able to prove that we're a grower again. But we have to prove it. I mean, we're in the penalty box. We've earned our way into the penalty box. Our stock reflects that. And now we know we have to do, and it's just going to mean staying the course and buckling down and taking a cold, hard look at all expenses and making sure we don't leave any dollars on the table revenue-wise.

As far as where this whole thing ends up, eventually, Pernix has to get bigger, I've said it a number times. We're too small to be relevant as a public company. There's several ways to resolve that, all of them beneficial in my mind. And down the road at some point, I think Pernix either gets bigger or becomes a subset of a greater whole and for us, the name of the game there is that, when that moment comes, we want to be dealing from a position of strength and we want to deliver good outcome for shareholders, many of whom have been extraordinarily patient with Pernix. So that's my take on that.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

Our next question comes from Annabel Samimy with Stifel. Your line is open.

Hi, guys. This is Josh Riegelhaupt in for Annabel. Your R&D costs have fluctuated a bit over the past year and you're initiating a trial in December for the upper respiratory pediatric product. Can you talk about what your expectations are for that trial in terms of size? And then the second question has to do with your product mix. You guys are 50-50 generic branded; this shifted from last quarter by 3% or so. I was wondering if you could tell us how you expect this to maintain and just in terms of gross margins going forward? Thanks.

Gross margins are unacceptable. The trend is unacceptable. We are keen to not let the mix of lower margin generic – I want to distinguish between lower margin generic possibilities as opposed to authorized generics of our own branded products, where we still see opportunities for higher margin sales. But the product portfolio does have several products in it that are subject to revenue sharing and various profit sharing and other partners.

And really to get our margins up to where I'd like to be, which is in the mid-60%s, we need to have different types of arrangements with our partners and with products that we acquire. And having branded products where you control the whole mix, that's one way to get there and most of our product focus right now is putting stuff in the bag that has a branded advantage, but we still see tremendous opportunities, especially if you look at industry trend in pharmacy and pharmacy intervention, and the thrust towards generics. And also even at the provider level, the emphasis on writing a certain level of generics per quarter and satisfy payers. We want to be able to offer and be in a position where our key brands are able to offer authorized generics to capitalize on those unit opportunities and also margin opportunities.

So we do see gross margins stabilizing. But stabilizing is not good enough. We need to turn that trend back in our favor. We've always prided ourselves on being a balanced company. We've got the two brands, Pernix and Hawthorn and we have Cyprus and Macoven on the generic side, labeled. So we like the balance. We like the flexibility to do authorize generics of own products and be opportunistic in the marketplace. But we don't want to become over-weighted too severely to the generic side.

So our view on that is there's brands, there's generics, but there's a step in between, which are higher margin generics including AGs where we can capture higher gross margins. And we're constantly working the mix and these strategies – pricing strategies are a big part of our 2014 plan as far as dollar gains versus always chasing unit volume increases.

As far as the second part of the question or the first question on development, it is very lumpy. And a good reason for that is in the beginning of the year, for instance, on the pediatric development project, the invoices come in in a lumpy manner depending on what work has been done to-date and how the agreements are structured with our third-party vendors, as to when they'll get paid and on what milestones. But we also had quite a bit of Hawthorn-related R&D expenses and invoices that surfaced during Q1. And also from an accounting guidance standpoint, the R&D employees are in that number. And we've made some significant adjustments, as far as head count goes, in that section on projects, or I should say on personnel not related to the pediatric development project, and a couple other smaller things that we have going. So, if you're not attached to those projects, you're not going to be attached to Pernix and you're not going to show up going forward on the expense load there.

So in Q4, as far as what we anticipate to support the pediatric development project, there's always a little bit of it, any company on any project in any industry, there's always a little bit of sliding back and forth between periods. But as far as the number itself goes, we have $1.2 million allocated for Q4 for these costs and that should come in line, if anything it might be slightly better than that number.

Okay, thanks.

And I'm currently showing no further questions. At this time, I will turn the call back over to management for closing remarks.

My remarks will be brief. I appreciate everyone's patience. We have a good shareholder base. Pernix is making a lot of progress. We are at that phase where it's clear and apparent to many of us working here day-to-day. But we're in that frustrating phase where it's not quite yet getting over the hump and appearing in our financial results and our third quarter report, so better days ahead. In the meantime, we are adding a lot of value and I think it's been recognized by other industry participants in ways that will ultimately benefit all Pernix shareholders. So thank you very much.

Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. That does conclude today's conference. You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.