Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Joseph T. Schepers — Director-Investor Relations & Communications, Pernix Therapeutics Holdings, Inc.
Cooper C. Collins — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Pernix Therapeutics Holdings, Inc.
Tracy Simmons Clifford — Chief Financial Officer, Secretary & Treasurer, Pernix Therapeutics Holdings, Inc.
Elliot Wilbur — Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC
Annabel Samimy — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.
William G. Vlahos — President, Odyssey Value Advisors LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning and welcome to the Pernix Therapeutics' 2011 Third Quarter Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. All lines have been placed on mute. [Operator Instructions] At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to the company's Director of Investor Relations, Joe Schepers. Please go ahead sir.

Thank you and welcome to Pernix Therapeutics' Third Quarter 2011 Conference Call. On the call today are Cooper Collins, President and CEO and Tracy Clifford, CFO.

Before we begin, I would like to point out that the company issued a press release this morning containing financial results for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2011. The release including the financial tables and reconciliation of non-GAAP financials is available on the company's website at www.pernixtx.com. The company also filed its quarterly report on Form 10-Q with the SEC yesterday after the close of the U.S. stock market.

Before we begin, allow me to read the following Safe Harbor statement. This may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the company, or industry results to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.

When using this presentation, statements that are not statements of current or historical facts may be deemed to be forward-looking statements without limiting the foregoing words, "plan", "intend", "may", "will," "expect," "believe," "anticipate," "estimate," or "continue," or similar expressions or other various of comparable terminology are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Listeners are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof.

Except as required by laws, the company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Investors are urged to examine these and other risk and uncertainties detailed in Pernix's periodic public filings on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. During the call, we may also discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures such as EBITDA. The company believes that EBITDA which we define as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization is a meaningful non-GAAP financial measure.

At this time, I would like to turn over the call to Cooper Collins.

Thanks Joe. Good morning and welcome to our Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call. During this morning's call, I would like to provide an update on key business activities and a brief overview of our consolidated results for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2011. Later in the call, Tracy will provide a more detailed review of our financial results.

We're pleased to report strong growth in net revenues and adjusted EBITDA in the third quarter of 2011. For the quarter, we achieved net revenues of $17.1 million, with an increase of approximately 120% from the prior-year quarter. The increase in net revenues was primarily due to an increase in gross product sales including a successful launch of Natroba in August, the new CEDAX product formulation that we launched in January and an increase in the sales of our generic portfolio.

Adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, a non-GAAP measure for the third quarter 2011 increased approximately 34% to $3.6 million as compared to the prior year quarter. For the nine months ended September 30, net revenues increased by approximately 87% to $39.2 million, and adjusted EBITDA increased approximately 17% to $8.8 million from the same quarter in the prior year.

Our financial results for the three and nine months of 2011 reflect a continued execution of our strategy to diversify our product portfolio and leverage our pediatric sales force. We've made progress in reducing our revenue seasonality, primarily by adding less seasonal products to our portfolio, which included the introduction of Natroba and the launch of the certain new generic products through Macoven.

Now, I'll provide an update on several key business developments. During the third quarter, we continued to achieve solid momentum promoting the 180 milligram double-strength suspension formulation of CEDAX, which we launched in January of 2011. Total weekly prescriptions for the CEDAX's product family exceeded 7,000 in the month of October and/or 1,862 as of the week ended October 28, 2011 according the IMS Data. The majority of the CEDAX prescription growth was driven by that new 180 milligram formulation of CEDAX. We expect to increase sales of CEDAX in the fourth quarter of this year, during the peak cough and cold season.

Now for an update on the Natroba launch; I'm pleased to report that Natroba has achieved steady growth since we launched the product in August 2011. Total weekly prescriptions for Natroba were 1,162 for the week ended October 28, 2011 based on IMS Data. The successful launch is primarily due to the effectiveness of our sale force and targeting physicians who are top decile prescribers; this strong launch have led to nice market share gains in the first two months of promotion.

Natroba treats head lice using spinosad, a compound derived from a soil microbe. In Phase III clinical studies, Natroba was shown to be more effective at treating head lice infestations than permethrin 1%. Natroba is a therapy that does not require nit combing, which is a very tedious and time consuming process. This is a highly-communicable condition among school-aged children that has shown resistance to current prescription and OTC head lice treatments.

Now, turning to our generic business. We're growing our generics business by capitalizing on opportunities through Macoven, which launches certain generic products in niche markets. Macoven continues to contribute to our revenue growth.

Now for an update on Theobromine. In March 2011, Pernix and its joint venture with SEEK, a leading drug discovery and development group, appointed a financial advisor in connection with an auction of Theobromine BC 1036, a non-codeine, non-narcotic, antitussive drug candidate in late-stage development for treating persistent cough. While the joint venture has not received an offer to purchase Theobromine assets that deemed acceptable by the Board of Directors, the joint venture continues to evaluate opportunities and expects to continue discussions with interested parties to maximize the value of this asset. The joint venture expects to initiate its pivotal Phase III trial in the European Union in the first quarter of 2012, and is currently evaluating over-the-counter strategies in certain countries, including the United States.

Now, I will turn the call over to Tracy for a more detail to review the financial results.

Thank you, Cooper and good morning. As Cooper noted, net sales increased by approximately 120% to $17.1 million for the third quarter of 2011; compared to $7.8 million for the same period in the prior year. Sales allowances, which include government program rebates, returns and price adjustments represented approximately 30% gross product sales compared to 36% in the third quarter of 2010.

Pre-tax net income was approximately $2.9 million compared to $3.2 million for the third quarter of 2010. After tax net income was approximately $2 million or $0.08 per basic and diluted share as compared to $2.4 million or $0.10 per basic and diluted share for the third quarter of 2010.

Moving on to expenses; cost of product sales was approximately $7.8 million for the third quarter of 2011 as compared to approximately $1.4 million for the same period in the prior year. The increase is primarily due to the overall increase in gross product sales and the cost that Pernix pays for Natroba pursuant to its supply and distribution agreement between the parties.

Cost of product sales in third quarter also included a non-recurring adjustment of approximately $492,000 for obsolete, expired or donated product inventory. Excluding this non-recurring adjustment and including Natroba product cost, our gross margin was approximately 57% of net sales. Excluding Natroba, and the non-recurring adjustment, our gross margin was approximately 79% of net sales.

Our selling, general, and administrative expenses for the third quarter were approximately $5.4 million, which was an increase of $1.9 million from the same period in the prior year. The increase was primarily due to higher salary, bonuses, commissions, incentives, and stock compensation associated with the increasing gross sales, higher commission rate paid on sales of Natroba and increasing accrued bonuses and an increase in the base salaries of sales representative, as well as the addition of several new positions in September 2010.

Depreciation and amortization expense was approximately $604,000, of which $578,000 was amortization expense primarily related to certain acquisition agreements including CEDAX and Macoven; compared to approximately $300,000 of depreciation and amortization expense in the third quarter of 2010, of which $285,000 was amortization expense.

In addition, approximately $101,000 in expenses related to our joint venture with SEEK for the development Theobromine was recognized in the third quarter of 2011. We may incur additional joint venture expenses when we begin clinical trials for Theobromine in the first quarter of 2012.

The income tax provision for the third quarter of 2011 was $922,000 compared to approximately $862,000 for the third quarter of 2010. Adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization or adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP measure increased approximately 34% to $3.6 million in the third quarter of 2011, compared to approximately $2.7 million for the third quarter of 2010.

For the nine months ended September 30, 2011; net revenues increased approximately 87% to $39.2 million, compared to $21 million for the prior year period. Pre-tax net income was $7 million, compared to $7.9 million in the prior year period, and net income after tax was $4.5 million or $0.19 per basic and diluted share, compared to $7.8 million or $0.33 per basic and diluted share for the prior year period.

For the nine months ended September 30, 2011; adjusted EBITDA increased approximately 17% to $8.8 million, compared to $7.5 million in the prior year. Cost of product sales was approximately $13.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2011; as compared to approximately $3.3 million for the prior year period. The increase is attributed to the same factors previously discussed in the quarterly fluctuation.

Cost of product sales during the nine months ended September 30, 2011 included a non-recurring adjustment of approximately $1.3 million for obsolete, expired or donated product inventories. Excluding this non-recurring adjustment and including Natroba product costs, our gross margin for the period was approximately 68% of net sales. Excluding the Natroba expense and non-recurring adjustment, gross margin for the nine months ended September 30, 2011 was 78% of net product sales.

For the nine months ended September 30, 2011; SG&A expenses were $14.9 million, which was an increase of approximately $5.5 million from the prior year period. As previously discussed in the quarterly fluctuation; the increase is primarily due to an increase in an overall compensation associated with the increase in gross sales and the other the factors previously noted. Depreciation and amortization expense increased to $1.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2011 as compared to $559,000 for the prior year period. As previously noted, this increase was attributable to $1.6 million of amortization expense, primarily related to certain acquisition agreements including CEDAX and Macoven.

As noted in prior earnings calls, net income for the nine months ended September 30, 2010 included one-time income tax benefits associated with the termination of Pernix's S corporation status and the recognition of certain net operating loss carryforwards associated with the March 9, 2010 reverse merger with Golf Trust of America, which should be considered in comparing the current year and prior year period.

The company's effective tax rate for the nine months ended September 30, 2011 was approximately 39%. We expect our effective tax rate for the fourth quarter to be in the range of 38% to 40%. Weighted average common shares outstanding for the quarter ended September 30, 2010 were approximately 24.4 million basic and diluted, and for the nine months ended September 30, 2010, they were approximately 23.6 million basic and diluted.

As it relates to certain important balance sheet items, as of September 30, 2011, we had approximately $27.6 million in unrestricted cash and cash equivalents; working capital of $38.5 million and $4 million in borrowing capacity available under our revolving line of credit. We also had an accounts receivable balance of approximately $23.6 million and inventory of $7.5 million, which is primarily the result of stocking and sales in Natroba and certain generic products.

That concludes my financial review this morning and now, I'll turn it back over to Cooper for his final comments.

Thanks, Tracy. In closing, we're pleased with our third quarter financial results. We remain focused on executing our business plan and we are confident in our sale force's proven ability to launch new brand products we've demonstrated with Pediatex, Brovex, CEDAX and now Natroba. We expect to deliver continued revenue growth driven by prescriptions of CEDAX, Natroba and our generic products.

We believe that the company is in a strong financial position, which facilitates our ability to continue to evaluate and take advantage of new licensing and acquisition opportunities, to expand into other therapeutic areas that are expected to further broaden our product portfolio and leverage our existing business platform. Operator, please open the phones lines for questions.

[Operator Instruction] We'll go first to Elliot Wilbur with Needham & Company.

Hey, good morning. Lot of questions, I guess, I'll just try and keep them short and focused here. First for Cooper, can you just may be qualitatively just kind of give us your impression of the Natroba launch to date in terms of your company performance, are you happy where things are and may be just tell us – what do you think has gone well, what do you think that you can do better in terms of maintaining the launch trajectory?

Sure, no problem. So, on the – with that Elliot, are you adding something?

Go, ahead, I'll follow-up just...

Okay. Okay. So, on the Natroba launch – we've – just about in any launch with us, we pay higher commissions at launch, so that the cost of the launch is a little more expensive than we – typically throughout the remainder of the year. So, usually kind of the first 90 days we do a real ramp up, which is the reason you've seen in Natroba prescriptions really fly up pretty rapidly. There is a couple of things I think we're really happy with and a few things we need to work on.

So, as right now, if you look at about a third of our reps, they've achieved in their territories over 14% market share, up to even that the peak of it like 35%, 36% market share against their brand competitors. So, I think we have had some tremendous successes with the top – kind of the top third. The bottom third is kind of under the 5% market share. So, we have some work to do on those guys.

Obviously, you can see we're really focused on our market share. Unlike I think a lot of similar companies to us, we have kind of a smaller sales force and we testify, look at our sales force and as they kind of proved out over the first 90 days to 120 days to determine what territories need to be tweaked, what messages need to be tweaked and if we want to add additional reps. So, on the overall amount of scripts, I think we can do better on that and can increase that, but that's going to come with a review of the first 90 days to 120 days launch. So, that's kind of the good and the bad.

I think we've done a really greater market share. Our national market share is where we wanted to be. We have some top third of the company that's doing kind of better than expected and the bottom third we need to work on. We need to figure out how we can get the bottom third for those better market shares and then we determine how we would want to expand on that and to continue to grow Natroba.

I mean, I think you've seen the big spike in Natroba, kind of leveled out a little. We need to prepare for the next spike and I think that's going to include us changing our – anonymously changing our philosophy. But matching up some of the strategies, the top third of the companies using with – some of the folks has the bottom third. And also possibly moving to some new territories with Natroba and maybe adding some direct consumer stuff and paradigm magazines and those types of things.

Okay. And then, maybe Cooper just give us a sense in terms of targeted pediatrician base and how much you've actually covered to date in terms of at least one detail on – how many of these doctors actually been detailed multiple times. Just trying to get a sense of whether or not you've fully covered the potential target audience here and just a matter of repeat messaging at this point?

So, – it looks like we've covered about 4,000 prescribers which are kind of the high decile writers so for and they – we really haven't had any negative opinions on Natroba. The one issue that we have had to deal with and that's kind of part of the launch, I think we've done a better job with Natroba than we have with other products in the past. But one of the issues we have had to deal with is, the pharmacy stocking issues. So, some of the – especially in areas where we don't have reps, you're getting doctors maybe prescribing it and they are getting to the – patients get into the pharmacy, the product is not available. So, we're having some of those kinds of hiccups that you would typically see with the launch.

We're having the doctors that we get to, they agree that the product is the best. They right the product and they go to whatever Bob's Pharmacy and they don't have the product and they don't get the script. And it's one of those products that when you go in, if the product is not available, that day you really don't want to bring your kid home with life, you want to bring them home with the medication straight to the bathroom and take care of it.

So, I think we've had some of those hiccups which we're trying to improve on and specifically when you're looking at more of a reasonable launch, some of that wide space area where you don't have reps, you're going to have – we think we've had about 20% turn away in some of those areas. So, we would expect the number just to be 20% higher once those pharmacies that have had to turn a customer away, start ordering the product. But pharmacies are becoming more and more sensitive to stocking products that aren't proven. We think what we know we're going to prove that Natroba is the product that they all need to have in stock, but it just takes time. So, I think you're dealing with some of the typical hiccups that we would expect and we try to improve on in every launch.

All right. Then just one additional question for you guys here to and just in looking at disclosures in the 10-Q and trying to figure out exactly what in the quarter sales of Natroba were. Obviously a very significant level of selling to the trade and just kind of wondering just sort of back of the envelope, I mean, it looks to me like at least that 6 million of Natroba went into the trade and sort of at the current script rate. I mean, that's quite a bit of channel stocking. So, I'm just trying to reconcile that maybe with your earlier comments on sort of getting the product out in terms of the necessary point of distribution?

Right. So, we are having reorders of Natroba already. One of the issues we are running to with Natroba is obviously we have these products at the pharmacy level. In certain regions, we have the products in the National Distribution Centers. And we're trying to get these products into some of these other regions that either we don't have a rep or they don't have an extreme demand or whatever the reason is, we're trying to get those products stocked in there and having that inventory in those wholesalers, I think is necessary. But as kind of your typical stocking goods, we don't always – all right, well, in this case we definitely don't feel like we overdid the stocking at all.

The product also has a three year shelf life that we shouldn't have any issues with returns. We expect to see this thing move out through the season. You have some areas that are obviously reordering because there – kind of the top third of the company, where they have the high market shares and high volume and in some areas you have distribution centers that are fitting on product a little longer. But we felt like we did a – tried to cover our basis with stocking and probably mean to avoid that 20% loss, probably need to do a little bit more stocking straight to the pharmacy.

Okay. All right. I'll jump back in the queue. Thank you.

Okay. Thanks.

We'll go next to Annabel Samimy with Stifel Nicolaus.

Hi, thanks for taking my call. Just on the same way as Elliot just, could you qualitatively describe your reception from school nurses. I think that's one of the serious touch points in Natroba sale or Natroba adoption. So, if you can just give us a little color on that?

So, yeah, it's a – the school nurses, obviously the message is consistent, but they're receiving the product and they feel like Natroba on the majority of the time, they feel like Natroba is the product they want to use. The issue is, majority of school nurses cannot write a prescription. So, that's kind of a hurdle we're trying to get over and we can do that with pharmacists and as well as physicians. Make sure the pharmacists have the ability to call into the physicians when those school nurses send patients to the pharmacy.

We've had some schools send out letters recommending Natroba, which we didn't necessarily authorize that they felt like that was the product they want to let their parents know about it. So, we think they were making some good headway there. But translating that to a prescription is what we're working on right now. We're doing a lot of work with those nurses. We're also coming up with additional mailing campaigns, which we're working on and we think that we need to do some additional direct-to-consumer advertising to those nurses outside of our main territories as well. But that aspect of the promotion is taking a little longer than we expected just from the aspect of – the nurse maybe saying, hey Natroba is a great product we're going to use; you should use it and it's a product, blah, blah, blah. But the patient gets that message and doesn't get the prescription. So, we're working on improving that process.

And how are they responding to the fact that there is no combing involved, given that some of the lice casings don't really come out or nit casings don't come out?

So, we've had some nurses recommend that they change their no-nit policy to kind of no-nit policy unless you can provide a Natroba's prescription because they know that Natroba would kill the eggs. So, they've discussed those kinds of things, I don't know that it's been put in the place anywhere, but we haven't had a ton of issues with that, because typically the nurse comes back and says, well, we have no-nit policy, but if they use anything else they would know that the – if they use anything else they would have to comb anyways, so why not just comb the nits out here, but at least have piece of mind that the eggs are dead. So, there some nurses are recommending and some doctors are recommending, you go ahead and comb just for cosmetic purposes, but you have the piece of mind and knowing that if you happen to miss one egg it's not going to reinfest your child.

Okay. Great and then just moving on the Macoven business. Can you sort of help us understand what percent of Macoven now is seasonal versus non-seasonal and how has that changed over time, has that product line smoothed things out a bit for you guys in terms of seasonality?

Yes, it definitely has. Let me pull something up real quick and see what the – about what the percentages of non-seasonal. I'm guessing it's a – it looks to be about 40% or so is non-seasonal where Macoven, I would say closer to 80% was seasonal or probably a 100% was seasonal last year in 2010 and beginning of 2011, we started that shift and now we're down to probably about 60% of that would be seasonal things. As we move into 2012, you'll probably be over half of the Macoven business will be non-seasonal.

Okay, great. That's helpful. And then, finally on Theobromine, could you tell us about some of the options you might have, if it turns out that this auction process for Theobromine doesn't play out, what's your next step?

So, yeah, I'll give you a kind of quick update on that. So, Theobromine, we obviously went through the process. Obviously, we had interested parties. The offers we got weren't really acceptable at this point and at this stage in the game, which is why we decided to go forward with the European development. We know after talking to the other parties that – and I guess kind of common sense well. But we know after talking to the parties that the value of the product will be much greater and the value to our shareholders will be much better once we've completed this Phase III in Europe, because – all the data is lining up telling us that this is going to be – we shouldn't have any issues with this approval.

It's been approved in a second – a second SKU has been approved in another country. So, there is two Theobromine approvals now. So, we feel very confident, done additional testing in Europe comparing them to the aging population and we – looks like the dose ranging studies are showing us that we're not going to have a significant increase in the dose and it's still going to be as effective. So, we feel at this point to maximize the value in Europe especially that we go forward and complete the Phase IIIs.

And then being kind of revisit with the interested parties who – have expressed their interest in the product and once we finish Phase III, we feel much more value there. The – now the other countries including U.S., there is a various options in Europe. It looks like its going to have to be a prescription option, but in the other countries we're evaluating opportunities to do short 505(b)(2) type development, there is some OTC, there is always the homeopathic opportunity. So, we're really exploring those and hoping to obviously working with manufacturers and doing those kind of things, but hoping to develop a plan over the next few months and possibly have launch strategies and other questions – I mean, launch strategies in other countries over the next – in 2012.

Okay and is that going to have a huge effect on R&D going forward?

We don't – we're going to split R&D cost with SEEK, which 50-50 joint venture with SEEK. So, we'll be splitting the R&D cost on that side. You will see a little more spending on R&D, but there is some other philosophies that we're trying – that we're keeping confidential that may generate immediate revenue, which may lighten the burden on the development cost.

So, we are working on some of those opportunities. I think that the European development will probably range in $2 million area with – that joint venture is funded. So, it wouldn't be – first of all, it's not going to be full $2 million in Pernix, but we think that would probably be the extent of the Pernix. So, it won't be significant like you're used to seeing in the U.S., where it's a $10 million to $15 million project.

Okay, great. Thanks a lot.

Okay. Thanks, Annabel.

We'll go next to Bill Vlahos with Odyssey Value Partners.

Cooper, great quarter. Most of my questions were answered already. Can you just give us an update on potential acquisitions? Last quarter, you said that you were eyeing some that could be large and immediately accretive, just curious, give us a little more – give us an update on what you're thinking about there?

Sure, absolutely. So, we have the pediatric acquisition, we've been working on which is nonseasonal product. This is acquisition from a very large pharma, we're still trying to iron out some of the details and timelines but – right, it just takes much longer than I think you would typically see a Pernix deal take because we're dealing with the much larger company. So, we're still working towards the finish line there. But we – at this point, we're also confident enough and our execution on past products including launch of Natroba and the market share penetration that you should definitely expect to see us go into another specialty in 2012, which is going to be the way you'll really see Pernix grow rapidly.

Obviously, you see some great sales growth here. We are focusing on kind of growing the sales in the company because we feel like that's the – at the end of the day, that's where the absolute value is going to come for Pernix. So, you could see us launch out with another 25 reps or 35 reps in 2012 in a specialty division. We've identified products that kind of typical NDA products, new drugs that we'll be able to take to market in 2012 in other specialties. I think that will come change – that's going to have to change the way everybody looks at our company because we feel like we have a great opportunity to grow this company rapidly. And it would kind of be irresponsible not to reinvest in that growth when opportunity is there. So, you will see us doing more those type of things. We feel like the pediatric division. Right now it's in a good place and additional acquisition will put it in a tremendous place or the tremendous outlook. And it just time for us to go into another division, sort of acquiring other products and executing where we have with our past products.

You also make it still little more a little more 505(b)(2) type developments here in the U.S. because some opportunities have presented themself. Where we feel it would be very low risk opportunities and get the products to market pretty quickly in new specialties as well as future pediatric pipeline. So, you will see us going in that direction while everything is low risk. You will see us spending a little more money investing in the future growth of this company. We're very happy with the way the pediatric division and Macoven has gone, but we feel like we kind of have a philosophy and a recipe that will help us grow this company and maximize the value for the shareholders in the near-term.

Great, thank you.

Okay, we're probably are going to be able to take one more question.

We will take a follow-up Elliot Wilbur with Needham & Company.

Thanks, can you hear me?

Yeah.

Oh, sorry. Okay, just with respect to cash position, obviously the burn in the quarter has to do with the increase and inventory and trade receivables. And I'm assuming that you are probably actually at year-end have cash in excess of what you had at the end of the second quarter, I just wanted to confirm that. And then Cooper if there is anything else – what can you tell us about the generic products that were actually launched in the quarter, are they essentially all OTC or behind the counter or are there some Rx agents in there as well?

So, we had – as far as the launches go, we had some of that launch at the very end of the – like of the second quarter that kind of really grew into the third quarter. So, that the initial launch wasn't technically third quarter, but the majority of the sales were in the third quarter. And those included some OTC opportunities. Our OTC philosophy we've launched out some new products that have done really well, but they also included the growth of some other products particularly a migraine product that has done well.

And there is few other products, we've been working on some vitamin product as well, but I would say, you are mostly looking at our OTC professional or OTC behind-the-counter of strategy, which we've taken from deadly the OTC market like we discussed in the past, but also this migraine and pain products that have launched out, which was accounted non-seasonal flair to Macoven. We will see some additional non-seasonal medical, food, vitamin products, other OTC products like that as well rolling out in the future.

Okay, then just the question on cash position?

Okay. On cash position, I'll let Tracy to answer that real quick and then I will follow-up, if I have anything to add to it.

Elliot, your assumption was correct and that we did take advantage when we brought in Natroba in to our warehouse for the stocking purchase minimums, we did take advantage of the Prompt Pay discount which of course, required us to bring down our cash significantly before we actually are selling the product. So, we should be more stabilized or normalized as it relates to inventory stocking in Natroba and our other products moving into the end of the year, so we don't anticipate a big hit against our cash balances at year end.

I would – I was going to add some to that. One thing I think that's important to know in the Q as well as the table on the difference of our margins with and without Natroba. Because we do have, in addition to our co-promotion and then we're going to have a distribution agreement on Natroba, which drives our COGS up which is the reason you'll see a difference in margins. And we have a table broke-out, so you can actually see what the company – what Pernix with Macoven products are doing and with and without Natroba. So, it's crystal clear as oppose to a little blurry there. So, you can see that the margins on Natroba with and without Natroba make a big difference and that's because of the distribution agreement which is an addition with the co-promotion agreement.

So, is that it for the questions?

At this time there are no more questions. This concludes Pernix Therapeutics third quarter earnings conference call. Thank you, and have a nice day.

Okay, thanks.