Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Joseph T. Schepers — Director-Investor Relations & Communications, Pernix Therapeutics Holdings, Inc.
Cooper C. Collins — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Pernix Therapeutics Holdings, Inc.
Tracy Simmons Clifford — Chief Financial Officer, Secretary & Treasurer, Pernix Therapeutics Holdings, Inc.
Irina Rivkind — Senior Research Analyst, Duncan-Williams, Inc.
Ram Selvaraju — Senior Vice President & Senior Analyst, Morgan Joseph Triartisan LLC
Matt Duffy — Desk Analyst, Concept Capital Markets, LLC
Yelena Ofengeym — Research Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.
Nathan Cali — Research Analyst, Noble Financial Capital Markets
Michael Weiss — Managing Partner, Joslynda Capital LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning and welcome to the Pernix Therapeutics Holdings 2011 Second Quarter Earnings Call. Today's call is being recorded. All lines have been placed on mute. [Operator Instructions] . At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Joe Schepers, Director of Investor Relations for introductions and the reading of the Safe Harbor statement. Please go ahead.

Thank you and welcome to Pernix Therapeutics second quarter 2011 conference call. On the call today are Cooper Collins, President and CEO and Tracy Clifford, CFO.

Before we begin, I would like to point out the company issued a press release this morning containing financial results for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2011. The release includes the financial tables and reconciliation of non-GAAP financials is available on the company's website at www.pernixtx.com. The company also filed its quarterly report on Form 10-Q with the SEC yesterday after the close of the US stock market.

Before we begin, allow me to read the following Safe Harbor statement. This call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the company, or industry results to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. When using this presentation, statements that are not statements of current or historical facts may be deemed to be forward-looking statements without limiting the foregoing words, "plan", "intend", "may", "will," "expect," "believe," "anticipate," "estimate," or "continue," or similar expressions or other various of comparable terminology are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Listeners are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. Except as required by laws, the company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. Investors are urged to examine these and other risk and uncertainties detailed in Pernix's periodic public filings on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. During the call, we may also discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures such as EBITDA. The company believes that EBITDA which we define as earnings before interest, taxes, amortization and depreciation is a meaningful non-GAAP financial measure.

At this time, I would like to turn over the call to Cooper C. Collins.

Thanks Joe. Good morning and welcome to our second quarter 2011 earnings conference call. During this morning's call, I would like to provide an update on key business activities and a brief overview of our consolidated results for the second quarter and first half ended June 30, 2011. Later in the call, Tracy will provide a more detailed review of our financial results.

We're extremely pleased to report strong business and financial performance for the second quarter of 2011. For the quarter, we achieved net revenues of $12 million, which is an increase of approximately 178% from the prior-year quarter. The increase in net revenues was primarily due to higher volume of sales, including the new CEDAX product formulation and certain generic products.

Our financial results for the second quarter demonstrate the successful execution of our strategy to diversify our product portfolio and reduced revenue seasonality. This can be primarily attributed to the change in our product mix.

Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, a non-GAAP measure for the second quarter 2011, increased by approximately 435% to $3 million compared to $600,000 in the prior-year quarter. For the six months ended June 30, 2011, net revenues increased by 68% to $22.1 million from the prior-year period. For the six months ended June 30, 2011, EBITDA increased 7% to $5.2 million from the prior-year period.

Now, I'll provide an update on several key business developments. During the second quarter, the 180-milligram double-strength formulation of CEDAX, which we launched in January of 2011, continued to perform well. Total monthly prescriptions for the 180-milligram CEDAX product have remained over 3,000 prescriptions in April, May and June according to prescription data. Moving forward, we expect continued growth of the CEDAX product line in the second half of the year when the cough and cold season begins.

On Monday, we were pleased to announce the commercial launch of Natroba prior to the upcoming school year. The launch of Natroba is another key milestone for our company and will continue to be an important growth driver during the second half of 2011, which will enable us to further leverage our pediatric sales force.

Natroba treats head lice using spinosad, a compound derived from a soil microbe. In Phase III studies, Natroba was shown to be more effective at treating head lice infestations than permethrin 1%. Natroba is a therapy that does not require nit combing, which is a very tedious and time-consuming process.

The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimates between 6 million to 12 million cases of head lice infestations each year in the United States. Most cases of head lice occur in children ages three to 12 years of age. This is a highly communicable condition among children that has shown resistance to prescription and OTC head lice treatments.

Under the terms of the agreement, we expect to receive payments between 35% and 42% of the net sales of Natroba by Pernix. Based on the positive clinical data and advantages of Natroba over competitors, we believe there is a strong potential for the product. Our sales force is now promoting Natroba in first position.

Turning to our generic business; we are successfully implementing our generic strategy through Macoven, capitalized on opportunities in niche markets. Our generic core product portfolio contributed to our revenue growth in the second quarter and we expect to launch several new generic products in the second half of 2011. Our generic business has diversified our product portfolio and reduced the impact of seasonality that's had on our business.

Now for an update on our joint venture with SEEK for the late stage clinical development of theobromine for treating cough. In March 2011 we appointed JP Morgan Cazenove as our financial advisor in connection with an auction of the theobromine assets.

The auction for the global commercialization rights for theobromine is still in process. Through this auction process, the company is evaluating potential opportunities to geographically segment the development and marketing of theobromine to maximize the value of these assets. These opportunities also include developing theobromine as both an OTC and prescription product.

As previously announced, our pivotal Phase III trial of theobromine is expected to begin in the European market in the second half of 2011. The joint venture is also in ongoing discussions with the FDA to determine a clinical trial program and regulatory requirements for theobromine in the United States.

As previously discussed, theobromine is an antitussive drug candidate that addresses a significant need for a non-opioid, non-codeine treatment for persistent cough. The company's decision to sell or otherwise transfer our theobromine assets in an auction will depend on the terms of any offers that the joint venture may receive. Pernix makes no guarantee that it will receive any offers in this auction of these assets or that such offers will be made in terms acceptable to the joint venture.

On July 27, we significantly strengthened our financial position with the completion of an underwritten Registered Direct Offering that raised net proceeds to company of approximately $19.3 million. With approximately $36 million in cash as of August 12, we are well positioned to pursue strategic acquisitions and licensing opportunities.

In addition, I want to point out that we have successfully broadened our institutional investor base with two highly regarded institutions, OrbiMed Advisors LLC and Aisling Capital, which focus solely on healthcare sectors.

At this time, I will now turn the call over to Tracy for a detailed review of the second quarter and first half of the year.

Thank you, Cooper and good morning. As Cooper noted, net sales increased by approximately 178% to $12 million for the second quarter of 2011 compared to $4.3 million for the same period in the prior year. The increase of 178% in net sales is attributed to the increase in volume sales of our branded products and the addition of our generic product portfolio through our acquisition of Macoven in September 2010.

In the second quarter, sales allowances, which include government program rebates, were mitigated and improved to 34% of gross product sales compared to 45% in the second quarter of 2010 and 51% in the first quarter of 2011.

Turning now to our income results, net income before taxes was approximately $2.4 million compared to $400,000 in the second quarter of 2010 and after tax net income for the second quarter 2011 was approximately $1.5 million or $0.07 per basic and diluted share as compared to $200,000 or $0.01 per basic and diluted share in the second quarter of 2010.

Moving onto expenses, cost of product sales were approximately $3.6 million for the three months ended June 30, 2011 as compared to approximately $700,000 for the second quarter of 2010. This increase is primarily due to the higher volume of products manufactured and the addition of CEDAX.

Cost of goods sold in the second quarter included a non-recurring adjustment of approximately $779,000 for expiring and discontinued generic products. Excluding this adjustment, our gross margin will be approximately 77% of net sales.

Our selling, general and administrative expenses for the second quarter were approximately $4.7 million, which was an increase of $1.9 million from the second quarter of 2010. The increase was primarily due to our investment in our operating infrastructure due to addition of several key management positions and the doubling of our sales team in the second half of 2011.

Depreciation and amortization expense was approximately $594,000, of which, $73,000 was amortization expense; that was primarily related to the acquisitions of CEDAX and Macoven compared to approximately $200,000 in the second quarter of 2010. In addition, approximately $300,000 in expenses related to our joint venture with SEEK for the development of theobromine was recognized in the second quarter of 2011.

The income tax provision for the second quarter of 2011 was approximately $855,000, an increase of approximately $653,000 from the second quarter of 2010.

Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization, or EBITDA, a non-GAAP measure, were approximately $3 million in the second quarter of 2011, compared to approximately $600,000 for the second quarter of 2010.

For the six months ended June 30, 2011, net revenues increased 68% to $22.1 million, compared to $13.2 million in the prior-year period. Net income before taxes was $4.1 million, compared to $4.6 million in the prior-year period and after tax net income for the six month period ended June 30, 2011, was $2.5 million or $0.11 per basic and diluted share, compared to $5.4 million or $0.23 per basic and diluted share in the prior-year period.

For the six months ended June 30, 2011, EBITDA increased approximately 7% to $5.2 million, compared to $4.9 million in the prior-year period. Cost of product sales was approximately $5.9 million for the six months ended June 30, 2011, as compared to approximately $1.9 million for the comparable period in 2010. The increase, as we stated, is primarily the result of an increase in the volume of products manufactured and the addition of CEDAX.

For the six months ended June 30, 2011, SG&A expenses were $9.5 million, which was an increase of approximately $3.6 million from the prior-year period. The increase was primarily due to our investment in our operating structure through the addition of several key management positions as we previously noted and the doubling of our sales team in the second half of 2010. Depreciation and amortization expense increased to $1.1 million for the six months ended June 30, 2011, as compared to $259,000 for the prior-year period.

As a reminder, net income for the six months ended June 30, 2010, included one-time income tax benefits associated with the termination of Pernix's S corporation status and the recognition of certain net operating loss carry-forwards associated with the March 9, 2010 reverse merger with Golf Trust of America, Inc. Therefore, the net income for the six months ended June 30, 2011, and 2011 are not directly comparable.

The company's effective tax rate for the six months ended June 30, 2011, was approximately 40%, while weighted average common shares outstanding for both the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2011, were 22.7 million basic and 23 million diluted. Weighted average common shares outstanding for the quarter ended June 30, 2010, were approximately 24.6 million basic and diluted. For the six months ended June 30, 2010, weighted average common shares outstanding were 23.2 million basic and diluted.

As of June 30, 2011, we had working capital of $17.3 million and $4 million in borrowing capacity available under our revolving line of credit. As Cooper previously noted, Pernix is in a strong financial position as we move into the second half of 2011 with approximately $36 million in unrestricted cash as of August 12, including the [indiscernible] (0:13:21).

That concludes my financial review this morning, and now I'll turn it back over to Cooper for his final comments.

Thanks Tracy. In closing, we are pleased by our strong performance in the second quarter and first half of 2011, and we remain confident in our business strategy and we expect to continue to leverage our sales force to promote our expanded portfolio of branded pediatric products. Together with current launch of Natroba and the 180 milligram suspension formulation of CEDAX as well as the introduction of our new generic products, we believe the company is well positioned for continued growth.

In addition, our increased cash position will enable us to capitalize our new opportunities to further diversify and expand our portfolio of branded and generic products through acquisitions, co-promotions and end licensing agreements.

Operator, please open the phone lines for questions.

[Operator Instructions] Our first question today will come from Irina Rivkind with Duncan Williams.

Hi, guys. Congratulations on a great quarter.

Thanks, Irina.

I just have some questions around expenses. For SG&A, should we expect a higher SG&A going forward as you guys ramp up Natroba? And also on the SEEK JV costs in the back-half of the year, should we think about it as somewhat comparable rates as that was spent in second quarter or maybe a little higher?

Okay. I would say first on SG&A, we kind of ramped up for Natroba early, which is one of the reasons you saw that the first quarter, the G&A take a big jump and also, the fourth quarter of last year is when we really started hiring folks for Natroba. So, I don't think you should see a big increase. After I finish, I'll let Tracy touch on the subject too. And then, what was the second part of your question?

On the SEEK JV expense, is the second quarter a good proxy?

I'd say – it's hard to tell right now, because we have a lot of things going on with the joint venture. I'm sure the question will come up eventually on theobromine, so I'll talk about it a little bit right now. What's going on right now, as we're in the auction process still, we've decided to geographically segment the assets there and see if there is an opportunity to maybe sell-off one region and develop another region. Some regulatory pathways have come to our attention that may make this an easier product to bring to market in certain regions as opposed to others. So we think we can really maximize the value.

So depending on what direction we go, you could see the expenses fluctuate, you could see Pernix doing more. But everything we're looking at right now will definitely bring, we think, more value to the joint venture and the theobromine asset. So that's why it's a hard question to answer because we're kind of – obviously we're preparing to start the clinicals in Europe, but we're also exploring other opportunities in other regions that may be, I guess, some more immediate costs, but also add a lot more value to the asset. So I was going to ask if Tracy had any updates. Tracy, do you have anything you see on SG&A that I'm not thinking about?

I think I'd like to note two things. One, insurance cost, because of the significance of Natroba and its value and inventory, certainly we're making sure that we have our risk mitigated in that area. So we are going to see some increases as it relates to our insurance costs as we continue to build up our inventory of Natroba and work through that process. Also, we are working on IT infrastructure improvement, to work smarter and more efficiently as we grow our staff or as we had grown our sales staff to really operate in a more efficient manner. So we'll probably see some increases there over time. But those are really the main two points. And of course, commission related costs as we sell the Natroba and really get that ramped up, I think we'll see hopefully some increases in commission there as it relates to the volumes of Natroba.

Irina, on a percentage basis, I would say it's not going to be really significant [indiscernible] (0:18:20) that will come in.

Okay. No, I appreciate the detail. And then on Natroba, can you just characterize the managed care coverage for the drug as it stands now and also where you hope it'll be, maybe, six months from now?

Sure, I'd say it looks like right now, from the word we're getting in the field and working with the other insurance companies is we're definitely already competitive with other products, the other lice products out there as far as insurance co-pays. So we try to improve on that. We're going to be a standard-of-care going forward. So we'd hope that would help us improve on it. The big question we're dealing with now is it worth buying down to a Tier 1 or should we just continue with our couponing strategy like we've done with CEDAX and other products, so.

But no, I think, right now, we're definitely competitive. We're not having any issues in relationship to the other lice products out there. So whatever lice product A, you get a prescription for, in Natroba your co-pay should be the same if you have insurance. So we're not seeing any issues there competitively, but we'd like to improve that. The question is do we improve it by buying it down to Tier 1, in some cases, a Tier 2, if they are Tier 3. And if that's the case, do we buy it down or do we use a coupon. And we'll just see as it goes, because we feel like we've got a pretty good start here on the competitive landscape of things.

Okay, thanks very much.

Thanks, Irina.

And the next question will come from Ram Selvaraju with Morgan Joseph.

Thank you for taking my questions. Can you hear me?

Yes. I can hear you. How are you doing, Ram?

Okay, thanks a lot. A couple of line item questions, first, if I may. Could you comment a little bit about the trends that we should expect to see going forward with the depreciation and amortization expense as a line item? And then, also on Medicaid rebate expenses, where those were in the second quarter, I don't think that was specifically broken down, and where you expect to see those trending over the course of the remainder of the year and if those are going to be impacted to any significant extent by the roll out of Natroba and the traction you are seeing with the new formulation of CEDAX?

Okay, good questions. I'll let Tracy address the line items, and I'll go ahead and start with the Medicaid question. I think, on the Medicaid side, we've been working really hard to reduce the Medicaid liabilities. You've probably seen a little bit of a decrease over this quarter and we expect to continue that with our current products. As always with the launch of a product, there's going to be some Medicaid sensitivity. There is going to be some state that we maybe chose not to go for Medicaid coverages because it's too expensive in this particular situation in that state where we don't want to be covered because it is expensive and the penalties are high.

So that being said, I think that it's going to be tough to tell with Natroba, but over time, we're going to always work to reduce that even with that product. But I would say immediately, you should probably see it very similar to our other launches. In pediatrics, Medicaid, it's very sensitive area when it comes to Medicaid. So I think you'd see probably close to what you've seen with CEDAX with Natroba on a roll out and a launch and then you'll see it start to reduce.

One of the issues we had last quarter was the new double suspension launched out really strong. You had a lot of initial Medicaid sales and they were able to back that back down over the following quarters. So you may see some of that stuff, but we don't expect any of it to get out of control and be overly expensive. We're trying to manage the process right now and as we move forward, we'll try to reduce our Medicaid liabilities as well. I'll let Tracy address the line item changes.

Just to add to that, of course, Medicaid is going to be – I think continue to be a wildcard as states make different decisions on how they want to handle supplemental rebates. We did have some savings this quarter from the elimination of certain supplemental rebates. And of course, as we changed our product mix, that has worked in our favor as well in trying to mitigate the Medicaid rebate. So we'll continue to try to make sure we balance that out. Certainly, we want to offer Medicaid coverage as long as it still makes good financial sense and is still profitable for us to some degree and makes good sense from a gross volume standpoint.

As it relates to the amortization and depreciation, we expect it's going to stay fairly consistent with where it is now. Certainly, we may have some additional, as I was alluding to – working on improvements on our IT infrastructure, we may have some additional technology purchases over the next 12 months that could increase depreciation. But I don't see that happening at a significant level. And amortization should remain fairly flat on the intangibles that we currently own. Certainly, as we acquire in-licensing opportunities, license rights, any additional patents, or assets of course that would impact that, but as it stands currently we don't see any material changes happening on the amortization line.

Okay, then if I could just ask one other question with respect to the tax situation going forward. You mentioned that the effective tax rate in the second quarter was about 40%. Did I hear that correctly?

Tracy, did you want to answer that one?

Yes, you did hear that correctly.

Okay. And so the question I would have is, is there any strategy that you could potentially put in place to reduce the effective tax rate and, if so, what might some of those strategies be, especially as you look at near-term licensing opportunities, whether or not you might be able to use structuring of those opportunities to impact the tax rate in a beneficial way?

And also, if I could just ask Cooper, if you're looking at in-licensing opportunities currently to broaden out the marketed product portfolio, maybe you could talk about some of the therapeutic indications that you're most interested in going forward?

Okay. I would say on the – I'll let Tracy refine this a little, but as far as the tax side of things go, I think we're going to – I mean we're always looking for opportunities to reduce our tax liability. Even this quarter, we're probably looking at some donations and some other things. There are some opportunities.

On the acquisition front, if it's a right fit for the company, there may be some NOLs associated there. There is opportunity to bring on partners that can help reduce that as well. So we're always considering opportunities. The problem is still trying to find the right fit for the company that happens to come with NOLs or something like that.

So it's pretty difficult situation because taxes is one thing, but you can't really manage your company based on taxes; although, we are aware of it and we're keeping our eyes open, trying to find a way to mitigate the tax liability. So there's a bunch of options there.

And then, as far as the acquisition side, we're definitely looking for – I mean, we haven't really talked in specifics for competitive reasons, but we've been negotiating and talking with companies on products that are, right now, I would say, some pediatric products that are non-seasonal because we like to move into non-seasonal products, so products that have some life one them. Difficult to generic but also have a good 505(b)(2) opportunities.

So when in a few years, when the generic opportunity arises for another company, we can move into a new SKU or new product just like you saw with kind of the CEDAX double suspension, we obviously have some vital 505(b)(2) strategies for CEDAX going forward to help protect us there over the next five years or so if something comes up.

So we'd like to buy products that are non-seasonal that we can have in our bag for five years or so before there is a generic threat and also have a 505(b)(2) opportunity that we could exploit within a three-to-four year period and, I think, give us kind of five to ten year product after that. So those are the kind of products we're looking at on the pediatric side. But it's also important to mention that kind of next phase for Pernix is really to develop another specialty sales force. So you'll see – I'll probably say over the next one maybe two acquisitions for Pernix from a pediatric side of the business, we'll kind of have a set for quite some time. And it'll have our 505(b)(2) strategies well defined and where we're going to go with CEDAX.

Obviously Natroba is going to be our first position co-promotion and then where it'll go with the new acquisition and what's the strategy to lengthen the amount of exclusivity we have on that product as well. And then you'll see us pretty much immediately start working into new specialty. Those specialties we'd want to be similar to pediatrics where there is good access, there is good coverage, there is not a swarm of pharma reps out there, I would say.

If you look at, kind of the, general practice area, there is this thousands of reps for the big companies that are focusing the GP area. We're not going to be there. We're most interested in the, I would say, certain types of oncology, women's health, dermatology, those type of specialties. And you know we're looking for products in those spaces.

So the way you'll see Pernix grow long-term is we might have 60 to 80 pediatric reps with a great product line. Then you'll see another 50 reps, may be dermatology, maybe women's health, maybe oncology and you'll see another 50 reps to 100 reps in that specialty.

You may – I say all the time, we'll never have 1,000 reps, but I'm more referring to one specialty. As you see it grow, we could end up at a 1,000 reps. So we'll probably 10 specialties, because we like having that specialty niche, that real specialty pharma feel where we can have a really aggressive competitive sales force that we can keep our hands all over and make sure everything go in the direction we needed to and we wanted to and keep the culture intact.

Rather than have one huge kind of company focused in one area, we'd rather have the small niches and be a very well-diversified organization. So, Tracy, do you have anymore, anything to add on the tax side?

No. My comments were just that as we do our strategic planning for 2012, certainly we'll be consulting with seasoned professionals in that area for any ideas that perhaps we can incorporate into our strategic plans moving forward, which I believe you covered to some extent already.

Thanks very much. I'll jump back in the queue.

Thanks, Ram.

Our next question will come from Matt Duffy Concept Capital Markets.

Thanks for taking my questions. Good quarter.

Thanks, Matt.

Hey, I was wondering if we could drill down a little bit more on the Natroba launch. And just wondered, obviously you've done a lot of work and have a lot of experience with the pediatricians and that sort of thing. I'm wondering if you can give us a little more color on what you think it is going to actually take to change their behavior, to get them to move over to Natroba from the older products that they've used for years. And if you could just remind us a little bit about who is the primary prescriber, and how well you have those covered with your reps?

Okay, sure. I'd say, first thing I'd like to do is give ParaPRO a lot of credit because they gave us all the ammunition we needed to make this a great product. I mean, it's going to be a standard-of-care, it's an easy product to use, it's a very safe product. So, I mean, when you kind of have a basis like that to work from and then you put a highly effective sales force behind that like – we all feel Pernix is a very highly effective sales force – you should see great things here.

As far as changing your habits, I think it's – we'll be able to change their habits as soon as we have the time to talk to them and explain to them how great this product is. I think it's like anything. It comes down to relationships with doctors and I think we have great relationships with our pediatricians. We've been calling on them for years. We have some new territories that we've added. With the addition of those territories, we're going to probably cover about half the prescriptions in the US with our 60 or so reps.

So, I think we got a pretty good starting base. And when you're talking about the kind of the size of the prescription market, I think depending on what you take into account, it's anywhere from 1.5 million to 3 million prescriptions you could target. So, I think there's a lot of opportunity there. And it would probably take us about 500 reps to cover 100% of the market. So, we're going to get half of the market with about one-tenth of that sales force.

So, I think we have a really good plan to roll it out. We expect to get immediate penetration. I know we've had some – obviously we launched the product first week of August. And I know we've already had some Houston doctors writing the product and we haven't really done an official rollout launch. I mean, that's going to be starting this week. So I think the doctors are really receptive so much so that I think some of them are writing the product just because they know it's available and they've read an article about it or heard about it.

Okay. That's great. Thanks for the update.

Okay. You are welcome.

[Operator Instructions] Next we will hear from Yelena Ofengeym with Stifel Nicolaus.

Hi, this is Yelena asking for Annabel Samimy.

Hi Yelena.

Thank you for taking the question. And my first question is about the R&D. How should we think about that as far as theobromine and Macoven contribution? And then, separately, could you provide a little bit of color on the Macoven revenue contribution going forward, maybe? And then separately, can you talk a little bit about the Medicaid environment, given the budgetary constraints and how much more Medicaid access did Natroba gain beyond the states of Texas, Florida, Ohio?

Okay. Sure. I'm trying to decide where to start. I guess on the – I'm trying to start where they go to R&D on Macoven or R&D on theobromine, so I'll just start with theobromine. The R&D side on theobromine, it's hard to tell at this point. Obviously, we spent some money on this so far. You know we have the European Phase III coming up, so we're going to have R&D tied up there. The other opportunities I talked about that we're kind of discussing and determining what our launch direction will be with the geographically segmenting kind of those assets there.

It's hard to tell right now, but it's not going to be a kind of big expensive development pathway. The pathways that we've identified are going to be less R&D intensive. So I think I wouldn't expect a big bump in the R&D spend because of this kind of latest change where we're looking to geographically segment kind of the assets and look at other development opportunities, because obviously we're looking at these early. So I would say obviously from the Pernix perspective, we're looking at these development opportunities as something that's kind of low risk and I would say, a lower regulatory risk, therefore leading to kind of less R&D cost.

And then moving on to Macoven, Macoven is kind of a different animal. I'd say that we obviously had some R&D there in the second quarter that went into some Macoven products. Some of those products launched late in the quarter. We've been selling them through the third quarter. I think with Macoven, it'll be very kind of sporadic R&D spend, because they are so opportunistic, they could come to us and say, hey, there is opportunity here, to do this, we have to develop this product, it's 80-month opportunity. So we may spend a lot to get the product out. And then once it comes out, it's a very profitable opportunity and the kind of the R&D expense goes away pretty rapidly. But like I said, it's kind of very sporadic.

As far as their revenue contribution goes, I would expect it to be more consistent through the years. Obviously, we bought Macoven pretty young and they've done a great job of growing and contributing to Pernix and they'll continue to do so. So, I would say, it will definitely be more consistent in increasing the sales contribution here.

The problem with generics is, like I was just saying, it could be 12 month of 18 month opportunity. It's not like CEDAX when we look at it as a seven to eight year opportunity, maybe up to 10, depending on what you can do with it on the development side, so those products come and go so fast, so you're constantly launching our products and going for new opportunities. We haven't focused any on Paragraph IVs or anything like that, so you won't see anything that violent where it's $10 million a week and then it goes to nothing in six months because of the 100 competitors that are in the market. So, nothing that violent, but the turnover is much more rapid on the Macoven side.

And then on the Medicaid side with Natroba, we're kind of at an interesting point. You have a lot of the states that are really struggling financially. Federal government is not contributing as much they used to the state Medicaids. So, you're having the states ask for a lot more give-back, but in the case of Natroba and also CEDAX, you have a couple interesting opportunities there for cost savings for the states where – I'll give you an example on CEDAX. You have Omnicef generic is one of our competitors.

And that product has been around for over 10 years and the resistance is pretty high. So, some of the data we've been looking at and also presenting to the Medicaid boards is that actually when you use a different antibiotic than CEDAX, the resistance is so much higher because CEDAX has really not been in the market for a decade. It may have been launched back in the '90's, but it wasn't promoted pretty much on kind of a wide perspective like Omnicef was where it was doing $800 million in sales. So, what's happening is you're seeing those drugs with resistance and the patients coming in with an ear infection, getting an Omnicef type product, coming back in a week with an ear infection, get another product.

So, we're showing the boards right now that actually you can pay a little more for our brand because you don't have a second visit because the resistance is much less. Very similar story with Natroba. Natroba is the new product for lice. One of the major issues with the lice products on the market now is resistance. You've probably seen from our Natroba's clinical studies versus Nix or Permethrin 1%, it was twice as effective as Permethrin, and lot of that was resistant.

So we're able to present the same kind of arguments to the Medicaid boards that not only is Natroba kind of standard-of-care product, but it's going to prevent patients from coming back and getting another doctor visit or another bill to the state for the doctor visit, and then yet another prescription until they get a product that works.

So we feel like we've been able to kind of mitigate those issues at a cost because we feel like we're on the right side of that. The last thing you want is multiple doctor visits, because that's where the expense really comes in. If you're going to pay a little bit more of a premium for a brand, you need it to knock out the problem immediately.

And we feel like we're in a good place with Natroba and CEDAX when it comes to that and we feel like we can have those discussions of Medicaid and give them kind of a reasonable solution to pay for a brand over generics or products that have been on the market that may have resistance. So that's two nice things right now about lice and CEDAX.

Thank you, that's very helpful.

You're welcome.

Your next question will come from Nathan Cali with Noble Financial.

Hey guys, congratulations on a good quarter.

Thanks Nathan.

Sure, just a couple of questions. What was the CEDAX sales in the second quarter?

We're not breaking them out product-by-product. I think you'll see more of that probably next year as Natroba kind of gets rolling and CEDAX, the double-strength goes its full year, we'll probably start giving a little more guidance and also breaking out the sales of each product. You see CEDAX is kind of lumped into the upper respiratory category now. As it grows, we'll separate it out. You also see that as we acquire the next product or product line we're looking at, it'll be much easier for us to kind of break it out and give you guys guidance on a product-by-product basis. But right now, we're not breaking out, but I can tell you it's done really well through the summer.

If you look at our kind of March prescriptions for the double-strength, which is one of the higher months there, you kind of – December through March there's some really, really good months for middle ear infections, or I would say really bad months for parents, but really good months for us. So if you compare like our March prescriptions with the double-strength to the last week in July, which is one of the worst weeks for the year, our prescription base kind of held its own, so it was equal to March.

But that can kind of give you a good idea of kind of market share we gained through this year with the new double-strength product and what you can expect in the fall. So you'd probably see a 80% fall-off from the winter to the summer, so you can imagine what the increase and the increased market share has to be to hold that kind of prescription volume in the summertime.

And then just on the nature of the ParaPRO relationship, how may sales reps that they have that are going to be promoting the product? And will you guys be responsible for the sales commissions for the products that you sell for Natroba?

So we will be paying our salespeople for the product that we sell. They have – and there is like – there are states that are close to their headquarters so they have above five territories. And they'll be responsible for paying their own sales reps and their own promotion material. And then in states where there is any kind of a Medicaid split, we would split it based on our kind of our profit sharing percentage. And in the areas where they had territories, they would not – we wouldn't be splitting it with them because they'd be getting a 100% of that of that sales, so.

So on the net sales number that comes back to you, you'll have already paid those commissions?

No, we would have already paid rebates, but commissions are going to be our responsibility and which is actually the way we like it, because we change commissions pretty rapidly. So on the launch, we will give a big incentive to get it out, then we'll back it back down. On certain formularies, we have to pay less if the rebates are higher. So as one of our strategies we change our commissions very often. And I think, that we wouldn't want to tie somebody else to that. So we handle and take care of that ourselves.

Thanks a lot for taking the questions.

Okay, thanks. We have time for about one more question.

And we'll take that final question from Michael Weiss with Joslynda Capital.

Hi, Cooper, congratulations.

Hi Michael.

Congratulations on the great quarter. Two quick questions, can you go over gross margin or at least give a range, I mean, I know SG&A, we can model as fairly flat as a percentage of sales until you get new products. Can we do the same with gross margin? And then, two, can you take a little time and describe what kind of companies, what products you're looking at with the cash that you have right now?

Right, I can. I would say on the gross margin side, we don't really break that out specifically, but what I would – I mean, let me check the numbers real quick.

I think you said 77%.

Yeah, 77%. I would say – I know we don't break it down product-by-product, but I think that if you're going to look at that way, I would say we want to remain kind of consistent, or improve as we go forward with new products. So I would say, yeah, you could probably model that out somewhere in that range. And then the second question you're asking what types of products we're looking for and when [indiscernible] (0:43:33).

Yeah what kind of opportunities, what's – is it a short-term, should we hopefully see something in the short-term, longer-term?

I would say, just so I don't kind of tie my hands on it because some of the parties we're working with are obviously much bigger companies and things don't quite move as fast as we move things here at Pernix. But I would say, just so I don't tie my hands, I think we definitely be announcing something this year. So we'd like to do it sooner, but I would say – I'd definitely say we're going to be announcing some this year. As far as the financial range, the products we're looking at, obviously you saw us acquire a product line for $450,000. Couple of years ago, you saw us acquire CEDAX for $6 million.

You can see as going up. You obviously have seen what kind of cash we've raised. So we're talking about a pretty sizable acquisition that will have a pretty sizable EBITDA contribution to the company and it will be instantly accretive, it will be a product that's already on the market, it will be something that fits perfectly into the pediatric sector.

Thank you very much and congratulations.

Thanks a lot Mike. Have a good one.

Well that's the end of the call. We appreciate everybody joining the call and, as always, if there's any questions interim, feel free to contact the company and we look forward to next call and everyone have a great week.

And that does conclude today's conference call. Thank you for your participation.