corrected transcript


Pernix Therapeutics Holdings,


Inc.
 
PTX
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
May 17, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


PARTICIPANTS


Corporate Participants


Joseph T. Schepers
 
– Director-Investor Relations & Communications


Cooper C. Collins
 
– President, Chief Executive Officer & Director


Tracy Simmons Clifford
 
– Chief Financial Officer, Secretary & Treasurer


Other Participants


Irina Rivkind
 
– Senior Vice President, Duncan-Williams, Inc.


Annabel Samimy
 
– Managing Director, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.


Matt Duffy
 
– Desk Analyst, Concept Capital Markets, LLC


Brian Marckx
 
– Senior Analyst, Zacks Investment Research, Inc.


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Please stand by. Good morning and welcome to Pernix Therapeutics Holdings 2011


First Quarter Conference call. Today’s call is being recorded. All lines have been placed on mute.


[Operator Instructions]


At this time I would like to turn the conference over to the company’s Director of Investor Relations,


Joe Schepers. Please go ahead, sir.


Joseph T. Schepers, Director-Investor Relations & Communications


Thank you and welcome to Pernix Therapeutics First Quarter 2011 Conference Call. On the call


today are Cooper Collins, President and CEO; and Tracy Clifford, CFO. Before we begin, I would


like to point out that the company issued a press release this morning containing financial results


for the quarter ended March 31, 2011. The release includes the financial tables and reconciliation


of non-GAAP financials. It is available on the company’s website at www.pernixtx.com.


The company also filed its quarterly report on Form 10-Q at the SEC yesterday. Before we begin,


allow me to read the following Safe Harbor statement. This call may contain forward-looking


statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such


forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors,


which may cause the actual results, performance, or achievements of the company or industry


results to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or


implied by such forward-looking statements.


When used in this presentation, statements that are not statements of current or historical fact may


be deemed to be forward-looking statements. Without limiting the foregoing, the words plan, intend,


may, will, expect, believe, could, anticipate, estimate or continue or similar expressions or other


variations of comparable terminology are intended to identify such forward-looking statements.


Listeners are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which


speak only as of the date hereof. Except as required by law, the company undertakes no


obligations to update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future


events or otherwise. Investors are urged to examine these and other risks and uncertainties


detailed in Pernix’s periodic public filings on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
corrected transcript


Pernix Therapeutics Holdings,


Inc.
 
PTX
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
May 17, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


During the call, we may also discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures such as EBITDA. The


company believes that EBITDA, which we define as earnings before interest, taxes, amortization


and depreciation, is a meaningful non-GAAP financial measure.


At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Cooper Collins.


Cooper C. Collins, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director


Thanks, Joe. Good morning and welcome to our first quarter 2011 earnings conference call. During


this morning’s call, I would like to provide an update on key business activities and a brief overview


of our consolidated results for the first quarter of 2011. Later in the call, Tracy will provide a more


detailed review of our financial result.


We are pleased to report solid financial results for the first quarter of 2011. For this quarter, we


achieved net revenues of 10.1 million which is an increase of 14% from the prior year period. Net


sales for the first quarter of 2011 included a Medicaid provision on prior year sales of $1.1 million.


Excluding this prior year provision, net sales in the first quarter increased 26% to $11.3 million. The


increase in net revenues was primarily due to higher sales of the company’s branded and generic


products and an increase in collaboration revenue.


The key growth driver for our branded products was the launch of our new Cedax formulation. The


Cedax product family is now the leading product line in our branded portfolio. We’re focused on


expanding our portfolio to include less seasonal and less Medicaid-sensitive products which


includes the launch of the new Cedax formulation, the planned launch of Natroba, and the


introduction of the new generic products that have lower Medicaid reimbursement rates.


Additionally, we’re actively looking to acquire or in-license products that are more profitable on a


net revenue basis. Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, a non-GAAP


measure for the first quarter of 2011 were approximately $2.2 million, compared to $4.3 million in


prior year quarter.


Now, I will provide an update on several key business developments. During the past year, we


have invested in building the company’s infrastructure by adding several key management


members to our management team and doubling the size of our sales force. We believe these


investments will provide a foundation for exponential sales growth in the future.


First, Pernix continues to deliver positive results at the launch of the 180-milligram double strength


suspension formulation of Cedax in January of 2011. Total weekly prescriptions for a Cedax


product line according to IMS data have increased more than 200% in April 2011, since we


acquired the product from Shionogi in March 2010.


Our generic business through Macoven is an important growth driver for the company. We expect


the introduction of several new generic products in 2011 which will enable us to continue to


broaden our product line. We’re also currently evaluating generic product licensing opportunities.


We’re preparing for the commercial launch of Natroba, which is an FDA-approved prescription


medication indicated as a topical treatment for head lice infestations in patients four years of age


and older. We expect the launch of Natroba in the summer of 2011.


The expected approval of the commercial manufacturing facility is still pending. However, the


manufacturing facility approved by the FDA to manufacture clinical batches has been contracted to


manufacture products prior to the commencement of the 2011 school year. This arrangement was