corrected transcript


Pernix Therapeutics Holdings,


Inc.
 
PTX
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 31, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


PARTICIPANTS


Corporate Participants


Joseph T. Schepers
 
– Director-Investor Relations & Communications


Cooper C. Collins
 
– President, Chief Executive Officer & Director


Tracy Simmons Clifford
 
– Chief Financial Officer, Secretary & Treasurer


Other Participants


Annabel Samimy
 
– Managing Director, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.


Brian Marckx
 
– Senior Analyst, Zacks Investment Research, Inc.


Donald Besser
 
– Executive Officer, Manchester Management Company, L.L.C.


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning, and welcome to the Pernix Therapeutics Holdings 2010 Fourth Quarter


Conference Call. Today’s call is being recorded. All lines have been placed on mute. [Operator


Instructions]


At this time for introductions and the reading of the Safe Harbor statement, I would like to turn the


conference over to Mr. Joe Schepers, Director of Investor Relations at Pernix. Please go ahead,


Joseph T. Schepers, Director-Investor Relations & Communications


Thank you, and welcome to the Pernix Therapeutics’ Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2010


Conference Call. Our speakers on the call today are Cooper Collins, President and CEO; and Tracy


Clifford, CFO.


Before we begin, I would like to point out that the company issued a press release this morning


containing financial results for the fourth quarter and full year ended December 31, 2010. The


release, including the financial tables, is available on the company’s website at www.pernixtx.com.


The company also filed its annual report on Form 10-K with the SEC yesterday.


Before we begin, let me read the following Safe Harbor statement. This call may contain forward-


looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such


forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which


may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the company or industry results to


be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied


with such forward-looking statements.


When used in this presentation, statements that are not statements of current or historical facts


may be seen to be forward-looking statements without limiting the foregoing of the words plan,


intend, may, will, expectantly, could, anticipate, estimate or continue or some expressions or


variations or comparable terminology are intended to identify such forward-looking statements.


This is our caution not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements received only


as of the date hereof. Except as required by law, the company undertakes no obligation to update


any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
corrected transcript


Pernix Therapeutics Holdings,


Inc.
 
PTX
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 31, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


Investors are encouraged to examine these and other risks and uncertainties detailed in Pernix’s


periodic public filings on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Cooper Collins.


Cooper C. Collins, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director


Thanks, Joe. Good morning, and welcome to our fourth quarter and full year 2010 earnings


conference call. During this morning’s call, I would like to provide an update on key business


activities and a brief overview of our consolidated result for the three and 12 months ended


December 31, 2010. Later on the call, Tracy will provide a more detailed review of our financial


results.


We are pleased to report strong business performance and financial results for the fourth quarter


and full year of 2010. For the full year of 2010, we achieved net revenues of $33.2 million for the


year with an increase of approximately 19% from 2009. The company believes that adjusted


EBITDA is a meaningful non-GAAP financial measure. We define adjusted EBITDA as adjusted


earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, excluding the effect of certain non-


reocurring item, such as the bargain purchase gain associated with acquisitions of Macoven.


Adjusted EBITDA for the full year was $10.9 million, an increase of 15% compared to the prior year.


For the fourth quarter, we reported net revenues of $12.2 million, which represents an increase of


approximately 46% over the fourth quarter of 2009. Adjusted EBITDA for the fourth quarter


increased approximately 38% to $3.6 million compared to the fourth quarter of 2009.


This year was an exciting year for Pernix. We’re very pleased with what we’ve accomplished in our


first year as a public company following the completion of our reverse merger with Golf Trust of


America on March 9, 2010, and our listing on NYSE Amex.


Pernix has broadened and diversified its portfolio of products with the acquisition of CEDAX, the co-


promotion agreement with ParaPRO for Natroba, and the addition of a generic business platform


through our acquisition of Macoven Pharmaceuticals.


Moving on to some key products and initiatives that are our company’s primary focus for 2011, I will


provide an update on our generic business, CEDAX, Natroba, and Theobromine.


The completed acquisition of Macoven Pharmaceuticals in September 2010, which resulted in an


addition of portfolio of generic products and several co-promotion agreements. With the completion


of the acquisition of Macoven – with the completion of this acquisition, Macoven became a wholly-


owned subsidiary of Pernix. We believe Macoven is well-positioned to allow us to capitalize on


generic opportunities as we move forward. We’re planning to launch several generic products and


authorize generics in 2011.


In January 2011, Pernix launched the 180-milligram oral, double-strength, suspension formulation


of CEDAX, which is being promoted by our company’s sales force of approximately 55 full-time


sales representatives. CEDAX is a once-a-day, oral, third-generation cephalosporin with high


middle ear fluid penetration of 76%. We believe this new product will be an important growth driver


for Pernix.


We’re excited about the successful launch of the new formulation of CEDAX. According to IMS


data, the total weekly prescriptions for CEDAX products family were 1,616 for the week ended


March 11, 2011 compared to only 597 total weekly prescriptions for the week ended March 12,


2010.