Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Joseph T. Schepers — Director-Investor Relations & Communications, Pernix Therapeutics Holdings, Inc.
Cooper C. Collins — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Pernix Therapeutics Holdings, Inc.
David P. Becker — Chief Financial Officer, Pernix Therapeutics Holdings, Inc.
Elliot Wilbur — Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC
Louise A. Chen — Analyst, Guggenheim Securities LLC
Irina Rivkind — Analyst, Cantor Fitzgerald Securities
Annabel E. Samimy — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.
Randall S. Stanicky — Analyst, Canaccord Genuity, Inc.
Ram Selvaraju — Head of Health Care Equity Research, Aegis Capital Corp.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning and welcome to the Pernix Therapeutics' Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. All lines have been placed on mute. [Operator Instructions]

At this time, I'd like to turn the conference call over to the company's Director of Investor Relations, Mr. Joe Schepers. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you and welcome to Pernix Therapeutics' conference call to discuss our third quarter 2012 financial results and the agreement to acquire Cypress Pharmaceuticals and Hawthorn Pharmaceuticals. On the call today are Cooper Collins, President and CEO; Dave Becker, CFO.

Before we begin, I will like to point out that the company issued a press release this morning containing financial results for the quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2012, and a press release announcing the agreement to acquire Cypress and Hawthorn. The earnings release including the financial tables and reconciliation of non-GAAP financials with the acquisition press release are available on the company's website at www.pernixtx.com. The company also expects to file its current report on Form 10-Q with the SEC by the end of the day.

Before we begin, allow me to read the following Safe Harbor statement. This call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Statements including words such as estimate, plan, project, forecast, intend, expect, anticipate, believe, seek, target or similar expressions are forward-looking statements. Because these statements reflect the company's current views, expectations and beliefs concerning future events, these forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainties.

Investor should note that many factors are more fully described under the caption Risk Factors in our Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and is otherwise enumerated here in or there and could affect the company's future, financial results or could cause these actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements contained in the company's Annual Report on Form10-K. The forward looking statements in this press release are qualified by these risk factors. These are factors that individually or in aggregate could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. The company assumes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future developments, or otherwise.

During the call, we may also discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures such as EBITDA. The company believes that EBITDA, which we defined as earnings before interest taxes amortization and depreciation is a meaningful non-GAAP financial measure.

At this time, I'll like to turn the call over to Cooper Collins.

Good morning and welcome to our third quarter 2012 earnings conference call. On this morning's call, we'll cover our financial results and our announcement today on our agreement to acquire Cypress Pharmaceuticals and Hawthorn Pharmaceuticals. Dave and I will begin with an update on key business activities and a brief overview of our financial results for the quarter and the nine months ended September 30, 2012. This will be followed by a discussion of our acquisition of Cypress Pharmaceuticals, a privately owned generic pharmaceutical company and Hawthorn Pharmaceuticals, a privately owned branded pharmaceutical company.

During the third quarter we will continue to make solid progress on our horizontal integration strategy, which is diversifying and broadening our revenues. We completed the acquisition of Great Southern Laboratories, and took certain strategic steps to position GSL to grow its customer base and to produce products for us internally. We focus on implementing our marketing strategy for Omeclamox-Pak which we launched in July and we introduced generic Spinosad for the treatment of head lice through our generic subsidiary Macoven. Our net revenues increased by 6.3% to $18.1 million in the third quarter of 2012, which consisted of 56% branded sales and 32% generic sales and 12% manufacturing revenues.

Now I'd like to discuss some of the company's key business developments.

On July 2 of 2012, the company completed its acquisition of the assets of Great Southern Laboratories or GSL, a pharmaceutical contract manufacturing company located in Houston, Texas. The company also closed on the related real estate on August 30, 2012. Upon the final closing, Pernix paid approximately $4.9 million and assumes certain liabilities for substantially all of GSL's assets including the land and buildings in which GSL operates.

GSL has an established manufacturing facility with an existing base of customers in the pharmaceutical industry, which is expected to provide the company with additional income and potential cost savings. The company acquired the GSL assets through a wholly-owned subsidiary, Pernix Manufacturing, LLC, and continues to do business as Great Southern Laboratories.

During the past few months at GSL, we've made management changes, improved efficiency and increased customer and supplier confidence. We also plan to make further upgrades to operating infrastructure at GSL over the next several months.

GSL were also involved in the current development of our OTC cough and cold product that we plan to launch by the end of 2013 as well as a previously announced pediatric product in development. In July, as most of you know, we launched our Omeclamox-Pak which is a 10-day treatment for H. pylori. We are currently promoting our Omeclamox-Pak with approximately 52 sales representatives. Our sales reps are calling on high depth prescription writing gastroenterologists and leveraging our coupon program. Our total weekly prescriptions according to [ph] Walter score (05:56) data were 350 for the week ended October 19, which was before Hurricane Sandy representing approximately 5.5% of the branded H. pylori prescription market. Some of our key regions for Omeclamox in the North East were affected by Hurricane Sandy. While Omeclamox launch has been below our expectations, we're making steady progress and our goal is to approach 10% market share by the end of the year. At the end of the August, Macoven launched generic spinosad which is gaining traction with 467 total weekly prescriptions in October, according to [ph] Walter score (06:32) data, just two months after the launch. We believe spinosad will serve as an important growth driver in the future.

Now, I'll turn the call over to Dave for a more detailed review of our financial results.

Thank you, Cooper, and good morning. During today's call, I'll provide a detailed review of our results for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2012. As Cooper just mentioned for the third quarter of 2012, net sales increased approximately 6.3% to $18.1 million compared to $17.1 million for the same period in the prior year.

For the third quarter of 2012, we've reported a net loss of approximately $270,000, or $0.01 per basic and diluted share compared to net income of approximately $2 million or $0.08 per basic and diluted share in the third quarter of 2011. EBITDA, a non-GAAP measure was approximately $204,000 for the third quarter of 2012, compared to approximately $3.5 million for the third quarter of 2011.

The third quarter 2012 as compared to the third quarter of 2011 was impacted by certain operating activities initiated in recent months and included an operating loss of approximately $513,000 from Great Southern Laboratories, of which the majority was incurred in the acquisition month of July and operating loss on the Omeclamox-Pak product of approximately $400,000, the expenses incurred in the development of our OTC cough products utilizing the recently licensed cough intellectual property of approximately $107,000 and the expenses incurred pursuant to our previously announced pediatric Rx development program of approximately $105,000 along with an increase in our stock compensation expense of approximately $321,000.

In total, these key investments in new product launches, acquisitions, product development and personnel impacted third quarter EBITDA by approximately $1.5 million when compared to the third quarter of 2011.

Cost of goods sold was approximately $7.8 million for the third quarter of 2012, as compared to approximately $7.7 million for the third quarter of 2011. This resulted in gross margin dollars of $10.4 million or approximately 57% of net sales for the current quarter as compared to $9.4 million in gross margin or approximately 55% of net sales for the prior year quarter.

Our selling, general and administrative expense for the third quarter were approximately $9.8 million, which was an increase of $4.3 million from the third quarter of 2011. The increase was primarily due to the fielding of the company's new gastroenterology sales force, the expenses associated with the launch of Omeclamox-Pak, an increase in stock compensation expense, the acquisition and operating expenses related to Great Southern Laboratories and an increased corporate infrastructure cost to support the company's growth objectives.

The income tax for the third quarter of 2012 was a benefit of approximately $404,000 compared to an expense of approximately $922,000 in the third quarter of 2011. Weighted average common shares outstanding for the quarter ended September 30, 2012, were 29.1 million basic and diluted shares as compared to the weighted average common shares outstanding for the prior year quarter of 24.8 million basic and 25.1 million diluted shares.

Now I'd like to discuss the results for the nine months ended September 30, 2012. For the nine months ended September 30, 2012, net revenues increased 10% to $43.1 million compared to $39.2 million in the prior year. For the nine months ended September 30, 2012, our net loss was approximately $11,000 resulting in no earnings per basic and diluted share compared to approximately $4.5 million or $0.19 per basic and diluted share in the prior year period. For the nine months ended September 30, 2012, EBITDA was approximately $2.2 million compared to approximately $8.8 million in the prior year period.

The nine months ended September 30, 2012, as compared to the same period in 2011, was impacted by certain investment activities initiated in recent months and included an operating loss of approximately $513,000 at Great Southern Laboratories, of which the majority was incurred in the acquisition month of July; and operating loss on the Omeclamox-Pak product of approximately $1.45 million; the expense incurred in the development of our OTC cough products utilizing the recently licensed cough intellectual property of approximately $337,000; and the expenses incurred pursuant to our previously announced pediatric Rx development program of approximately $137,000; along with an increase in our stock-based compensation expense of approximately $1.1 million. All in, these investments in acquisitions, new product launches, product development and personnel impacted EBITDA by $3.5 million dollars.

For the nine months ended September 30, 2012, SG&A expenses were approximately $24.3 million, which was an increase of approximately $8.7 million from the prior year period. The increase was primarily due to the hiring and training of a new gastroenterology sales force to promote Omeclamox-Pak as well as pre-launch marketing expenses related to this product.

Acquisition and operating expenses of Great Southern Laboratories increased stock compensation expense as well as increased corporate infrastructure costs that support the company's growth objectives. For the nine month ended September 30, 2012, weighted average common shares outstanding were 27.8 million basic and diluted common shares, and for the prior year period, weighted average common shares outstanding were 23.4 million basic and 23.7 million diluted shares.

As of September 30, 2012 we had approximately $37 million in cash and working capital of $46.4 million. Accounts receivable was approximately $20.8 million and inventory was approximately $7 million.

Finally, I'd like to make a few comments regarding guidance for 2012 and 2013. The acquisition of Cypress and Hawthorn, which is planned to close sometime in December, is expected to more than double our revenues to $135 million to $145 million in 2013. As a result of the various consolidation, restructuring and integration associated with the Cypress-Hawthorn acquisition, we will not provide guidance for 2012 at this time.

Before I turn the call over to Cooper, I'd like to cover the financial terms of the Cypress/Hawthorn acquisition. Under the terms of the agreement, Pernix will pay approximately $101 million, which includes upfront payments of $68.5 million in cash and $12.5 million in equity, $10 million is payable in December 2013 and an additional $10 million in milestone payments later on. The company has received a commitment of $60 million credit facility. MidCap Financial is serving as sole book runner, administrative agent and joint lead arranger.

That concludes my financial review this morning. Now I'll turn the call back over to Cooper to discuss the Cypress-Hawthorn acquisition in more detail.

The acquisition of Cypress/Hawthorn is certainly our most significant acquisition in the company's history. The generic business of Cypress and the branded business of Hawthorn are an excellent fit for Pernix, and as Dave just mentioned, is expected to increase Pernix's revenues for the full year 2013 to approximately $135 million to $145 million.

We believe that Cypress, Hawthorn and Pernix are a strong combination for the following reasons, significantly increases and broadens Pernix's branded engineered portfolio, provides the pipeline of generic ANDAs and branded NDA products and development, enhances clinical and regulatory expertise, the synergies that provide significant cost savings and it accelerates the execution of our horizontal integration strategy.

Many of you on the call this morning may not be familiar with Hawthorn and Cypress, let me provide you with an overview. Cypress and Hawthorn were founded in 1993 and are headquartered in Madison, Mississippi and have a 170 employees including 115 sales reps. In 2012, net revenues for Cypress and Hawthorn are expected to be approximately $50 million consisting of approximately 54% generic product and 46% branded products.

Hawthorn offers a wide array of branded pharmaceutical products including allergy, respiratory, iron deficiency, nephrology, and pain management. Cypress offers a broad range of generic pharmaceutical products in the areas of cough and cold, nutritional supplements, analgesics, urinary tract, women's health, pre-natal vitamins and dental health.

After looking closely at Cypress, Hawthorn and evaluating the business, our management team was impressed with the strength of the both these companies and the synergies with Pernix. These strengths include sales and marketing team, a broad diverse product portfolio, development and regulatory expertise with ANDAs and NDAs, and a strong pipeline of products filed at the FDA or in the development.

I would like to highlight some of Cypress' and Hawthorn's product development expertise, which include the following: 11 ANDAs approved in the last three years, two 505(b)(2) NDAs approved in 2011, 14 ANDAs on file, one 505(b)(2) NDA on file. A pipeline of 40 products at various stages including cough, cold, respiratory, pain, renal, dietary supplements, fluoride and dental care. Two key products in early stage of development, which we'll provide more detail on as we progress through the clinical development phases.

Let me conclude by summarizing the rationale for the Cypress, Hawthorn acquisition, which is the following. Significantly increases and broadens Pernix's branded and generic product portfolio, expected to more than double Pernix's 2013 revenues to $135 million to $145 million, EBITDA in 2013 is expected to be approximately $25 million depending on the level of our R&D expenses, strong product pipeline which includes NDAs and 14 generic ANDAs, provides clinical and regulatory expertise, Cypress is a key customer of Great Southern Laboratories ensuring current and increasing future product volumes by up to 50%, consolidate warehouse and shipping to one location, Pernix, Macoven, Cypress and Hawthorn have similar opportunistic business strategies.

We're enthusiastic about working with the Cypress and Hawthorn's management team as we integrate our companies. We are confident that Pernix, Cypress, Hawthorn are excellent combination that will provide strong growth in the future. Please note that the acquisition is subject to applicable regulatory approvals and other terms and conditions that are expected to close by the end of the year.

Operator, please open the line up for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Elliot Wilbur with Needham & Company.

Thank you, good morning and congratulations on the acquisition, it seems like an excellent fit with your business.

Thanks Elliot.

Specifically -- before, I guess moving to Cypress, I have question around Natroba, obviously the prescription trends aren't tracking were – I think anyone had kind of hoped and seems like you had some success with the generic. But I'm just kind of wondering how you may have altered the game plan for that product, now that Sanofi is in the marketplace with their competitive agent and then just maybe a bigger picture question is, despite the fact that both of yours and the Sanofi product obviously have much better efficacy and safety attributes than any of the other products in the class, they still don't seem to be capturing the share that we would expect and given that you now have a generic in the market that seems to suggest something other than just sort of a price-based decision that's taking place, just wondered maybe Copper if you could comment on that thought. Then I do want to ask you a question on the Cypress deal as well but maybe you can answer that first?

Okay. Great. It's funny because a lot of that started together, so I'll start with Natroba. I agree, we all had higher expectations for that product and that seems to be kind of consistent trend within pharma, after some reason the numbers that are estimated on brand launches just aren't being achieved. So, we move kind of from Natroba which – into Omeclamox and saw a very similar trend which is, the pharmacists, the insurance companies, everyone is pushing so hard away from these new brands, that I'll think it makes it really difficult to continue to launch new brands from zero. I think if you go back and look at Sklice and Sanofi-Aventis's launch, the numbers – we're about 18 weeks into their launch. They have about 300 reps on the launch and they achieved 467 prescriptions in the 18th week of their launch.

In the 18th week of our launch with 50 sales reps we achieved about 1,181 prescriptions, so it shows that – when we talk about how effective our sales force is and how they get the job done and we really had to look at that close when we didn't achieve those numbers with Natroba and kind of continuing to grow it into the – couple of thousand, 2,000, 3000 prescriptions a week. We really had to look at that closely and when Sanofi launched, it just confirmed our suspicions that it's very and maybe too difficult to launch a new drug from zero these days and although I think we've earned the right to take kind of those freebies where Natroba was a co-promotion and we didn't have to put a lot of money upfront, we take it and we grow it. We may now on a – I'm pretty sure we don't want to consider those types of opportunities going forward and even Omeclamox, there was just – I mean biogeneric substitution.

In most cases, the pharmacy could actually make more money on our brand, but they prefer to substitute generic even if the generics having to cost the patient more based on our competitive couponing programs with Omeclamox, so I think yes, Natroba didn't quite go where we wanted, we gave another shot kind of a start from the zero with Omeclamox. I think it's – Omeclamox is continuing to grow. It will – both of those will obviously be profitable products and I'm thinking I'd say end up being a win for us because we're making good money in the years to come, but neither one of them got close to what I think our overall near-term expectations were for those products, which really kind of drives this into this new phase of Pernix, which we're – we're looking to acquire products – products and companies like Cypress and Hawthorn where we're – they've already kind of launched the products, the issues are out there whether or whether or not they achieve their goals, we can hopefully help those products grow, so you see us continue to kind of look at products like we have with CEDAX in the past where we kind of acquired it at the bottom of $6 million and grew it and that's grown nicely and held Macoven. We acquired it kind of at a low point and watch it grow. I think Cypress – Cypress is at a point where they got a lot of approvals coming up, they got new products that are launching and have been launching over the last year and they're really going to be on upswing and growing and hopefully the Pernix management team can help with that as well.

So I think it really kind of changes what happened with Natroba, what happened with Omeclamox really kind of changes the way we look at the world and you could expect to see us move forward. I'd say you'll see more – you'll see more acquisitions, then you'll see co-promotions and in licensings of products that are zero, although I still believe that product development similar to the Mucinex or the cold crisp of the world where there's kind of a regulatory advantage for developing the product and there's DESI products and unapproved products that are eliminated duty or approvals. I think those are still products, we'd want to consider launching from zero but in general we're probably not going to look at a lot of Natroba's and Omeclamox in the future. You'll see us do more Cypress-Hawthorn deals, product deals, product basket deals. There's a ton of opportunity out there, especially with our horizontal integration, could have allowed us to look at brand, generic and OTC and now that we have kind of the Cypress-Hawthorn deal completed and hope to close soon, it will allow us to really kind of look at products and product baskets and even companies different – I'll let Dave kind of speak how we have an advantage there and then we'll move on to your other questions on Cypress-Hawthorn.

Yeah, that's a good point that Cooper makes. Over the course of the last six months, we've been active on the business development front, we've passed on a lot of opportunities but we bid on a couple of opportunities, and while competitive other companies we're able to pay a little bit more for acquisitions and I think with the Cypress-Hawthorn deal with their generic business, Macoven, Pernix and the Hawthorn brand division as well as the Great Southern Labs manufacturing, we're pretty well fully integrated and allows us to look at acquisitions in more at the gross margin line as opposed to the EBITDA line. So I think it'll allow us to be more competitive and squeeze more earnings out of acquisitions down the road.

Okay, then with respect to Cypress, Dave, it would be helpful for us, let me ask you a point of clarification. Cooper mentioned you expected – expect EBITDA of $25 million in 2013. I want to make sure number one is that -- assuming that's for the combined entity that wasn't the Cypress alone number and then are we talking about adjusted EBITDA with respect to that metric. And then Dave if you could, maybe you could give us a little bit more color on some of the profitability metrics around Hawthorn business it would be helpful for us in terms of assessing that transaction specifically if you were thinking about gross margin level and EBITDA margins?

And then for Cooper, and the question it just – they have such a broad book of business and some really attractive therapeutic areas just seems a lot like there is a lot that you can sort of do that business going forward, but maybe specifically just thinking about what's taking place there now, could you talk a little bit about where the detailing activity is currently concentrated on the brand side, it seems like there is one or two main products. How synergistic is that with your existing pediatric call activity and they have an oral prednisolone product, which seems like it's going to be nice add to your book of business, but then sort of what you can bring to their existing book of business, at least on the sales side to make it better? And then I want to make sure that I ask this question and don't forget, but if you could talk about sort of the components of their business in terms of how much of it is tied to unapproved drug products and then help us kind of assess what the opportunities and risk may be around that? Thank you.

Okay, good questions. I am going to try to catch those in order. So the combined – the EBITDA number of $25 million is the combined companies. I mentioned that depending on research we may do less research or more research with our research and development, which will affect that number. We've pretty much drawn the line in the sand over the last year and decided we're going to reinvest a lot of our profits to grow the company and to make acquisitions and opportunities like that, so I always like to leave that out there. We may do more R&D or less, so – and then I'll go ahead and roll with these other questions, let Dave wrap it up with the additional financial questions you had. So the broad business is actually one of the things that we really like about, Cypress-Hawthorn, one thing that I mean I think they are going to have some larger products, but a lot of that business is really niche. It's where we've excelled as a company and obviously they've excelled too. It is not a lot of attention from major generic companies, Perrigo or those types of thing, and as far as our specific product line goes, you brought up Veripred, their prednisone product that's a great product for maybe their reps to continue promoting and us to throw into the Pernix bag with our pediatric sales reps. So that's a great fit there. ZUTRIPRO and Rezira, there are the hydrocodone cough products and I mean those obviously you can see ZUTRIPRO growing greatly here in this season. It's really in the second season, but I would almost argue it's its first cold and cough season because there was a non-existing cough and cold season last year.

So that's growing well. I think that's something our reps can also help with and our management team can work with their management team, refine some targeting and make sure we are as the efficient as possible there, so we are expected to see that continuing to grow. One of the other aspects that I think will bring to the table that also help Hawthorn is a big chunk of their product all wintertime products. So a big chunk of their revenue on the brand side, so when we're looking at acquisitions, we'll be looking at acquisitions that we can launch in the pediatric side of the business, but also on the kind of their targeted primary care side, we give them kind of spring summertime type products where you can really grow business year around, so I think that's something that we are also focused on. They have a pain product that kind of – obviously it's non-seasonal. So I really, I like the broad business. I think it's what we do. We like to have a bunch of products rather than have that $1 billion product. And when it gets knocked out we're out of business. So we're like to having a bunch of products, have the reps, the reps will have four or five products in their bag. They promote two or three real hard in the winter, two or three real hard in the summer, spring. And so we really like the way it's build. It builds similar. The sales reps are very much on a eat what you kill philosophy, which is similar to Pernix obviously. So I like that philosophy.

And then speaking to the DESI side of the business, we're pretty much completely out, I mean they've zero market at DESI at this point. And they were one of the companies that we're very proactive, I think just like Pernix was early on they try to move away from the DESIs when you saw kind of the regulatory issues in the front. And it cost everybody that moved away money, but the one's that did move away are in business. So I think they were very proactive the management team did the right thing. They had the right regulatory team, which we addressed a little bit it in the script. But the regulatory development team over there is in-house. So they are developing on ANDAs and NDAs. That's a lot of value to us, because we've been outsourcing that. But now we have manufacturing, we have their regulatory and development team, so we're fully functional pharmaceutical company now, which is obviously great for us. And I'll throw the financial questions on Cypress over to Dave, real quick.

Yeah. Thank you, Elliot. I think a lot of what you're asking really kind of focuses on the 2013 guidance. So just to reiterate what we said earlier is that we expect top line in that $135 million to $145 million range. That will include a full year of great southern laboratories. We have high expectations particularly at Cypress just looking at the model here. We've got about between today and the end of 2013, there's about 10 to 12 ANDAs that we expect approval on, so that will have a big impact on 2013.

In terms of gross margins, historically, their margins have been in the low to mid 60s, and I would say that the current – with the manufacturing operation at Great Southern Labs, we're probably pro forma low to mid 60s at Pernix as well, so combined we expect a low to mid 60s gross margin range. The EBITDA of $25 million is a – we expect the deal to close in December, we expect to execute quickly on the cost savings opportunities, some of that may go into 2013, but I think that that $25 million is a reasonably safe number, and in terms of I guess overall profitability, obviously we'll be working under a set of bank covenants. EBITDA will be one of those for sure, and as Cooper mentioned, big part of this transaction is the – is the acquisition of a very rich pipeline, their pipeline of generics and brand products as well as our pediatric Rx development program. So, I think our focus is obviously going to be to drive the top line as much as we can, maximize the products and maintain our covenant compliance on an EBITDA level, and then invest in the development programs as much as possible because when you look at these two – the combination here and if you start looking out at 2016 and 2017 with these products coming off development, I don't want to give – give numbers here, but it looks very – it looks very attractive at that point.

And we'll take our next question from Louise A. Chen with Guggenheim.

Hi, good morning, congratulations on the deal, I had a few questions. First question I had on the – with respect to the deal was, could you give more color maybe on the tax rate associated with these two companies and maybe quantify the synergies a little bit more and then just a follow-up question on the EBITDA, if it was actually an adjusted EBITDA number, maybe you answered that but I missed that. And then also just on these two companies, what kind of revenue growth do you expect, maybe if you could break it out on the brand and generic side, and on the brand side any potential patent cliff that we're looking at, I know they're all, you've aggregate of products versus one big product, but just wondering there. And then my last question is just on the margin side for the overall business. In third quarter 2012, it seemed to down-tick from the second quarter and how you're thinking about it going into the fourth quarter? Thanks.

Well, there's – there's a lot of questions there, Louise. I was trying to keep up with you, but I may have to ask – have you ask them again, but tax rate, we still expect kind of that 38% to 40% at Pernix, with this deal being a stock purchase, as you know, the – any goodwill is not deductable for tax purposes, so that I would probably model out 40% effective tax rate on a combined entity basis. The synergies, really not prepared to go into the detail there, I would just say that they are significant, they were important to the valuation and they were important to the – to the lender, we'll probably get into some detail on that later on, but the EBITDA is a – is the number that we expect, as I said, with Elliot. Some of these synergies may take a little bit of time, creep into 2013, early to get the full benefit of it, but I think that $25 million numbers is safe. And then.....

Let me address the...

Yeah, I'll turn it back to Cooper.

So I think, I mean addressing – I mean I think, we should address the overall company growth. I think that – kind of the first question we touched on it, but obviously, we had a lot of our planned growth was in Natroba and Omeclamox. And I don't see those products grow in the way, anybody expect that growing to a point, anybody expect that on the last call, we kind of gave a range or a couple of calls ago actually gave a range of kind of $20 million, $30 million, $40 million to even $50 million. I think kind of a $50 million number on Omeclamox is history. I think it's going to be really tough to achieve something like that, we'd have to have some really great things happen. But I mean realistically you can build this thing at $20 million and slowly grow it from there. But obviously Omeclamox was – well, I shouldn't say substantial, but was a growth driver for this company.

I think when you look at Natroba same thing, same issues. And I think it's not – it's more about the market changing under our feet and us having to make a move. I mean we've talked about the name of the company. Pernix means swift and agile, this is where we give our investors an advantage. When something changes in the market we move. Sanofi launched 300 reps and have advertising on Sklice and only achieving one or two prescriptions a rep 18 weeks end. It tells you that it has nothing to do with the marketing team. We are doing things right and obviously our reps are 20 times more effective than them.

And so I think that when you look at the kind of Pernix growth, a lot of it is going to come through the acquisitions. And if we want to address kind of Cypress-Hawthorn specifically, we feel like they're kind of that flat line point in their business where everything's come through that as development starting to pop, they're launching new products, they've got new products coming out over the next 12 to 18 months, and they should experience some significant growth through the next year to two years with obviously a continued pipeline of products launching. I think we're not right to put a number on it other than we said earlier that the combined companies would do 135 to 145 in revenue and that's just obviously those two and from the hints that we're giving on this call, that is obviously some significant BD opportunities that are soon to come that we can stack on the Cypress-Hawthorn, Pernix Macoven. So I would expect to see that moving forward.

And I think in your – one of your reports, you kind of mentioned the valiant model, and I think you can obviously see us moving a little bit in that direction that's obviously going to be a smaller acquisition-type model, it's going to have to be in our case a very, very efficient but I think that there is a lot of validity to that model because you know what you're getting, products are out there already, you are not going to be surprised with some vile generic substitution issue on Omeclamox or pharmacists and doctors being persuaded by insurance companies or persuaded by their own management teams to push generics and OTC, so those issues are already well defined when you acquire something that's already out there and that's so I think you – although we haven't talked before, I think you had a pretty good hit there that's something we'd be looking to do, so...

Did I catch all those because we're frantically writing down all questions?

Just follow-up, Louise, on the question that you asked on the third quarter profitability and we tried to in the press release and our comments this morning focused on the kind of the unique items or the investment items that were undertaken here in the last several months that impacted the quarter and the year-to-date numbers. And that – probably the biggest element of that is the Great Southern Labs acquisition, and during the quarter it was about $513,000 operating loss. And as I said, the majority of that was incurred in the month of July and to a large extent we really look at that as known element of the purchase price. When we picked up that operation it was stressed I think, to say the least. And so while we had orders,, we may not have had materials to manufacture goods.

So it took a little while to get it back up and running. We're very pleased with where it is today. I would say it's about breakeven. There is some initiatives that will take some cost out of the operation over the course of the next three to six months. And we're seeing a lot of inbound requests for development. And so we think that's going to be a very good investment. We've pointed out that Cypress Hawthorn was the number one customer at Great Southern Labs. So it has the benefit of ensuring that current volume and effectively giving us the de facto right of first refusal on any future volume. So we think that the investment in Great Southern coupled with the acquisition of Cypress/Hawthorn is a very powerful synergy for the company.

Okay. Thank you.

Thanks, Louise.

We'll take our next question from Irina Rivkind with Cantor Fitzgerald.

Hi guys. Thanks for taking the questions. I just had some more macro level type questions about how you're planning to integrate these businesses. Are they going to be sort of running kind of like they've been running before, sort of as independent arms of Pernix, or is it going to be all under one umbrella? And then the other thing, in terms of going forward with your – it sounds like new business strategy of more acquisitions, how do you expect to finance these new acquisitions? And also, if you're moving towards a Valiant business model without having a low tax rate, how do you guys think you can be effective there? Thanks very much.

Okay. So I'll start with the integration and I'll let Dave speak on the acquisition finance. So on the integration side, we view this as – they're pretty much the most important part of our acquisition strategy. So we have somebody that's going to be in charge of that, that's going to sit over there. We've obviously been working on the integration strategy for the last probably 60 to 90 days, so prior to the signing. So we've obviously spent some money and some time on that. Tremendous amounts of synergies, but it's really kind of a follow through once the deal is done, making sure everything goes according to plan.

As far as the corporate structures, I mean it's just – it will be just like Macoven. Macoven and Pernix stayed out their name. I think Cypress and Hawthorn will stay out their name. The management teams will be very similar. I'd say that Pernix is probably going to help as much as we possibly can on the brand side and we'd hope that Cypress could offer a lot of help to Macoven on the generic side.

So I'd say the companies will stay out there separately, but we're going to maximize the synergies everywhere we can. But we are taking this corporate integration as serious as I think we possibly can, because it's very important and a priority, especially if we're going to go forward with additional acquisitions. And I think they'll be easier with the amount of infrastructure that's coming with Cypress and Hawthorn, but in this case, we'll be keeping a lot of that infrastructure. I'll let Dave touch on the acquisition finance side.

Yeah. In terms of financing, I think you'll probably see it similar to this particular acquisition, the combination of cash, funded by debt, that kind of a reasonable multiple of EBITDA and issuance of stock. We've talked to several people out there. There are some sellers that are only interested in being compensated with Pernix stock and there's others that are strictly cash motivated. So I think – but on balance, I think it'll just – you'll see probably, maybe a little more weighting towards the stock consideration than the cash, but that's – I guess that's the beauty of being a publicly traded company and being able to use your stock as consideration in a deal.

And in terms of the tax rate, I mean there's really not too much that we can do right now with the current business, but it's certainly something that's on our minds as we go forward. Certainly we'd like to take that tax rate, effective tax rate down because it's significant. And it's, I think, one of the reasons why for 2012, we have focused on making investments in the business as opposed to paying that out as taxable income. So it's on our minds, there's probably not much we can do with the current situation, but going forward, we'll be spending a little more time on that I think.

And I just have one quick follow-up, which is on the interest expense with this credit facility, can you comment on that? Thanks.

Yes. As we've said, it's a $60 million term loan. I'm probably not authorized to give the exact interest rate, and so instead of doing that, I'll say it's south of 10% and north of 8%, probably what you'd expect for this type of company.

All right. Thanks very much.

Thanks, Irina.

And we'll take our next question from Annabel Samimy with Stifel, Nicolaus.

Hi, thanks for taking my questions. So I just wanted to follow up on your synergies comment. You mentioned that you didn't really want to go into it, I'm hoping that you're talking about the numbers. Can you give us an idea of where you might find some of the synergies, are you keeping much of their sales force intact, is the synergy more on corporate level, from a manufacturing perspective? Can you just give us a little bit of color, how you're going to sort of work that integration in?

Yes, I think there's synergies on all three of those levels. We obviously want to get in there and have some discussions with the Hawthorn and Cypress team and then make sure that we're not missing anything on this integration strategy. And we wouldn't want to bring up any personnel issues on this – on this kind of phone call. So – but I think it's something that we'll be able to more adequately discuss over the next month or so.

Okay. I guess then maybe we can turn to the products and one of the sources of growth that they're going to have. You mentioned they have a decent pipeline of both ANDAs and branded products, which is going to be the source of growth. Is that going to be weighted more towards the generics or is it going to be weighted more towards the branded? Because I guess based on your comments from before, that it's a very different market and launching new products into this market is exceedingly difficult. So how dependent are you on the branded side of the business versus the generic side of the business for that growth?

So, I'm – I think if we kind of look at it from a quantity perspective, there's going to be obviously more generic approvals, but the brand approvals are very nichey, just like Pernix likes to shoot for on the development side. I think when we mention our pediatric development strategy and you look back at the kind of Mucinexes and the [indiscernible] (47:31) and those kinds of products, there have been two really successful products in the last decade and those were the two. And the strategy that Hawthorn and Pernix have on development are very similar to those two strategies. So we have to hope for at least a regulatory wind behind us – that was wind, not win – a regulatory wind behind us as we launch these products.

So that's really where the brand product is focused. So the brand products I would say have more potential from a dollar amount, but the quantity of product approval will be much greater on the generic side. The other side of the business, I think that – Cypress actually started by promoting some generics with the sales force, but that's something we're also considering is a lot of the – some of the Cypress products are single source and is – and are maybe products that could be repackaged that we could put into a brand sales force as well.

So there's the generic products that some we can take back to the brand and then there's the brand development products and the current brand products that I think are bigger on a dollar-for-dollar basis compared to the generic products, but very well diversified. The management team has done a great job of diversifying that business. I think it's – I definitely wouldn't look at it as a generic business. It's very similar to Pernix and Macoven the way you guys – what you guys have learned about Pernix and Macoven over the last couple of years, but very similar.

Okay. And just on that product level, I guess you mentioned a few of the cough and cold. Is their product weighted more towards the cough and cold and is that going to bring you back into the seasonality that you're trying to get out of? And then on the topic of Natroba and Omeclamox, given the difficulties that you had in marketing these products, are you going to back off any kind of promotion, any kind of efforts there, and should we just see these products kind of be in your portfolio and grow as they will? And as a generic for Natroba, is that changing the structure of your deal significantly and how should we think about the economics going forward there?

So I'll jump on the Natroba question first. So, we – that is not – Natroba and Omeclamox. This change, as far as moving toward the acquisition, doesn't affect what we're going to continue to do with those products. We are still going to keep the reps on those products and grow those products. I think for both Natroba and Omeclamox, it can offer us a few more regions and a few more salespeople to help us continue on the growth trajectory with those two products. So – both of which are kind of non-seasonal. So that can help out with the seasonality.

So now, we'll transition into the seasonality and the products of Cypress-Hawthorn, specifically Hawthorn I guess. So that'll help their sales force out with seasonality, help us increase the sales of those two lines. So, no, we're not planning on walking away from those, we're actually going to probably ramp it up a little bit. But the cold and cough products are – there's their recent NDAs that were approved and they're obviously pushing those full force and they are very seasonal, but I would say by the time the shift in season comes, spring, summer, we will have another one or two significant summertime products or noncyclical products I guess for that target of primary care sales force to promote.

Okay. And if I could just squeeze one more question in. The Great Southern acquisition, when I guess it was purchased back in July, I think it was characterized as being modestly accretive initially and then you're going to look for some margin expansion. Was that operating loss expected, is that a one time thing or are we going to not see that modest accretion this year and when do you think we can see that margin expansion take effect?

Yeah, I would say that the – the quarterly loss was a little more than expected, but again, we kind of looked at that as an element of the purchase price internally. I would say today, we're right at about breakeven. There are some initiatives that will come to play in the next 90 days to 120 day that I think that automatically bring $250,000 to $500,000 of savings. The plant is getting a lot of inbound calls in terms of development programs, there's a lot of activity just internally with Pernix. If you talk to the formulation guy there, he'll probably tell you he's formulated one of our products, talking about our OTC cough product that we have in development. He's probably got 30 formulations on that one. And then we've got the pediatric Rx development program that's starting to go into the plant today. I think we've said before, and I know I've said it several times elsewhere, is that it's a strategic asset, it was a strategic investment. The economics, I think, will be modest and – but it's – we expect to make money on it, I would say, in 2013, so I expect it to be accretive in 2013 based on what we know today.

And I think your other question was on the economics on Natroba and spinosad with the generic. And clearly the selling price on the generic is lower than the brand. We've structured a new deal with our partner on that one. Under the brand deal, our margins – operating margins were kind of in that 10%, 15%, 20% range. The percentage will be kind of in the mid 30%s on the generic, but we'll be multiplying that by a lower sales number. I think overall the generic side of that business is more profitable to us. And we've seen, I think, decent growth at this point. The product did start to pick up in the summer, and we've certainly, from a factory sales standpoint, have seen more activity on the two products.

Okay. Thank you.

Thanks, Annabel.

And we'll take our next question from Randall Stanicky with Canaccord Genuity.

Great, thanks guys. And Cooper, congratulations, I know you guys have been working hard on the business development front. It's great to see a deal get done here.

Thanks, Randall.

I just have three questions. Cooper, as you step back now that this deal has been announced and you look at the platform, how should we think about this and business development going forward? And I guess specifically, should we think about product additions to the current platform or is there still platform expansion into other areas, other therapeutic areas that's – that are going to come as we move forward?

So I'll jump on the therapeutic areas first. So one of the – one of the nice things about Hawthorn is they have – they've had their kind of – we call it targeted primary care, but their sales force has worked in the derm space, their sales force has worked in women's health space and these are both avenues that we've talked about in the past, and obviously we've had kind of a little bit of a business development pipeline there, we've been looking a lot at derm and women's health. So there – that allows us to drop certain products and maybe carve 20 people out of Hawthorn and let them get their old derm targets and really grow those types of products that we may acquire, so I think that's one of the assets that we see there is the ability to call on multiple specialties and also the experience and relationships in those multiple specialties, so that was a big plus. And then, Dave, were you going to address the first question or -- I saw you writing something down?

Yeah. It's just all round business development and...

Okay.

Additions to the platform, I think you've answered it.

Yeah. So and then to just expand on that a little bit, I think additions to the platform, we're adding other products. It just makes it much simpler because we're – let's say we – let's say a derm product launches in 2011, they've spent all this money on development. They say it's going to be a $100 million product, ends up being a $20 million product and we can pick it up and dump all the infrastructure and just throw the product into the Hawthorn bag, makes a ton of sense for us to do that and that's what – we kind of look at kind of some of these acquisition models. We think ours is going to be a little different because we're really going to focus in on the efficiencies, and obviously not do as much, focus on the efficiencies and integration immediately, so I think that's what you can expect going forward.

Should we be thinking about the business development efforts as no slowdown here, continuing full steam ahead, more deals coming, and with the same parameters that you've given us in the past? And then, Dave, I assume you've talked to creditors, what type of leverage ratios are you comfortable with respect to levering up?

So I'll jump on the kind of follow-on bd opportunities. There are a lot of opportunities that we're working on right now. There's a handful right now that we're already in LOI phase with, so – and you know how quickly we try to move. We're only held up by the other party usually, so. But I would say we almost had a bottleneck this year where we had a lot of things going on, we had one deal we wanted to close for quite some time, it's big pharma, it took a long time, still on the table, right. So we kind of had this bottleneck, so the bottleneck is kind fixed in the release. So I would say expect more activity, but let's say we had three acquisitions in a quarter, I wouldn't expect three acquisitions every quarter, just understand there's a bottleneck. And we'll make the right acquisitions at the right time, but it may be a little lumpy. And I'll let Dave take the next part.

Yeah. Toward the end of the year here, we've seen a lot of activity and I think it's been publicized that there's some folks that are tax motivated at this time of the year. So we are seeing some increased activity. I think in terms of the leverage this deal is about kind of in the low 3s. Depending on the deal, the transaction, I could see that maybe going as high as 4, but I'd say kind of that low to mid 3s is where we're comfortable.

Got it. Last question here. You're adding to the cough and cold franchise a bit and it's been something obviously that's had an influence in your quarterly progression. Any early read on the cough and cold season thus far this year given that last year it was obviously a very weak season?

It seems like it's starting out pretty well. I think the numbers are turning up, CEDAX just had a popup to 1,600 prescriptions a week, which is important to mention, because I know we've discussed this on and off, but we've pretty much moved away from Medicaid sales. So now we're in a place where our scripts are catching up with our old numbers except half of those scripts weren't exactly anywhere near as profitable as the other half. So we're really making a lot more money on CEDAX this year than we were last year. And so if we can achieve that amount of scripts kind of based on 50% of what we were shooting for last year, because really our targets have been trimmed down by about half. So really, we're growing just like we would have hoped in the private pay insured sector of the business. So I think based on those kind of trends, it's starting out really well. The kind of the tail of the cold season is really cold in January and February, if you have some nice cold snaps and flu rolls in and reaches end of the spring then it's a nice strong cold season. But I'd say it starting out nice and I think January and February are still kind of tell the tale.

All right. Thanks guys.

Thanks a lot.

Thank you.

And we'll take our next question from Elliot Wilbur with Needham and Company.

Thanks. A couple of quick follows ups here. Just looking into Cypress portfolio has a broad range of dosage form capabilities. And I know that you mentioned that they are a customer of Great Southern. So the question is, does that business on a standalone basis come with any manufacturing assets. And then eventually I mean what percentage or how many of the dosage forms that they currently sell or sort of complimentary to what Great Southern is doing? How much of that manufacturing could you move in-house and if possible at this point could you give us assessment of what that may mean for gross margin level. And then Dave there is a $10 million milestone associated with the acquisition as well, I don't know, if you've mentioned this in your prepared commentary or not, but what is that associated with? Is it something to do in terms of performance level of the base business or is it tied to certain ANDA approvals and what's the likelihood that being hit in 2013? Thanks.

So on the manufacturing, there is a ton of opportunities that I'll tell you that Cypress-Hawthorn was actually Great Southern's biggest customer, and if we would've taken the Cypress-Hawthorn business that we could have last year at Great Southern, it would increase the sales of Great Southern by 50%. And we're planning to move – to start to move some products over and kind of integrate those, add to the volume there at Great Southern. Great Southern is obviously in a transition getting the plant prepared to manufacture more products more efficiently. So I think that even when you look at some of their solid those vitamins and those types of things, I think we'll be able to manufacture those going forward or at least be a supplier of those products depending on having backup manufacture and those kind of things, but basically if you kind of rewind and look at you're going to do one of the synergies that we looked at is if last year we would have taken the Cypress-Hawthorn business over to Great Southern, it would increase by – increase the manufacturing by 50% and the revenue by 50%. So if you look at 12 million a year facility, we could've done 18 under – if it would add all that business that it could – that it could – it's capable of manufacturing – Great Southern is capable of manufacturing.

So certainly that's how – that's how we looked at it originally and it still remains that right now we're going to have more and then the milestone on the – $10 million milestone is based – I would say – more specifically on two development projects but up to four development projects, but there is two that were really interested in moving forward rapidly. One could also be promoted in the peds base and another specialty which they have experience in. The other one is a nice niche that there aren't too many players in and it would be a great product and those milestones would probably come into play in 2014 and they can be paid in 50% cash and 50% stock unless – I should add that – I'll just leave it at that, but right now in writing it can be paid at 50% cash, 50% stock but obviously if we have employees of the company that are interested in taking more stock, we'd consider that too.

Okay. We'll take our next question from Ram Selvaraju with Aegis Capital Corporation.

Hi thanks very much for taking my questions, just three very brief ones. First of all, Cooper, maybe could you talk a little bit about the incentive structure for the sales reps at Cypress and Hawthorn, and how that might change if it all with their integration into the Pernix organization and maybe some initiatives that you are thinking about in terms of how to optimize the way in which the combined sales force across the company works in synergy? Then second, I wanted to ask about the overall branded versus generic mix across the combined company if you could just give me those percentages? And finally, if we look forward into the pipeline for the combined company, can you give me an idea of specifically how many additional new drug applications you think the combined company might be likely to file on an annualized basis going forward, if you can give us a range given that would be helpful. And how many of those new drug applications are likely to be de novo NDA 505(b)(2) and I presume it would be mostly a mix of 505(b)(2) and ANDA, but basically what I'm looking for is going forward what percentage of the NDAs the combined company, are going to be filing could be 505(b)(2) versus ANDA, that would be helpful? Thank you.

Okay. Okay, good questions. So on the incentive side without getting too sticky on the human resources side of things I'd say that their strategy is very similar to ours where it's kind of a low-base pay, higher commission and bonus, eat what you kill philosophy, so I think from a pay standpoint it fits in really well with what we do. We probable have a hybrid of what they're doing, we do kind of bringing the companies together but really keeping the eat what you kill, the motivated sales commission kind of philosophy. So that's one of the things we really like about their infrastructure on the brand side that we'll obviously be keeping, so it's the way they pay and the way their reps are incentivized. Hopefully we can help with other things like targeting and marketing and those kinds of things as well.

The brand generic percentage is about 55% brand and about 45% generic now. I think you'll see – you'll see those percentages change kind of quarter to quarter. There'll be some generic launches that will bring it up and brand launches that will – generic launches bring that percentage up and then we'll launch brands and then switch again. So but I'll tell you probably looking at dollars majority on the brand side and smaller percentage long term on the generic side. We've always looked at our business as kind of three aspects of brand generic and OTC. And our goal is always to have perfectly hedged across the spectrum where in a perfect way and in a perfect year where there is not a lot of lumpiness, a lot of launches and things like that, you have a kind of a third of third and third of your business. So that's really the long-term goal I think for the company is to evenly split those. So even if you have a couple of bigger products on the brand or generic side or OTC side, something comes up with one of those products and it obviously doesn't cripple the rest of the company. Hopefully, the stock will be taken by another – another higher performing product on one or the other side of the business, but that's how we view it long-term.

As far as the pipeline on specifics and percentages of ANDAs and NDAs, I'll say right now they have a few NDAs one of which is a 505 B2, the 505 B2 is filed awaiting approval. The other ones are on two new chemical entities, but maybe I think we would have some regulatory opportunities there against our competitors. So I think that's how we see the brand development right now and obviously there's a bunch of things that they are working on, on that side of the business, but those who want to see further down the path. And on the ANDA front, it just -you're constantly trying to find new opportunities, so the 15 or so products they have filed, I would expect to see kind of 10 or 15 every year that are – I'd say investigated and some works done on them and hopefully they're filed as well. So I think, you probably stay, kind of stay on that pace and continue to add. And once again they are not these huge products where you're going to have 15 competitors and the price drops right away or big paragraph force or there might be some paragraph force stuff, but smaller paragraph force stuff, it's not all of our players in. So I think, I really like the strategy. I think it's well hedged very similar to Pernix and Macoven.

Thank you.

Thanks Ram.

And we'll take our next question from Irina Rivkind with Cantor Fitzgerald.

Hey, thanks for taking the follow up. I just want to get back to kind of the bones of where the business is at and how you guys are thinking about your organizational structure? So now you've earned some regulatory people, manufacturing et cetera, I was just wondering with any additional acquisitions that you make, can we sort of assume that your corporate structure in terms of expense is going to now sort of stay constant without too much addition of SG&A, et cetera, and then you'll sort of try to keep the place lean. And then I guess the second question is on Hawthorn. They do have an early stage pipeline. I'm just wondering if you guys have changed your mind in terms of taking on clinical risk and working on more early stage products and then I guess finally in terms of – you've said that you're not going to really focus on these new market-type opportunities like Omeclamox and Natroba, but yeah we're still looking at development of new cough product – that theobromine product and potentially a new pediatric product. So can you help us understand how those are going to be different and how – why they are different? Thanks very much.

Yeah, in terms of – Irina, in terms of the Rx structure, I mean I think you hit it right there on the head and that is and I think I said it earlier looking at new acquisitions, I think we can start to look at those at the gross margin or certainly at the selling contribution margin level, which is going to be pretty powerful for us. So yeah, the objective is that now we're fully integrated. We've got regulatory, we've got development and fortunately those folks have had a long history of between Cypress and Hawthorn working with Great Southern Labs and so there is not a lot of integration between those two entities when it comes to development. So we're pretty pleased with that and I'll turn the rest of that question over to Cooper.

So Irina, on the development side, I think it's important to kind of learn from I think what's happened with Natroba and Omeclamox and also what's happened with some of the other brand products that have launched. The one thing I think they have in common is there are similar generics and generics in that class can be substituted to. Those are the type of products that we're definitely want to avoid. I mean look Natroba you know and I know that most of the pediatricians in the country that we call all know it. When Natroba launched, it was the best product by far and it wasn't even close, I mean almost shouldn't be in the same class, it was that much better than anything else in the market, so better and safer. So, I think for that product to launch, obviously we achieve I think a much better result at launch than Sanofi did, but for that product to launch and not achieve its goals I think really kind of speaks to how aggressive insurance companies and pharmacists are in generic.

So, in these development products that Pernix has on the pediatric side, prescription pediatrics side, it doesn't hit in that category where there is going to be a generic for the pharmacist to push to even if it's a different indication or whatever that, they are not going to have that option. The development project that Hawthorn are working on, they are not going to have that option. So, you're really kind of looking at products from what we have learned that have to be – they don't have to be new chemical entities, but let's say new to the market or new to the approved market and they also have a new indication.

So, I think those are the – if you leave any leeway there, there's a compound out there that's similar, it can be generic side, I mean they will switch it on you. So, you have got to really be online with that strategy and understand it well and I think that the recent event with Sanofi really kind of clarified us and those are our suspicions with the CM marketing machine like Sanofi go out there with a great product, I mean I could probably sell either product. I think I'd say Natroba is better, but I could probably sell you the product, Sklice or Natroba, but go out with a great product and have such a difficult launch with that many reps and a direct consumer advertising campaign. I mean I hear it on the radio every day. So to see that, it really kind of clarifies our strategy and we feel like that that's exactly what we thought, this is the direction we're going, so when we talk about development projects, they're not, Natroba like or Sklice like, Omeclamox like where they can put three generics together and substitute it or point you over the counter and give you one generic, we're going to be avoiding those types of development projects and we were avoiding those of types of development projects previously kind of under a suspicion of these kind of issues but it's just – it's just loud and clear now that we've seen what's out in the market.

I think there's rooms full of pharmaceutical executives over the last few months, sitting in rooms – sitting in their office and scratching their heads, saying "wow, this market is changing under our feet, what are we going to do", and I feel like our management team has a pretty good grasp of the direction that we need to go to be successful. And then the other side of theobromine, that is really – we're using the theobromine intellectual property to develop an OTC product which is going to be kind of a straight marketing campaign similar to what Dave Becker has been involved with of Mucinex, so that's going to be a marketing campaign utilizing our key to protect the product but we're making, I'd say, the marketing team that Dave's put in place is making some really, really great strides there with that campaign, the look of the product. So we're excited – we all are very excited about that product, but it's just a different animal because there's a similar cough product out there but that's going to be an OTC marketing around. Do you want to touch anything on that Dave?

Yeah, I think maybe, she was – Irina has alluded to the kind of the economics of that with – if you go back to Mucinex, that was a product that was launched really on the strength of the sales force of about 125 people initially before consumer advertising really was turned on. So, I think you could look at the larger sales force between the two companies and look at that kind of launch for this new product, which would be no earlier than next fall.

All right. Thanks very much.

Thanks Irina.

Thank you.

At this time, there are no more questions. This concludes Pernix Therapeutics third quarter earnings conference call. Thank you and have a nice day.

Thanks.