corrected transcript


Pernix Therapeutics Holdings,


Inc.
 
PTX
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 18, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


PARTICIPANTS


Corporate Participants


Nick Rust
 
– Head-Retail Business, Ladbrokes Ltd.


Cooper C. Collins
 
– President, Chief Executive Officer & Director


Tracy Simmons Clifford
 
– Chief Financial Officer, Secretary & Treasurer


Other Participants


William G. Vlahos
 
– President, Odyssey Value Advisors LLC


Brian Marckx
 
– Senior Analyst, Zacks Investment Research, Inc.


Michael Weiss
 
– Managing Partner, Joslynda Capital LLC


Ernest C. Segundo
 
– Chief Investment Officer, Pandion Capital LLC


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning and welcome to Pernix Therapeutics Holdings 2010 Second Quarter


Conference Call. Today’s call is being recorded. All lines have been placed on mute. [Operator


Instructions]


At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Nick Rust of the IGB Group for introductions


and the reading of the safe harbor statement. Please go ahead, sir.


Nick Rust, Head-Retail Business


Thank you and welcome to the Pernix Therapeutics Second Quarter 2010 Conference Call.


Representing the company today are Cooper Collins, President and CEO; and Tracy Clifford, CFO.


Before we begin, I would like to point out that the Q2 press release, including the financial tables is


available on the company’s website at www.pernixtx.com. The company filed its Form 10-Q with


the SEC on Monday, August 16, 2010.


Now, allow me to read the following Safe Harbor statement. This call may contain forward-looking


statements within the meaning in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such


forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which


may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the company or industry results to


be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied


by such forward-looking statements.


When used in this presentation, statements that are not statements of current or historical fact


maybe deemed to be forward-looking statements, without limiting the foregoing. The words plan,


intend, may, will, expect, believe, could, anticipate, estimate or continue or similar expressions or


other variations or comparable terminology are intended to identify such forward-looking


statements. Listeners are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking


statements which speak only as the date hereof. Except as required by law, the company


undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new


information, future events or otherwise. Investors are urged to examine these and other risks and


uncertainties detailed in Pernix’s periodic public filings with the Securities and Exchange


Commission.
corrected transcript


Pernix Therapeutics Holdings,


Inc.
 
PTX
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 18, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


At this time, I would turn the call over to Mr. Cooper Collins.


Cooper C. Collins, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director


Thanks, Nick. Good morning, everyone. Thank you all for your time and welcome to our second


quarter 2010 earnings conference call.


During today’s call, I’d like to focus the discussion on three areas; our financial results during the


second quarter and first six months of 2010, our growth initiatives during the quarter and our


strategy and marketing opportunity going forward.


For the second quarter of 2010, our first full quarter as a public company, we recorded revenues at


$4.4 million and income before taxes and non-controlling interest of $365,000 or $0.01 per share.


These results were consistent with our expectation due to the impact of seasonality on the business


and the planned transition of our core products. As we said before due to the seasonal nature of


our core mix of products, we now believe that core to core trends accurately reflect the growth


potential of our business.


It is also important to remember that when you’re comparing our Summer quarters from last year to


this year, you consider the anomaly of swine flu that occurred during the Summer of 2009. This


basically led to a year-round flu season. However, we strive to achieve consistent year-over-year


sales growth. In fact, we are pleased with our year-to-date performance with approximately $13.2


million in revenue and net income of $4.6 million or $0.23 per share. We are very optimistic about


our strategic direction and growth prospects for the year. Our strategy for the Summer quarter is to


take proactive actions that position the company to capitalize on the increase and demand in the


fourth quarter. And I’m pleased to report that we have completed several strategic initiatives that


will help drive growth to the latter half of 2010 and beyond.


First, to expand our sales force by 78% with the addition of 25 new sales representatives in June.


Currently, we have 57 full-time sales representatives aggressively marketing our diverse portfolio of


products. With the strengthening of the sales force, our team is positioned to hit its stride ahead of


the peak selling season. As we said last quarter, it takes an average of six to nine months for a new


representative to develop a solid revenue stream, which is ahead of the industry average.


Second, during the quarter, we commenced sales of CEDAX, a prescription antibiotic targeting mild


to moderate infections of the throat, middle ear, and respiratory tract infections. These are the most


common ailments as experienced by babies and young children, and the number one cause of


consultations with physicians. We believe that CEDAX is positioned strongly as a leading brand of


prescription pharmaceutical for middle ear infection, given the lack of brand competition.


In 2009, CEDAX recorded net sales of approximately $2.4 million. However, the product was not


actively promoted. Going forward, we expect to effectively leverage our expanded sales force and


marketing organization to meet the demand for this once daily, oral, third-generation cephalosporin.


As discussed on our last call, the launch of CEDAX in the second quarter best positions the product


to meet the strong demand among our customers in advance of the cold season.


Third, in collaboration with our generic partner, Macoven, we have broadened our marketing


opportunity to grow collaboration revenue via a new co-promotion agreement to exclusively market


Zema-Pak, a corticosteroid used for treating skin rashes.


Fourth, we remain well-positioned to pursue new product acquisitions, as we have a strong, debt-


free balance sheet and approximately $11.4 million of unrestricted cash and cash equivalents as of


June 30, 2010. When evaluating potential new product acquisitions and licensing our co-promotion