Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Joseph T. Schepers — Director-Investor Relations & Communications, Pernix Therapeutics Holdings, Inc.
Cooper C. Collins — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Pernix Therapeutics Holdings, Inc.
Tracy Simmons Clifford — Secretary, Treasurer & Finance Director, Pernix Therapeutics Holdings, Inc.
Michael Cooper Pearce — Chairman, Pernix Therapeutics Holdings, Inc.
Irina Rivkind — Analyst, Cantor Fitzgerald Securities
Randall S. Stanicky — Analyst, Canaccord Genuity, Inc.
Elliot H. Wilbur — Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC
Louise A. Chen — Analyst, Guggenheim Securities LLC
Annabel E. Samimy — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.
Yi Chen — Associate Director, Aegis Capital Corp.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Pernix Therapeutics First Quarter 2013 Earnings Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, today's conference call is being recorded.

I'd now like to turn the conference over to your host, Mr. Joe Schepers, Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Thank you, and welcome to Pernix Therapeutics' first quarter 2013 financial results conference call. On the call today are Cooper Collins, President and CEO; and Tracy Clifford, Vice President of Accounting and Corporate Controller.

Before we begin, I would like to point out that the company issued a press release this morning containing financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2013. The release, including the financial tables and reconciliation of non-GAAP financials, is available on the company's website at www.pernixtx.com. The company expects to file its current report on Form 10-Q with the SEC by the end of the day.

Before we begin, allow me to read the following Safe Harbor Statement. This call may contain forward-looking statements with the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Statements including words such as estimate, plan, project, forecast, intend, expect, anticipate, believe, seek, target, or similar expressions are forward-looking statements. Because these statements reflect the company's current views, expectations, and beliefs concerning future events, these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties.

Investors should note that many factors are more fully described under the caption Risk Factors in our Form 10-K, Form 10-Q, and 8-K filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and otherwise enumerated herein within could affect the company's future financial results and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements contained in the company's quarterly report on Form10-Q.

The forward-looking statements in this press release are qualified by these risk factors. These are factors that individually or in aggregate could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. The company assumes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future developments, or otherwise.

During the call, we may also discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures such as EBITDA. The company believes that EBITDA, which we define as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, is a meaningful non-GAAP financial measure. Adjusted EBITDA reflects earnings before stock compensation expense; transaction expenses associated with the acquisitions of Cypress Pharmaceuticals, Hawthorn Pharmaceuticals, and Somaxon Pharmaceuticals; the increase in the basis of the acquired inventories sold during the period and an increase in the value of the put right, which was issued in connection with the Cypress and Hawthorn acquisition, offset by a change in the fair value of contingent consideration related to this acquisition.

At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Cooper Collins.

Thanks, Joe, and, good morning. On this morning's call, we will discuss our financial results and provide an update on our business strategies to achieve our growth objective. Later in the call, Tracy will provide a more detailed description of our first quarter 2013 financial results.

I will begin by reviewing our key activities in the first quarter. As I mentioned in our last earnings conference call that we have made several investments during the past 12 months that we believe will position the company for solid growth over the next several years.

We completed our acquisition of Somaxon in March 2013. Essentially, the acquisition of Somaxon was to acquire Silenor, which is a non-controlled product indicated for the treatment of insomnia, is a non-seasonal product that further diversifies our product portfolio. We completed our sales force training in April and we are now re-launching Silenor.

As you have seen in the press release, in the first quarter of 2013, revenues increased by 52% to $22.1 million. That increase was due primarily to the sales of products that we acquired from Cypress and Hawthorn and the sales of Silenor that we acquired from Somaxon. Tracy will discuss this fluctuation in more detail later in the call.

Let me bring you up to date on the integration of Cypress and Hawthorn. We have restructured the sales force into two teams from three teams. We now have a pediatric sales force of approximately 38 reps and a targeted primary care sales force of approximately 69 reps. We expect to continue to capitalize on additional synergies of this acquisition over the next six to 12 months.

Now, let me turn to Dr. Cocoa. We are on track to launch Dr. Cocoa, our chocolate-flavored cough and cold product, in the US OTC market for the 2013-2014 cough and cold season. Dr. Cocoa will be marketed in three different formulations; a non-drowsy formulation with dextromethorphan cough suppressant, a daytime cold and cough formulation with dextromethorphan and phenylephrine nasal decongestant; and a nighttime cough and cold formulation of diphenhydramine, an antihistamine and cough suppressant, and phenylephrine nasal decongestant. Dr. Cocoa will be marketed to children ages four and up for the non-drowsy and daytime formulation and ages six and up for the nighttime formulation.

We have received positive feedback and sincere interest from all major retail pharmacy chains. Distribution of Dr. Cocoa has been approved by Walgreens, CVS, and Rite Aid among a number of other grocery store and pharmacy retail chains. Pernix Manufacturing developed Dr. Cocoa and will manufacture all three formulations.

Regarding our pediatric product in development, we expect to enter Phase III clinical trials this summer. We believe this product represents potential market opportunity of over $100 million. We are enthusiastic about this product and plan to provide an update about the clinical trial on our next conference call.

Before turning the call over to Tracy, let me reiterate that the management team realizes that the execution on our business strategies is essential to our future success. Our key objectives are the following. Continue to integrate Cypress and Hawthorn; re-launch Silenor; launching Dr. Cocoa for the 2013 cough and cold season; initiate our Phase III clinical trials for our pediatric product in development; begin a development of Silenor as an OTC product; and work toward IND filings on the two products in Hawthorn's pipeline, one product in the area of end-stage renal disease and the other product in the area of dermatology. Finally, we are keenly focused on improving our efficiency throughout our organization.

Now, I would like to turn the call over to Tracy for a review of the financial results.

Thank you, Cooper, and good morning. For the first quarter of 2013, net revenues increased by approximately 52% to $22.1 million compared to $14.5 million for the first quarter of 2012. The growth in net revenues was due primarily to revenues of branded and generic products that the company acquired from Cypress and Hawthorn, sales of Silenor obtained in the acquisition of Somaxon, and revenues from Pernix Manufacturing, offset by a decrease in the sales of legacy cough and cold products.

We decided to phase out certain cough and cold products due to high Medicaid supplemental rebates and lower profits on these products and to refocus on our less seasonal and more profitable products.

Our net revenues were negatively impacted by an increase in sales allowances on branded and generic products related to higher government rebates, increased returns allowances due to changes in Medicaid coverage impacting demand, increased price adjustments such as rebates and chargebacks as a result of competitive pressure related to contract terms and pricing; and an increase in coupon reimbursement rates and utilization among other discounts.

Another important point to note is the shift of the mix of our product sales between brand and generic products subsequent to the acquisition of Cypress and Hawthorn. For the first quarter 2013, our product revenues were allocated 59% brand and 41% generic.

For the first quarter of 2013, we are reporting a net loss of approximately $8.1 million or $0.23 per basic and diluted share compared to net income of approximately $1.2 million or $0.05 per basic and $0.04 per diluted share for the first quarter of 2012. We believe that adjusted EBITDA is important in evaluating our financial results, particularly in the first quarter of 2013.

For the quarter ended March 31, 2013, adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization, adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP measure, was a non-GAAP net loss of $1.4 million or $0.04 per basic and diluted share. Adjusted EBITDA reflects earnings before $700,000 of stock compensation expense; $3.8 million in the cost of sales related to the increase in the basis of inventory acquired in connection with the Cypress, Hawthorn and Somaxon acquisitions; $2.1 million related to the increase in the value of the put right issued in connection with the Cypress/Hawthorn acquisition; $400,000 in transaction expenses from the acquisitions, offset by a $300,000 change in the fair value of contingent consideration in the Cypress/Hawthorn acquisition.

For the quarter ended March 31, 2012, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income was $3.3 million or $0.13 per basic and diluted share. Please see the table at the end of our press release that was distributed this morning for a reconciliation of net income to EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA.

Our gross margin, excluding the impact of the cost of sales from the increase in the basis of the inventory acquired in the acquisitions, was approximately 57% for the current quarter as compared to approximately 68% for the prior-year quarter. The decrease in gross profit margin is primarily due to the sale of lower margin products and profit-sharing arrangements to various parties. In the first quarter of 2013, $3.8 million in cost of sales was related to the increase in the basis of the inventory acquired and the acquisition.

Selling, general and administrative expenses, or SG&A, in the first quarter of 2013 increased by approximately $9.4 million to $14.1 million compared to $4.7 million for the first quarter of 2012. The increase was primarily due to the SG&A expenses outside of Hawthorn and Pernix Manufacturing, including the addition of these employees as a related overhead.

In addition, we incurred approximately $400,000 in transaction expenses in connection with the acquisitions and realized an increase of approximately $900,000 in legal fees for products-related litigation.

The company also invested in the development of Dr. Cocoa, the company's chocolate-flavored cough and cold product for the US OTC market, and incurred expenses related to furthering the in-process research and development projects acquired in the acquisition of Cypress/Hawthorn.

Depreciation and amortization was $2.2 million for the first quarter of 2013 compared to $600,000 for the prior-year quarter. This increase in depreciation and amortization was due to our acquisition, which occurred subsequent to March 31, 2012.

The company recognized an income tax benefit of $3.3 million in the first quarter of 2013 compared to an income tax expense of $800,000 in the first quarter of 2012. Weighted average common shares outstanding for the quarter ended March 31, 2013 were 35.1 million basic and diluted shares as compared to 25.9 million basic and 26.5 million diluted shares for the prior-year quarter. In March 2013, we completed the acquisition of Somaxon. Pursuant to the agreement, we issued approximately 3.7 million shares of the company's common stock.

As of March 31, 2013, the company had cash balances of approximately $26.3 million and approximately $41.5 million outstanding under our credit facility with MidCap Financial.

On May 8, 2013, the company entered into the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement with MidCap. The Restated Credit Agreement amends and restates in its entirety our original credit agreement that we entered into effective December 31, 2012. The Restated Credit Agreement provides for a term loan of $10 million and a revolving loan commitment of $20 million.

In connection with the entry into the Restated Credit Agreement, the company prepaid approximately $12 million of the term loan that had been previously outstanding under the Original Credit Agreement. The Restated Credit Agreement also requires a payment of up to $3 million by June 8, 2013. The loans under this facility will bear interest at a rate equal to the sum of the LIBOR rate plus an applicable margin of 7.5%. The term loan begins to amortize six months after closing and matures at 42 months after closing. The revolving credit line also matures 42 months after closing.

Pernix expects net revenues for the full year 2013 to be in the range of $90 million to $100 million. That concludes my financial review this morning, and now I will turn the call back to Cooper.

It is clear in the first quarter of 2013 we did not meet our expectations. However, I remain enthusiastic about our long-term growth prospects. Total prescriptions for Cedax, Omeclamox-Pak, and a combination of Natroba and spinosad were higher in the first quarter of 2013 compared to the first quarter of 2012 according to Wolters Kluwer data.

However, wholesalers and distributors work through their inventories, the revenues did not reflect total prescriptions that were written in the first quarter of 2013. This was due primarily to the stronger than normal flu season in the fall, which ended earlier than normal, reducing the demand for additional stocking in the first quarter of 2013.

We have made several investments to diversify and expand our product portfolio, and we have made significant progress executing on our strategy to build our branded, generic, and OTC platform. Our re-launch of Silenor is taking place right now. Omeclamox-Pak continues to be on a positive trend with total weekly prescriptions at the highest level since the launch last summer according to Wolters Kluwer data.

Looking ahead, we plan to initiate our Phase III clinical trials for our pediatric products this summer; launch Dr. Cocoa, our cough and cold product in the fall of 2013 prior to the next cough and cold season; and advance the clinical development of our renal disease and dermatology products.

It is important to know that we have recently appointed Brian Dorsey as Head of Clinical and Regulatory Team to lead our R&D initiatives. Brian joined us from Somaxon where he was the Senior vice President of Technical Operations and Regulatory Affairs. Brian was responsible for the Silenor development program and its ultimate approval. Brian brings with him more than 20 years of drug development and leadership experience at both small and large companies. He was previously the head of Project Management at Baxter BioSciences and the Global Project Leader with Pfizer La Jolla.

Today, in our press release, we announced that the board of directors has appointed Mike Pearce, our Chairman of the Board, to President and CEO of Pernix. I will remain on the board of directors and serve as Chief Strategic Officer. Mike will also remain as Chairman of the Board. I will be primarily responsible for strategic options, including potential partnering or merger opportunities for the company. Mike Pearce will be focused on further integrating Cypress and Hawthorn, cutting SG&A expenses, and consolidating facilities. Mike and I have worked closely together since Pernix went public more than three years ago. I am confident that this new senior management structure is in the best interest of the company and our shareholders.

We are also evaluating opportunities to further optimize and realize the synergies and cost savings from our recent acquisitions. In closing, I believe, we have taken the necessary steps to grow our company, which will require additional investments in the near-term, and I am confident we will see returns on these investments in the longer-term.

Operator, please, open the lines for questions. Mike Pearce, our Chairman and new CEO, will be available for questions as well. [Operator Instructions]

Our first question comes from Irina Rivkind of Cantor Fitzgerald. Please go ahead.

Hi, good morning, guys. Just – this is on the new CEO question. Just looking at his bio on your website, it doesn't appear that he's got extensive pharma experience, and just wondering what should give investors confidence that he's the right person to turn around the organization. And then the second question is, can you just go through your debt restructuring again and discuss whether you accept to have sufficient cash in case you need to pay Cypress and Hawthorn shareholders $10 million at the end of December? Thanks very much.

Hey, Irina, this is Mike Pearce. I will address all three pieces of your question. The first one is excellent. And what I would say about that is that, in addition to serving as Chairman since the time of the merger, I'm familiarizing myself with Pernix operations. I would add that the board, while fully engaged and caring about one thing, which is shareholder value, we will do the right thing at the right time, and that includes all executive appointments. In the near-term, our needs are to optimize the company and complete the integration of all the assets we've acquired, and to do that, we need to focus on the business side as well as the pharma side.

We're not immune to all the challenges in the industry, whether it be reimbursement or access or pharmacy issues. But we have a great opportunity here to realize all the benefits that we pledged to the investment community and to our own employees from the Somaxon acquisition and the Cypress/Hawthorn transaction. So, we have a lot of low-hanging fruit that we can improve our financial profile and restore the growth element to the revenue line. And in that regard, I would say that pharma is the minority percentage of the short-term opportunity and that the business practices end and the execution end is the first opportunity to restore investor confidence in the Pernix side.

I have a lot of experience in restructurings. Some were difficult than this. One was the predecessor of merger entity for Pernix and that was at a high degree of difficulty and I would say higher than this. Pernix has a great collection of assets. I think everyone believes that that's inside the company and we hope that we'll continue to convey that thesis to the outside world. And it's now up to us to do the thousand little things per day that make for a good business, a highly valued business, an investable business.

And so, the final thing I'd say on that topic is that if and when the time comes where we need to reach out and bring in some additional value-add on the pharma executive side, the board is completely prepared to do that and I'll be leading the charge. So, lots to do here in the short-term that can restore shareholder value to Pernix, and some of it involves pharma, some of it involves best practices, and we're going to focus on both. We have good team here.

We don't need to be doing seat-of-the-pants kind of adjustments on the pharma side. We're moving to a very normalized probability-weighted approach to projects in development. We hired Brian Dorsey who, I think, when you look at his bio, obviously, very good add as far as bringing some order and good focus to the development efforts. So we have a good team, lot of well rounded people who are commercially oriented, and we'll get back to the original Pernix strength in commercial operations.

The final thing I'd say on that is that the economic drivers – I mean, the economic determinants from the original Pernix thesis are still intact. Workman-like commercial operations, good normalized gross margins, products that can be understood, good payers in McKesson and Cardinal and Amerisource and the like. There's no reason that this cannot be a very strong business. It's easily understood by someone who has a pharma background or a general business background or investment background. I mean, the basic thesis is still intact. We just need to improve on our execution and deal with what we've put on our plate.

The second question, I believe, was on the MidCap re-fi. So, it became apparent during Q1 that the existing credit agreement, while fair, wasn't going to provide adequate flexibility for Cooper and his team to accelerate managed risk, development projects, and also the OTC launch of Dr. Cocoa. So we went to MidCap and, through a very collaborative process, were able to achieve the desired outcome. Obviously, we also right-sized the facility to match anticipated revenue levels in the context of the AR book and the inventory build. I feel very strongly about our relationship with MidCap, and if there's an opportunity to do more as our company expands, we'll do it. And I think they'll be very receptive to that front.

All right. On the third piece of your question, which was the Cypress put, yes – I'd say this. It will be addressed at the appropriate time. I don't want to appear evasive on any question right out of the gate. A lot of you don't know me. The people that do know me know that I'm very direct and sometimes to my detriment, but in this case, I think the only answer is that it will be addressed at the appropriate time and that it will be evaluated in the context of the entire agreement. And that's really my thoughts on that. And I hope that's good enough for you today, and certainly available to everybody after this call if they'd like further details about how we're prepared to address all the challenges at Pernix.

Thanks, and good luck.

Thank you.

Our next question comes from Randall Stanicky of Canaccord Genuity. Please go ahead.

Great. Thanks, guys. Just a couple of questions, Mike and Cooper. It sounds like you guys had a close working relationship in the past and obviously that's going to continue going forward. So, just to be very clear, there's no change to the strategic path that Pernix is on, is that correct?

Yes. I think that – this is Mike. I mean, I think that Cooper and I are in accord about – we want to play to Pernix's strengths, the things that we've demonstrated in the past. I mean, this company in previous periods was historically very profitable both on a per-rep basis and at a consolidated basis and has proven it can re-launch and introduce products and can inject new life into promotion-sensitive products that are being divested by other industry players.

So let's hone in on what we've proven we're good at. Let's take continued advance, a couple of the very intriguing projects, as Cooper and his crew have advanced with very minimal amounts of money on the development side and with very little risk. And let's bring those to fruition in addition to the OTC effort, which Cooper talked about in his remarks, as far as the – really, I've sold into national retail. I did it for many years, and I can tell you that the response that Cooper and his team made at the [indiscernible] (23:35), the whole crew, they have done a phenomenal job and have gotten really an unprecedented response from some of the biggest players in retail for the Dr. Cocoa launch.

And so, basically, with Pernix, the strategy is the same in my view. And I think I speak for the board here, obviously, also which is – Pernix is very good at some very important things that can drive very good low-risk returns when the operations manage to optimize. So, let's do that. Let's earn our way out of this thing. And then, in the meantime, some of the strategic projects that Cooper and his crew have brought along can provide the extra dimension to really create the next leg of value. So I would say the answer is yes and yes.

I would – this is Cooper. I would agree with Mike, and I'd say I think one of the most important focus points, I think, for Pernix right now has to be a kind of perfect integration of all these acquisitions. I think that they were all the right direction for the company, we have a great amount of assets that we can really, I think, expand on. But we have to have a lot of focus on that, and I think Mike is the perfect guy to do that and continue to help us integrate and synergize this business and – while I can still focus on kind of the bigger picture opportunities from a strategic standpoint. So I would agree with Mike, and I just want to make sure I made that point that we're very focused on this integration.

Okay. Cooper, is the message today, should we be taking that the focus now is on integration cost savings and with business development taking a bit of a pause here? And then, maybe more specifically, just for all of us, can you help us understand from a cash perspective how much flexibility you have? And as you think about your EBITDA targets for the year, I appreciate the new revenue outlook, but the EBITDA targets for the year, if you can provide that for us and some of the profitability trends and how comfortable you are from a cash position?

I'll do the cash position.

Okay.

Cooper would like to comment about the business at large. I'll address the cash position liquidity. Maybe I'll go backwards first since cash is king and liquidity matters. So basically on liquidity, cash, our ability to execute on our stated plans, I understand the question and its subtext. Regarding the subtext, a punitive financing is not on the table. We have four other ways we can enhance our financial position.

We're going to capture the balance of the planned integration synergies, run the thing cleanly. It's not always about head count. We took some head count moves at the time of the integration. But really where the opportunities are in some of the other areas – supply chain, facilities, some of the daily practices, managing inventory backward, everything. So we have great chances there. So we're going to generate additional cash, both cash savings and cash generation from operations, just by accelerating some of the integration strategies. So that's number one.

Number two, management has discretion in the process of development spend, pace of development spend. So, as the products are reviewed, they can be adjusted depending on current state of affairs as far as cash generation and other availabilities.

And then number three, I mean, as you can probably imagine, Pernix, as anticipated, has received unsolicited interest in non-core assets. So, to better assess this interest, we have reached out to other parties who previously expressed interest to Cooper and even before that to Cypress/Hawthorn and some of the other assets that are compelling but not necessarily vital to Pernix's go-forward plan. So we're doing work here and that would obviously be an intriguing source of capital if the board and management deem it worth proceeding on.

And then, number four, Pernix operating results have been uneven, but we believe the collection of assets is as attractive as ever, maybe more so as some of these things come closer to fruition. So we believe there may be opportunities to partner on specific assets of interest in a particular category such as OTC.

So I think that Cooper will be very active in some of these strategic areas and I'd certainly be quite interested in working very closely, both him and the board to look at ways to enhance our financial profile and subset of that, our liquidity set. So we feel pretty good about that. Work to be done. As one of my fellow board members says, we have wood to chop, but we're on it and fortunately for us we have a lot of leverage to pull. [indiscernible]

(28:37)

I was going to address the business development front if you want me to still.

Sure.

Okay. So, on the business development front, I would say these opportunities are definitely different from what we've done in the past year. Well, we're looking more for a partnerships, analyzing those, mergers, those types of opportunities as opposed to doing deals with stock because we feel – obviously, our stock is low right now based on the kind of recollection of assets that we have here now.

And also our cash positions, we're not going to look for a lot of deals, we're spending cash or using our stock to buy things. So we will be looking for, like I said, Mike, those partnerships, mergers, those types of things. And I guess a lot like the unsolicited offers that we have received on some of the other businesses we're obviously getting a lot of interest on partnerships and other opportunities right now. So I will be 100% focused on that while Mike will be 100% focused on integrating the business and making sure we get all the synergies that we plan to get over the next 18 months.

That's all helpful. And I'll jump off, but if there was an EBITDA target that you could provide us for the year, that would be great. Thanks, guys.

Thanks, Rand.

This is Mike. I guess the answer to the EBITDA target is that we've got a lot of noise in our numbers right now and we're sifting through that and I think we'll be in a position shortly to update on that. But today, at this moment, I'm hesitant to do it. I'll take this on.

Certainly, I'm as familiar with the Pernix operations as is humanly possible from the standpoint of non-executive board member. But there is a difference. And so, right now, I'm under the hood and I know what the – what I believe is the core earnings power, revenue generation capabilities of this company, but I need to do a little bit more work on some of the issues and some of the day-to-day operating elements. And so we're going to provide an EBITDA update sooner rather than later, but not today because I just – there's some noise in the numbers, and I need to work through some of the transitory effects.

Our next question comes from Elliot Wilbur, Needham & Company. Please go ahead.

Good morning. Couple lines of questioning. First, just maybe simplistically, thinking about the revised revenue guidance for the full year, obviously, a fairly sharp cut from the last time that we heard from you guys. And just maybe help us, just kind of give us a sense sort of what has changed, what's coming up short, what's not living up to expectations? I mean, obviously, it's not tied to one particular product sort of given the magnitude of the number here, but just sort of curious what areas of the business or product lines is the underperformance versus prior expectations most acute. And then I've got a couple follow-ups as well.

Okay. So – this is Cooper. I'll give you a little color on the first quarter that we're seeing here, the first half of the year. So the first quarter, what we saw was we sold greater percentage of generics than we ever had. Some of our brands due to the cyclical nature or seasonal nature of those particular brands, we had a really sharp increase, I'd say, at the end of – in the fourth quarter, the end of last year. And then the cold season fell off pretty quickly from kind of a flu standpoint. And I'm sure everyone saw a lot of buzz in December and maybe early January and then it fell off. So we didn't sell – we kind of – we didn't ramp up for the winter time and then the first quarter it's stopped a lot quicker than we expected. So there were a lot less brands sold and clearly the brands have much higher margin.

I would say this doesn't matter to most people, but our gross sale target was right on what we expected, but because a lot of that went to generics and other stuff like that and there were also some one-time discount, I'd say, when we took over some of the operations and we were having to restock certain territories, where we have reps and say Somaxon didn't or aware we're adding territories where maybe Hawthorn didn't or those kinds of things.

So when you're restocking territory, there's also additional discounts associated with that. So I think the first quarter, from a net revenue perspective, was a lot weaker. But overall, I think we shift about as much as we could have expected. You just had kind of a big margin difference.

The second quarter, we've obviously been working on, I'd say, maximizing the synergies, making sure we got the right products in the right bags, in the right territories. There's always some give-back there, but you're kind of looking at that deal where your first half is going to be a lot weaker than your second half this year. So, that's one of the reasons we decided to guide down, and I think our guidance is taking a different perspective this year than it did last year.

Okay. And I've got a question for Mike and maybe Tracy as well, and just – in thinking about the new credit agreement, I don't know if that's actually been filed or will be filed as part of the 10-Q. But in sort of going back to the prior agreement, I mean, there were some very – or rather onerous restrictions in there in terms of fixed charge coverage ratios, debt-to-EBITDA metrics, and also a cap on the amount of – amount available for potential additional acquisitions.

So I don't know if those metrics have been – it has changed as part of the new agreement, but it would certainly look like the company this year will probably in violation at least of a couple though. So I don't know if those were able to be specifically addressed as part of the new agreement. I would assume you have made it tentative, so – but maybe you could just talk about some of the debt covenants and maybe what are some of the more challenging ones here for the balance of the year.

Yes. That's excellent question. I mean, the genesis to our original meeting with MidCap going to them proactively was just an acknowledgment that several of the covenants weren't a match for what Pernix is endeavoring to do in 2013. And it was – that was a fair loan to begin with. It was a good facility. People are good over there. But it was ended up as – it just became more and more apparent to us it's a mismatch for what the company is looking to do. And so, part and parcel of the whole arrangement was that we were seeking flexibility and we got it. And the current agreement, I think, will reflect that in your interpretation.

And so, we are not fearful, whatsoever, at this point of any compliance issues with the covenants and we've got very flexible on it and very easy to deal with. We've been down this road before. And we worked on collaboratively. I think we can make a bigger relationship with them in the future.

Now, as far as the restrictions on use of cash proceeds from various activities, no doubt. That's part of the game. But I'll say this. As Cooper alluded to, we are not looking to do another Cypress/Hawthorn or even Somaxon-type transaction in the near-term horizon. We have got so much opportunity on our plate and we have so many chances that we need to focus. We need to rivet on that. And the last thing in the world we're doing right now is looking for a transformative transaction to remake the company that involves a – part of it is the financial flexibility or lack thereof on the balance sheet.

But the other reason is a better one, and that's that we just need to take care of business with what's in-house. That doesn't preclude us from doing the kind of transactions that Cooper was mentioning, whether it be bolt-on or in-licensing or other creative ways to create value in this business, but we are absolutely not on the prowl for additional complexity in the acquisition game. So – whereas our limitations in the new credit agreement in that regard with the lender, that's not something we were chasing anyway. So I think that current credit agreement, the current facility is an absolute perfect match for what Pernix needs to accomplish in the here and now. So we're in good shape on that front.

All right, Mike. And just one last question for you as well. When you talked about a lot of Pernix's historical success and what the company really does well, obviously, your comments were much more geared toward the specialty model and really focusing on a high-caliber sales force and high productivity. Obviously, with the Cypress acquisition and some of the company's initiatives in the past couple of years, you've become a lot bigger in the generic side of the business.

And there's certainly a lot of industry speculation or chatter that you guys are looking to move out of the generic business and that the generic business acquired as part of the Cypress deal is, in fact, up for sale. So maybe you could just talk a little bit about your commitment to the generic business going forward versus really drilling down and focusing on the promotional model, which obviously is where you had the bulk of your success historically?

So I would ask to Cooper also to comment on this, but I will say this. Pernix is committed to the generic side of the business and will be for a long time to come. There's all kinds of strategic elements to it and how it protects the brand business and it also allows us to do a lot of different things and helps us with the product mix. We manage the margins around that. There's a ramp that is associated. There's a protective element. So in every way, Pernix intends to be in the generic business along with brand and OTC.

But at all times, Cooper, his crew and the board, is always reassessing some of the non-core elements of it, like every other company in the space. So, yes, I think that we're affirmatively very – as firm in our conviction that we're in that business, but also acknowledging that on the non-core side, Cooper's always making recommendations to the board and he's also showing us other flows that's out there on the side to enhance our business. So it goes two ways. So – that would be my answer. Cooper, do you want to add -?

Sure. I'd say that's the start. We're definitely going to remain committed and focused on our horizontal integration strategy. this at the start, we definitely remain committed and focused on our horizontal integration strategy. We think it's very important for our business. So we think it's something that's going to be necessary for the future, especially pharma, which is our brand platform, our generic platform and our OTC platform.

That generic platform is important for a bunch of reasons. However, when you look at the business, where it is today, just shoots you completely straight on our lower margin products or some of the products, some of the generic products, some of the commodity products. And other companies have built an entire business on that.

So if we were going to place where we felt like we needed money for development projects, OTC advertising or to just move any idea for that we feel – at these prices, we clearly wouldn't be selling FIFO. We would consider some of the non-core lower margin projects or products to be divested. So – and you know, I guess, as well as a lot of people on this phone, on this call that Cypress/Hawthorn was for sale for quite a bit of time and there were people that were interested in the generic or the brand side of the business separately. The company had to be sold as one. We acquired as one, and some of the same people have approached us about specific assets. So, if we were going to sell certain assets to go forward with the bigger plans that we have, they would be lower margin generic assets. So I think that's why you've heard a lot of chatter about the Cypress assets.

All right. Thank you for responding to the questions.

No problem.

Thank you.

Our next question comes from Louise Chen of Guggenheim. Please go ahead.

Hi. Thanks for taking my questions. I had a few. So, first question is for Mike. I just wanted to get your sense of where you see the company over the next several years. I know this year is kind of a noisy year, but what's the strategic vision that you have? I know last quarter, you guys had talked about reinvesting more in the base business and becoming more of a proprietary drug development company, so care to share your thoughts on that. And then second question I had was on the new CFO. Any update there? How far are you along? Should we expect an announcement soon? And then maybe if you could address the lowered sales guidance, more color on that. Thank you.

Okay. Let's go with the easy one first. On the CFO search, the board has been presented with a series of candidates qualified on the face. There's quite a bit of interest in Pernix, and I think a lot of it owes to the collection of assets that Cooper and his team have assembled and people at the CFO-level candidates do see the potential to participate in that upswing.

What the board is defining right now is precisely what it wants in a CFO candidate. They come in many different flavors, as you know, and what we're after – what we're tilting towards is a CFO with a very strong operations bent, someone who is – has background in manufacturing, distribution, some other elements of the business. We would view that as a real plus. And what we're not after is biz dev CFO-type profile right now. We're looking to make good on what we have. We're not on the prowl. So, to us, an operation-oriented CFO candidate would be very prime.

In the short-term, I have a high confidence level. Tracy Clifford is serving as – in that capacity's previous public company CFO, has a Deloitte background. I have super high confidence that we'll be both a timely filer and in the accuracy of our statements. But to point the company forward, the board does recognize we need to fill that spot and fill it with somebody who adds value in this, certainly not just a complementary player. We need – we're looking for a strong force in that position with a focus on operations as well as the responsibilities of the CFO role.

On the reduced revenue guidance, it's powerfully disappointing. I mean, it's not what we want. It's not the position we want to be in. It's not where we started the year. But it's a reality and it involves the current Q1, which is unsatisfactory. It's going to involve small swing lower seasonally in Q2 but nothing dramatic.

And then, as Cooper pointed to, Q3, Q4, you're going to see very nice acceleration, not just because of seasonal factors, but also because of the way we're going to have our inventories optimized and our territory coverage optimized and positioned to do some strong things on that front and also on the product side.

So – I'd like to promise more, but I think we need to get back to the old mentality here of under-promising and over-delivering if we're going restore credibility with the Street and others. I mean, it's not just with the investment community. We need to restore credibility across the board as far as being an outperformer. So, I wish it was higher. It's not, and we hope to provide surprises on the upside.

As far as where the business goes, I'll just address one elephant in the room very quickly because we've got a lot of inquiries from – general inquiries, not specific to comp. But there has been a lot of speculation given the temporary issues that we're working through. Is the company for sale? And the answer to that is the company is not for sale. The board is very pragmatic and cares very deeply about shareholder value as its primary concern. So the company is not for sale. We have not retained an advisor. We are not running a process, and we are focused on creating value through addressing all the assets we have on our table not just with the existing commercial operations and going back to doing what Pernix does best. But Cooper has a lot of – has created a lot of optionality in a couple of the projects that we'll show – will be more visible over the summer and will show results that healthy people can assess.

In the long-term, this company, a subset of a greater whole, who knows, but as – I'll reference his name even though he may or may not appreciate it, but Steve Elms from Aisling Capital who's on the board and who knows the story well and who's participating in lot of industry transactions. I mean, as he says, and his experience in pharma companies are sold sometimes. But usually companies are not sold, they're bought. And for Pernix to be bought at some point, if that's the endgame, then the best thing we can do is to rationalize and optimize the operations and the assets we have and make these things throw off cash, while we also have the upside going on in the background on the development side of the OTC launch.

So we're not ever going to be pure drug development company. Nobody is going to buy into that. That's not what we are. We can do things other people can't, and in the meantime, we can also have a couple managed risk, high-value targets on the development side that make perfect sense for what Pernix succeeds at historically. So that's the answer on that front.

Did I miss something?

No, that's great. Thank you.

Okay.

Our next question comes from Annabel Samimy of Stifel. Please go ahead.

Hi, thanks for taking my question. I guess going back to your overall profile, I mean, clearly it's changed a lot since the very beginning. It used to be, I guess, a growth story with buying assets, finding the synergies and growing from that point. With the assets that you have today and the fact that you're not going to be conducting further business development any time in the near future, do you have enough in the current assets to remain – keep that growth profile, number one? And do you have enough possibility for synergies in the model without impacting the potential of sales from the assets that you have? So that's the first question.

I think the answer is yes on all fronts. I mean, Pernix, while we're not actively on the prowl for transformative transactions, we are continuing to go back to what we do best, and that is still in the business of acquiring additional products under certain terms and in ways that are advantageous to us. I mean, as you know, there's still tons of flow. There's still a lot of life cycle management projects that larger pharma companies are divesting that Pernix can be in the mix for, but just not in the method – manner of a Cypress/Hawthorn-type transaction.

I mean, there's so much more we can do with the existing portfolio, and also Cooper asked to make a comment. We do have some other things coming that make the proverbial bag even more compelling for our sales force. But we can do more with existing sales force, with the existing product line and different ways to market the products. And OTC is also a wild card at that, and Cooper has mentioned previously he's got the pediatric product, which will be news on in development this summer which, as he has highlighted, is a nine-figure opportunity on revenue.

This is Cooper. I'll address a couple specific product points, some of which I mentioned in the script but I want to get into more detail. So, we look at kind of the brand side of the business right now, which is how our platform starts. Brand, and then we move into generic and over to OTC. Most of those brands are growing and have a lot of opportunity to grow.

So, if you look at Silenor, that product had a high of over $20 million, it's down to $10 million, and we had a good acquisition. We just trained on it recently. We're going to be re-launching it. So there is growth in that brand, and I think there's a ton of opportunity not just as a prescription product over the next seven years, which now the Paragraph IVs have been settled, all settled. But as OTC opportunity, it's a tremendous, tremendous OTC opportunity. So, I think with that assay, you see a lot of growth.

CEDAX is still growing. We've made that shift for over away from kind of government payers and the private payers, and that's continuing to grow and is more profitable. There is more managed care pressure out there that every company in this space is dealing with. But it's still – the pressure from managed care is not near with the pressure from the government as of this point. So, it was the right shift and that continues to grow.

So – the other one is OMECLAMOX. We acquired that for $4 million. If you look at – without giving specific numbers where we're at, if you just kind of look at the data, it's probably Wolters Kluwer or Bloomberg will have about a $10 million to $12 million rate on it right now. We think that'll continue to get up into the $15 million to $20 million range like we expected. So, I mean, not only bought for $4 million, we've grown.

And in Dr. Cocoa, we've got a lot of money in that and this thing is looking really exciting. And this is going to be our first OTC launch. I think we have a lot of opportunity with that one, but that's another asset that's kind of bought and paid for, it's sitting there and it's been burning cash. It's finally going to start making us some money. It's going to be an extensive advertising campaign and promotional campaign. But these are all assets that we've acquired and accumulated over the years that are in growth mode. Because of seasonal reasons and other things going on, we haven't – it didn't – really wasn't reflected in the first quarter and may not be reflected in the second quarter. But I think that these things are growing and this is the good side of the business. Yes, there's some negatives today, but overall, we expect this company to continue to grow and be highly successful with this collection of assets we now have.

Okay. And just on the negatives today, I think part of the – if I heard correctly, it was very, very fast, but part of the decline in your net revenues is related to charges in Medicaid, increased couponing, increased gross-to-net discounts, and on and on and on. So, are these – is this a new run rate that we can assume from this point forward? Is this a one-time thing for the quarter because of the reset for the beginning of the year and different plans and reset of Medicaid and managed care plans? How can you characterize the discounts and the hit that you're taking on the gross-to-net right now?

I mean, I would say, one of the things I kind of addressed it a little bit earlier, but to make it more specific, we had a big discrepancy between generics and brands this quarter, which is not typical for us because of some seasonal impacts there. So that's – and we also had the additional discounts that we gave for re-stocking with some of the products that we – with some of the products that we acquired.

Another thing, when we're re-launching these products, we're also giving out a lot more coupons. I mean, our coupon redemption was much higher than it's ever been. So, a lot of the negatives you look at initially are really positives because I see trends and the – of coupons are going up. That means sales are going up. And when you start to peel back the coupons a little bit, hopefully the sales will stay there or maybe grow from that point too.

So I think that that's really the issue that we've seen with margins. I wouldn't say what you see in the first quarter you would see in the second half of the year. And I would say you would not see going forward, especially in a case that we maybe divest some non-core lower margin assets to fund some of the bigger projects that we're excited about.

Okay. Thank you.

Ladies and gentlemen, we have time for one further question. Our next question comes from Yi Chen of Aegis Capital. Please go ahead.

Hi, thank you for taking my question. Could you give us some more color on your expectation of SG&A expenses for 2013?

This is Mike. I mean, this is really one of the operative questions. I mean, if you look at the revenue trend, question number one has to be, can Pernix reverse the trend, which we believe we can. Question number two has to be gross margins, which have been compressed and we believe will normalize at higher levels. And then, number three has to be, well, what are we doing about SG&A because the trend is negative. SG&A has raised – has risen at a rate that is unsatisfactory relative to the lack of sales growth. So we are looking to take costs out and we're looking to take costs out in Q2 and beyond. So, when I next report to you, we'll be able to report on what progress we've made.

I want to emphasize, we're not looking to take expense out of the revenue producer side of this business. That's the life boat of the company, and I have personal strong feelings about it. So that's not what I'm focusing on.

I'm looking at some of the external relationships. I'm looking at some of the legal expense items, for instance, and I'm looking at some of the things that don't impact revenue. And by the way, I mean, in addition to reducing costs and conserving cash and rebuilding cash, it also simplifies the business and fewer layers of distraction, which is something that's important for Pernix right now.

So, I may be able to provide a more – I'm a believer in providing specific guidance and updates. So we're going to get to the point where we're doing both that but we're also under-promising and over-delivering. And in the meantime, I can say that when we next reconvene that you'll be getting a report from me on the SG&A side and what the positive impacts are on that front because we know we need to do work and we need to do it quickly.

In fairness, we should also split out the fact that a lot of what has appeared, to some extent, what is going to be appearing on the SG&A line, it's going to be related to the Dr. Cocoa OTC launch because it's not – obviously that's not capitalized. It's not showing up on the development side, on the development line. This is spend that involves marketing and launch costs. And so we're going to do a good job of delineating the cost there and expense because we want you to have a clear picture of where the dollars are being spent on the expense side so you can make a good assessment of whether it's investment or whether it's areas where the company needs to be more efficient.

So there'll be more detail on the expense side and charting a progress and put you guys in a position where you come back and put it to me if I said that we're going to do something and we didn't do it, be very transparent.

I know Joe said that this is the last question. So, what I'd also offer up is – my mobile number is 919-360-8715. And as long as it's not a death threat or something of that nature, I'd welcome any call from any interested party in the investment community as it pertains to Pernix and what we're going to do and how we're going to do it. I hope I answered your question. And Joe, do you have anything?

Of course. Everyone knows they can call me and follow up after the call, and I'll be available. Thank you.

Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today's conference. You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.