Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
John A. Sedor — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Pernix Therapeutics Holdings, Inc.
George Jones — Vice President-Sales and Marketing, Pernix Therapeutics Holdings, Inc.
Graham G. Miao — President & Chief Financial Officer, Pernix Therapeutics Holdings, Inc.
Patrick Dolezal — Analyst, LifeSci Advisors

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the Pernix Therapeutics Third Quarter 2016 Earnings Conference Call. My name is Justin, and I'll be your event specialist today. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. We'll conduct a question-and-answer session at the end of the prepared remarks and additional instructions will be provided at that time. As a reminder, this call is being recorded for replay purposes.

On the call today are John Sedor, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Graham Miao, President and Chief Financial Officer; George Jones, Vice President of Sales and Marketing; and Angus Smith, Vice President, Business Development and Strategic Planning at Pernix Therapeutics.

Please be advised that Pernix issued a press release this afternoon containing financial results for the quarter ending September 30, 2016. The release, including the financial tables and reconciliation of non-GAAP financial results is available on the company's website at www.pernixtx.com. The company also expects to file its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q with the SEC later today.

During today's call, the company will be making forward-looking statements and actual results may differ from current expectations. Please note that under Safe Harbor rules, Pernix has no obligation to update the information contained in these forward-looking statements, even if actual results or future expectations change materially. The company recommends that you refer to the cautionary statements contained in the SEC filings for a more detailed explanation of the inherent limitations of such forward-looking statements.

I would now like to turn the call over to John Sedor. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you, Justin. Good afternoon, and thank you for joining us today. As you know, I was appointed Chairman of the Board and Interim CEO in May, after having been a board member of Pernix for about two years.

At the end of July, we announced a reorganization of the company's senior management team, intended to improve Pernix efficiency, drive profitability and position the company for future growth. As part of those management changes, I assume the role of Chairman and CEO on a permanent basis. Since my assuming the role, it's been exciting to work with the talented and dedicated Pernix team to create new growth opportunities and move the company forward.

As we discussed on our second quarter call, we conducted a significant evaluation of our business and undertook a number of initiatives to improve the company's efficiency and optimize the value of our products. The initial work focused on, an in-depth review of Pernix products, sales trends, productivity of our sales and marketing efforts and personnel. I'm pleased to report this afternoon that these initiatives have already had a positive impact on our business. And this is reflected in our third quarter results.

As Graham, our President and CEO, will discuss shortly, we saw sequential increase in both net sales and adjusted EBITDA for the second consecutive quarter, with the return to positive adjusted EBITDA, for the first time, since quarter four 2015. In addition, we are seeing solid increases in prescription trends across our core brands Treximet, Zohydro ER and Silenor.

I like to highlight the fact that for the first time since we had these three brands inside Pernix, all three achieved sequential year-over-year quarterly growth. Of note, prescriptions for Treximet increased by 4% sequentially compared to the second quarter of 2016.

Year-over-year, total prescriptions increased by 2%, compared to the third quarter of 2015, consistent with the improving trend we have seen for the past six quarters. Total Zohydro ER with BeadTek prescriptions grew sequentially 5% in third quarter of 2016 from quarter two 2016, and prescriptions were up a strong 16% year-over-year.

As we've noted in our last earnings call, we are currently conducting an analysis of our financial condition and identifying potential actions that we might implement in order to improve our financial flexibility and strengthen our balance sheet. We've already executed on certain initiatives with an eye toward enhancing our financial position, including conducting a 1-for-10 reverse stock split.

Additionally, we announced the appointment of Graham Miao, Ph.D. and Dennis Langer, M.D., J.D., to the company's Board of Directors on November 7, 2016 effective immediately. Accordingly, Pernix regained compliance with NASDAQ's continued listing requirements.

A note on Dr. Langer. Dr. Langer has served as a Director of multiple biotechnology, specialty pharmaceutical and diagnostic companies. And he has served as or co-founded several healthcare companies. He is currently a Clinical Professor in the Department of Psychiatry at Georgetown University School of Medicine, received a JD from Harvard Law School and MD from Georgetown University School of Medicine and a BA in Biology from Columbia University. We are pleased to have both Dr. Miao and Dr. Langer join our board.

As we look to Zohydro ER, I'm pleased to report that the company has had a significant presence at PAINWeek, an important medical meeting which took place in mid-September. As part of the meeting, there was a key poster presentation on two open label studies that evaluated the effects of hepatic or renal impairment on pharmacokinetic profile of Zohydro ER.

In addition, Pernix sponsored a well-attended symposium focusing on addressing comorbid sleep and psychiatric disorders in opioid-managed patients. Regarding Zohydro ER lifecycle management. As a reminder, the recent strengthening of our intellectual property for Zohydro ER, which extends through 2033 has allowed us to consider several options for our next-generation product with enhanced abuse-deterrent properties.

We remain committed to continuing to improve the abuse-deterrent properties of Zohydro ER by investing in innovative technologies for future development of the product, including a reformulation of Zohydro ER and/or the in-licensing development and commercialization of other abused-deterrent technologies.

So with that, let me turn the call over to George Jones, our Vice President of Sales and Marketing, to discuss our commercial progress.

Thank you, John. As a result of the field force reorganization, we now have one fully integrated sales management team and a national sales force with representatives focusing on either the Zohydro ER with BeadTek or Treximet as their primary products.

Every representative now promotes Silenor as a secondary product. As part of our recent optimization, we have focused our representatives on the highest volume prescribers who have the greatest potential for growth. With that, I would now like to highlight some key commercial accomplishments for the third quarter.

First, as John stated, we are pleased to report that for the first time since we have owned our three core brands, we saw both year-over-year and sequential growth in quarterly total prescriptions for Treximet, Zohydro ER with BeadTek and Silenor.

Treximet prescriptions increased by 4% sequentially compared to the second quarter of 2016. Year-over-year, total prescriptions increased by 2% compared to the third quarter 2015. This is the first time since we have owned the brands that we have seen year-over-year growth for a full quarter, consistent with the improving trend we have seen for the past six quarters. Importantly, these increases were accomplished with our recently optimized more focused sales model.

Zohydro ER with BeadTek was the fastest growing of our branded products. Total prescriptions grew sequentially 5% in the third quarter 2016 from second quarter 2016, and total prescriptions were up a strong 16% year-over-year. The year-over-year growth reflects a significant acceleration from 11% in the second quarter and 10% in the first quarter.

Silenor TRx in the third quarter 2016 increased slightly over the second quarter 2016. And we delivered year-over-year growth of 7% in Q3 2016 versus Q3 2015. I should point out though that we are seeing a slight deceleration in growth for Silenor, which we believe is largely attributable to the sales force reorganization we announced in July.

However, we are in the process of rolling out initiatives to support a reacceleration of Silenor growth, including the addition of high potential prescribers to our target list and new messaging for our Pain sales force to increase the impact of our interactions with this audience.

In addition, the results of the Arousability Study we announced earlier this year are in a process of being published. As we mentioned on our last conference call, Symphony Health notified us the prescription for Treximet and Silenor were overstated from May, June and part of July due to their miscalculation of our Pernix Prescriptions Direct, or PPD prescriptions. We understand that these calculation issues have been resolved and the number of scripts reported by Symphony Health for Treximet and Silenor has been corrected.

Taking a closer look at our prescription trends, the field force optimization previously implemented appears to be having a positive impact. We've seen an increase in the average calls per day and many of our targeted HCPs are already receiving the increased frequency that we believe will be key to our success.

Some early indicators of the impact we are seeing include an increase of TRx of 6% from our Treximet target compared to the second quarter of 2016 and 27% compared to the third quarter of 2015.

For Zohydro ER with BeadTek, our prescriptions for targets are also up significantly both quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year. The number of healthcare professionals prescribing Treximet at least once a week is up 5% since the field force optimization and the number of prescribing Zohydro ER with BeadTek once a week is up 3.5%.

We believe this demonstrates that our increased call frequency is having a positive impact with healthcare professionals and their comfort level in prescribing our products more in their day-to-day clinical practice.

We're also pleased to report continued strong uptake of PPD, our prescription fulfillment program. PPD is gaining increased traction as more patients utilize the program, with prescriptions for Treximet and Silenor increasing by more than 27% compared to the second quarter 2016. We believe the rapid growth of PPD during the third quarter contributed to the overall improvement in prescription trends across our portfolio. Due to the improved healthcare professional and patient convenience as well as the simplified access to our medications, we expect to see continued growth from PPD.

In recent weeks, PPD as a percentage of our total prescriptions has reached 19% for Treximet and 10% for Silenor. This compares to the 15% for Treximet and the 10% for Silenor that we reported on the second quarter earnings call.

We also began distributing the Treximet pediatric dose for patients age 12 and older, just before the end of September with the sales force starting to detail and sample it to a limited subset of specialists. To support our sales efforts, we have ramped up our marketing programs to support our three key brands. We increased investment in speaker programs during the third quarter and have seen a strong start to these programs during the fourth quarter.

We had a significant presence at the 2016 PAINWeek meeting in September, which is the largest pain conference for frontline practitioners in the United States.

And finally, we initiated a significant ramp up in our targeted direct-to-patient efforts and we are about to launch our non-personal sampling program for Treximet to ensure that these healthcare professionals we no longer call on can provide a starter sample with their Treximet prescription. We are very pleased with the progress our commercial team has made in the third quarter.

I will now turn the call over to our President and CFO, Graham Miao, for his review of the financials. Graham?

Thank you, George. Good afternoon, everyone. As you know, I have served as senior advisor to Pernix Board and John from May until July this year. At the end of July, as part of the management change, I joined John and assumed role of President and CFO of Pernix.

As reported in earnings press release this afternoon, we are pleased with the progress that Pernix team has made in executing our strategy and [ph] advancing (15:35) division that John has set out for the company, which is to grow our current brands, pursue other growth opportunities and ultimately maximize stakeholder value. In addition, we have taken actions to cure our NASDAQ Listing deficiencies and have now regained compliance with the NASDAQ Listing requirements.

Now, let me discuss our overall financial results for the third quarter 2016, the sales performance of our core brands and operating expenses, and I will then address our balance sheet and the liquidity in more detail.

In reviewing sales, I will discuss gross to net, an important measure of net sales performance in the pharmaceutical business. For the sake of clarification, if I mention a gross to net of 60%, that means we realized net sales of $0.60 for every dollar of gross sales after discounts, rebates and the returns.

Net revenues were $41.5 million during the third quarter 2016, an increase of 13% from $36.7 million in the second quarter of 2016, and a decrease of 15% from $48.6 million in the third quarter of 2015. The sequential increase in net revenues was driven by inventory restocking and a stronger demand for all three core brands. The year-over-year decrease during the third quarter was primarily attributable to wholesaler inventory changes and the lower net selling price for Treximet, as well as a decrease in other product and a co-promotion revenue.

Let's look at the specifics for each major product. For Treximet, net sales increased sequentially by $6.2 million, or 35%, during the three months ended September 30, 2016, compared to the three months ended June 30, 2016. Year-over-year compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015, net sales declined $4.6 million or 16%. In regards to gross-to-net, we expect that Treximet will be in the mid to high-40s level for the full year 2016.

Net sales of Silenor increased sequentially by $0.4 million, or 10% during the third quarter of 2016, compared to the second quarter of 2016. Year-over-year compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015, net sales decreased by $0.5 million, or 10%. In regards to gross-to-net, we expect that Silenor will be in the low-30s for the full year 2016.

Turning to the Zohydro ER, net sales increased sequentially by $0.2 million, or 3% during the three months ended September 30, 2016, compared to the second quarter 2016. Year-over-year, Zohydro net sales increased $0.7 million or 14% compared to the prior year period. In regards to gross-to-net, we expect that Zohydro ER will be in a mid-to-high 60s for the full year.

Gross profit as a percent of net sales for the third quarter 2016 was 74%, up from 67% in the second quarter of this year, due primarily to an increase in sales and down from 75% in the third quarter of 2015.

SG&A expense was $22.2 million this quarter compared to $27.4 million in the prior year period. The decrease in SG&A was driven primarily by lower selling and marketing costs for Treximet and Silenor as a result of the restructuring in the third quarter this year, partially offset by higher legal expenses.

R&D expense for the third quarter of 2016 was $1.7 million, compared to $3.2 million in the prior year period. The decrease was related to the planning of work for the lifecycle management of Zohydro ER. Consistent with prior quarters, we are reporting adjusted operating results, which are non-GAAP measures that we believe are important for evaluating our business performance.

Third quarter 2016 adjusted EBITDA was $8.4 million. This compares to negative $1.4 million in the second quarter and a negative $4.5 million in the first quarter of 2016 and a positive adjusted EBITDA of $8.7 million for the prior year period. We are pleased to have returned to positive adjusted EBITDA for the first time since the fourth quarter of 2015.

Now, let me turn to our financial condition. As John stated, we are working to improve our financial flexibility and strengthen our balance sheet. As of September 30, 2016, the company had a total liquidity of approximately $40 million, consisting of approximately $29 million of cash and approximately $11 million available to draw under our $50 million revolving credit facility.

Total principal amount of debt outstanding at the end of the third quarter was approximately $334 million and net debt was $305 million. The total principal amount of debt consisted of approximately $190 million of 12% Senior Secured notes, and $130 million of 4.25% convertible notes, and a $14 million under our revolving credit facility. On October 1 this year, we made the semi-annual interest payment of $2.8 million on our 4.25% convertible notes for the [ph] terms (23:50) of the notes.

To further strengthen our balance sheet, the company utilized its controlled equity offering program to access the capital markets and raised approximately $6.2 million through the issuance of approximately 984,000 shares of common stock during the three months ended September 30, 2016 on a post-split basis.

Turning, our common stock. Pernix implemented a 1-for-10 reverse stock split effective on October 14, based on unanimous action of our board of directors. The purpose of the reverse stock split was to raise the per share trading price of the company's common stock to regain compliance with the minimum $1 per share continued listing requirement for its common stock on The NASDAQ Global Market. Our goal in executing this reverse stock split now as opposed to waiting until we have exhausted grace period from NASDAQ was to immediately remove this [ph] overhang (25:12) from our company.

As a result of the reverse stock split, the number of outstanding common shares were reduced to approximately 9.5 million shares. Importantly, the reverse stock split did not affect any stockholders' ownership percentage of shares of the company's common stock. The reverse stock split was part of the Pernix's broader strategy to continue to improve our financial flexibility.

As previously communicated, we have retained advisors to explore options to restructure our debt and assess other potential alternatives in order to maximize value for all stakeholders. We have multiple options at our disposal and are currently reviewing those options with our advisors to identify the most appropriate path forward that we believe is in the best interest of all stakeholders.

As I discussed earlier, we are in the initial stages of implementing changes to stabilize and turnaround the business and to drive growth. We are pleased with the progress of these initiatives to date. We expect the positive net sales trend we have seen over the second and the third quarters this year to continue into the fourth quarter, and that we expect to continue delivering positive adjusted EBITDA in the fourth quarter.

I would now turn the call back to John.

Thank you, Graham. To summarize the changes we have implemented over the last three months in sales and marketing executions, relative position in sales promotion of our core three products and reduction in head count and cost structure, had a positive impact on Pernix revenues and adjusted EBITDA in the third quarter of 2016.

We are very pleased to see solid sales of our core brands. We continued positive trends in total scripts growth and in the first nine months of 2016, especially for Zohydro ER. Going forward, the key priorities for the company is to continue to improve our commercial execution and drive growth of our key brands. In addition, we are pursuing opportunities to improve our operating cash flow and explore new growth opportunities, while engaging our lenders to address our balance sheet.

As Graham said, we believe we have a number of options at our disposal to create value for our stakeholders and we look forward to executing on these initiatives in the near future.

With that, I would like to turn it over to the operator to open up the line for Q&A.

Well, thank you. [Operator Instructions] And our first question come from Patrick Dolezal with LifeSci Advisors.

Hi, guys. Thanks for taking my questions. I was just wondering if you could add any color on the positive script trends that are seen for the quarter after the restructuring.

Yeah, Patrick, this is George Jones. I'll take that question. Overall, we're very pleased with the positive script trends we've seen across our three core brands, and the comments I'd make on that is really to reinforce what I've said on the call earlier that these positive growth trends are really reflective of the increased focus that we've been able to put on the highest potential prescribers for the markets that we compete in, especially with Treximet, a large focus on neurology and headache specialists with an increase frequency that we know is required to drive demand in this market and for Zohydro ER, an increased frequency to the pain specialists that are treating most of these patients who are afflicted with chronic pain.

Okay. Great. Thanks for that. And then, I guess, I was just also wondering just sort of like looking down the road, what proportion of prescription should we expect to ultimately come from the PPD program, and just sort of how will that help the company?

So, we feel that the PPD program provides us with a significant strategic advantage in the marketplaces where we compete. It reduces hassles for our prescribers to use our branded medications, and it takes the prescription out of the pharmacy channel where it's likely that it could be switched by the pharmacists using a generic products or something like that. So, we expect continued growth for the PPD program, and we continue to drive that on all of our sales messaging, all of our sales calls.

Got you. Okay. Thanks for taking my questions. [Operator Instructions]

And at this time, there are no further questions.

Okay. I just want to thank everybody for their participation on this call. I appreciate everyone that called in to listen. And again, I just want to conclude that all our signs for the company are going in the right direction. The things that we've implemented are working and we're pleased with the results. So, thank you. And look forward to our next call.

Well, thank you. That does conclude today's conference call. We do thank you for your participation today.