Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Douglas L. Drysdale — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Pernix Therapeutics Holdings, Inc.
Sanjay S. Patel — Chief Financial Officer, Pernix Therapeutics Holdings, Inc.
Serge D. Belanger — Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the Pernix Therapeutics First Quarter 2016 Earnings Conference Call. My name is Jennifer, and I will be your event specialist today. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. We will conduct a Q&A session at the end of the prepared remarks, and additional instructions will be provided at that time. As a reminder, this call is being recorded for replay purposes.

On the call today are Doug Drysdale, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Sanjay Patel, Chief Financial Officer of Pernix Therapeutics.

Please be advised that Pernix issued a press release, this morning, containing financial results for the quarter ending March 31, 2016. The release, including the financial tables and reconciliation of non-GAAP financial results is available on the company's website at www.pernixtx.com. The company also expects to file quarterly report on Form 10-Q with the SEC by the end of the day.

During today's call, the company will be making forward-looking statements and actual results may differ from current expectations. Please note that under Safe Harbor rules, Pernix has no obligation to update the information contained in these forward-looking statements, even if actual results or future expectations change materially.

The company recommends that you refer to the cautionary statements contained in the SEC filings for a more detailed explanation of inherent limitations of such forward-looking statements.

I would now like to turn the call over to Doug Drysdale. Please go ahead, sir.

Good morning and thank you for joining the call today. Early today, we released our financial results for the first quarter of 2016. On today's call, I'll review some of the highlights and challenges for the quarter and provide an operational update. I'll then turn the call over to Sanjay to provide a more detailed review of our financials.

Like several of our peers, we've seen the challenging operating environment in the first quarter of 2016, which impacted both our volumes and our net pricing.

Obviously, we're not satisfied with our first quarter results. We've responded proactively and I'll provide you with details on these initiatives to address the impact of these results during this call.

Despite these headwinds, Pernix has made important progress in a number of operational areas. And we believe it'll enhance our overall performance in the coming quarters. First I will briefly discuss some of the key challenges that we faced during the quarter.

Volumes during the quarter were impacted by weaker-than-expected demand, particularly in the branded migraine market. We believe the continued shift of patients to high-deductible plans and significant managed care [ph] pressures (2:43) were the primary drivers of this seasonal decline in prescriptions.

Volumes were also impacted by modest wholesaler destocking for both Treximet and Silenor. Results during the quarter were also impacted by lower net pricing for both Treximet and Silenor as compared to the first quarter of 2015.

These lower net prices were driven by higher managed care rebates, which we previewed on our year-end 2015 earnings call. In addition, our co-pay assistance expense increased driven by our efforts to retain patients facing higher out-of-pocket costs in the first quarter.

We reduced our co-pay assistance level in April and expect net pricing for both Treximet and Silenor to improve throughout the remainder of 2016 as compared to the first quarter.

While we experienced a number of challenges during the quarter, I'd like to highlight some of our recent accomplishments. First, as I'll discuss later in greater detail, we're pleased to report continued strong uptake of Pernix Prescriptions Direct or PPD, our prescriptions performance program.

Prescriptions Direct is gaining increased traction each week as more and more patients utilize this program. We believe the rapid growth of PPD during the first quarter contributed to improving prescription trends both our portfolios as we moved into February and March, following a challenging January for the branded market as a whole.

Secondly, we have significantly improved our intellectual property state for the Zohydro ER with the issuance of a fourth Orange Book listed patent during the quarter. Since our acquisition of the products in April 2015, we've extended patent protection on Zohydro ER with BeadTek from 2019 to 2034 (sic) [2033] (4:31) or over 15 years through the issuance of two New Orange Book patents.

Finally, we continue to move forward with the development of an effective patent protection on lifecycle management strategy for our three core brands. I'll provide additional details on our Treximet life cycle program later in the call.

Before discussion of the progress of our three core products. I'd also address the recent departure of our Senior VP of Commercial Operations, Rick Shalaby. Rick played an integral role in our building our commercial platform over the past two years and we wish him the best of luck. We are in the process of interwiewing candidates to fill this role and expect to have an update on this in the near future.

With that, this ends the discussion of the first quarter results. Let's begin with Zohydro ER.

We continue to work hard to unlock the value that exists in Zohydro ER with BeadTek which [ph] results (5:29) into the market about one year ago. As we discussed on prior calls, we've made great strategy in improving access to Zohydro ER with over 230 million lives covered, as of the beginning of the year.

Some of our key wins, includes the removal of an NDC block Optum, United in October 2015 and the removal of Zohydro ER from its prescript exclusion list as of January 1, 2016.

We've seen a 30% increase in market share of Zohydro ER Optum since September 2015. And data from January and February indicates some modest progress in Express Scripts since the exclusion is lifted.

Zohydro ER total scripts were up 10% year-over-year, and down about 2% quarter-over-quarter during the first quarter of 2016. This compares favorably to the branded ER opioid market, which was down [ph] 7.7% (6:25) both year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter.

We believe volume growth has been somewhat impacted by our transition to a new National Drug Code or NDC number in February. As we transition from Zogenix inventory to Pernix inventory. The new Pernix inventory has a different NDC number than as the Zogenix inventory.

While we proactively address and switch to the retail pharmacies as usual a certain amount of disruption at the pharmacy level that these promises work through all the inventory and update their data bases for the new inventory. We expect the impact of this inventory transition to be fully mitigated by the end of the second quarter.

While we know much work is left to be done in order to generate meaningful market share gains, we believe we're well-positioned for improved growth over of the remainder of 2016.

Looking forward, we've instituted number of actions to drive prescription growth for the Zohydro ER. We brought down a number of managed care tools that we expect to enable our sales professionals to leverage our recent managed care wins if we focus on the target customers with the highest potential of the a pull-throughs of the Zohydro ER scripts.

We're also engaging key opinion leaders to help us drive our enhanced brand positioning through [ph] off site (7:40) speaker programs.

With 60 KOLs fully trained, we expect to execute 200 to 300 speaker programs in 2016, educating between 1,500 and 2,000 healthcare professionals. Moreover, we've launched our PPD pilot program for Zohydro ER and expect to continue to optimize the program to see a ramp up in the program during the second half of 2016.

As you know, there is the widespread attention and media focus on the potential abuse of opioids. On our last call, we discussed the data from RADAR that supports Zohydro ER with BeadTek as a product causing little to no public health risk. We believe that continuing to improve the safety and labeling of Zohydro ER are important long – for the long-term growth of the product.

To further advance Zohydro ER's safety profile, we expect to have an outcome from our label discussions with FDA later this year. Finally, as I mentioned earlier, Pernix has continued to strengthen the IP protection for Zohydro ER with BeadTek with the 760 patent issued in February.

This patent is broadly directed to the method of dosing patients with hepatic impairment with hydrocodone, where no adjustment in start dose is needed for patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment.

Both current and future ANDA filings, if any, will have to file a Paragraph IV certification against this patent, which does not expire until July 2033. Moreover Pernix intends to continue investing and protecting the Zohydro ER franchise.

Of note, we've continued to expand the scope of hepatic impairment patent family and expect to have three additional Orange Book listable patents from this family issued by the end of May 2016, with additional patents still pending.

Turning to Treximet, as we signaled in our last quarter call, we experienced the seasonal decline in prescriptions in January. It occurs because many patients co-pays and co-assistance deductibles reset set on January 1, thereby increasing their out-of-pocket costs, and driving patients to abandon or not fill their prescriptions.

However, the drop in total branded migraine market prescriptions from December to January of 21% was the worst we've seen in the last five years. Although the market recovered slightly as we move through the quarter. This drove a decrease in total Treximet's group of about 13% in the first quarter, as compared to the fourth quarter of 2015, and a decrease to 6% as compared to the first quarter of 2015.

This is in line with the overall branded migraine market which was down 12% quarter-over-quarter, 5% year-over-year. New prescriptions of Treximet dropped 4% year-over-year and down 7% quarter-over-quarter, which compares favorably to negative 4% and negative 7% respectively the branded migraine market. Encouragingly, we've seen positive Treximet and market share trends since the end of January.

Looking forward, we view our Pernix Prescriptions Direct program as a core component to drive Treximet growth. And continue to expect PPD to exceed 20% of total Treximet's group volume by year-end. In addition, we're redoubling our commercial efforts at Pernix's top 500 prescriber targets for Treximet with specific [ph] acts (11:00) in place to ensure we're messaging appropriately with these critical healthcare providers.

Following, we've launched new and enhanced marketing programs focused on engaging key opinion leaders and improving consumer awareness, including speaker programs and [ph] targeting consumer outreach (11:14). We expect these programs to contribute to the growth of Treximet as we move through 2016.

With regard to our long-term strategy, our team is hard at work on our initiatives to lifecycle management and advancing our strategy to maintain solid sales of Treximet beyond the expiration of patents on the current form of Treximet in February 2018.

We have a multi-pronged program in place design to capture the maximum number of sales of Treximet. First, as mentioned about the enrollment of Treximet users that are Product Prescriptions Direct program is increasing steadily. And we expect new and refills of Treximet scripts will continue to grow through the end of 2017. We believe that patients' use of the PPD program will increase the stickiness of those Treximet scripts.

Second, at the time generics entered the market we'll be launching our own open house generic. As a reminder, we expect to limited number of generic enters in 2018 [ph] likely (12:09) two or three generics. We believe, Pernix's current formulation, and our authorized generic can capture a meaningful portion of the Treximet market and contribute materially to overall sales in 2018 and beyond.

Finally, we're working on a new Treximet brand, target for launch on May 2017. Continued enrollment of patients into our Prescriptions Direct program is important in the future transition of Treximet patients to this new brand at this time.

We believe the three-pronged strategy will enable us to retain approximately 60% of Treximet net sales in 2018, and approximately 40% in 2019 and 2020, as compared to our sales estimates for 2017.

We see the new brand as important part of a long-term strategy for Treximet, and believe it will represent an incremental 15% of profitability when added to the contributions we expect in the current brand and our authorized generic.

We also expect that both net sales and profitability per prescription will increase for the current version of Treximet. As managed care contracts expire beginning in 2018, and a reduction in the refill rate from 18% to 5% at that time.

Moving to our third core brand Silenor, the only non-controlled, non-addictive prescription sleep medication for people with trouble staying asleep. Cost sales were down the year-over-year, due to the combination of lower net pricing, and some destocking during the quarter, we continue to see positive prescription trend.

During the first quarter, total prescriptions were up 17% year-over-year. And these Silenor scripts were up 9% year-over-year, and have reached all-time highs in recent weeks. Compared to the fourth quarter of 2015, total prescriptions were down 3% and new prescriptions were up 4%.

Looking forward, we believe the growth of Silenor will be driven by continued uptake of Pernix Prescriptions Direct, additional focus on our prescriber targets in each of our territories and enhance marketing activities such as our virtual speaker programs and the complication of our arousability study, the positive interim results of which we discussed in our last call.

We continue to expect that the final result for the study will be announced in the second quarter and will be published by the end of the third quarter of this year. As a reminder, these data has the potential to be a key selling point for the Silenor, differentiating the product's safety and liability profile as compared to zolpidem.

And then, I should take some time to discuss PPD, which continues to perform extremely well. As a reminder, we trained all of our sales reps and managers to promote this important program to our highest potential customers in mid-2015. And as of our focus, we had rolled out the Pernix Prescriptions Direct program nationally Treximet and Silenor.

In addition, our pain management sales team is trained on PPD in the fourth quarter of 2015. And we're seeing the benefit of that promotion of PPD in a steadily increasing levels of patient enrollments. We began to rollout the PPD program for Zohydro ER physicians and patients in early April.

For the full year, we expect that Prescriptions Direct will boost sales of Treximet and Silenor and also release the Zohydro ER as we achieve further progress in the rollout of Prescriptions Direct to both physicians and patients.

A major component of value for the PPD program is to refill, where we're achieving higher refill rates and improved compliance to many patients. Due to the improved patient convenience and healthcare management delivered by Pernix Prescriptions Direct, we see prescription volumes that are very encouraging, and we gain further scale each week.

Before, I discuss PPD prescription data, I want to highlight for investors that prescriptions from our PPD program are only reported to Symphony Health and are [ph] not encaptured (15:58) by IMS. The uptake rates in the Prescriptions Direct program continue to improve reaching 11% of total weekly prescriptions for Treximet and 6% for Silenor in the recent weeks.

It's important to understand that PPD is delivering a significant increase in fill rates for both Treximet and Silenor, which we estimate more than 50% higher than the typical retail levels.

Additionally for scripts in the Prescriptions Direct program refill rates during the first quarter were approximately 90% of commercially insured patients. Based on these refill rates, we have and we'll continue to see a compounding effect in the number of scripts flowing through PPD. As patients have received their four, fifth or sixth monthly refill and as new scripts were added on top.

We've enrolled more than 10,000 patients in the program to-date with over 400 new enrollments being added each week. Based on our expected trends, we should be at a 20% run rate for Treximet with these scripts by the end of 2016. Overall Pernix Prescriptions Direct is the core part of our operating plan in generating revenue growth in 2016 and beyond for Pernix.

As Sanjay will discuss, when he reviews our financial performance, it's pretty good to know that we made a conscious effort in the first quarter to ensure the affordability of Treximet and Silenor prescriptions filled through both PPD and traditional retail pharmacies with our co-pay assistance program.

While these actions negatively impacted our net pricing during the first quarter, we believe, we were able to retain a larger percentage of our patients who might otherwise to abandon their prescriptions. And we expect our net pricing to improve for the balance of the year as patients meet their deductibles.

Looking forward, we believe that PPD will be the a highly effective platform for launching new and lifecycle management products, which will allow us to facilitate patient transitioning into new and improved versions of our patent new products including our Treximet line extension.

At this time, I'll turn the call over to Sanjay, who'll review the quarter's financial performance.

Sanjay?

Thank you, Doug. Good morning, everyone. Today, I will discuss the sales of our core brands and operating expenses and I will address their balance sheet and liquidity in detail. In reviewing sales, I will discuss gross to nets. As I do every quarter, I'd like to clarify what we mean by that. For the sake of clarification, I mean of the gross to net of – if we reported gross to net of 55%, that means we realized net sales of $0.55 after discounts, rebates and returns.

As stated in our press release issued this morning, net revenue was $32.5 million during the first quarter of 2016, this represents a decrease of 4% from $33.9 million in the first quarter of 2015. Let's look at the specifics for each major product now.

For Treximet, net sales decreased 22% versus the first quarter of 2015. The decline was driven by the following: ex-factory volumes were down 6.7% or $1.4 million in the first quarter which is consistent with the downward trend in the branded migraine market that Doug mentioned earlier; Treximet net price was down 17% or $3.3 million year-over-year as a result of lower gross to nets which was partially offset by higher lag price.

As a reminder, we took a 6% price increase in October of 2015, and 9.9% this January. As volumes and price increase, the net price for the full year should be closer to neutral. On our prior earnings call, we guided the gross to nets in the mid- to high-40s for Treximet as a result of the new rebate agreement signed with one of the major TBMs. This quarter, as a result of higher coupon and co-insurance assistance, the gross to nets were 43%.

We expect gross to nets for Treximet to normalize as we move throughout the year, and we continue to believe that we will achieve the mid- to high-level of – for these level for the full year of 2016. Finally, net sales for Treximet were also impacted by a modest amount of wholesaler destocking of about $3.1 million since the end of 2015.

For Silenor, net sales in the first quarter of 2016 decreased by 28% year-over-year of $1.4 million. Ex-factory volume was down 16.3% or $800,000 in the first quarter of 2016 versus the prior year period which contrasts with the prescription growth Doug discussed earlier.

The year-over-year decline in volume was largely related to wholesaler destocking during the quarter, which had a $1.4 million impact on sales.

Also, Silenor's net price decreased by 14.1% or $600,000 in Q1 2016 as a result of the lower gross to net, partially offset by higher lag price. On our fire earnings call, we guided the gross to net for Silenor in a mid- to high-30s, for the full year of 2016.

This quarter is a result of higher coupon and co-insurance assistance and our gross to nets were 32%. We anticipate our coupon expense will moderate in the remaining quarters of 2016 and therefore, expect gross to nest for Silenor to be in the mid- to high-30s for the full year of 2016.

Turning to Zohydro ER, net sales during the quarter were $5.5 million. As a reminder, we did not begin selling Zohydro ER until May of 2015. Gross to nets figures of Zohydro ER were approximately 66% in the first quarter and we expect gross to nets of Zohydro ER for the full year of 2016 to be in the low-60s, which we're pleased with considering the broad access to 230 million lives we now have for the product.

Gross profit as a percent of net revenue for the first quarter of 2016 was 65.4%, essentially unchanged from the same quarter last year. Total operating expenses for the first quarter of 2016 were $26.9 million, this excludes depreciation, amortization and impairment of intangible assets, and the change in fair value of contingent consideration, which is a non-cash charge related to the acquisition of Zohydro ER. Operating expenses in the same quarter last year were $21.5 million.

I will now drill into the components of our operating expenses. SG&A was $26 million this quarter compared to $20.5 million in the prior year period. This increase in SG&A was driven by the addition of the Zohydro ER sales force and related selling expense. R&D for the first quarter 2016 was $0.9 million compared to $1 million in the prior year period.

Consistent with prior quarters, we are reporting adjusted operating results, which are non-GAAP measures that we believe are important for evaluating our financial results. First quarter 2016 adjusted EBITDA was negative $4.5 million, which was modestly below our expectations. This compares to positive adjusted EBITDA of $4.6 million for the prior year period.

Softer sales were the main driver of our loss this quarter, as a result of more pronounced seasonality in the first quarter as compared to year's past. In response, we managed our cost rates tightly, so these efforts were offset by the additional operating expenses we incurred as a result of the acquisition of Zohydro ER and the associated costs.

Leverage and liquidity. As of March 31, 2016, Pernix had cash on hand of $36.6 million and $339.1 million of debt. In other words, we had net debt of $302.5 million, this includes $195.1 million or 12% Senior Secured notes, $130 million of principal amount of 4.25% convertible notes and $14 million under our revolving credit facility.

During the quarter, we made a $27.5 million payment on our 12% secured notes, including $12.6 million of interest and $14.9 million to pay down the principal of the notes. We continue to pursue a number of actions to improve our financial flexibility and strength in our balance sheet.

These actions include improving operating cash flow generation throughout optimization of our product portfolio, continuing to examine our cost structure, and engaging with lenders to proactively restructure existing debt in a constructive manner.

I want to assure everyone on the call that we are working hard with the intention of identifying a solution that optimizes value for both equity holders and lenders. In addition, we are in strategic partnerships and collaborations to source additional cash. While we are highly focused on these initiatives, there could be no assurance that these will result in any transactions.

For the next several months, Pernix management and the board will be fully engaged in driving the initiatives to discuss about. During this timeframe, this is we temporarily withdrawing prior 2016 guidance. And the company intends to update its guidance upon the conclusion of these initiatives.

With that I'll turn the call back over to Doug.

Thank you, Sanjay. So, to start off 2016, so many significant challenges is this sector in general, and with Pernix specifically. We understand that we have a lot of work to do over the remainder of the year.

That said, we think we weather the storm in quarter one, and expect to such we'd take into the both of the performance of each of our core brands in the remaining months into 2016, we need to improve performance.

As we accomplished in 2015, we expect to achieve greater operating leverage in the year ahead, across our sales force, marketing, R&D and G&A platform. As the growth sales for our co-promoted products. Our team remains committed to driving steady sales growth and improving the operating and financial leverage in 2016, following an important year investments of Pernix in 2015.

We are also highly focused on reviewing our strategic alternatives, and addressing our liquidity position. We believe we have a number of options at our disposal to create value for our stakeholders, and the progress on these initiatives daily.

That concludes our prepared remarks, and we're ready open to take questions at this time. I'll now turn the call over to the operator to open the line up for Q&A.

Operator? [Operator Instructions]

And we'll go first to Serge Belanger with Needham & Company.

Hi. Good morning guys. Just a couple of questions. First, I don't know if how swift that you can be, but if you could expand upon some of these initiatives you've undertaken. It sounds like some of them were undertaken in the past, and I just wanted to know how the decision to withdraw 2016 guidance came about?

Hi Serge. This is Sanjay. Happy to take the question. You know, as we've looked at our business and as the environment has become a little bit more challenging in Q1, we've had taken the decision to look in providing different alternatives.

In light of the various – sorry, we believe it's prudent to withdraw our guidance at this time and update it when we have a better handle on how the business will look like for the remainder for the year.

We expect to hire a new Head of [ph] Sales (26:46) Operations in the next month or two and we want this individual's input in any new guidance we set. And we're obviously disappointed in the performance to-date, so that plays us for as well.

Okay. And then, obviously there was a number of factors that affected performance for the three products throughout the first quarter. How many of these sectors do you expect to improve into the second quarter, which I think Symphony did and there hasn't been much of an increase since the first quarter?

Just wanted to know if that Symphony data is accurate? Or is it still has a large discrepancy with what you are seeing in terms of sales volumes?

Yeah. I can take that. I'd say that the overall impact in the first quarter was certainly greater for Treximet than we had expected. Our overall EBITDA for the company in the first quarter was a little off from our internal forecast, but we expect it to be negative.

I think the major challenge we see as we come out from the first quarter is that trends for Treximet in particular are coming at a lower trajectory that we would like. Silenor is doing fairly well compared to our internal projections, Zohydro ER is fairly pretty much on-track versus internal projections in terms of prescriptions.

But we certainly have some work to do with Treximet, which we see that we can impact to Pernix Prescriptions Direct. So, at this time, as Sanjay said, we've got a number of initiatives to working on, focused on generating cash and restructuring the debt primarily and also looking at our cost structure. And we've said to update the guidance outlook as we get through those initiatives in the next couple of months.

Yeah. So maybe just to add to couple of points. The new prescription trends for Treximet are quite encouraging so far. And we've been seeing increased recoveries in PPD. So, although, it's not a chronic-used medication that patients, every patient uses every day. The refill rates have gone up quite a bit in the PPD, so, it should start to come down on itself throughout the year. And so we are positively optimistic still.

Okay. And then on the Symphony dataset, is that an accurate portrayal of the volume you're seeing or is it still missing on PPD and other metric?

Yeah. I'd say that this normalized as we expected. So, we had some discrepancies at the beginning of the year, that – where is some large swings is back and full the prescriptions is between internal data that we're seeing and Symphony data.

We also had several weeks but PPD was not included in the data at the beginning of the year that's also being corrected. So, the data we've seen in the last several weeks are fairly consistent and more normalized. Still underreporting versus what we think to demand is, but at least it's consistent at this point in time.

Thanks Doug. I'll get back in queue.

Thanks, Serge.

We'll go next to Difei Yang with Brean Capital.

Hi. This is [ph] Derek (29:55) filling in for Difei. Just a couple of questions here, is there just one plan that you can point to come for the Treximet revenue decline? And are there some other larger plans following steps of [ph] UBS (30:07) and Express Scripts to put Treximet on the exclusion list?

All right. So, thanks for the question [ph] Derek (29:55). Yeah, I think we highlighted in our fourth quarter call that we had a one significant – I mean, one major PBM, where the rebates were renegotiated unless significantly higher and that's impacted gross to nets overall for Treximet to 2016.

In addition to that for the first quarter, we've – as we mentioned we've follow a lot of asset and to trying to retain patients and so our co-pay assistance is greater. We've adjusted that co-pay assistance from April. So we're naturally seeing improved gross to nets as we come out of April and sort of rest of the year. But that, yes, one final impacted Treximet gross to nets year-over-year, I think I've mentioned that on the last call.

Okay. And can you comment on the dynamics on the Zohydro ER product?

The Zohydro ER was – we are seeing positive outpatient, we're seeing positive reactions in the marketplace and within certain plans, we're starting to see movement in growth, that we've never seen that in Autumn, since we saw that growth will come off in October.

Zohydro ER is trending from a prescription point of view, pretty much where we expect it to be at this point, but that those being at higher expectations as the year progresses. I'd say that we've seen some sparkling of growth as we switch inventory from the Zogenix inventory to the Pernix inventory.

And you will see some impacts of that, some little challenging with the products that has six different skews. And sort of I'd say sketchy patchy stocking, which we always get at the beginning of the launch of any product.

But we're working through that, with retail pharmacies and with wholesalers and with managed care and it affects a little bit databases. And I think, we've a good 80% plus through the issue and expect to be fully through the NDC switch, as them could run out of the old and distinguish, especially through that by the end of the second quarter.

Thank you.

Thanks for your questions.

And we'll go next to Serge Belanger with Needham & Co.

Hi. I just wanted to some questions on R&D. In the past, you've talked about a new branded formulation of Treximet for 2017 as well as the third generation of Zohydro. I just wanted to know what additional R&D work needs to be done for both of these efforts and when should we expect your R&D spend to ramp up?

Yeah, I think I can take that. So, for Treximet, the R&D development part of the spend is done. That's the [indiscernible] (33:06) we'll see a little that on by the end of the second quarter, I'd say [ph] in terms of the spend (33:10). And for the Zohydro ER lifecycle, we continue to have spend for that product this year, with the [ph] finding (33:21) we're expecting either the very end of this year or early 2017.

Okay. Thank you.

And at this time, there are no further questions. I'll turn the call back to management for further comments.

Thank you, operator, and thank you everyone for joining the call. Have a good day.

This does conclude today's conference. We thank you for your participation.