corrected transcript


Pernix Therapeutics Holdings,


Inc.
 
PTX
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 12, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


PARTICIPANTS


Corporate Participants


Nick Rust
 
– Senior Account Executive, IGB Group


Cooper C. Collins
 
– President, Chief Executive Officer & Director


Tracy Simmons Clifford
 
– Chief Financial Officer, Secretary & Treasurer


Other Participants


Brian Marckx
 
– Analyst, Zacks Investment Research, Inc.


William G. Vlahos
 
– President, Odyssey Value Advisors LLC


Michael Weiss
 
– Managing Partner, Joslynda Capital LLC


Mark Schellinger
 
– Analyst, The Gores Group LLC


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning, and welcome to the Pernix Therapeutics Holdings 2010 Third Quarter


Conference Call. Today’s call is being recorded. [Operator Instructions] At this time, I would like to


turn the conference over to Mr. Nick Rust of The IGB Group for introductions and reading of the


Safe Harbor statement. Please go ahead, sir.


Nick Rust, Senior Account Executive, IGB Group


Thank you, and welcome to the Pernix Therapeutics third quarter 2010 conference call.


Representing the company today are Cooper Collins, President and CEO, and Tracy Clifford, CFO.


Before we begin, I would like to point out that the Q3 press release, including the financial tables, is


available on the company’s website, at www.pernixtx.com. The company filed its Form 10-Q with


the SEC this morning. Now, allow me to read the following Safe Harbor statement.


This call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities


Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks,


uncertainties, and other factors which may cause the actual results, performance, or achievements


of the company or industry results to be materially different from any future results, performance, or


achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.


When used in this presentation, statements that are not statements of current or historical fact may


be deemed to be forward-looking statements. Without limiting the foregoing, the words plan, intend,


may, will, expect, believe, could, anticipate, estimate, or continue, or similar expressions or other


variations or comparable terminology are intended to identify such forward-looking statements.


Listeners are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which


speak only as of the date hereof. Except as required by law, the company undertakes no obligation


to update any forward-looking statements, whether as the result of new information, future events,


or otherwise. Investors are urged to examine these and other risks and uncertainties detailed in


Pernix’s periodic public filings on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission


At this time I would like to turn the call over to Cooper Collins.
corrected transcript


Pernix Therapeutics Holdings,


Inc.
 
PTX
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 12, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


Cooper C. Collins, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director


Thanks, Nick. Good morning, and welcome to our third quarter 2010 earnings conference call.


During this morning’s call, I would like to provide a summary of significant achievements as well as


consolidated results for the three- and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2010.


We are pleased to report that our third quarter results have exceeded our expectations. For the


quarter, we reported strong growth, with gross sales of $11.9 million and net sales of $7.8 million,


which represents an increase of approximately 50% and 33%, respectively. We also generated net


income of approximately $2.4 million or $0.10 per basic and diluted share in the quarter. These


results are driven by an increased volume in sales of our upper-respiratory brands.


For the year-to-date period, we are on track to deliver our goal of achieving year-over-year EBITDA


growth in 2010. In particular, growth in net sales increased to approximately $31.6 million and $21


million for the year-to-date period, compared to $26.9 million and $19.6 million, respectively, in the


prior-year period.


For the year – excuse me, I kind of have a cold, so it’s the season, if you hear me coughing here,


I’ll just keep going. For the year-to-date period in 2010, net income increased approximately 16%,


to $7.8 million, or $0.33 per basic and diluted share, compared to the prior-year period.


Before turning the call over to Tracy for a detailed view of our financial results for the third quarter


of 2010, I would first like to provide an overview of several important initiatives that the company


has completed during the quarter. First, we secured a $10 million revolving line of credit with


Regions that matures on September 2012. This line provides us with increased financial flexibility


and liquidity to execute our growth strategy.


We also completed the acquisition of Macoven Pharmaceuticals during the quarter, which is now a


wholly-owned subsidiary focused on developing generic pharmaceuticals and marketing authorized


generic products. This acquisition was funded through an initial draw-down of approximately $2.2


million on our line of credit. Later in the call, Tracy will provide more color on the structure and


financial impact of the transaction.


As of September 30, 2010, Macoven has launched 11 generic products, including five authorized


generic equivalents of Pernix-branded products. Going forward, we expect Macoven to be a vital


part of our business as we seek to expand the revenue stream and protect our branded products


through the sale of authorized generics.


Third, we continue to invest in intellectual property with the acquisition of a patented TCT control


delivery technology. With this purchase, we now own all the trademarks and patents for this


patented technology, which will allow us to seek opportunities for royalties through licensing.


Fourth, we continue to believe our current share price is undervalued and have proactively


executed on our board of director’s share repurchase authorization in the open market and


negotiated transactions. In September 2010, we repurchased 2 million shares of common stock at


a discount from an employee in a privately negotiated transaction. This purchase price of $3.6


million will be paid in equal interest-free quarterly installments of $300,000 over the next three


years. In addition to this transaction, we have also repurchased 70,867 shares in the open market


since June 10, 2010.


Overall, we are pleased with the progress that we have made to date in our first year as a public


company, and we remain well positioned to continue executing on our focus on delivering year-


over-year growth in sales. We have consistently maintained a healthy financial position to fund all


of our current capital requirements, with approximately $8.2 million of unrestricted cash and cash