Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Joseph T. Schepers — Director-Investor Relations & Communications, Pernix Therapeutics Holdings, Inc.
Cooper C. Collins — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Pernix Therapeutics Holdings, Inc.
David P. Becker — Chief Financial Officer, Pernix Therapeutics Holdings, Inc.
Elliot Wilbur — Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC
Irina Rivkind — Analyst, Cantor Fitzgerald Securities
Annabel Samimy — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.
Randall S. Stanicky — Analyst, Canaccord Genuity, Inc.
Ram Selvaraju — Analyst, Aegis Capital Corp.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning and welcome to the Pernix Therapeutics' Second Quarter 2012 Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. All lines have been placed on mute. [Operator Instructions]

At this time, I'd like to turn the conference call over to the company's Director of Investor Relations, Joe Schepers. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you and welcome to Pernix Therapeutics' second quarter 2012 conference call. On the call today are Cooper Collins, President and CEO, Dave Becker, CFO.

Before we begin, I'd like to point out that the company issued a press release this morning containing financial results for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2012. The release including the financial tables and reconciliation of non-GAAP financials is available on the company's website at www.pernixtx.com. The company also expects to file its current report on Form 10-Q with the SEC by the end of the day.

Before we begin, let me read the following Safe Harbor statement. This call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Statements including words such as estimate, plan, project, forecast, intend, expect, anticipate, believe or similar expressions are forward looking statements because these statements reflect the company's current views, expectations and beliefs concerning future events. These forward looking statements involve risk and uncertainties.

Investor should note that many of the factors, as more fully described, under the caption Risk Factors in our Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission could affect the company's future financial results and cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements contained in the company's Annual Report on Form10-K. The forward looking statements in this press release are qualified by these risk factors. These are factors that individually or in aggregate could cause our results to differ materially from expected or historical results. The company assumes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future developments, or otherwise.

During the call, we may also discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures such as EBITDA. The company believes that EBITDA, which is defined as earnings before interest taxes amortization and depreciation is a meaningful non-GAAP measure.

At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to Cooper Collins.

Good morning and welcome to our second quarter 2012 earnings conference call. During this morning's call, I'd like to provide an update on key business activities and a brief overview of our consolidated results for the quarter and six months ended June March 30, 2012. Later in the call, Dave will provide a more detailed review of our financial results.

During the past few months we completed several important initiatives that are expected to position the company for future success. These initiatives include the launch of Omeclamox-Pak by our newly established GI sales force, the acquisition of Great Southern Laboratories, a private pharmaceutical contract manufacturing company and the renegotiation of our co-promotion and supply agreement with ParaPRO for Natroba. I'll provide more information on each of these initiatives during this morning's call.

Net revenues were $10.5 million in the second quarter of 2012. We're pleased to report growth in net revenues of 13% for the first half of 2012, despite the warm winter and one of the weakest flu seasons in the last decade. In a few minutes Dave will give a more complete discussion about revenues.

Now I'll provide an update on several key business developments. In July, we launched our Omeclamox-Pak as the first prescription product in our gastroenterology portfolio. This branded prescription product is a 10-day therapy of omeprazole delayed-release capsules, clarithromycin tablets, and amoxicillin capsules for the treatment of H. pylori infection and duodenal ulcer disease.

The launch of Omeclamox broadens our prescription portfolio outside of pediatrics. We are currently promoting Omeclamox-Pak with approximately 50 sales representatives. Consistent with our strategy for launching other branded products, our sales team is targeting high-decile prescription writing gastroenterologists. We expect Omeclamox-Pak to achieve steady growth in the second half of this year.

In July 2012, the company completed its acquisition of Great Southern Laboratories, GSL, a pharmaceutical contract manufacturing company located in Houston, Texas. Later this month we expect to close on the real estate portion of this transaction. Upon the final closing, the company will have paid an aggregate of $4.9 million and will have assumed certain liabilities for substantially all of GSL's assets including the land and buildings in which GSL operates.

GSL has an established pharmaceutical manufacturing facility with an existing base of customers in the pharmaceutical industry which is expected to provide the company with additional revenue, development capabilities and potential cost savings.

The company acquired the GSL assets through a wholly-owned subsidiary, Pernix Manufacturing, LLC, and intends to continue to operate the business under the name Great Southern Laboratories. Great Southern Laboratories was established in 1980. For more than 30 years Great Southern has manufactured liquids, tablets, capsules, ointments and creams for pharmaceutical companies.

There is an important strategic component to this acquisition. Great Southern is expected to help us develop products more rapidly and provide in-house product development expertise. We plan to utilize this facility to manufacture certain products currently marketed by Pernix, as well as future branded, generic and OTC products as we continue to expand and diversify our product portfolio. We also expect this acquisition to improve the company's gross margins on certain marketed generic products and to provide manufacturing capabilities for our potential OTC product in development that we plan to launch by the end of 2013. We are in the transition stages at this point and we expect to see the benefits starting in 2013.

Turning to our co-promotion for Natroba, in July 2012, the company and ParaPRO replaced their then-existing co-promotion and supply agreements relating to Natroba with a new agreement to restructure the terms for marketing and distributing Natroba. Under these terms of the new agreement, the company will no longer have purchase minimums and purchased order commitments related to the marketing and promotion of Natroba that were required under the previous agreement The company and ParaPRO will continue to work together to co-promote and market Natroba.

As noted on previous calls, Natroba is a FDA-approved prescription topical treatment for head lice in patients four years of age and older. We believe this new agreement provides us the flexibility we need to compete more effectively in the head lice market.

Finally, with more than $50 million in cash at the end of June, we remain well positioned financially to pursue additional business development opportunities as we move forward with our horizontal integration strategy focused on branded, generic and OTC products.

Now I'll turn the call over to Dave for a more detailed review of the financial results.

Thank you, Cooper, and good morning. During today's call, I'll provide a detailed review of our results for the three and six-months ended June 30, 2012. For the second quarter of 2012, net sales decreased by approximately 13% to $10.5 million compared to $12 million for the same period in the prior year. The decline in net sales is a result of a few key events. First, our cough/cold sales continue to be adversely affected by the most recent cough/cold season. We believe that retailers and wholesalers are working off prior inventories and this is contributing to softer sales in the current period. In this regard, we have recorded additional returns reserves of approximately $500,000 during the most recent quarter.

I'd like to give you some details on CEDAX 180. First of all, CEDAX 180 prescriptions are up almost 50% from the second quarter of 2011 to the second quarter of 2012. So, clearly, the product is performing very well in the market. However, factory sales or what we recognize as revenue declined almost 15% from the second quarter of 2011 to the second quarter of 2012.

You'll recall that during the second quarter of 2011 we were just coming off the launch of CEDAX 180 and at that time we were experiencing significant reorders. Essentially the decline in CEDAX 180 sales is a matter of timing.

Overall sales was impacted by the initial trade launch of Omeclamox-Pak. While our professional promotion did not officially start until the first week of July, the initial launch quantity of factory sales occurred in late June and therefore were part of the second quarter revenues.

We now have five weeks of prescription data for Omeclamox-Pak. The data currently implies an approximate 3% market share of the branded competitive products. Our goal is to end 2012 with a 10% to 15% market share.

Income before taxes was a loss of $1.5 million in the second quarter of 2012 compared to income before taxes of $2.4 million in the second quarter of 2011 and the after tax net loss for the second quarter of 2012 was approximately $900,000 or $0.03 per basic and diluted share as compared to net income of $1.5 million or $0.07 per basic and diluted share in the second quarter of 2011. EBITDA which is a non-GAAP measurement was negative $700,000 in the second quarter 2012 compared to $3 million for the second quarter of 2011.

Now moving on to the expenses, cost of goods sold was approximately $3.4 million for the second quarter of 2012 as compared to $3.4 million for the second quarter of 2011. This resulted in gross margin dollars of $7.1 million or 67.5% of net sales during the current quarter as compared to $8.6 million of gross margin dollars or 71.5% of net sales for the prior year quarter. Our gross margin percentage for the second quarter 2012 was impacted by the $500,000 of additional returns provision our cough, cold product as well as sales of lower margins Natroba.

Our selling, general and administrative expenses for the second quarter were approximately $7.6 million, which was an increase of $2.8 million from the second quarter of 2011. The increase was primarily due to the hiring and training of the company's new gastroenterology sales force, the pre-launch expenses associated with the Omeclamox-Pak professional fees associated with recent transaction activity and an increase in stock-based compensation expense.

Depreciation and amortization expense was approximately $797,000 compared to $594,000 in the second quarter of 2011. The increase is primarily due to the licensing of Omeclamox-Pak and the license related to the non-codeine antitussive in development.

Stock compensation expense for the second quarter of 2012 was approximately $727,000 compared to $304,000 in the second quarter of 2011. The income tax for the second quarter of 2012 was a benefit of $600,000 compared to an expense of $900,000 in the second quarter of 2011.

Weighted average common shares outstanding for the quarter ended June 30, 2012 were 28.3 million basic and 28.9 million diluted shares. Weighted average common shares outstanding for the quarter ended June 30, 2011 were 22.7 million basic and 23 million diluted shares. The increase reflects the new share sold in the ATM offering completed in April 2012 that generated net proceeds to the company of $23.8 million, an exchange for 2.7 million new shares of Pernix common stock.

Now I would like to discuss our results for the six months ended June 30, 2012. For the six months ended June 30, 2012, net revenues increased 13% to $25 million compared to $22.1 million in the prior year. Income before taxes was $500,000 as compared to $4.1 million in the prior year period and after tax net income for the six months ended June 30, 2012 was $300,000 or $0.01 per basic and diluted share compared to $2.5 million or $0.11 per basic and diluted share in the prior year period. For the six months ended June 30, 2012, EBITDA was $2 million compared to $5.2 million in the prior year period.

For the six months ended June 30, 2012 SG&A expense was $14.4 million, which was an increase of approximately $4.4 million from the prior year period. The increase was primarily due to the hiring and training of our new gastroenterology sales force to promote Omeclamox-Pak, pre-launch marketing expense, professional expenses associated with the ATM, the Omeclamox license, the SEEK transaction and the Great Southern Laboratories acquisition as well as an increase in corporate infrastructure cost to supports the company's growth objectives and an increase in stock-based compensation expense.

For the six months ended June 30, 2012, the weighted average common shares outstanding were 27.1 million basic and 27.7 million diluted and for the six months ended June 30, 2011 weighted average common shares outstanding were 22.7 million basic and 23 million diluted shares.

Turning now to the balance sheet. As of June 30, 2012, we had approximately $50.5 million in unrestricted cash and cash equivalents and working capital of $54 million. We also had an accounts receivable balance of $15.6 million and inventory of $6.7 million. During the second quarter, we repaid the $6 million outstanding balance on our revolving line of credit.

Finally I'd like a make a few comments regarding guidance for 2012. The company expects net revenue inclusive of manufacturing revenues for the full year of 2012 to increase by approximately 20% as compared to the full year 2011. In the second half of 2012, the company expects to record higher net revenues in the fourth quarter than during the third quarter. And third quarter net revenues are expected to be similar in amount to the first quarter of 2012. The company estimates that its total operating expenses will increase by a range of $9 million to $12 million for the full year 2012 as compared to 2011.

That concludes our financial review this morning, and I'll now turn the call back over to Cooper for his final comment.

Thanks, David. In summary, we remain well positioned to achieve continued growth as we implement our horizontal integration strategy. Since the beginning of 2012, we have made several investments and undertaken several initiatives that will be instrumental in our future success.

One, we licensed the Omeclamox-Pak and we've recruited and trained our new GI sales force who launched Omeclamox-Pak in July. Two, we acquired the cough-related IP in the U.S. and Canada for an OTC product line that we plan to launch next year. Three, we've invested in development of our prescription pediatric products that is expected to enter Phase III clinical trials next year. Four, we have strengthened our financial position with the completion of our ATM offering. Five, we have acquired Great Southern Laboratories, which gives us an additional source of revenue and added capacity to develop products in-house and potentially improve our own product margin. Six, and final, we renegotiated our marketing and supply agreement with ParaPRO, which provide us greater flexibility to compete in the head lice market.

As you can see during the first half of this year we've completed several business development transactions, but it is also important to keep in mind that we are playing the move forward on additional branded prescription, generic and OTC opportunities this year.

Operator, please open up the lines for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Elliot Wilbur with Needham & Co.

Thanks and good morning. First question for Cooper and David as well. And just sort of walking through your revenue guidance in terms of the sequential progression, can't help myself but observe that you are expecting a Texas size increase in the fourth quarter sales. And I'm wondering may be if you could just sort of talk about what some of the bridging factors there to make everyone a little bit more comfortable that you would be able to hit full year numbers?

Yeah, good morning, Elliot. This is Dave. Yeah, good question. The third quarter based on what we said would be pretty close to the first quarter, which gets you in that $14 million, $15 million, $16 million range. We feel very comfortable with that number, could be higher as you know a lot of the orders for the cough, cold season come in right there at the end of September, so that's the end of the quarter, its possibility that some of that will trickle into Q3.

But as we said on the call here we've noticed kind of a slowdown in the cough, cold orders as wholesalers and retailers are working off prior year inventories. So that has definitely impacted our forecast. So, we've included that assumption. We are looking at Medicaid reimbursements. We've got a lot of calls with state Medicaid programs coming up in the next couple of months. The impact of those calls will certainly color the revenues for the balance of the year. Omeclamox we just launched into the second quarter as you will see in the Q, we talk about gross revenues of about $2.2 million. Now that's gross revenues as you know, there's significant launch discounts, so you could take about half of that from a net sales perspective, so Q2 includes about a little over $1 million of net sales for Omeclamox.

We are running at about a 3% share right now, so we really expect the reorders of that product to occur in the fourth quarter as similar to cough and cold, it is possible that that moves forward into the third quarter. So just trying to be somewhat conservative on our Q3 forecast, but recognizing a lot of this is right there at the cut-off from a timing perspective.

I was going to mention one other thing. It's Cooper. This winter was really weak, which everybody has talked about and it just happened to be a winter that we were going, kind of moving away from our older cold and cough kind of legacy products where we kind of expected a decline over a typical winter, but moving away from the promotion along with the weak winter, that decline was a lot steeper than we expected. So I think going into the end of the year, we're going to be doing some unique things with some of the OTC cough and cold products and other kind of winter time products that I wouldn't say are our core products, but maybe doing some additional promotion.

Just in case you have another weak winter because nobody expected that to happen and with the lack of promotion there and moving in a direction with CEDAX and Natroba and other drugs, it's all a little further than we expected, so we're going to give that a little more push towards the end of the year too.

Okay, thanks. And then a question for you Cooper as well. Certainly encouraging to see the recent increase in Natroba prescriptions. And I'm just wondering if you can maybe give us a sense to the best of your ability whether or not you think that's just kind of a seasonal benefit from sort of I guess the summer camp effect or you think it's maybe more directly attributable to some of the things that you've revamped in terms of the game plan along with execution?

And I'm going to ask you an additional question on Natroba as well. I mean, it looks like you guys have actually launched your own generic version of that product, which obviously is somewhat unique in terms of launch strategies, and I just want to confirm that. And if so, maybe you could sort of describe what the thinking is behind that?

Sure. I'll start with kind of the Natroba. Well, this summer – obviously, summer time is not the best time to be promoting cold and cough or CEDAX or any of those other products even though I think that CEDAX has held up really well this summer. So, you're going to get – you're going to spend a little more time than you would typically on Natroba. We go in, we talk about Natroba, we go to CEDAX, we go to other drugs, but in the summer time I think you're going to spend a little more time. We've done some additional incentives because it is the summer time and that is kind of one of our main products, which I think is a great opportunity.

But also another reason that we had some weakness in the second quarter is because Natroba didn't do quite what we expected. It launched strong, we had some coverage issues and stuff like that. So we're getting that back on track. We're working towards some nice coverage I think towards the end of the year. We've been doing some additional couponing, which we talked about in the last call. We were able to get that coupon approved. So you kind of see an increase from 400-some-odd scripts up to now 900 scripts. So, I feel like the coupon with additional promotion and push in the summer time when there is really – it's really kind of our only drug being promoted in the summer time, I think you're starting to see that benefit.

As far as the authorized generic that you saw listed under Macoven, so that is part of our marketing plan. We haven't talked about it 'til this point because we wanted to get that product out and listed with Sanofi coming into the market with a big product, they have a very good product. I feel Natroba is a better product, but they do have a good product. I'd definitely say our Natroba and Sanofi's product are the top two products for lice right now.

Their product is priced in the $300 range; we were in the $200 range. We felt launching an authorized generic would give some patient benefit, some physician benefit, and obviously cost benefit to the formularies, Medicaid insurance, and those kind of things at a time when you had another – a big company coming out with a big expensive brand, we thought it would be a tactic that they wouldn't necessarily expect and probably something they definitely wouldn't deploy.

So, we feel like it's also perfectly aligned with our horizontal integration strategy where we're going to launch brands, we bring in generic and then hopefully one day OTC. So it's aligned with our typical strategy and we think this was a perfect time to launch it. It is a bit earlier I'd say on a lifecycle of a new branded NDA product, but with the competitive nature and the reimbursement issues we've had, we felt that this was going to be a good time. So I think you'll see that start to enter the marketplace over the next month or two, we'll start pushing that product as a generic product to physicians and patients.

Okay. And then just last question. With respect to the Omeclamox launch, I think you had said that you're going to target roughly 60% of the H. Pylori writers with initial sales force efforts. I'm just wondering if you can give us some sort of update as to whether or not all the initial targets have been hit and how many have been hit multiple times and whether or not you're getting any pushback from physicians or from insurers given the perception that this is simply a combination of generics? Thank you.

Okay, sure. Good question. So we're about five weeks in now and I could tell you we've hit most of the top physicians. At the physician level, there is a ton of support behind this product. What we've learned through this launch and I think one of the reasons that the launch has been a little, I guess, slower than some folks expected is we've noticed that there is a lot more of the generic cocktail substitution than we expected. Now this isn't recorded in the data, it's very hard to track. But physicians actually think that they're writing Prevpac or they're writing Omeclamox and pharmacies are switching it.

So, everybody knows there's a lot of pressure at the pharmacy level to switch to generics and we're definitely experiencing that, but maybe even more so in this case. So, I think it's probably slowed the numbers down a little, but it's also offered us a great opportunity because right now we know we have a ton of physician support behind the product. We know there is a lot of subbing going on. We know that there is a lot of subbing going on for our competitors to kind of the generic cocktail.

So, we kind of look at this as an opportunity because the cocktail they're subbing to is our product and that cocktail is costing the patients more than our product is. So, right now, our interests are aligned with the physician. Omeclamox is a product that works. It's easy to use for the patients and it's one script and they should be able to get the product, no problem. Our interests are aligned with the patient. Our coupons and our buy downs for them, over 70% of the patients are getting the product for free, if they have insurance. So, our interests are aligned with the patient.

The one place our interests, or I would have said a month ago that they were aligned, but now after really digging in and finding out through this launch what's going on with this generic cocktail, we've learned why they are pushing this cocktail. So we've been working over the last two weeks to kind of align our interests with the pharmacy as well. And I think once we get these three components in play, right now we have the physicians, which is usually the hardest part of our job, and we have the patients, which is an important part. But once we kind of get the pharmacies in and committed to using this product, understanding it's cheaper for the patient and hopefully the margins, a way for the margins to improve for them as opposed to doing these generic cocktails, everybody has a benefit there and I think we'll kind of have that triangle complete that will really help Omeclamox.

And the fact that there is a lot more generic cocktail substitution, I see as a huge benefit for us, because like I said I think the doctors want the product, the patients – it's easier for the patients, more affordable for the patients to use our product, and now we know there's a lot more opportunity and a lot more use of this cocktail, this kind of Omeclamox cocktail than we ever expected. So we're going to be doing that over the next few months. We have a plan going into place this week and next week and we're working on that, but it's just like any launch. It's kind of an evolution. You learn something. You learn a little something every week and every day. And if you don't adjust your strategy or call an audible, shame on you. So I think there's a ton of opportunity here. And all-in-all, even if there wasn't this opportunity here, I feel like we would be able to build to that market share target that we have by the end of the year, 10% to 15% anyways. But I think there we've learned a lot that's going to be good for this product.

And we'll go next to Irina Rivkind with Cantor Fitzgerald.

Hey, guys. I just wanted to check on your revenue guidance in the 20% for the top line. How much does Great Southern Labs boost that top line, especially if there is another weaker cough season that you are not expecting?

Hey, good morning, Irina. So we forecast anywhere in the range between $4 million and $7 million for Great Southern Labs for all of 2012. Keep in mind that we acquired the business in early July. I think it's important to note that historically Great Southern has produced revenues in the $12 million to $15 million range. When we acquired the business, I think it was no secret about it, the business was under a little bit of financial stress and dealing with vendors and dealing with customers, so we spend a lot of time making sure that the vendors are getting paid, that we understand the customer requirements and getting those orders in and really getting the plant up and running again and producing at a reasonable level of capacity. So it's a little slow on the start. I can tell you just by way of example this isn't going to be in the Q or anything, but we had about $300,000 of revenue for the month of July where historically they were producing greater than $1 million. So it's a little bit of a slow start, but we think by the end of the year, the plant will be producing at high levels and as Cooper mentioned, this is really more of a strategic acquisition. Certainly there is a significant contract manufacturing base, which is great. We intend to grow that as much as we can, but there is a lot of capacity in that facility, certainly from a liquid and a tablet manufacturing perspective and we have a lot of initiatives that we think that we can move into that plant.

Just two more financial questions. For the Great Southern plant, when do you expect gross margins to start improving as a result of this facility? And then also should we think about the 2Q SG&A as a good run rate going forward or should it have a little bit of more of an uptick as your sales reps are earning bonus money? Thanks.

Okay. So, with respect to the manufacturing facility and improving gross margins, I really think that's more of a 2013 event, as Cooper indicated. As I said, we're really kind of in the restart mode over there. More focused on getting things up and running again versus maximizing gross margin. That will come over time and probably 2013 at the earliest.

And then, in terms of the SG&A as I indicated previously, we're looking at about $9 million to $10 million increase year-over-year, I think we've spent close to $4 million of that through the first six months. So there is another $6 million roughly to go. Part of that's going to be the manufacturing operation. There is some G&A in the plant that will be included in there. We've really spent some time sharpening our pencils over the course of the last 60 days looking at what we're going to spend the balance of the year, how much we're going to put in to R&D. And as you pointed out, the back end of the year you're going to have higher sales commissions. Now, the commissions are based off of prescriptions, not factory sales, but obviously they are higher at that time of the year.

Just may ask one last one. I think you mentioned on the call that you are working on a new antitussive product, is that theobromine that you're referring to or something else?

So, it's related to the theobromine intellectual property, yes. I would say going forward specifically we probably won't refer to it as theobromine, but it is the direct OTC opportunity we've been working with, that we expect to launch in 2013. To give you an idea where we are at, we are in the kind of the naming process, the strategy process, the concept is pretty much complete. We feel it's really tight. We've been – Dave and I've been working with a lot of the former, I guess, Euphonix Group.

So to kind of refine that strategy, I feel really good about where we're at. We've talked to some of the – even some of the trade accounts about the concept and I feel this really tight. So – but as any kind of big product launch, we're going to wait till it's time to launch, so let the cat out of bag. But we're excited about it. We think it's going to be a nice size OTC product for us to start our OTC division and then continue to stack on products as you've seen us do in the past with our other pediatric division and hopefully going forward here with the GI division. So that's the product. It is related to that IP and that's the reason we kind of closed out the joint venture and acquired those rights.

Thanks very much.

Thanks. Irina.

We'll go next to Annabel Samimy with Stifel, Nicolaus.

Hi. Thanks for taking my questions. Several questions, well with Omeclamox, you mentioned that you had inventory selling in June, do you expect that you're going to see drawdown to that inventory in the third quarter? And then eventually you get that uptick in the fourth quarter, I mean how do you see that playing out?

So, the stocking for Omeclamox, I would say definitely was not significant. We just put enough in it to get us rolling. We really only picked a couple of change to get that initial stocking going with. So, we're seeing – we're already seeing some reorders and obviously new fresh orders from the chains that we didn't stock. So – and I'll definitely say, you're going to start seeing some movement there at the end into third and into fourth. It's not going to be one of those products where we're sitting on stock for 9 or 10 months or something like that. So, we're very careful while we deal with that. And as we learn this market hopefully that volume will pickup and we'll have kind of more of those weekly orders bumping through.

Okay. And then you mentioned that you had the patients aligned in terms of wanting the Omeclamox prescription, do you have the co-pay, buy down program, etcetera. How are you getting the pharmacies aligned other than offering discounts to them and what kind of flexibility do you have there to get the pharmacies aligned, because it's really a profitability issue for them?

Right. So the trick with this particular product, we know the formulas on generics in the market and what the reimbursements are, just like, I'm sure most drug companies do. But the trick with this product is they're using three generic products. So you have to understand what the market based on each one of them so you can't kind of take a standard number.

So we've been working on that the past few weeks and we feel like we have a pretty good number there and kind of offering those rebates like you were saying back to the pharmacy is a strategy to get us all on the same page, where the pharmacy is not losing money, the patient is in most cases getting a free products, if they have insurance and the doctor is giving the product that they want and they're guaranteed better compliance with our product than the generic cocktail. So – but you hit the nail on the head, it comes down to the rebating understanding what the pharmacies actually – what the pharmacists – pharmacies actual benefit is. Ad I think we have that pin down and we're working to initiate that strategy this week or next.

Okay. And what kind of impact should that have on margins going forward because this – you're obviously providing all these discounts each year products of lower and lower margins over time?

I think it's not going to be a significant impact initially. What's going to happen with this is it's going to rollout over time to each one of the pharmacists across the country, hopefully you can get to all the text, we are going to do the pharmacy work with the reps and get that moved out. So I think it's not going to be a significant immediate impact. I think you're going to see a build over a couple of months and once we kind of have full penetration, you'll start to see other things happen like maybe commission creeping back down, you'll start to see the coupon maybe creeping back down, because we had this big launch coupon. So I think at the end of the day it's probably going to even itself out.

But you will see some impact and it'll be over a couple of months. But in the long haul, I think it's going to even itself out, because as we get aggressive with other things we're going to get less aggressive with different aspects. And once the doctor start writing it and liking it, have the patient pay in $10 or $20, it's okay, it's competitive, so – or even better than any other brand, but – especially better than some of the products like Prevpac that aren't being promoted in coupon, so I think that the overall impact is not going to be worth talking about.

Okay.

We still see gross margins in the 80% plus range for this product.

Okay, great. And then kind of switch to Natroba for a minute. Obviously with the amendment, it seems like at the end of the description, it seems that if you don't have – if you don't meet certain volumes, you or ParaPRO have the option to modify or terminate the new agreement, is this an opt out or is this just terminating the new agreement in terms of the amendment go back to the old agreement?

So, I would say it's unlikely that we go back to the old agreement, but it is likely that this agreement will change over the next year because right now we're going to – we're launching an authorized generic like Elliot pointed out earlier. So, we're going to be launching an authorized generic and we're going to evaluate that over the next 12 months, things like, is it better to rebate the brand down to get certain coverage and certain formulas and build the brand, is it better to keep the authorized generic in the market and just sell less brand. So, we're going to be evaluating all of these things over the year. So right now our agreement is basically we're going to keep the brand in the market, continue to promote that, we're going to have an authorized generic there for the kind of the patient, patient, doctor, pharmacy benefit there and also there is a promotional advantage like I said with the big Sanofi product launching at a high – super high price and our authorized generic is going to be 50% of that price. So I think there is a lot of opportunities there. But we're still going to evaluate it at the end of the year and we may switch to a different type of agreement or keep this agreement in play. I think now that we've gone through this launch with ParaPRO, we all understand that you can't predict exactly what's going to happen until you get out there. So, we're going to continue to go forward with this plan and keep the flexibility there and change the plan as we see fit.

Okay. And the AG, did you launch the AG in some of the Medicaid markets that you launched formerly?

So, we did. We will, I think, have some coverage there in some of those areas that we lost. We will also – we, I guess, and ParaPRO, want to say we have been a little more aggressive now with the brand. So I think there is going to be some states that will pick the brand up on a more aggressive rebate and some states that will take the generic on with no rebate as a generic or maybe a lower cost product. But, yeah, there is definitely going to be some activity going on but right now the product is just listed and the launch is coming in the next 30 days to 60 days. So, and I think the timing is great having a new brand launch out there with a lot of force. They've been out, I guess, four weeks and I don't know if you've been following their results but – so I think we are doing a good job of holding our own there.

Okay. Great, thank you.

Thanks, Annabel.

And we'll have a question from Randall Stanicky with Canaccord Genuity.

Great. Thanks guys. Cooper, Dave, a few questions. So, one a follow-up on Omeclamox-Pak and then secondly a bigger picture on business development, but three specific ones on Omeclamox. Number one, is $6 million to $7 million in revenue still the right way to think about that for this year given some of the pharmacy challenges?

I would say with the – yes, and yes for the pharmacy challenges as well. We hope that once we get all these pieces to the puzzle in we can do better. But, yes, I would say that's what we are expecting to see.

And, Cooper, are you – so this 30 rep thing we talked about it last quarter, is 30 reps still the right number of reps if you think about the growth trajectory and what you need to get through via messaging for this product?

I think that – I think it is. Right now, we've had some really great responses. I mean, I can't even think of any negatives that have come out at the physician or patient level right now. So, I think, we're getting the penetration we need. It's definitely not showing up in the script track yet but you know how these launches go, you got to, like I said, manage the launch. So, I think we're getting the penetration we need.

But, that being said, I think once we straighten some of these issues out at the pharmacy level, it may be a huge benefit for us to add some additional reps here at the end of the year. But until we have this straightened out and feel like we have kind of everything perfectly aligned, we're not going to chunk in a bunch of extra reps right now. But I feel that there is opportunity for reps but also feel like we're covering it pretty well. It's just not showing up in the scripts because of the substitution issues we've had.

It sounds like despite all this, if we're thinking bigger picture about this product, we've talked about it being $100 million market with Prevpac and your goal being towards 50% share, I think, Dave mentioned 10% to 15% by the end of this year, is that still the appropriate market opportunity and then what timeframe should we be thinking about you guys trying to hit that 50% by?

Okay. So, I think that the – as far as the market share goes, when we talked about kind of our peak being $50 million out in sales or 50% market share, I think that that's over kind of that three to four-year period. We can get there sooner I said if things align, but I didn't want anyone thinking that we thought we were going to come in there and take the $100 million worth of Prevpac business because I don't think that's realistic.

So, I mean, I think you'll kind of see that slow build from $10 million or $15 million up to $20 million and $30 million and $40 million and $50 million. I don't think it's going to come out of the gate the first year and we're going to be on a $50 million run rate. But I feel comfortable that that potential is definitely there.

Another interesting fact that we're learning in the field is as many as 6 out of 10 prescriptions for Prevpac are getting switched to an Omeclamox cocktail. So we're starting to hear things like that from the field. So that tells you there is a lot more H. pylori out there than anyone expected and I think it's frustrating for gastro companies that are out there promoting a product and the scripts aren't coming through as H. pylori, so nobody really knows how big the market is. But it's one of those obstacles that it's very tough to overcome when you have somebody switching especially when a – with a Prevpac-type product where they are switching to a product that's not even close to be an equivalent. So, I think, there is a lot of opportunity out there and we're excited about that fact. We just need to get to translate into scripts.

Right. And let me just ask, I mean, the last question I had just going back to bigger picture of the business development, it seems like this suddenly kind of jumped out in the release and you've got $50.5 million in cash right now. I know last quarter, Cooper, you specifically talked about dermatology, women's health and oncology. These are not areas that aren't sought after. So, obviously your BD efforts are probably leading you there. I mean, are you still focused on those areas? Do you see anything that's interesting and can we expect you to – are we looking to pull the trigger on another product in the back half of this year?

Yes. I would definitely say there is potential for multiple deals here this year. The opportunities for this company are bigger and better than they ever have been before. I don't know really what's going on out there right now but I think that there is some opportunities like in derm and women's health, but also to expand in GI and expand our pediatric division and things like that.

I mean, even if you look at Great Southern, while you bought a manufacturing facility, no big deal, but actually to get a manufacturing facility that's been in business that long and has a good solid base of customers to pick up at that price is really rare and also gives us that capability now. I think that that – even that was a really great deal at a great time. It's the kind of things we weren't seeing three or four years ago.

And right now, there is a ton of opportunity. I think that if you look at kind of our – if we prioritize our deals and we have three deals we're working on. I think our bottom deal would be considered a really great deal for Pernix. The question is can we get the top deal closed and we can do or can we get all three of them closed. I think that there is potential there for that but there is a ton of opportunity for us, especially with our strategy to take products and prescription, generic – prescription brand, generic and OTC, there is just a ton of opportunity out there. So, I would expect to see multiple deals coming in the near-term.

The one negative that I see happening now is deals are so much lower than they used to be. That might be why there is a lot of opportunity because people just don't make it to the closing of the deal. But there is a lot of opportunity but they all are a lot slower than they used to be. I would have said we had two of these deals closed already this year and probably going to move towards the end of the year now. So – and it's not because of us, it's just that deals are just moving slower.

Okay. Cooper, can you remind us of what's your ideal target deal size in terms of what you are looking to pay or in terms of [ph] acquire (48:35) relative to peak sales potential?

It's really hard to put a number on that but I'd say we're looking at deals as big as $20 million to $60 million. We are looking at deals – we just closed the deal the other day for a $1 million that we didn't talk about. We think it's a great opportunity and we'll see how it goes here at the end of the year and is it something that we are going to be able to promote immediately and we think it will have some impact this year. So there is deals as small as a $1 million that we're closing that we're really not talking about and then there is deals as big as $20 million to $60 million that we really like and we feel we could do and just throw them into our system and there is obviously going to be – there would be synergies there, there is going to be, I would say, an increase in whatever the existing EBITDA numbers are once we put everything together.

So, it's really hard to kind of put a number on that because we're doing smaller deals we're not talking about and there is bigger deals in the $20 million to $60 million range that we think we can do and probably do pretty easily without going out and selling any more stock because we still have – we don't any debt on the company right now. So we have an opportunity to bring some debt in. We have a lot of cash, as you mentioned before. So, a lot of opportunity and we're sitting in a good place to take advantage of it.

That's great. Thanks a lot guys.

Thanks.

Thank you.

And at this time, we have time for one more question. We'll go to Ram Selvaraju with Aegis Capital.

Thanks very much for taking my questions. Can you hear me?

Yes. How are you doing, Ram?

Pretty good. Pretty good. So a couple of questions regarding Great Southern. I just wanted to know how much color you could give about Great Southern's original customer base? What the sales associated with that customer base were? And whether you're going to seek to expand that? So, whether part of the strategy as you incorporate Great Southern to your core business model will be to use Great Southern to attract contract pharmaceutical manufacturing business from other entity?

So, I would say – for confidentiality reasons, I don't want to talk about the specific customers, but I would say we have some customers that are well known and we have some other smaller customers that have been a great business for Great Southern. And at this point, we met with most of them. Our team has met with their team. The new folks that we have in charge of Great Southern have been meeting with them. And we feel like we're going to be able to retain most of those customers and pretty sure we're going to be able to increase their current orders and add to what they are doing.

As far as bringing in new customers, there is definitely a lot of potential there. I think Great Southern is a great company. It's been around for years and because they were such a great company, business came to them. There is a ton of opportunity to go out there and get it. They didn't attend a lot of trade shows or anything like that and Pernix attended these kind of shows, GI shows, ped shows, where we kind of – we're going to throw Great Southern in that mix and bring over some newer customers and some bigger customers too. But I would say they have some really good and nice sized customers already, but there is a lot of opportunity to add to that. And obviously we're going to be adding to that as one of their customers because we have some big plans in OTC and generic side to make some products over there and really exploit some of that available capacity. So I would include us in that list where we're going to – well, I think we'll keep our current contract manufacturers continue to make products there. Some of these newer projects that we have coming that don't have a home will definitely be going to Great Southern.

Okay. And then just a couple of quick other things. Regarding theobromine development outside of the OTC market, can you give us an idea as to what Pernix's viewpoint is on that, or if you're going be restricting your development activities on theobromine solely to the OTC contracts? And then finally just a quick financial question. Can you remind us what you expect the company's effective tax rate to be going forward for the remainder of this year?

Sure. I'll start with the theobromine intellectual property and then let Dave take the tax question. So, yeah, that product right now in our mind is going be an OTC product through Pernix in the U.S. and its territories in 2013. Right at this point, we're not really going to move forward on any kind of theobromine development. We are going to use that intellectual property in OTC product. So – and we probably, as far as theobromine as a cough suppressant, is not going to exist for some time. That intellectual property we're going to be using, there's not going to be specifically theobromine as a cough suppressant. So I would say having a theobromine cough medicine with kind of the burdensome regulatory cost and things like that, I think we're probably going to go ahead and use the OTC opportunity right now and maybe the money we make from the OTC side will lead to a prescription theobromine product one day, but that's not an immediate plan.

We also are going to – based on the way we structure the joint venture agreement or termination or whatever you want to call it, we will also be receiving royalties from any theobromine development in Europe or around the world where the joint venture had rights. So, there is that other aspect where we could receive royalties from outside of the country, but Pernix will specifically be focused on OTC market here and I'll let Dave take the tax...

And then, Ram, in terms of the tax rate, you know, I think you could see from the mid 30s to the mid 40s, but for budgetary purposes, we tend to use about 40%.

Okay. Got it. Thank you very much.

Thank you, Ram.

And at this time, there are no further questions. This does conclude Pernix Therapeutics second quarter earnings conference call. Thank you and have a nice day.