Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Tracy Simmons Clifford — Vice President of Accounting and Corporate Controller, Pernix Therapeutics Holdings, Inc.
Douglas L. Drysdale — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Pernix Therapeutics Holdings, Inc.
Sanjay S. Patel — Chief Financial Officer, Pernix Therapeutics Holdings, Inc.
Louise A. Chen — Analyst, Guggenheim Securities LLC
Elliot H. Wilbur — Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC
Michael John Higgins — Analyst, Highline Research Advisors LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning and welcome to the Pernix Therapeutics Second Quarter 2014 Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. All lines have been placed on mute. [Operator Instructions]

At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to the company's Corporate Secretary, Tracy Clifford. Please go ahead.

Thank you, and welcome to Pernix Therapeutics' second quarter 2014 financial results conference call.

On the call with me today is Doug Drysdale, Chairman, President and CEO and Sanjay Patel, Chief Financial Officer.

Before we begin, I would like to point out that Pernix has issued a press release this morning containing financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2014. The release, including the financial tables and reconciliation of non-GAAP financial results is available on the company's website at www.pernixtx.com. The company also expects to file its current report on Form 10-Q with the SEC by the end of the day.

Before we begin, allow me to read the following Safe Harbor statement. This call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Statements including words such as estimate, plan, project, forecast, intend, expect, anticipate, believe, seek, target, or similar expressions are forward-looking statements. Because these statements reflect the company's current views, expectations and beliefs concerning future events, these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties.

Investors should note that many factors, as more fully described under the caption Risk Factors in our Form 10-K, Form 10-Q, and Form 8-K filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and as otherwise enumerated herein or therein, could affect the company's future financial results and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements contained in the company's quarterly report on Form 10-Q. The forward-looking statements in this press release are qualified by these risk factors. These are factors that individually or in the aggregate could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. The company assumes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.

During the call, we may also discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures such as EBITDA. The company believes that EBITDA which we define as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization is a meaningful non-GAAP financial measure.

At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Doug Drysdale to begin our discussion of Pernix's quarterly performance.

Doug?

Thank you, Tracy. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to this morning's call.

I'll be providing an update on our business activities and progress since the close of the first quarter. Sanjay will then provide a more detailed description of our second quarter financial results.

As you've seen in the press release that we distributed on Monday, August 4, the closing of our transaction to acquire the U.S. rights to Treximet has been delayed due to a short-term supply constraint for the product. We remain committed to closing the transaction and are working collaboratively with GSK to ensure sufficient supply to meet anticipated demand.

During the last week, we and our lenders have been performing additional due diligence related to the supply constraint and are optimistic about our ability to close the acquisition of Treximet in the near term. We do not see any material change in the fundamental value of asset to Pernix at this time and look forward to adding Treximet to our CNS portfolio.

Now to discuss about base business; the second quarter of 2014 saw tremendous progress towards Pernix's transformation to profitability. While we expect full year 2014 sales from our non-promoted products to be relatively flat year-over-year, we expect our insomnia brand, Silenor, to be a key growth driver.

Silenor weekly prescriptions have increased 18% since we began promoting the product with our original 87-person sales team back in May, just 12 weeks ago, and we have achieved a 52-week high in prescriptions in four out of the last six weeks. We had just begun to roll out our revised Silenor promotional campaign and are optimistic about the impact this will have on Silenor growth.

In addition, we have recently expanded our sales organization to 100 sales territories, including the addition of 25 new geographies where Pernix was previously absent. This expansion and realignment, which would be fully implemented on August 25, results in our sales team covering 97% of our business geographically versus 64% previously.

This provides significant upside potential for Silenor and ensures that we are well positioned for the near term addition of Treximet to our CNS portfolio. Supplemental to our promotional efforts, activities focused on managed care access have resulted in an additional 58 million lives that now have coverage for Silenor.

The majority of insomnia patients have problems staying asleep, not falling asleep; and Silenor is the only non-scheduled prescription medication to maintain patients' sleep. Additionally, with the issues frequently reportedly with the other prescription sleep agents, Silenor is well-positioned to achieve and exceed our 2014 goals.

Pernix has added significant experience and talent to our executive leadership team in the areas of Marketing, Legal, Regulatory Affairs, Supply Chain, Sales Operations and Trade Operations. The new and expanded management team have been working to rapidly evaluate and improve the majority of the company's key operating systems and processes, positioning us for continued growth. Areas of improvement include a redesigned sales operation system, including such components as an updated incentive compensation plan for the sales team, key performance indicator tracking around specific objectives, and a state-of-the-art automated territory mapping and planning system for the sales team that will go live next week.

We've also implemented new government pricing software to improve efficiencies and provide robust calculation documentation in this area. Additionally, we have also put in place a formal sales and operations planning process to manage Pernix's CMO relationships and ensure our supply chain is optimized.

Finally, Pernix announced last month the appointment of Sanjay Patel as Chief Financial Officer. Sanjay was previously an investment banker at Cantor Fitzgerald and brings to Pernix over 15 years of investment banking, institutional investment and public policy experience. Sanjay has assisted specialty pharmaceutical and healthcare companies raise more than $7 billion in initial public offerings, follow-on offerings, debt offerings and client replacements. Sanjay will be instrumental in our efforts to close and finance current and future acquisitions and in managing our capital structure.

I would now like to hand the call over to Sanjay for the second quarter financial results, as well as formally welcome Sanjay to the Pernix team.

Thank you, Doug and good morning.

As you all see in this morning's release, net sales this quarter were $17.4 million compared to $20.6 million for the second quarter of 2013. Net sales from branded products including sales to other channels such as authorized generics were approximately 65% of total, and net sales from generic products made up the balance.

As Doug mentioned, we experienced significant growth for Silenor this quarter. This growth was offset by reductions in other areas such as the sale of certain Cypress generic products of Breckenridge in September 2013; the termination of our co-promotion agreement for Natroba; the discontinuation of certain generic, cough and cold products; and the increase in government rebates on certain of our products.

Our gross profit margin for the second quarter of 2014 was 50% of net sales, compared to 46% of net sales for the same quarter last year. On an adjusted basis, excluding the impact of the stepped-up basis of acquired inventory for Cypress Hawthorn and Somaxon, our gross profit margin was 54% of net sales for the second quarter, compared to 50% for the same quarter last year.

Total operating expenses this quarter were $16.4 million, compared to $17.2 million for the same quarter last year. Second quarter operating expenses included SG&A expenses of $13.7 million, and approximately $2 million of depreciation and amortization expense.

On a GAAP basis, net loss for the quarter of 2014 was $6.2 million or $0.16 per share, compared to a net loss of $5.7 million or $0.15 per share for the same quarter last year. Consistent with prior quarters, we are reporting adjusted operating results, which are non-GAAP measures that we believe are important for evaluating our financial results.

This quarter, our adjusted EBITDA was negative $4.0 million and our adjusted non-GAAP net loss was $0.10 per share. The add backs used in computing our adjusted figures include $700,000 of stock-based compensation expense, $1.3 million from the cancelation of ParaPRO stock options, $800,000 from inventory revaluations related to the acquisition of Cypress Hawthorn and Somaxon, $200,000 related to a loss in the sale of P&L, $500,000 in deal related expenses and $800,000 in non-recurring severance costs.

For the six month period ended June 30, 2014, net sales were $36.4 million compared with net sales of $42.7 million for the same period last year. Gross profit margins this period were 49% of net sales, up from 43% from the prior period. On an adjusted basis, excluding the impact of the stepped-up basis of acquired inventory for Cypress Hawthorn and Somaxon, our gross profit margin was 55% of net sales this period compared to 54% for the same period last year.

On a GAAP basis, net loss was $15.8 million or $0.42 per share this period compared to a net loss of $13.6 million or $0.38 per share for the same period of last year. Adjusted EBITDA for the first half of 2014 was negative $5.9 million and our adjusted non-GAAP net loss was $0.16 per share. As of June 30, 2014, we had cash on hand of $60.8 million with $65 million outstanding in senior convertible notes and $13.1 million drawn under our revolving credit facility.

This concludes my prepared remarks I will now turn the call back over to Doug.

Thank you, Sanjay.

As expected, while our base portfolio contains a meaningful number of cough and cold products, we will continue to see seasonality impact sales in the middle two quarters of the year. However, as we progress through the second half of 2014, we are already seeing the impact of our intensified promotional efforts behind Silenor and of price increases taken earlier in the year.

We expect to see strong sales in the second half as the cough and cold season begins and as Silenor volumes continue to grow. Additionally, our net sales margins are expected to improve as we implement efforts to increase our gross to net sales drop through and as patients meet the limits of their prescription plan deductibles, which reduce our co-pay assistance cost. Combined with the actions we have taken to reduce our operating costs, we expect to deliver improved margins over 2013. We are making significant progress and I look forward to sharing more news with you as the year unfolds.

Now we'll conclude our prepared remarks. And, I will now ask the operator to please open the line for questions. Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

And our first question comes from Louise Chen from Guggenheim. Your line is now open. Please go ahead.

Hi. Thanks for taking my question. I had a few. So, first question I had was if you could give us a sense now under the new management team, where is Pernix today and where do you want to take the company over the next three to five years? And second question I had was on the Treximet deal close. Are you expecting it will still close sometime in August or what are the swing factors here? And then last question I had was just on gross margin. How we should think about gross margins for 2014 and then beyond if you're expecting expansion and what will be driving that? Thank you.

Hi, good morning Louise. Thanks for the question. We appreciate it.

Okay, so, let me start maybe by talking about Treximet. I think that's probably a question that's on many people's minds. We unfortunately had a delay in our closing of Treximet last week caused by batch failure and also – which was combined by a low inventory situation. So just a cosmetic issue with the product that occurred in coating not anything that affected the integrity of the product. But the combination of the batch failure and the low inventory situation results, we think, in a potential outage of the products, between maybe a couple of days and a week towards the end of August. So, this is something we had to disclose to our lenders at the end of last week, so just an unfortunate timing.

Last week though a replacement batch was manufactured over the weekend. We learned that it's [ph] a plastic coating (14:12) process properly as we fully expected. And we expect it to move through the QC release process and be fully released by the end of this week. So, I think the situation is being rectified in our minds. We'll get that confirmed with QC release. And then once we have that data point, we can close out our due diligence with our vendors and move to closing. So, to answer your question, yes, we fully expect at this point to close the transaction by the end of the month.

In terms of gross margins, Louise, we're working constantly to improve our top line and our bottom line. From the sales point of view, we see continued growth with Silenor from promotion and from price increases earlier in the year through the addition of Treximet and through further acquisitions and we're working on several.

We're constantly working to improve a gross to net drop through by negotiating fees that we pay and managing our terms very closely. We're working on gross margins by increasing the percentage of our business that comes from brands rather than generics, so we're already making progress in that area. And we're looking to improve our EBITDA margins through the overall leverage of our sales platform. And adding products like Treximet helps that tremendously as we're able to do so without a real significant expansion in the infrastructure.

In terms of guidance, Louise, we'll be updating our guidance once we close the Treximet transaction. I think that's the correct point in which to give some further outlook given that that situation is still pending.

In terms of where we're taking the company overall, I think we've – we stated this in the past, but we've made the shift already. I think since we came in, in February, we made the shift away from being a kind of mismatch of products in various segments to really very much focusing the company to all specialty audiences primarily in CNS and psychiatry. The addition of Treximet really helps us leverage our sales team and this recent expansion is exciting.

We've expanded the sales team by about 15% in terms of number of territories, but we've covered increase in our coverage of sales geographically by over 50%. So, it's just really good leverage of that platform. And we expect to see far increased sales per representative as we close Treximet and continue to grow Silenor. So, the plan is to keep adding specialty brands with a focus on CNS and psychiatry, but we're also looking at other therapy areas as well, where we can leverage a good strong sales platform to smaller specialty audiences.

Hope that answers your questions.

Yes. Thank you.

Thank you. And our next question comes from Elliot Wilbur from Needham & Company. Your line is now open, please go ahead.

Thanks. Good morning. Just want to ask a quick follow-up question around your commentary on the Treximet deal, Doug. Specifically, is the ball really in the court of GlaxoSmithKline in terms of the key deliverables meaning that once the QA/QC aspects of this latest production batch have been signed off, then that's essentially what's necessary to close the transaction? Or are we looking at additional diligence on the part of a company and the lenders something that could potentially drag on for a bit here in the back half of the current month?

I think the gating point, Elliot, and thanks for your question – the gating point has really become, I think initially this batch. Of course, batch failures are fairly common in pharmaceutical production. This is not something that's particularly unusual. It was just unfortunate timing and that it came right on the eve of funding the deal, which we had fully funded and ready to go; so poor timing really. But you can understand that in that situation when something happens that was unexpected that the company and its lenders wants a complete diligence. So, that's really where we are waiting for this batch to be fully released from QC and close out our due diligence and then move to close the transaction. But the guidance, I think, we just gave around the end of August, sounds I think reasonable and realistic to us.

Okay. And next question is, and I think certainly, probably even more important around Treximet and the company strategy going forward, obviously the market's confidence in the company's, in any company's ability really to kind of reprise product assets has been shaken by some recent high-profile moves among some of the larger PBMs. And obviously, they involve very small number of products, but Express Scripts in particular has targeted the triptan category. And I guess in light of some of these moves, are you looking at the value proposition at Treximet, any different today than at the time that you announced the acquisition? And you still believe that there is the potential to close the value gap with other branded triptans that you had talked about at the time of announcing the deal?

Yes, a good question. I think that this question around the PBMs and price action et cetera is on a lot of people's minds as well. When we look at what has happened over recent weeks, these actions are not really a large surprise. I think these organizations have been expressing a concern about price increases for some time. That said, the exclusions seem to affect a very small number of products out of several thousand pharmaceutical products, and we're still seeing several hundred price increases over a 100% in the last several years.

That said though, Elliot, we have been very proactive with our PBM and our managed care customers. And we've been talking to them well in advance. We are taking a multiyear collaborative approach with these customers. We have listened to them, and we understand that their main concerns for their business are around stability and predictability. What they don't like is multiple price increases, sequential price increases all close together. It makes their business quite unpredictable. And you can imagine that that's hard for them to manage, and I think that's led to some exclusions.

But we do think these discussions that we're having with our major PBMs will still enable us to implement our price increases, and be very competitive. And among the same order of magnitude as we were expecting previously for Treximet and what we're doing at the same time is working collaboratively with these customers to offer them some level of price protection going forward for some period of time, so they have that ongoing stability and predictability.

As far as the exclusion lists are concerned, they appear to be complete of those customers you mentioned, Caremark, ESI. And just a bit of background that ESI, Treximet [ph] is a (21:12) separate category from the triptans, so treated somewhat differently. And I think that's appropriate given the different level of the – superior level of efficacy that the brand has, and these exclusions of the triptans [indiscernible] (21:27) I guess I can see the justification of that. I don't know their rationale for excluding those, but I imagine it's somewhat – it's difficult to differentiate follow on triptans like that.

What we see with Treximet is that in general PBMs are not really focused on this category and what they're reluctant to do, but given the debilitating nature of migraine, they're reluctant to exclude products that shows a period of efficacy. And Treximet shows not only superior efficacy to triptans, but also is a solid oral choice of something that is more – provides more efficacy, but without moving to something more invasive such as an injectible, Sumatriptan or DHE. So, we think there's a good clinical rationale and a good economic rationale for the Treximet continues to be covered. And at this point, our assumptions around pricing and growth have not changed.

Doug, can I – can you maybe just sort of that question and we can just maybe translate into sort of a bigger picture outlook in terms of the deal environment in general? Are you starting to maybe look at assets a little bit differently in terms of maybe there has been an inflection point in terms of the pricing trends that we've seen in the past couple of years or you still think the bottom line is it fund the right product and then significantly undervalue, you can still re-price it along the lines that we've seen some companies do in the past couple of years?

I think it's – it does maybe bring into question price increases on some products. I think some of these exclusions [indiscernible] (23:13) products indicate that if you are in this kind of category or at this kind of brands that taking price increases may be a little bit more challenging. But I do still think that there's an opportunity to continue to price products competitively. But I do want to stress that our business model is not just about price. I mean we will leverage price as far as we can and I think that's the right thing to do to give good return to our shareholders, but we're also looking to grow volume.

So, when we're assessing opportunities for acquisition, we're looking at molecules or businesses that we can grow both volume and price, and one offsetting the other if there is any kind of downside in this, so certainly not all about price. We're looking at long-term assets that we can grow over time and continue to add value to the business and provide a sustainable platform for growth, not just a one-off price increase.

Okay. Then last question for you: it's been more difficult to arrest the adjusted EBITDA losses in the first half of the year than I think that you had believed back in connection with the fourth quarter results and just maybe some commentary there in terms of what's taking place, is it just simply purely a function of top line or there are still some things left to do on the expense side?

It's bit of a mix of things. The top line is down in second quarter, not really a surprise. We've had – as you look year-over-year, as we started when we first came into the business, a number of products that was discontinued in 2013 that affected the run rate, and also second quarter is typically a quieter quarter for the cough and cold products. And they still form a reasonable part of the overall mix.

And as we look forward to the rest of the year, we expect that cough and cold season to kick-in third quarter and the fourth quarter and that's particularly material for CEDAX. We've seen some of our growth already started to take off very nicely and with the realignment of the sales team in covering more business potential geographically and with the real launch of our marketing campaign, which we're very happy with, we see Silenor really taking off to a healthy year.

And then another factor that effects margins is at the beginning of the year first quarter we saw this when patients begin a new year, their plans often have high deductibles. And in the first half of the year, they are meeting those deductibles, and so their co-pays are often higher and our co-pay assistance is higher. So our margins improve in the second half of the year as we are paying less in co-pay assistance.

So, I think when you add those things together, the second half – we're well positioned in the second half of the year and look at also that other actions that we took in the first half such as divesting our manufacturing plant and closing our distribution centers, the impacts of those cost savings still really haven't fully impacted the business yet, because we were carrying some of those costs all the way through till the end of June. So, I think overall, we're all well positioned.

When we look at the base business though, the real growth is going to come from Silenor. We're really excited about the product. I think, this initial move in prescriptions, I think really supports and justifies that excitement. We've spent a lot of time talking to customers and talking to patients around the brand. And when you – I think we're re-launching the product at a really opportune time.

If you look on YouTube and you might see a bunch of amusing videos of people that are taking GABA agents. But in real life, those situations aren't funny at all. To give you an example, we heard from a customer [indiscernible] (26:52) physician, one of his patients, a woman woke up in the morning and couldn't find her baby. And obviously pretty distressing, called the police. And it turns out that the baby was in the car, she'd got up in the middle of the night, drove the baby around, put the baby back to sleep, and went back to bed and left the baby in the car.

Those kind of situations that people face all the time are real issues with these agents. And we hear often the patients fear their sleep medication more than they fear their insomnia, and that's not a good position to be in. So, given that Silenor is non-addictive, no-narcotic, has a side effect profile similar to placebo, it's hard to see why physicians at this point with all this new information would prescribe anything else. So, I think, to answer your question in a very long way, I think our margins are improving. We'll see an uptick in the second half in cough and cold, but also Silenor is on a long-term trend upwards, but with a good IP runway.

All right. Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And our next question comes from [indiscernible] (28:00). Your line is now open. Please go ahead.

Hi, Doug. It's [ph] Alex (28:05) speaking. Quick question on some of the strategic initiative that you talked about at the beginning of the year. One of the things was a tax inversion, and obviously there are lot of news about that. Is there any update on your strategy there?

Yeah. Thanks [ph] Alex (28:21) for the question.

Yeah, we have a number of transactions in our deal pipeline, probably sort of around that 30 number that we've been talking about. And given the political rhetoric we've been prioritizing tax inversions as – among those that we've been looking at, we have turned away quite a few, because we're really not interested in something that's cosmetic. At the end of day, we want to add products and businesses that add long-term growth and have good strategic fit with the business.

So, we continue to work on those. We have a few of those in our deal pipeline, but we're also looking at other transactions and products, and at businesses that add fundamental growth, not just a [ph] tax benefit (29:04). I think the window – I mean it's clear the window is under pressure. And we're working hard on those kinds of deals. If we get there in time, we get there in time; if we don't, then we close some other strategic deals that add fundamentally to the top line, the bottom line, then so be it.

We're taking good advice along the way. And so far, it doesn't seem to be too much that has changed our view. There still remains a window open, and we're certainly not putting our foot on the brake just yet.

Thank you. Great. And then on the strategic transactions, how would transactions be financed given that you were not able to report kind of pro forma numbers for Treximet if you would [indiscernible] (29:52) the transaction.

Yeah. I see that we have all opportunities to fund this kind of transactions. We had no trouble really raising the funds for Treximet and the way we've structured that is kind of a standalone financing around the asset. And as we continue to grow, I see no reason why we can't fund other deals in a very similar way. We certainly do not see funding as any barrier to growing at this point of time.

Thank you, great. Thanks a lot.

Thank you. And our next question comes from Michael Higgins from Highline Research Advisors. Your line is now open, please go ahead.

Thanks, operator. Good morning, guys. How are you?

Hi, Michael. Thanks for joining the call.

Sure. Questions for you, a couple of questions. First off, in Silenor, what are the next steps getting this towards OTC approval partnerships, any updates for us on that one?

Yeah. We still see Silenor as a good OTC candidate. And we're still looking down that powerful bid a little slowly. The timeline though hasn't really changed; it's still in that 2018-2019 timeframe for an approval. We haven't moved that out at all. And the IP runs out to 2020, so that would be a good time for us to switch naturally anyway. We're continuing to work on that assessment internally and also forward to partners. So we've got nothing to announce just yet, but it is something that we're actively pursuing.

Okay. Given the fact that a few years out, and I believe I saw in the June quarter presentation, you're looking at Silenor Combinations, Isomers. Any next events we should look for in terms of the pipeline development around Silenor?

No, at this point this is still fairly early. And as we make progress, we'll certainly be announcing any major milestones along the way.

Okay. So, IND filing is at least a year off it looks like.

Yeah. I wouldn't put any date or any time; still very much in the evaluation phase for those kinds of line extensions. But the main focus for Silenor would be – in terms of extension would be OTC at this point.

Can you help us identify which products have higher margins versus those in your current portfolio that have lower margins and that would include costs of goods sold as well as marketing investments? Which one is put more in the bottom line in terms of a margin percent?

Yeah. We're very much focusing on shifting the business mix away from the generics portfolio and towards promoted brands in specialty space. And you can see we've given the strong emphasis here on Silenor and Treximet. And that's definitely our focus. As we move towards the end of year, we're working already on trying to provide more product level disclosures than we currently have been doing, what we've been doing historically. It's something that was important to us as that was important to our shareholders. We get these questions fairly frequently. So, I kind of watch this space towards the end of the year and we expect to publish more detailed data in our filings later on.

Okay, very good. Thanks guys.

Thanks, Michael.

Thank you. At this time, there are no more questions. This concludes today's Pernix Therapeutics earnings conference call. Thank you and have a nice day.