Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Douglas L. Drysdale — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Pernix Therapeutics Holdings, Inc.
Sanjay S. Patel — Chief Financial Officer, Pernix Therapeutics Holdings, Inc.
Difei Yang — Analyst, Brean Capital LLC
Traver A. Davis — Analyst, Piper Jaffray & Co
Serge D. Belanger — Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Pernix Therapeutics' Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call. My name is Sheneez, and I will be your events specialist today. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. We will conduct a Q&A session at the end of the prepared remarks and additional instructions will be provided at that time. As a reminder, this call is being recorded for replay purposes.

On the call today are Doug Drysdale, Chairman, President, Chief Executive Officer; and Sanjay Patel, Chief Financial Officer of Pernix Therapeutics.

Please be advised that Pernix issued a press release this morning containing financial results for the quarter ending June 30, 2015. The release, including the financial tables and reconciliation of non-GAAP financial results, is available on the company's website at www.pernixtx.com. The company also expects to file its Current Report on Form 10-Q with the SEC by the end of the day today.

During today's call the company will be making forward-looking statements and it is possible that the actual results can differ materially from current expectations. Please note that under Safe Harbor rules, Pernix has no obligation to update the information contained in these forward-looking statements even if actual results or future expectations change materially.

The company recommends that you refer to the cautionary statements contained in the SEC filings for a more detailed explanation of the inherent limitations of such forward-looking statements.

I would now like to turn the call over to Doug Drysdale.

Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Today we released our financial results for the second quarter 2015. We continue to make meaningful strides towards building a leading portfolio of CNS and pain management brands, and remain on track to exit 2015 with a strong run rate heading into next year.

For the first time in our company's history, we now a fully integrated operational team based in our New Jersey headquarters. This is an important milestone in the overall transformation as we continue to maximize opportunities across our branding portfolio, R&D efforts, daily operations and beyond.

Over the past 12 months we faced new commercial challenges and have seen a competitive shift in the managed care environment within which we operate. As we plan ahead for 2016, we're implementing a number of initiatives aimed at creating a more powerful and competitive commercial infrastructure to drive our three main brands and position our CNS and pain franchises for continued growth. More about these initiatives later in the call.

Turning to Treximet, we have encouraged by Treximet's recent performance as we continue to take aggressive steps to grow the products and address the issues that are within our control. We dealt with those that we faced at the re-launch, including the lack of samples and a perception by physicians of limited insurance coverage; we've navigated an increasingly challenging managed care environment and have maintained good commercial coverage for over 86% of lives, while stabilizing gross-to-nets at the same time.

As a result of these efforts combined with improved promotional efforts by our field force, we've arrested a multiyear decline for this significant brand and we now see a clear volume trend reversal.

Although, we are tracking behind our initial projections, Treximet prescriptions are clearly growing. As of July 24, total prescriptions are up 10% and new prescriptions were up 15% since it began sampling at the end of March. Total retail prescription dollars for Treximet were up 100% in the second quarter versus the prior year period and have increased 109% on a rolling four-week basis as of July 17.

We are committed to accelerating Treximet's positive trajectory and we'll continue taking decisive steps to realize the value of this important product.

On last quarter's call we had just closed the acquisition of Zohydro ER franchise, which we acquired with a strong belief that there is substantial opportunity for improved commercial execution and growth. We remained focus on realizing the full value of the Zohydro ER brand.

Last year 114 million prescriptions were written in the hydrocodone market. We believe that approximately one-third of this market is for use in chronic pain and we're actively targeting this segment. Zohydro ER is a core focus of Pernix with a robust intellectual property portfolio that extends through 2029. We believe in this product's potential to become our largest and most profitable franchise.

Upon close, we immediately implemented our strategy to maximize the growth potential of this platform. According to plan, we recently re-launched Zohydro ER with BeadTek which was designed to provide abuse-deterrent features. We restocked the market with the new formulation in mid-May and with respect to pharmacy stocking, our rapid actions have resulted in 99% of Pernix trade customers ordering Zohydro ER with BeadTek.

At the time the transaction close, the second and third largest U.S. pharmacy chains were not stocking Zohydro ER. These two large pharmacy chains, which constitute about 35% of the retail market, agreed to remove restrictions associated with the stocking of the first-generation product. Today, all major U.S. pharmacy chains are filling Zohydro ER with BeadTek scripts.

We made all these changes within week following the close of the acquisition. Our efforts on the payer access front will require a little more time than that however. Today, we have submitted proposals to all major PBMs and responses thus far have been very encouraging. We submitted over 30 managed care proposals covering 230 million lives. So far 9 out of 10 responses have been positive and we're optimistic about our ability to obtain broad and favorable coverage.

On July 31 we were noted by Express Scripts, one of the leading full-service PBMs that Zohydro ER with BeadTek has been removed from the 2016 Exclusion List for its National Preferred Formulary. Beginning January 1, 2016, this will eliminate a significant hurdle to growth for Zohydro ER franchise and positions us well for discussions with other managed care organizations. Finally, all existing managed care contracts have been transferred to Pernix to avoid coverage gaps and we're making headway on improving payer reimbursement over the next several months to ensure that patients suffering with chronic pain have access to Zohydro ER with BeadTek when their physicians prescribe it.

As anticipated, we are pleased to report that increased promotional efforts by our pain sales team are starting to positively impact Silenor. This increased selling power has enabled us to reach an untapped market segment, chronic pain sufferers who report having a poor or un-refreshing sleep. Chronic pain patients are three times more likely to have a concomitant sleep disorder and over 50% of people suffering from chronic pain and sleep difficulties say that their work suffers as a result. The non-addictive, non-scheduled nature of Silenor is proving to be an attractive option for chronic pain patients.

Total prescriptions for Silenor were up 73% year-over-year in the second quarter of 2015, while new prescriptions were up 77%, indicating an increase in awareness and adoption. On a gross sales run rate basis, Silenor is up approximately three-fold since we relaunched the product in May of last year. Building on this consumer awareness remains a priority for Silenor in 2015 and our consumer campaign is starting to produce meaningful results.

We continue to advance our plans to develop an over-the-counter version of Silenor to help millions of people suffering from insomnia to have a more restless sleep. We met with the FDA in June to review our plans, which resulted in the discussion of our development program for Silenor Rx to OTC switch. Pernix plans to incorporate FDA's request and submit draft study protocols for further comment and approval. We believe this medication could prove to be a significant growth factor for Pernix providing patients with a more accessible treatment option as well as potentially extending the franchise beyond its current 2020 patent expiration.

Now I would like to hand the call over to Sanjay to review our financial results. Sanjay?

Thanks, Doug, and good morning, everyone. As stated in our press release issued this morning, net revenue was $47 million during the second quarter of 2015. On a normalized basis, excluding favorable one-time adjustments for some of our legacy products, net revenue was $43.7 million. This represents an increase of 151% from $17.4 million in the second quarter of 2014 and 29% compared to the first quarter of this year.

As Doug mentioned, we have started to see positive growth in weekly prescriptions for Treximet. Recent highs for total prescriptions and new prescriptions represent a 10% and 15% increase, respectively since we began sampling. It is worth noting that total prescriptions for the overall triptan market were nearly flat and new prescriptions were down 4% over the same period.

As mentioned on our last earnings call, we experienced a modest work-down in wholesaler inventory during the first quarter. I am pleased to report that as a result of our improved operational execution during the second quarter, we maintained stable inventory levels throughout the channel and we will continue to manage our inventory carefully.

As expected, gross-to-nets for Treximet this quarter were approximately 56%. As a reminder to everyone, this means that for every dollar of gross sales we had net sales of $0.56. We expect gross-to-nets for Treximet to remain in the mid to high 50s throughout the balance of this year.

Gross profit as a percentage of net revenue was 71%. This compares to 46% in the same quarter last year. The increase in gross margins was primarily driven by contributions from Treximet and Zohydro ER. We pay a royalty of 18% of net sales for Treximet. We also pay a combined manufacturing and royalty rate of 21% on Zohydro ER net sales. These amounts are accounted for us cost of product sales and are factored into our reported gross profit.

Total operating expenses for the second quarter of 2015, excluding amortization, were $26.2 million compared to $13.8 million during the prior year period. Operating expenses included SG&A expense of $24.9 million compared to $13.2 million during the second quarter of 2014. The increase in SG&A was driven by an increase in investments in selling and marketing for Treximet and Silenor, the addition of the 100 person sales team acquired with the Zohydro ER franchise, legal settlement reserves, and training costs, offset by a reduction in operational and G&A expenses.

SG&A as a percent of net sales decreased 53% during the second quarter of 2015 compared to 76% in the prior year period. R&D expense for the second quarter of 2015 was $1.5 million, compared with $345,000 the prior year. The increase is primarily attributable to cost associated with the Zohydro ER and Treximet franchises.

Consistent with prior quarters, we are reporting adjusted operating results, which are non-GAAP measures that we believe are important for evaluating our financial results. Second quarter 2015 adjusted EBITDA was $7.9 million versus a loss of $4 million for the prior year. On a non-GAAP basis, second quarter 2015 adjusted net loss was $5.4 million versus an adjusted net loss of $3.6 million last year.

This quarter's adjusted net loss adjusted for among other things, the cost of the inducement for 8% convertible notes of $19.5 million, a change in the fair value of the derivative liability of $8.7 million, and amortization expense of $22.3 million.

I would like to highlight a couple of important financial transactions for this quarter which together improved our blended cost of capital to approximately 9%. On April 17, in connection with our acquisition of Zohydro ER franchise, we priced an offering of $130 million of 4.25% convertible senior notes due 2021. In connection with this offering, we also completed an exchange offer for our $65 million, 8% convertible notes moving this obligation from our cap structure. As a result of this exchange, approximately 20 million new shares have entered the market generating a significant increase in trading volumes for our stock. We believe that the substantial portion of this trading activity is now complete and we anticipate a return to steady state in the near future.

As of June 30, 2015 we had cash on hand of $66.8 million and $357.9 million of debt. This includes $220 million of Treximet notes at 12%, $130 million of convertible notes at 4.25%, and $7.9 million under our revolving credit facility.

On a cash basis, we have remaining interest payments of $17 million this year, which includes the $13.2 million interest payment we made to the holders of the Treximet notes at the beginning of this month. Our Treximet notes due 2020 amortized based on 50% net sales we have for Treximet. In other words, 50% of net sales for Treximet each year are used to pay both interest and principal. Our convertible notes are interest-only.

Although our pro forma leverage ratio for 2015 is high, we are comfortable in our ability to deleverage as our business continues to accelerate. The structure and cost of our debt is more than manageable given the operating leverage in our business. We expect to naturally deleverage throughout 2016 as we anticipate organic growth and sales from our three main brands to largely drop to the bottom line.

I'd now like to discuss our financial guidance. We remain optimistic on the growth prospects for our core brands. We are pleased that we have arrested the multi-year decline for Treximet and have now seen encouraging signs of growth. This clear trend reversal provides us with improved confidence in our ability to predict performance for the balance of this year.

With respect to Zohydro ER, we are early in transition having just closed the acquisition, but we remain confident in our ability to position the drug for significant growth next year. The removal of Zohydro ER from the Express Scripts Exclusion List for 2016 is a significant win for Pernix and we believe this bodes well for other commercial plans.

Silenor is continuing to exhibit solid growth and we expect this trajectory to continue, driven by ongoing marketing efforts and the enhanced promotional activities of an additional 100 sales reps.

We have been disappointed by softness in some of our legacy cough/cold products but remain optimistic that growth and enhanced profitability in our generics portfolio will at least partially offset this trend.

In addition, the steps we are taking to realign and improve the efficiency of our recently expanded sales organization will have an impact on this year's and next year's performance, but we believe this is an essential investment that will prepare us for an even stronger 2016.

We are revising guidance today based on performance to-date and what we believe is a reasonable estimate for the balance of the year taking into account the timing of our commercial team realignment and the full implementation of PPD and recent managed care wins.

We now expect net revenue for 2015 to be in the range of $170 million to $180 million and we expect adjusted EBITDA to be in the range of $30 million to $35 million. I'd now like to turn the call back over to Doug.

Thank you, Sanjay. We set out the year with a focus on four key areas of growth and profitability and we remain on track to achieve each of these goals. One, to effect a turnaround in Treximet volumes; two, to roll out our Pernix Pharmacy Direct Program nationwide to drive increased sales across all of our promotion products and reduced prescription abandonment; three, integrate Zohydro ER with BeadTek to ultimately enhance our long-term growth profile; and four, continue to expand managed care access across all of our products.

After many years in decline, prior to our acquisition, Treximet volume is beginning to increase in both new and total prescriptions as a direct result of our efforts. The transition to Zohydro ER with BeadTek is a very positive story for us and we are excited about the tremendous market opportunities in this space and Silenor continues to experience a solid growth, which we expect to continue as a result of the additional promotional efforts by our pain sales force.

However, as we look back at some of the challenges we have encountered over the past 12 months and we consider the commercial and managed care challenges ahead, we've elected to implement a number of commercial initiatives aimed at positioning us for a strong 2016. Beginning September 1, all three of our promoted brands Treximet, Zohydro ER and Silenor will be promoted by our entire 200 person strong sales team.

Cross training of our sales professionals has already begun and we're implementing refined customer targeting and enhanced analytics to ensure that our sales efforts are directed towards customers with the greatest potential and access to our products. We've added additional resources to our managed care team to drive local product pull-through and we've hired new marketing leadership with extensive pain and migraine experience in order that all of our commercial efforts are properly and effectively coordinated.

This realignment is not insignificant and will, of course, result in some initial disruption as new core plans are implemented and new relationships are built. We see the impact of this initiative on our 2015 outlook as a necessary competitive investment, aimed at creating a more effective and competitive commercial team as we head into 2016. This enhanced commercial scale creates tremendous operating leverage as we drive growth of our brands throughout the next year.

The national rollout of our Pernix Pharmacy Direct Program or PPD is underway and we have initiated the training of our sales professionals and our PPD partner. PPD enable patients to receive the intended medication prescribed by the healthcare provider directly while also reducing the rate of prescription abandonment. On August 10, we will begin the official launch of PPD for Treximet and Silenor to our highest potential customers. We believe this program will be an important tool for driving long-term sales growth across all of our promoted products. We've developed PPD to ensure that patients receive the medication that their doctors prescribed to ready to their home with as little as zero copay. By removing the opportunity to switch of our products at the pharmacy level and by offering improved convenience and health plan management, we believe PPD will improve pull-through for prescriptions within this program.

We spent many months selecting the right PPD partner/vendor and designing the business model that will bring [indiscernible] (19:43) cost savings to our customers. We'll be managing and tracking the rollout of PPD very carefully and expect to gain critical mass with coverage of our major metropolitan areas by year-end with material momentum been created in 2016. Finally, we are aggressively pursuing favorable managed care contracts which is in keeping with our stated goal of expanding assets for our key products, in particular, for Zohydro ER.

Express Scripts' decisions to remove Zohydro ER from their 2016 exclusion list represents a meaningful opportunity for Zohydro ER as our brand will be unrestricted at ESI's approximately $100 million lives. We've been working diligently with our partner Express Scripts to make this happen and it's been our number one managed care priority this year.

Additionally, we've submitted over 30 proposals to other managed care organizations and have received nine positive responses to improved access so far. These nine plans have communicated their acceptance of our proposals and we look forward to share in details of our new partners at the appropriate time.

These wins remove significant restrictions to the brand ranging from multiple step edits to NDC blocks and will enable the appropriate patient to receive the product without issue. We remain optimistic about our ability to continue expanding managed care access for Zohydro ER.

2015 marks an important investment year in our portfolio. Despite some challenging headwinds at the start of the year, we continue to drive sustainable top-line growth and improved margins. As we move into the second half of the year, we'll continue to focus on positioning our branded portfolio for continued growth, maximizing the potential of our commercial organization and strengthening our competitive position for 2016.

Thank you for joining us today on the call. I look forward to updating you as we make progress in the coming quarters. And with that, I'd like to open the line for questions. Operator?

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Difei Yang with Brean Capital. Your line is now open.

Hi. Good morning and thanks for taking my question. Just a few. The first question with regards to what do you see on the business development front? Are you limited/constrained by the financial resources in getting more dues down at least for the next two to three quarters?

All right, [indiscernible] (22:21). Thanks for the question.

Our focus for the moment is clearly on execution and focus on realigning the commercial organization and driving growth for the main brands and we stated that in the last call, it's really not changed on this call. However, that said, we always have an active business development pipeline. We're looking at a number of opportunities and the focus as we've stated before is on opportunities that can bring incremental revenue and growth and also opportunities that could bring long-term changes to our tax structure. So we haven't stopped looking good but we're very much focused on execution at this point in time.

Okay. Thank you. So turning over to your product portfolio, I assume the guidance revision was really driven by Treximet. So, I guess, my question is what flexibility do you have with regards to pricing on Treximet and it seems like turning around prescription volume growth, it will take a lot longer than pricing. What do you think about those questions?

So, yeah, I'd say that we took an opportunity when we first acquired Treximet to realign the pricing around the competitive environment. We increased the list price 150% at that time. So we've made some significant changes to generate value and we're seeing that in dollar terms and maybe not necessarily in prescription terms for a while but we're seeing in the dollar terms. Clearly, the price increase of that size has an impact and we've seen that as prescriptions for Treximet have continued to decline, maintaining a trend that's gone on for last several years. However, we've now turned that product around. It's been a little tricky to figure out when that turnaround was going to happen but has happened and now we're seeing continued growth. And we're confident that with our sales efforts and expanding the sales team we continue to drive sales prescription growth for Treximet throughout the rest of 2015 and into 2016.

Okay. Thank you.

Our next question comes from the line of Traver Davis with Piper Jaffray. Your line is now open.

Thanks for taking the questions. I just wanted to drill down on 2015 guidance and the revision to that. You did about I think a little over $80 million in sales year-to-date. So the new guidance implies $90 million to $100 million for the rest of the year. Given that we know that Zohydro probably will be a bigger contributor in the back half of the year, this implies declines for the rest of your products through the balance of the year. So I just want to get a better idea of the breakdown there for 3Q and 4Q, the second half of the year in terms of that implication?

Hi Trevor. It's Sanjay here and thank you for the questions. As it relates to guidance for this year, we've obviously tempered our growth expectations for our three main brands. We do anticipate growth across all three. Some of the softness you are alluding to in terms of the decline is more likely to be seen in the legacy portfolio. There are couple of factors that affect that, number one, is just volumes; and two, gross-to-nets will be based and those sorts of things affect the net sales.

So suffice it to say that we anticipate Treximet continue to grow this year. And we expect growth obviously for Zohydro ER and for Silenor and again those growth expectations have been tempered down.

Okay. So to be clear, it's really the legacy portfolio that we could see a sequential decline from what we've seen [ph] over (26:12) year-to-date in revenues and Treximet and Silenor you believe will see sequential growth from the second quarter. Is that correct?

That's correct.

Okay. Okay, that's helpful. And then, just secondly, maybe can you talk a little about where we may exit the year in terms of EBITDA contribution. Just try to give an idea of what – I know you haven't provided the guidance for 2016 obviously of what the extent of the EBITDA contribution from the business [ph] affect (26:53) 2016, of course, as you know, the leverage is quite high as implied by your current 2015 EBITDA guidance. So, any light you can shed there is helpful. Thank you.

Yeah. Good question. What I would say is that we expect a fairly linear growth rate through the balance of this year. Certainly, the fourth quarter exit run rate for EBITDA will be – would likely to be our best.

We don't give specific quarterly guidance but I think it's fair to say that we should see a meaningful step-up in EBITDA versus what we've guided to for this year.

So, if you look at what we've done so far this year, $12 million-and-change and what's imputed for the second half of this year and what that means on, if you straight line it and get to Q4 I think you can either annualize that fourth quarter, if you want to be a little aggressive, or you can take the second half and double it and get to a reasonable place.

Okay. Thanks, guys.

Did I answer your question on leverage?

Yes.

Okay.

Our next question comes from the line of Serge Belanger with Needham & Company. Your line is now open.

Hey. Good morning. I guess, first a question on Treximet. It looks like channel inventories stabilized and so did gross and net adjustments. You mentioned prescription sales were still tracking a bit behind where you had previously expected them. Just wanted to know what were, I guess, the major changes in assumptions of the market, the fundamentals of the market that had changed since your prior expectations.

Yeah. Thanks, Serge, for the question. I think the way to think about this is that we were trying to predict in the past, a point at which Treximet would stop declining and turnaround and at the same time trying to predict what that uptick would look like when the turnaround happen. Now that we've got about four months of upward prescription trending, we've got a run rate with which we can predict for the rest of the year.

As we look at that run rate, it's not where we'd like it to be. We think the product can do better. I think the good thing we've shown is that the product is promotionally sensitive and that we can execute and we can turnaround defining products, I think it's very positive. When we look at the Treximet run rate there at the current run rate we know we can do better and we think we can do better by realigning the sales team and putting all 200 sales reps behind the product as well as the other two brands as well.

So, we are taking this opportunity now to take that realignment and that will create some disruption and, of course, it always does but now is the best time to do that while we appreciate that the brand can grow. But we thought it was prudent while we were in the middle of that realignment to not overstate any uptick in prescription trends. So, we are assuming that we can continue to maintain the current growth rate while we are realigning the sales organization and of course, once we have all 200 folks selling Treximet we expect to see a positive impact from that going forward.

Okay. And is the launch of the new pediatric formulation still on track for the fourth quarter?

It's likely to slip out into early next year. We didn't have any meaningful sales plan for this year in any case. And as we said before, really the pediatric indication is more about getting that six months of extra exclusivity and that we'll obviously achieve that.

Okay. And then on Zohydro, just wanted to know where you are in terms of the abuse liability studies and when do you think you can file to get an updated label and I guess, if that's a key for uptake by managed care plans?

Yeah, it's a good question. So far we've had very positive response to the BeadTek technology and as you can tell from the 9 out of 10 positive responses from the managed care negotiation so far it's being received very well by managed care and very well by our customers as well. It's just having the technology [ph] in the capsule (31:20). I think that physicians fully understand how the technology works and that's working well. We are on track, HAL studies and the in-vitro studies are continuing and we expect to file a supplement before the end of the year for [ph] ZX004 (31:33) and for ZX007, we published some in-vitro data that's very positive and we continue to work on the scale up and optimization of that product ready for studies next year.

Okay. All right. Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you. This does conclude today's Q&A session. I would now like to turn the call back over to Doug Drysdale.

Thank you for the questions, guys, and thanks for the call. Look forward to updating you on future quarters. Thanks for joining the call.

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your participation in today's conference. This does conclude the program. You may now disconnect. Everyone have a great day.