Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Joseph T. Schepers — Director-Investor Relations & Communications, Pernix Therapeutics Holdings, Inc.
Michael Cooper Pearce — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Pernix Therapeutics Holdings, Inc.
Tracy Simmons Clifford — Vice President of Accounting and Corporate Controller, Pernix Therapeutics Holdings, Inc.
Louise A. Chen — Analyst, Guggenheim Securities LLC
Irina Rivkind — Analyst, Cantor Fitzgerald Securities
Elliot H. Wilbur — Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC
Annabel E. Samimy — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Pernix Therapeutics Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, today's conference call is being recorded.

I'd now like to turn the conference over to your host, Mr. Joe Schepers, Head of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Thank you. And welcome to Pernix Therapeutics' second quarter 2013 conference call. Our speakers on the call today are Mike Pearce, Chairman, President and CEO; and Tracy Clifford, Vice President of Accounting and Controller.

Before we begin, I would like to point out that the company issued a press release this morning containing financial results for the quarter and year-to-date period ended June 30, 2013. The release, including the financial tables and reconciliation of non-GAAP financials, is available on the company's website at www.pernixtx.com. The company also expects to file its current report on Form 10-Q with the SEC by the end of the day.

Before we begin, allow me to read the following Safe Harbor statement. This call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Statements including words such as estimate, plan, project, intend, expect, anticipate, believe, seek, target, or similar expressions are forward-looking statements. Because these statements reflect the company's current views, expectations, beliefs concerning future events, these forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties.

Investors should note that many factors, as more fully described under the caption Risk Factors in our Form 10-K, Form 10-Q, and 8-K filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and as otherwise enumerated herein, could affect the company's future financial results or could cause the actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements contained in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K.

The forward-looking statements in this press release are qualified by these risk factors. These are factors that individually or in aggregate could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected or historical results. The company assumes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future developments, or otherwise.

During the call, we may also discuss certain GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures such as EBITDA. The company believes that EBITDA, which we define as earnings before interest, taxes, amortization, and depreciation, is a meaningful non-GAAP financial measure.

At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Mike Pearce.

Thanks, Joe. We have a good turnout for the call and I look forward to updating everyone on the progress at Pernix. During this morning's call, I will provide an update on key business activities, including the sale of certain Cypress generic assets to Breckenridge for $30 million that was announced in our press release this morning. Later in the call, Tracy will provide a more detailed review of our financial results for the quarter and year-to-date period ended June 30, 2013.

First, let me provide you with a brief overview of our agreement with Breckenridge. As I mentioned on our last earnings call of May 10, one of our key objectives was to sell certain non-core assets. Under the terms of the agreement, Breckenridge will pay Pernix $30 million: $20 million in an upfront payment, and $10 million to be paid in two equal installments over the next two years.

We also enjoy flexibility to monetize future payments, if desirable. Breckenridge will receive seven currently marketed Abbreviated New Drug Application products, certain generic products and 11 ANDAs filed with the FDA and certain ANDAs in various stages of development. Pernix will retain approximately 65% of 2013 Cypress product portfolio revenue.

This transaction is important and it will enable us to move the company forward on solid financial footing with a restored balance sheet. The transaction, which is expected to close no later than mid-September, is subject to customary closing conditions and regulatory approvals. Today, we are reaffirming our previous full year 2013 revenue guidance of $90 million to $100 million.

Since our last quarterly earnings conference call, we have completed several important initiatives that are expected to fortify the company's financial strength. These initiatives included the following: the sale of certain non-core assets which will enable us to eliminate all of our term debt with MidCap Financial. We have combined our two Houston offices into one modest location in Magnolia, Texas and expect to be the beneficiary of significant cost savings.

We are working to improve efficiency throughout the company and have already consolidated certain positions. After our acquisition of Cypress Hawthorn, we experienced anticipated turnover with our sales force and we hired a new group of talented sales representatives at the end of July with August training scheduled.

Our sales force is currently comprised of 114 reps, 40 pediatric and 74 primary care. We are methodically evaluating additional opportunities to reduce SG&A expenses. We have the resolve to do this and we have targets that will allow us to be competitive with our peers. We will not compromise future growth prospects. In the third quarter 2013, we are targeting an additional $1.5 million reduction in SG&A expenses.

We have made a strategic decision that Pernix will not independently launch Dr. Cocoa at retail. We do not have discretionary resources to prudently and effectively launch Dr. Cocoa in the U.S. OTC market. As you know, to do this type of launch the right way in a highly competitive marketplace, with DTC advertising, would require substantial investment. And it's not consistent with our pledge of rigorous financial discipline and capital allocation.

We are currently in discussions to partner Dr. Cocoa. Our objective would be to share an upside economics, while ceding operational control and launch expense to another party, a qualified party, someone who will help us realize the full potential of Dr. Cocoa in the marketplace, while carefully mitigating the risk for Pernix. This decision on Dr. Cocoa will enable us to focus on our branded and generic business and on improving sales force productivity.

Let me turn to our pediatric product in development. We are on track to begin dosing our first patient in our pediatric upper respiratory clinical trial in the third quarter 2013. The clinical trial is going to fewer than 200 patients. For competitive reasons, we will disclose detailed information on the clinical study when the clinical study design is publicly available, which is expected in October. As previously discussed, Pernix believes the revenue potential of this product may be transformative for the company. We look forward to providing you with an update on this clinical study in the fourth quarter this year. I'd like to say more, we're eager to demonstrate additional credibility here, but it could harm us competitively.

Regarding growth catalysts and other product revenue opportunities, over the last two-and-a-half months, I've often been asked, what exactly is Pernix? The answer is that for many years, Pernix excelled at the sale of promotion sensitive products that were tactically acquired. There are many ways for Pernix to put new revenue drivers into the sales rep bag that don't involve buying entire companies or developing products requiring clinical trials.

We are in advanced discussions on certain product opportunities of this nature. We can't guarantee these transactions will be completed, but we are optimistic due to the quality and pace of our progress to-date. Clearly, we have a lot of heavy lifting ahead, but we are proving that we can execute on critical deliverables and chart a course for growth.

I will now turn the call over to Tracy for a more detailed review of our results for the three and six months ended June 30, 2013.

Thanks, Mike, and good morning. I will begin with a discussion of net revenue. The company's net revenues increased 96% to $20.6 million in the second quarter of 2013 compared to $10.5 million for the second quarter of 2012. As was expected, the growth in net revenues was primarily due to sales revenue of branded and generic products that the company acquired from Cypress Hawthorn and the Silenor products acquired in the merger with Somaxon.

The increase from the acquired product was offset by a decrease in the company's legacy portfolio of products, which was due in part to the discontinuation of the sale of certain generic products as a result of related litigation settlement terms in addition to the recall of certain products. As it relates to revenue contribution, 53% of our revenues were from generic product sales and 47% was from brand product sales.

Moving on to bottom line results for the quarter, the company recognized a net loss of approximately $5.9 million or $0.16 per basic and diluted share for the second quarter of 2013 compared to a net loss of approximately $900,000 or $0.03 per basic and diluted share for the same quarter of the prior year. Adjusted EBITDA, which represents earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, and further adjusted by certain non-cash and/or non-recurring items, is a non-GAAP measure that we provide for informational purposes only.

Adjusted EBITDA for the second quarter of 2013 was a loss of approximately $3.9 million compared to earnings of approximately $300,000 in the same quarter of the prior year. The adjustments between EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA for the three months ended June 30, 2013, included approximately $100,000 in deal-related expenses, $600,000 in stock comp expense, $900,000 in cost of sales related to the increase in the basis of the inventory acquired in connection with the Cypress Hawthorn and Somaxon acquisitions, $1.8 million related to the increase in the value of the put right issued in connection with the Cypress Hawthorn acquisition.

These add-backs were offset by a deduction of approximately $3.9 million for the gain that we realized on the sale of certain marketable securities that we liquidated in the second quarter of 2013. For the quarter ended June 30, 2012, adjusted EBITDA was approximately $300,000. You can also refer to the table at the end of our press release that was distributed this morning for a reconciliation of net loss/income to EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA.

As it relates to expenses, cost of product sales was approximately $11.1 million for the second quarter of 2013 as compared to approximately $3.4 million for the second quarter of 2012. This resulted in gross margin of 50.3% of net sales, excluding the cost of sales attributed to the sales of acquired inventory for the current quarter as compared to a gross margin of 67.5% of net sales for the prior year quarter. The decrease in the gross margin is due to the sales of higher-priced products and a higher percentage of the sales of products subject to revenue-sharing arrangements, including several Cypress products and Silenor.

SG&A expenses in the second quarter of 2013 were $13.1 million compared to $7.6 million for the second quarter of 2012. As would be expected, the increase was primarily due to the SG&A expenses of Cypress Hawthorn and Pernix Manufacturing, including the addition of these employees and their related overhead.

Research and development expense was approximately $1.8 million compared to approximately $100,000 in the same quarter of 2012. This increase was primarily due to expenses related to furthering the development of our late-stage pediatric product, initial work related to the OTC Silenor switch, and furthering certain projects of Cypress Hawthorn. Depreciation and amortization expense was approximately $2.6 million for the second quarter of 2013 compared to $800,000 for the second quarter of 2012.

The company recognized an income tax benefit of $2.1 million for the second quarter of 2013, compared to an income tax benefit of approximately $500,000 for the second quarter of 2012. Weighted average common shares outstanding was 37.1 million basic and diluted shares for the quarter ended June 30, 2013, and 28.3 million basic and diluted shares for the same quarter of the prior year.

Now as to the results for the year-to-date period ended June 30, 2013. For the six months ended June 30, 2013, net revenues increased by approximately 71% to $42.7 million compared with $25 million for the prior year period. The increase in net revenues is attributed to the similar explanation as described previously for the quarterly period.

The net loss for this period was approximately $14 million compared to net income of approximately $300,000 in the year-to-date period of 2012. The adjusted EBITDA was a loss of approximately $5.3 million compared to earnings of approximately $3.6 million for the six months ended June 30, 2012.

SG&A expenses in the six months ended June 30, 2013, were $27.2 million compared to $14.4 million for the prior year period. As previously stated, the increase was primarily due to the SG&A expenses of Cypress Hawthorn and Pernix Manufacturing, including those employees and overhead. And also, we incurred approximately $500,000 in transaction expenses in connection with the acquisitions and realized an increase of approximately $1.8 million in legal fees related to certain litigation that has now been settled.

As previously noted, the company has also invested in its R&D projects during 2013. R&D expenses were approximately $3 million in the current year compared to $200,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2012. Weighted average common shares outstanding were 35.7 million basic and diluted for the six months ended June 30, 2013, and 27.1 million basic weighted average common shares outstanding and 27.7 million weighted average diluted shares for the six months ended 2012.

Turning now to the balance sheet. As of June 30, 2013, we had approximately $9 million in unrestricted cash and cash equivalents, $26.7 million in AR and $19 million in inventory. On June 14, 2013, the company sold all of its shares of TherapeuticsMD stock for approximately $4.6 million in cash proceeds, recognizing a gain on its investment of approximately $3.6 million. Approximately $2.3 million of these proceeds were utilized to pay down our term loan with MidCap Financial.

With reference to the MidCap loan, on May 8, 2013, we entered into an Amended and Restated Credit Agreement with MidCap Financial. The Restated Credit Agreement provides for a term loan of $10 million and a revolving loan commitment of $20 million. In connection with the entry into the Restated Credit Agreement, the company prepaid approximately $12 million of the term loan outstanding under the original credit agreement and wrote-off approximately $600,000 in deferred financing costs included an interest expense for the six months period and recorded approximately $524,000 in new deferred financing cost. As of August 5, 2013, the outstanding balance under the term loan was $7.7 million and the outstanding balance under the revolver was $16.4 million.

Finally, I'd like to make a few comments regarding guidance for the full year 2013. We affirm our previously announced full year 2013 revenue guidance of $90 million to $100 million. In the second half of 2013, the company expects to have higher revenues in the fourth quarter than the third quarter due to the seasonality of certain of our products.

That concludes my financial review this morning. And I'll turn it back over to Mike.

Thank you, Tracy. In closing, let me summarize key points I'd like to convey on this call. In addition to reaffirming revenue guidance of $90 million to $100 million for 2013, we have strengthened our financial position by divesting certain non-core assets, including our shares of TherapeuticsMD, which will enable us to eliminate our term debt in its entirety with MidCap. We have stabilized revenues.

We addressed the financial impact risk of a Dr. Cocoa OTC retail launch. We have initiated SG&A cost savings in the second quarter 2013. And we foresee potential cost savings accelerating in the third and fourth quarters of 2013. We are on track to begin dosing patients in our pediatric upper respiratory clinical trial in the third quarter of 2013. Tactical product revenue acquisition process is in full swing.

Going forward, we are focused on continuing the integration of Cypress Hawthorn and Somaxon assets and increasing sales force productivity. As most of you know, the June quarter is historically Pernix's weakest quarter. Looking ahead and moving into seasonal strength, as Tracy previously noted, we have indeed reaffirmed our full year 2013 revenue guidance of $90 million to $100 million. And notably, we expect positive EBITDA in the fourth quarter of 2013, excluding any extraordinary events. We believe we have taken the right initial steps and we'll continue to move decisively to achieve future success for the company and all of its shareholders.

On that note, operator, please open the line for questions. [Operator Instructions]

Our first question comes from Louise Chen of Guggenheim. Please go ahead.

Hi. Thanks for the questions. I had a few. So, Mike, first question I have for you was when we had spoken, you had said that you thought you could turn Pernix around in less than a year because 90% of the problems were lack of best practices. I just wanted to see if you still believe that was the case. Second question I had was on Dr. Cocoa. Since you're looking for a partner here, do you think you'll still launch into this cough cold season?

And then last question is just on the SG&A, R&D expense heading – gross margin heading into third and fourth quarter. Should we build our model off of what we saw in the second quarter? And then decrease those spending there and also gross margin, is that kind of in line with what we saw in the second quarter for the remainder of the year? Thanks.

Louise, you're overwhelming me with your intellect because you can keep up with that many questions at once but for me, it's a big challenge. But let's try to break them down and I definitely want to get you all the answers. I know this is an opportunity for us to communicate information that's interesting, not only to you, but to everyone else.

So, on the macro question of how long will it take to get Pernix positioned where we are without legacy issues and focused 100% on future growth in pharma? And I would say that when we convened on the earnings call on May 10 and then when I saw you in New York, the view was that the vast majority of our issues we resolved were on the business side, fewer on pharma. I'm pleased to report that we've worked through so many of the business issues and legacy issues as we've been able to communicate on this call, including restoring the balance sheet and positioning the company for growth.

So, I do definitely think that we're able to focus much more on pharma. And to me, that's where we're headed. And I'd say, right now, we are at the point where our challenges and our opportunities are about even and headed in the right direction. And it will not take us one year to demonstrate to the outside world that we're making meaningful progress and that there's value here at the company.

The next one, well, I'm going to let Tracy do the part at the end on the EBITDA – on the gross margin trends. But on Dr. Cocoa, we just have to be frank about the whole opportunity. It's a fantastically promising property, well-received by the trade. But you also have to be realistic about what Pernix can and should do with the finite resources that are available to us. And so, for us, a brand building exercise, no matter how valuable it may prove ultimately, involves considerable investment, not just for 2013, but beyond. And it's just a temporary mismatch for where we are in our stage of addressing our opportunities and challenges.

So, partnering the project, sharing the upside with another party that understands and grasps the vast potential of Dr. Cocoa, that's very appealing to us. There are several ways to launch any product in this space. Obviously, going national retail with a heavy advertising promotion spend and a lot of DTC campaign is the way to get the highest and fastest impact. But there are other means to create a brand, including some professional detailing avenues. And so, there's still ways for Dr. Cocoa to launch in 2013 cough and cold season.

There's also, depending on a lot of variables, the possibility of mid-season cut-ins with certain of the retailers and national drug and food and mass, depending on their own requirements and how the season unfolds. So, I can't say with complete specificity how the Dr. Cocoa product launches or in what form, but we definitely believe the product and the concept's promise is uncompromised. And we will support in every way possible a partnership, should one be solidified.

What was the other question?

R&D.

SG&A expenses going forward.

Yes. So, SG&A expenses, clearly, to me and to everyone else on this call, our SG&A expense load is not optimal in relation to our current revenue rate. If we want to deliver returns that are comparable to our peers or at least our top performing peers, we need to improve. And so, we are continuously daily looking at ways to reduce the SG&A, the cost side. But I should also note that, I mean, we could do twice our annual revenue without dramatically increasing our expense load.

So it's a two-part puzzle. One is to continue to eliminate expenses that really don't contribute to the quality of the product we're delivering or the efficiency we deliver. And then second, growing revenue is another way obviously to reduce your expenses as a percentage of sales. And that's something we're pursuing on the same front.

Now, we did provide some detail in that we expect to identify another $1.5 million of reductions in Q3 for SG&A. I'm not saying we can extrapolate that progress into infinity, but we do plan to make progress every single quarter. And I think by doing it that way, we're approaching this thing very analytically. And, most importantly, we're not compromising our future growth prospects, because at our size as a public company, we're not big enough. We need to get bigger. There are several ways to accomplish this. But we can't take any steps that will compromise our ability to grow the top line. And, Tracy, I'm going to ask you to offer a comment on...

R&D expense.

R&D expense and...

Okay.

Gross margin.

With respect to the gross margin, we expect that moving forward in 2013 we're probably going to be in the range similar to what we've seen so far of about 52% to 57%. However, there is some inventory reserve from recalled products and other matters that were depressing the gross margin for the first half of the year. So we think we will see some improvement to where we are for this quarter.

We are very focused on reviewing the profitability of each product and trying to figure out how to best leverage our manufacturing capability to potentially realize further savings on the actual cost of producing the product. Also, something that is impacting the 2013 that I mentioned in my comments is that we do have profit-sharing arrangements on a significant percentage of our top-selling products which is why you see the decrease in the profit margin from 2013 to 2012. So I do believe we'll be in similar ranges, but I think we will see some improvement as we move forward and continue to analyze and, as Mike alluded, make operational efficiency improvements in 2013 and into 2014.

Louise, I miss anything?

R&D. Did you elaborate on?

Go ahead.

What we're planning – as Mike alluded, we're continuing to develop the late-stage pediatric products. We have in our budget for 2013 for the balance of the year $5.7 million moving forward, of which a large component of that is for the late-stage pediatric products. So you will continue to see those investments made in 2013. We feel like that's a wise use of company resources. And I believe Mike wants to make a comment on this.

The other project which factors into R&D spend going forward which is not really a 2013 high impact, but that we'll want to develop further in 2014 is the Silenor OTC perspective switch which has been alluded to in previous Pernix calls. Obviously, everyone is excited about that potential opportunity and we'll be carefully pursuing that path from an expense standpoint, but it's something we're fully committed to do and we think is potentially a nine-figure annual revenue opportunity.

Thank you.

Our next question comes from Irina Rivkind of Cantor Fitzgerald. Please go ahead.

Thanks, guys, for taking the questions. So, I guess I wanted to explore the asset divestiture. You mentioned that it had seven generic assets in there that you were currently selling. And I just wanted to see if there's any way you can characterize what the anticipated decline in revenues is going to be associated with taking out those assets. And then also, with all the ANDAs that you divested, is that pretty much all the ANDAs that you had or do you have some remaining that we can model future growth for?

And then I guess the other question is it seems like you're going back to the old Pernix playbook of buying inexpensive assets and then growing them commercially. But given that you're cutting into SG&A and there's been a couple of pretty highly visible product failures in the past where you – the business model hasn't worked, I mean what should make investors confident that you'll be able to rectify that situation and return the company to success? Thanks.

Okay. Very fair questions. The first thing I'd say is that the guidance that we're providing incorporates the divestiture of the Cypress marketed products. So the sale to Breckenridge is fully reflected in our projections. And as far as, is there more product in the pipe? Is there more product initiatives at Pernix? I mean the answer is the same as always, which we are continuously funneling revenue opportunities through our analysis process. And there is never a lack of product ideas, both internally generated and externally. So the cupboard is never bare in the sense that there are opportunities to launch and to put new things in the bag and there are several ways that we can increase revenue.

We have products that we can co-promote out to address other physician audiences. So – goes that way, we are continuously seeing flow of other parties who have marketed products that would like to see us introduce them to either the U.S. market or additional therapeutic areas. We have to be smart. As you mentioned, we've had a couple product initiatives and launches that didn't meet the traditional Pernix threshold of success.

But I think the point I would make there is the one that you also made, which is the launches recently did not fall under the heading of traditional Pernix tactically acquired promotionally sensitive products. In some cases, they were either in a specialty that was not in our wheelhouse such as we did expand out with [ph] a foray (33:15) with the GI product which we're now receiving profitable margin contribution from Omeclamox, but after we put it back – folded it back into our core sales force.

So one, we went outside of our wheelhouse in pediatrics and primary care. And then second, some of those products were not under the full control of Pernix or involved partners and having to reach a meeting of the minds. In the instances where Pernix has acquired a product and had full control of it and put it into the bag with a strategy in a promotionally sensitive area, I mean Cedax being a perfect example, the Pernix model still works.

We still see enough flow of products, bolt-on acquisitions and things that can be folded in, whether it be lifecycle management products that are coming out of big pharma or other opportunities where Pernix can and will resume its traditional model. And in previous years, that model was very successful and very profitable and generated cash returns day-in, day-out. And that's really what we are back to.

But as far as your final question, how can Pernix convince the audience – the investment community that we're back on track and that we can regain the status that I think we had at one point? The answer is we cannot do it in any way other than performance. I mean I can say anything I want. But the mantra around here these days is credibility. And that means delivering on the things you say from earnings call to earnings call and in the interim. And it also means internally, at the company day-to-day that people have to be focused and on task, can be held accountable, and deliver the goods.

So being successful at Pernix is not necessarily saving the world. It's making a thousand small correct decisions every single day with a lot of commitment to execution. And that's really the only way we're going to have the level of credibility that we want and the standards we set both internally and externally. My view is – and subject to everyone's interpretation, but my view we've accomplished a lot this summer. And if we continue at this pace, we'll be turning heads again and be satisfying a lot of investors.

Thank you.

Our next question comes from Elliot Wilbur of Needham & Company. Please go ahead.

Thank you. Good morning. Mike, just first question for you to make sure I have this perfectly clear. But when you provided guidance last quarter, did you in fact exclude the expected asset divestiture from those numbers?

We anticipated – yes, I think as you remember, Elliot, I think at the May 10 call, we were general in what we disclosed as far as what assets we would endeavor to sell. Although there were some specific questions, I think the Cypress assets might even have been highlighted by one of the questioners. But we left ourselves some flexibility publicly. But as far as our model goes, yes, we had already assumed that those products would not be in the revenue model from I believe it was August. So, yes, we did consider that those would be the assets most likely to divest.

Okay, got it. And then I'm just – I wanted to just dive into your statement in a little bit more detail with respect to – the company has a potential to effectively double sales without significantly increasing the overall spend. I'm just kind of wondering how do you think you can really get there. I mean does that assume the pediatric respiratory product hits at some point or is it assuming sort of a big uptick in the contribution from generics or is it just more basic blocking and tackling and execution on the core promoted assets?

That's a great question. And what I was referring to more specifically in that context was our infrastructure, our ability to deliver products. And what I meant by that is that when you look at the size of our sales force, capacity they have in their bag to market additional products and look at all the – we have a huge distribution facility in Madison, Mississippi. I mean they can certainly process and transact a lot more business. We have the commercial relationships where we can run a lot more business through that model without drastically increasing the size of sales force, the size of the headquarters personnel or the logistical capabilities or capacities. So we have a lot of room to grow revenues. As far as specifically – we have a room to fulfill increased revenues is really what I was getting at.

But as far as the more specific question about, well, how do we get more sales? And I think it comes down to several drivers. I mean we can have better geographic coverage. I mean we just conducted a very detailed rep profitability analysis and – against some initial skepticism. I mean there's plenty of people out there that don't think the pharma sales rep model is as effective as it once was. Well, we just ran very detailed analysis that suggests our reps are very profitable, even during periods of counter-seasonality and even during periods when the product line is in transition.

That rep analysis gave us the confidence to do some additional hiring some white space and fulfilling some territories where we think they can come online and contribute rather quickly. So better geographic coverage. I mean we have still room to go on another front which is better managed care coverage, such as on Silenor, where we're making a lot of good progress, but there's still room to go.

Sales rep focus, I mean we've got a great sales force, but they've been through a lot. We've done these mergers where they suffer some of the communication issues on the integration. I think it's fair to say that stepping up the sales rep focus, keeping everybody on task and having them fully motivated and with a great comp program and the prospects to max out that comp program, I mean, these are areas that we can improve. So we can get better geographic coverage. We can get better managed care coverage. We can get increased sales rep focus.

And then we have the tactically acquired product revenue opportunities that I referred to that have the ability to make an impact very quickly. I mean a part of this also goes back to the original Pernix model and it also goes back to why it wouldn't be prudent to do a bunch of advanced spend on an OTC launch right now. And what I mean by that is on these tactical product revenue opportunities, the deal is consummated. We do what we have to do as far as training and compliance and inventory and then they're in the bag of the rep and we're in business ASAP.

Whereas on some of the other initiatives, such as an OTC brand build, I mean you're talking about multiple years of front-end spend. So, we like the product revenue opportunities that are fast-moving and where there is a very little lag between the time and opportunities consummated and the time that it's generating revenue for us. So those five ways – that's how we grow this business. It worked for Pernix in the past and it can still work in the here and now.

Thanks. And if I could ask you additional follow-up question as well, specifically on some of the individual products themselves, maybe just provide a little bit of updated commentary in terms of current sales force focus. What's getting the majority of the attention? I mean Silenor seemed to be doing quite well. Natroba has made a very nice comeback over the past 12 months. Omeclamox still training up but maybe off its peak levels a little bit. So at least in terms of the Pernix products, I mean, you guys seem to be executing quite well against expectations. I know there has been a kind of a big drop-off in some of the Hawthorn branded assets. So, I'm just kind of curious are those even strategic anymore and sort of where you really focus in terms of allocation of sales force detail time?

Thanks for the comments. I mean Silenor is full of promise and we've never been more confident and optimistic that that's going to be a big winner for us. Natroba, I'll say a couple things. One is the product itself is still outstanding, still viewed as outstanding. We – over time, the initial expectations were higher for the product both from the ParaPRO folks that developed it and from Pernix. It did not reach its original lofty goals but it certainly proved to be viable in the space. And I think, the one thing I'd say also is that I think given that ParaPRO is committed to making us work and that they're super high quality people, I have a high degree of confidence that we can max out the opportunity there. And we're retooling the way we go to market and I think that we'll evolve that here in August and September.

As far as where the priorities are, Hawthorn products are still very important. I mean Zutripro which is the lead – it's a seasonal product. So we're not going to be selling that at the rate in the summer that we look forward to in the active fall but still very important. The Hawthorn sales reps have borne the brunt of the integration issues. They are less familiar with Pernix. And also, there's a lot of coming and going when the two companies did merge. So, these are highly accomplished people who've been proven winners over several years marketing products. And so it's up to us to continue to fortify their offering. So in addition to Zutripro, Omeclamox and Silenor re-launch, we have a couple other things pending which I think would be very exciting for the sales force and for us as a company.

On the pediatric side, I also want to do more for our sales reps and do more for the company. And so an additional product in their bag is very desirable for us. And we're working on that goal with our business development folks and hopefully have something to report there in the near future. But in the meantime, I'd say that having just reviewed last night, you're looking at Pernix revenue consolidated on a descending skew chart.

I mean, we're pretty widely dispersed by revenue and I think that that helps us be diversified and balanced. But I am looking to bring in a couple needle-movers on the product side. So I think we'll have more to report on additional horsepower in the sales reps shortly. And I also think in the meantime, we're headed into our very strong seasonal period and we'll benefit from that. We're in pretty good shape. There's always room for improvement but we're getting there.

All right. One last question for yourself and Tracy as well. I appreciate your comments on generating positive EBITDA in the fourth quarter and I guess for you guys that's going to be close enough to operating cash flow. But in thinking about the differential between the top and the low end of revenue guidance, I mean can you run the business on a cash flow positive basis at the low end of your current revenue guidance? And how should we think about your ability to fund the phase III development program for the pediatric asset without requiring additional external capital?

The answer to that would be, yes. We can run it at current revenue, but not with the current expense load. So if we wanted – if we thought that the end game or the holding pattern game, while we wait for future products is $90 million to $100 million, the answer is that we wouldn't carry this expense load. So we think there are revenue growth opportunities, but we also think there are opportunities to make the expense structure more viable.

I'll give you – I'll be more specific because I don't like just a bunch of happy talk. We have Pernix Manufacturing. It has a lot of capability. It previously did a lot of third-party work. It's currently way under capacity as far as utilization goes. We have a very strong guy running the place who came from Reckitt. The company under previous ownership had a lot of third-party business. I mean that's what their entire business was.

Pernix itself is not going to grow at a rate that's going to fill out capacity at that facility. So we have a renewed effort. We're going to have to renew the year-end targets. And that is going to allow us to pursue and hopefully capture a lot of third-party business and lower – cover our fixed costs at the facility and also lower our own COGS through greater utilization and experiencing some economies of scale. This is a big priority. And at the same time, every division of Pernix has to carry its own weight. And so, Pernix Manufacturing right now is a big expense for us to carry relative to the amount of product we produce for Pernix there.

So, to me, this is – yes, it's a challenge, but it's also an opportunity. And it's a kind of thing that can really turn the kind of returns that we drive for the shareholders. But it's one or the other. We either have to grow this thing or we have to rationalize the expense, so that we are self-sufficient. I don't like being in a mode where we'd be required to regularly attain outside financing. I don't – one of the things I am proud of is that there's a lot of belief among a lot of the external communities during the May 10 earnings call that we were going to have to do a punitive financing over the summer in order to put ourselves in position.

We want to be balance sheet wise. And I'm pleased to report that through a combination of expense management and working well with our vendors and our other constituents and also through good effort by our sales crew, that we've been able to run this business in the meantime in a stable way over the summer. And now we have the very significant asset sale that we can run this business self-sufficiently. The question really though is growing the business.

There are many levers we can pull to grow this business without doing financing or other transaction. But, ultimately, this company has got to be bigger. With our product profile as a public company, running $90 million to $100 million revenue, it's not good enough for me and won't be good enough ultimately for the shareholders. So, everything is on the table that would allow us to build shareholder value and put some scale in the business. But we're not looking to do anything foolish or dilutive that just doesn't make sense.

All right. Thanks for fielding the questions. I appreciate it.

And I guess the other thing I'd say just the – the old saying, it's certainly not mine, but it's just so true in the case of Pernix that we can shrink our way to solvency but you have to grow your way to prosperity. And that's something we believe very strongly here. And we're looking at and we'll continue to look at ways to make that happen and deliver good outcome.

We have one question left, comes from the line of Annabel Samimy of Stifel. Please go ahead.

Hi. Thanks for taking my question. I guess I'm going to try to wrap it up with going back to the initial statement that you made about what exactly is Pernix because right now we've got pediatric, primary care, generic brand, OTC, that's kind of a big black box. And just going forward, where do you see yourself taking this revenue profile? Do you want to be more generics in brand? Do you want to be OTC? Are you getting away from the seasonality of the cough and cold? Have you moved away from the Medicaid market? Can you just give us an idea of what product areas you're looking at to be able to sort of create a profile for Pernix? And --

Sure.

I'll follow-up with another question.

Okay, Annabel. This is actually a question and a theme that I ask myself coming to work in the morning and leaving at night because this really is the essence of what Pernix has to accomplish. And what I would say on that front is the simple questions, yes, we've moved away from Medicaid. It's not critical to our go-forward strategy. And even on products like CEDAX, you can see the remarkable shift over to private pay.

As far as OTC goes, the kind of OTC that we would do in the future would be taking our own products and moving them down the axis to OTC such as with the perspective of Silenor OTC switch. Or we would look at portfolio of products that were cash generating currently that complement such a strategy. We're not interested at this point in doing a bunch of run and spin in the brand building exercise. No matter how well justified in the long run, it's not consistent with the rest of the things we're trying to do.

As far as Pernix goes, as far as brand and generic balance, we love the idea of having a balance of brand and generic. Obviously, we've accomplished that to some extent, generic's lower margin, but it certainly allows you to participate fully in the market. We also love the idea. It's always been original [indiscernible] (51:57) strategy to have the generic division to handle authorized generics and protect our own products over time.

It sounds complicating that we have two brands, Hawthorn and Pernix, one for primary care, one for pediatric. It sounds complicated that we have two labels on generic, Macoven and Cypress. But, in practice, those things are pretty well consolidated internally as far as the management's function and that kind of thing. So, honestly, it's brand and it's generic. But we also are just super focused on this – the core Pernix philosophy – the original Pernix philosophy that we can excel at sale of promotionally sensitive products that are tactically acquired. We do not need at this moment to be pursuing any monstrous, transformative M&A transaction, where we're the ones driving the acquisition game. So that's the answer on what we have to do, focus on the core Pernix mission, the original plan. We can generate good cash returns doing it.

Okay. And just I missed this earlier, but on the generics side, to drive growth in that business, you still have ANDAs that you've maintained in your portfolio? And what was it about the specific assets that you divested that you chose – that those were the right ones to divest rather than keep?

Well, our development focus right now is really on two fronts. It's on the pediatric product that we discussed in detail and then it's also on the Silenor OTC switch. We have a couple other smaller projects that Brian Dorsey, our Head of Development, is shepherding along. But they're lower risk, shorter duration, as far as approval process goes. And so we'll have more to say about that later. But we do have an active internal development component, but we're not actually assuming big risks in that area.

As far as what we sold from Cypress, there's additional consideration which is that there was still some work to be done and some costs to be incurred in bringing along some of the ANDAs that they have. So Breckenridge – I mean, Pernix could find a way to continue on the path and we're certainly pleased with the people we have working at the company on that side, but Breckenridge, also in a very good position to finish that out.

And so, we were able to divest products that not only brought in revenue and – or I should say, not only brought in cash proceeds, but also allowed them to take over the process of bringing the products to the finish line. So part of the Breckenridge transaction is driven by need and how many – and it's a combination of the ones – things they wanted, things we were willing to sell at a price we're willing to sell them at, and then also not being at a position where we had to continue to spend to bring them through.

The thing about what we sold is that there's always some risk to ANDAs. There's always an element of the unknown with generics and how many others eventually maybe launched. I mean, Breckenridge is a super good company and their parent, Esteve, is squarely behind them. They have capabilities. This is good economics for them. It's a give-to-get deal, but there's work to be done. And it's – I guess there's always a risk for Pernix when you sell something and there's always a risk for a buyer when you buy something.

But they're professional buyers. In this case, they know what they're doing. And across the broad portfolio of what they're acquiring, they're going to do very well. But there's always an element of risk in various pockets of what we sold as far as products. You have to be approved. So we did the risk/reward calculus. And we're comfortable that this was a good transaction for us given where we sit today.

Okay, great. Thank you.

And with no further questions, I'd now like to turn the conference back over to Mr. Mike Pearce for any closing remarks.

I'd like to just thank everyone for participating. And, as everybody knows, I have many weaknesses. But one strength I have is I am available to you. So if you have any need to follow-up, Joe Schepers and I and Tracy and the rest of the team are very much available for you. And thank you for riding with the Pernix story and keeping an open mind. And hopefully with it, we'd be able to deliver superior returns for all of our shareholders very soon. Thank you.

Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today's conference. You may all disconnect and have a wonderful day.