Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
John A. Sedor — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Pernix Therapeutics Holdings, Inc.
George P. Jones — Vice President of Sales and Marketing, Pernix Therapeutics Holdings, Inc.
Graham G. Miao — President & Chief Financial Officer, Pernix Therapeutics Holdings, Inc.
Patrick Edward Dolezal — Analyst, LifeSci Capital LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Pernix Therapeutics Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2016 Earnings Conference. My name is Lori, and I will be your event specialist today. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode, and we will conduct a question-and-answer session at the end of prepared remarks. Additional instructions will be provided at that time. As a reminder, today's call is being recorded for replay purposes.

And with us on the call today are John Sedor, Chairman and CEO; Graham Miao, President and Chief Financial Officer; George Jones, Vice President of Sales and Marketing; and Angus Smith, Vice President, Business Development and Strategic Planning of Pernix Therapeutics.

Please be advised that Pernix issued a press release this afternoon containing financial results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2016. The release, including financial tables and reconciliation of non-GAAP financial results, is available on the company's website at www.pernixtx.com. The company also expects to file its Form 10-K with the SEC later today.

During today's call, the company may be making forward-looking statements, and actual results may differ from current expectations. Please note that under Safe Harbor rules, Pernix has no obligation to update the information contained in these forward-looking statements even if actual results or future expectations change materially. The company recommends that you refer to the cautionary statements contained in the SEC filings for a more detailed explanation of the inherent limitation of such forward-looking statements.

And now, it's my pleasure to turn the conference over to John Sedor. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you, Lori. Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today. I'm pleased to have the opportunity to review Pernix' continued progress with you. I'm going to focus the majority of my remarks on the sequential improvement of our business since the beginning of 2016, especially since we restructured our sales force in July. Since that time, our story has been one of commercial execution. Quite simply, we've achieved more with less. Our efforts have produced improvement in both top and bottom line.

In the fourth quarter, adjusted net revenue increased 9% over the third quarter. Importantly, during the fourth quarter, total prescription volumes increased year-over-year for all three core brands; Treximet, Zohydro ER with BeadTek, and Silenor.

In addition, adjusted EBITDA for the fourth quarter of 2016 improved by 49% to approximately $12.5 million as compared to $8.4 million in the third quarter of 2016, and a loss of $1.4 million in the second quarter of 2016. These numbers exclude the impact of the GSK arbitration award, which we will discuss later in this call.

We are pleased with the performance of each of our core brands. Of note, the fourth quarter, Treximet prescriptions increased by 4% sequentially, as compared to the third quarter of 2016 and 1% compared to the fourth quarter of 2015. In addition, Silenor and Zohydro ER prescriptions increased 4% and 11% year-over-year versus quarter four 2015, respectively.

For full year 2016, Treximet prescriptions declined 1% compared to 2015, a significant improvement from the decline we saw in prior years. Silenor and Zohydro ER prescriptions increased 10% and 12% over 2015.

Moving on, we remain focused on identifying potential actions that we might implement in order to improve our financial flexibility and strengthen our balance sheet. While we were unable to reach an agreement with creditors, that was in the best interest of all of our stakeholders in 2016, we continue to evaluate various alternatives that might proactively address our liquidity and capital structure in a constructive manner, including strategic and refinancing alternatives, asset sales, and mergers and acquisitions.

Importantly, we've already executed on certain initiatives including regaining compliance with NASDAQ listing requirements and the appointment of Dr. Graham Miao, Dr. Dennis Langer and Gabe Leung to the company's Board of Directors in the fourth quarter of 2016.

We are pleased to have recently received a favorable opinion in our litigation with Actavis Laboratories regarding a proposed generic version of Zohydro ER. The court ruled that Actavis' proposed generic version of Zohydro ER infringed two patents that cover Zohydro ER. This ruling follows a trial that took place in October of 2016. The judge in the case entered an order enjoining Actavis from engaging in the commercial manufacturing, use, offer to sell, or sale in the United States of Actavis' ANDA product prior to the expiration of the two patents. We believe that this decision confirms the strength and longevity of Zohydro ER patent portfolio.

While Actavis recently submitted a notice of appeal of the decision, we remain confident that the District Court's decision will be affirmed. In addition, we have continued to assess opportunities to improve the abuse-deterrent properties of Zohydro ER, such as licensing of innovative technologies and reformulation.

Before I turn the call over to George Jones for a commercial update, I'd like to review the company's arbitration with GSK. As a reminder, Pernix and GSK have been in arbitration regarding claims [ph] state (06:46) related to the Treximet asset purchase and supply agreement. On January 31, 2017, the arbitration tribunal issued opinions in favor of GSK, awarding it damages and fees in the amount of approximately $35 million, plus interest. The tribunal also denied Pernix's claim that GSK breached its obligation under the supply agreement. Pernix has already paid GSK $16.5 million, which will offset the total award.

On March 17, 2017, we were able to negotiate a final settlement of this matter with GSK by entering into an amendment to the interim settlement agreement between Pernix and GSK. The amendment establishes a payment schedule for satisfaction of the balance of the award it granted to GSK in the arbitration. Pernix and GSK have agreed that the outstanding balance of the award is $21.45 million and that Pernix will pay the award in quarterly installments in amounts totaling $1 million in 2017, $3.5 million in 2018 and $16.9 million in 2019. Graham will review the financial impacts in greater detail later in this call.

With that, let me now turn the call over to George Jones, our Vice President of Sales and Marketing, to discuss our commercial progress.

Thank you, John. As a result of our field force reorganization in mid-2016, we now have one fully integrated sales management team and a national sales force with representatives focusing on either Zohydro ER with BeadTek or Treximet as their primary product. Every representative also promotes Silenor as a secondary product. Our sales representatives remained focused on the highest volume prescribers who have the greatest potential for growth.

For the second consecutive quarters, we've experienced positive commercial results with our recently optimized, more focused sales model. As John stated, similar to the third quarter, the fourth quarter also saw year-over-year growth in quarterly total prescriptions for each of Treximet, Zohydro ER with BeadTek and Silenor.

Reviewing the fourth quarter performance of each of our core products in greater detail, Treximet prescriptions increased by 4% sequentially compared to the third quarter 2016. Year-over-year, total Treximet prescriptions increased by 1% compared to the fourth quarter 2015. This is the second consecutive quarter that we've seen year-over-year growth for a full quarter. This is consistent with the improving trend we have seen over the past seven quarters and a significant improvement from the 25% year-over-year declines when we purchased the product in 2014. Longer term, we continue to proactively plan for the emergence of generic versions of Treximet in the marketplace in 2018. We expect to launch our own authorized generic in February 2018.

As previously stated, we expect to retain significant market share through continued sales of the brand, as well as the introduction of our authorized generic. It is worth noting that our PPD program is now responsible for approximately 25% of Treximet prescriptions. So, we anticipate that this will be a key platform for us to transition patients to our authorized generic.

In a challenging opioid marketplace, total prescriptions of Zohydro ER with BeadTek grew 1% sequentially in the fourth quarter of 2016 from the third quarter of 2016, and total prescriptions were up a solid 11% year-over-year.

We continue to focus on the core messages that we believe differentiates Zohydro ER in the chronic pain market. Those are true 12-hour pain control, with no evidence of that end-of-dose failure, simple 1:1 conversion from IR hydrocodone, as well as no adjustment in start dose for patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment.

As a result of the sales force realignment, Silenor prescriptions in the fourth quarter of 2016 decreased slightly sequentially from the third quarter of 2016. However, we delivered year-over-year growth of 4% versus the fourth quarter of 2015.

We're rolling out a number of initiatives to support the reacceleration of Silenor growth, including the addition of high potential prescribers to our target list and increased incentive compensation leading for our pain sales force. We are confident that this increased focus on qualified sleep prescribers will lead to increased growth for Silenor. Finally, we recently secured a more favorable rebate agreement with an important managed care plan that will improve gross to nets for Silenor going forward.

Looking ahead, we believe Silenor is a good candidate for an OTC conversion. We have already received increase from multiple large cap global pharmaceutical companies interested in discussing this possibility with us as we continue to focus on life cycle management and to maximize the long-term prospects of this brand.

Taking a closer look at our prescription trends, the field force optimization previously implemented continues to have a positive impact on our business. You will recall that in the third quarter, we saw an increase in the call frequency to our top prescribers, as well as in the average calls per day. This continued in the fourth quarter, and the impact of our efforts has translated into higher prescribing and market share for our products overall and more specifically within our targets.

For Treximet, we ended 2016 with market share of 5.7%, within our targets. This is up 24% versus January of 2016. For Zohydro ER with BeadTek, we ended the year with a 1.04% market share, which was up 21% over January 2016. And Silenor was at 1.5%, which was up 24% versus January of 2016.

The number of healthcare professionals prescribing our brands at least once-a-week was up for all three of our brands in Q4 of 2016 versus Q3 of 2016. This continues the trends that we reported on our last earnings call. We believe this demonstrates that our increased call frequency is having a positive impact with healthcare professionals and their comfort level in prescribing our products more in their day-to-day clinical practice.

We are also pleased to report continued strong uptake of Pernix Prescriptions Direct, our prescription fulfillment program. PPD is gaining increased traction as more patients and providers utilize this program, with prescriptions for Treximet and Silenor increasing by more than 13% compared to the third quarter of 2016. The continued rapid growth of PPD during the fourth quarter contributed to improving prescription trends across our portfolio, and we expect this trend to continue in 2017.

As evidence of this, as I mentioned earlier, PPD as a percentage of our total prescriptions has reached 25% for Treximet in recent weeks. This compares to the 19% that we reported in the third quarter. We've also begun working on a pilot of PPD for Zohydro ER with BeadTek. The early results of this pilot have been positive and we are currently working on a larger scale for national rollout.

Finally, as we discussed on our last call, to enhance our sales efforts, we have ramped up our marketing programs to support our three key brands. We continue to meaningfully invest in speaker programs during the fourth quarter and have started 2017 off strong as well. In addition, we've significantly ramped up our targeted direct-to-patient efforts and have recently launched our non-personal sampling program for Treximet to ensure that those healthcare professionals that no longer receive visits from our sales representatives can still obtain starter samples so they can provide to their patients when they're prescribing Treximet.

So, we are very pleased with the progress our commercial team has made in 2016 and look forward to continuing the positive momentum throughout 2017.

I will now turn the call over to our President and CFO, Graham Miao, for a review of the financials. Graham?

Thank you, George. Good afternoon, everyone. As reported in earnings press release this afternoon, we are pleased with the progress the Pernix team has continued to achieve in executing our turnaround strategy. Our vision is to grow our current brands, pursue other growth opportunities and to maximize long-term stakeholder value. In addition, as John said, we have taken actions to cure our NASDAQ listing deficiencies, have now regained compliance.

Now, let me discuss our overall financial results for the fourth quarter of 2016, the sales performance of our core brands and operating results. I will then review our full year 2016 results and address our balance sheet and liquidity in more detail.

As a reminder, in reviewing sales, I will discuss gross to net, an important measure of net sales performance in the pharmaceutical business. For the sake of clarification, if I mention a gross to net of 60%, that means we realized net sales of $0.60 for every $1 of gross sales after discounts, rebates and returns.

Importantly, as a result of the GSK arbitration award and the settlement, when discussing our operating results, I will be using non-GAAP measures, including adjusted net revenues. As stated in our press release, we made certain accruals in our fourth quarter 2016 financial statements to reflect the impact of the GSK arbitration award.

The GSK arbitration award also affected several line items on our income statement, including COGS and G&A expense and interest expense. These accruals relate to sales of Treximet that occurred in 2015 and 2014. Therefore, we believe non-GAAP measures more accurately reflect our underlying business performance.

We use adjusted net revenues to reflect the reclassification of certain gross-to-net adjustments in our 2016 GAAP net revenues to 2015 and 2014. Specifically, GAAP net revenues for the three months and the year ended December 31, 2016, were negatively impacted by $15.3 million of disputed Treximet rebate claims. These claims were recorded in 2016 for sales that occurred in 2015 and 2014, specifically, $12.5 million and $2.8 million for 2015 and 2014, respectively.

During the fourth quarter of 2016, adjusted net revenues for the company were $45.4 million, an increase of 9% from $41.5 million in the third quarter of 2016, and an increase of 4% from $43.8 million year-over-year in the fourth quarter of 2015. The sequential increase in adjusted net revenues was driven by several factors, including favorable gross to net for our generic portfolio, stronger demand for our three core brands and the wholesaler inventory restocking, partially offset by lower gross to nets.

The year-over-year increase during the fourth quarter was primarily attributable to favorable gross to nets for our generic portfolio, increase of volumes for our three core brands, partially offset by a decrease in net price.

Now, let's look at the specifics for each major product. For Treximet, adjusted net revenues were stable during the fourth quarter of 2016, compared to the third quarter of 2016 and the fourth quarter of 2015. Full year 2016 gross to nets for Treximet on an adjusted basis were 45%. For Silenor, fourth quarter 2016 net sales were down slightly as compared to the third quarter of 2016 and the fourth quarter of 2015. Full year 2016 gross to nets for Silenor were 30%.

For Zohydro ER, net sales increased sequentially by $1.1 million or 18% during the fourth quarter of 2016 compared to the third quarter of 2016. Year-over-year, Zohydro net sales were stable. While total prescription volume grew 11% year-over-year, net sales growth was negatively impacted by wholesaler inventory changes. Full year 2016 gross to nets for Zohydro ER were 66%.

Gross margin for the company on an adjusted basis in the fourth quarter of 2016 was 75%, up from 74% in the third quarter of 2016, due primarily to an increase in sales and up from 68% in the fourth quarter a year ago, primarily due to product mix.

SG&A expense, adjusted for legal fees related to the GSK arbitration, remained flat at 24.2%, up to $1 million this quarter, the same as in the prior-year period.

R&D expense for the fourth quarter of 2016 was $0.9 million compared to $2.6 million in the prior-year period. The decrease was related to lower spend for Treximet and the Silenor. Fourth quarter 2016 adjusted EBITDA was $12.5 million, an increase of 49% from $8.4 million in the third quarter, and a 60% from $7.8 million in the prior-year period.

Let me now briefly review our full year 2016 operating results. Full year 2016 adjusted net revenues were $156.1 million as compared to full year 2015 adjusted net revenues of $163.4 million, a decrease of 4%. This decrease was primarily driven by a $7.1 million decrease in adjusted net Treximet sales, $4.1 million decrease in other product revenues, and a $4 million decrease in Silenor net sales, partially offset by an $8.2 million increase in Zohydro net sales.

Full year 2016 adjusted net revenues for Treximet were $82.2 million as compared to $89.3 million in 2015, a decrease of 8%. The decrease was driven primarily by changes in wholesale inventory, as well as a decrease in prescription volume, partially offset by favorable net pricing.

Full year 2016 sales of Silenor were $16.9 million as compared to $20.9 million for 2015, a decrease of 19%. The change in Silenor in net revenues was driven by changes in wholesaler inventory and a reduction in net price, offset by a 10% increase in prescription volume.

Full year 2016 sales of Zohydro ER were $24.7 million as compared to $16.5 million for 2015, an increase of 50%, including a 12% increase in prescription volume. As a reminder, Pernix acquired Zohydro ER in April 2015, with the first sale of the product in May 2015.

On a comparable eight months – over eight months basis, Zohydro ER net revenues increased by 9%. Adjusted gross margins for full year 2016 increased to 71% from 70% in 2015. Adjusted SG&A expense, excluding the impact of the GSK arbitration award was $97.8 million for the full year 2016 as compared to $97.4 million in 2015. The increase was driven by legal expenses and it was partially offset by a decrease in selling and marketing expenses.

R&D expense for the full year 2016 was $6.1 million as compared to $8.2 million in 2015. This decrease was due primarily to lower spend for Treximet and Zohydro. Full year 2016 adjusted EBITDA was at $15 million as compared to $20 million in 2015.

Now, let me turn to our financial condition. As John stated, we are working to improve our financial flexibility and strengthen our balance sheet. As of December 31, 2016, the company had a total liquidity of approximately $53 million.

In 2016, to strengthen our balance sheet, we raised the capital under our controlled equity program for net proceeds of $19.7 million. Our settlement with GSK, which allows us to pay the award over three years with only $1 million due in 2017, will have a significant positive impact on our liquidity in the near term.

Total principal amount of debt outstanding at December 31, 2016, was approximately $334 million and net debt was $298 million. The total principal amount of debt consisted of approximately $190 million of 12% senior secured notes, $130 million of 4.25% convertible notes and $14 million under our revolving credit facility. On February 1, 2017, we made a semiannual principal and interest payment of approximately $24 million on our 12% senior secured notes per the terms of indenture.

As discussed earlier, we continue to analyze various alternatives in order to proactively address our liquidity and capital structure in a constructive manner, including strategic and the refinancing alternatives, asset sales, and mergers and acquisitions.

I would now turn the call back to John Sedor. John?

Thank you, Graham. To summarize, the changes we have implemented over the last eight months in sales and marketing execution and improvements in our cost structure continue to have a positive impact on our adjusted net revenues and adjusted EBITDA. We remain focused on continuing to improve our commercial execution and drive growth of our key brands. In addition, we continue to pursue opportunities to improve our operating cash flow and address our balance sheet. We are committed to creating long-term stakeholder value and look forward to a successful 2017.

With that, I will turn the call over to the operator to open up the line for Q&A.

Thank you, sir. [Operator Instructions] And we'll go first to Patrick Dolezal at LifeSci Capital.

Hi. Just one quick question here. I was just wondering if you guys might be able to talk a little bit about some of the broader implications of the PPD program.

Yeah. This is George Jones. I'll be glad to address that question. The PPD – in today's pharmaceutical market getting branded medications has become even more challenging for prescribers. Our PPD program makes it easier for them to access – ensures access of the branded product at the pharmacy, as well as alleviates a lot of the burden that the office has to – may have to undertake to get a branded product. So, that has allowed our target prescriptions to more freely prescribe Treximet and Silenor and enhance their prescribing overall, grow their prescribing overall.

Thank you.

And gentlemen, that appears we have no further questions at this time. I'll turn the program back over to you for any additional or concluding remarks.

Thank you, Lori. I think, again, I just want to commit to our stakeholders that we are focused on driving this company forward and look forward to talking to you at the end of next quarter. Thank you.

And ladies and gentlemen, once again, that does conclude today's program. And again, I'd like to thank everyone for joining us today.