Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Graham G. Miao — President & Chief Financial Officer, Pernix Therapeutics Holdings, Inc.
George Jones — Vice President of Marketing, Pernix Therapeutics Holdings, Inc.
Angus Smith — Vice President, Business Development and Strategic Planning, Pernix Therapeutics Holdings, Inc.
Difei Yang — Analyst, Brean Capital LLC
Serge D. Belanger — Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the Pernix Therapeutics' Second Quarter 2016 Earnings Conference Call. My name is Gwen, and I will be your event specialist today. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. We will conduct a Q&A session at the end of the prepared remarks, and additional instructions will be provided at that time. As a reminder, this call is being recorded for replay purposes.

On the call today are Graham Miao, President and Chief Financial Officer; George Jones, Vice President of Sales and Marketing; and Angus Smith, Vice President, Business Development and Strategic Planning of Pernix Therapeutics.

Please be advised that Pernix issued a press release this afternoon containing financial results for the quarter ending June 30, 2016. The release, including the financial tables and reconciliation of non-GAAP financial results is available on the company's website at www.pernixtx.com. The company also expects to file its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q with the SEC later today.

During today's call, the company will be making forward-looking statements and actual results may differ from current expectations. Please note that under Safe Harbor rules, Pernix has no obligation to update the information contained in these forward-looking statements, even if actual results or future expectations change materially.

The company recommends that you refer to the cautionary statements contained in the SEC filings for a more detailed explanation of the inherent limitations of such forward-looking statements.

I would now like to turn the call over to Graham Miao. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you, Gwen. Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today. I apologize John Sedor, our Chairman and CEO is not able to join us today due to a family emergency.

Let me begin by saying that John and I are very excited to join Pernix. We look forward to working with the talented and dedicated Pernix team to create new growth opportunities and move the company forward.

Earlier today, we released our financial results for the second quarter of 2016. As you know, John was appointed Chairman and Interim CEO of Pernix in early May and had previously served as a board member for the company for two years. Just a few weeks ago, we announced a reorganization of the company's senior management team, intended to improve Pernix efficiency, drive profitability and position the company for future growth.

As part of those changes, John is now serving as CEO on a permanent basis. After serving as a senior advisor to Pernix's Board of Directors since May, I am now serving as President and CFO. I have the responsibility for finance, operations, regulatory and scientific affairs. John Sedor has a distinguished career of over 40 years in specialty and generic pharmaceuticals and biotech.

Specifically, John has been a senior leader and deeply involved in a turnaround of multiple pharmaceutical companies. His prior experience includes roles as President and CEO of Sandoz, North America; CEO of Cangene Corporation; President and CEO of Bentley Pharmaceuticals; President and CEO of Centeon Pharmaceuticals, a joint venture between Rhône-Poulenc and Hoechst; and President of Armour Pharmaceutical.

Over the last 20 years, I have been CFO and held other senior management roles at several publicly traded healthcare companies, including Pharmacia and Schering-Plough I have extensive experience in running public companies and leading global chains with responsibilities in finance and operations, mostly recently at PDI and prior to that at Delcath Systems, a specialty pharmaceutical and a medical device company. I look forward to working with John and the rest of the Pernix team to move the company forward and to build shareholder value.

Since John joined as CEO, we have worked hard with our team to undertake an in-depth review of Pernix's products, sales trends, productivity of our sales and marketing efforts, internal cost structure and personnel. In parallel, we are conducting an analysis of financial condition and identifying potential actions that we could execute on in order to improve our financial flexibility and strengthen our balance sheet.

While all this work remains ongoing, we are beginning to achieve important progress on several fronts, including improving script trends for our core products and increasing the adoption of a Pernix Prescriptions Direct or our PPD program, which we will discuss shortly.

First, let me discuss our in-depth review of Pernix's operations, which led us to take a number of actions that we believe will position Pernix more advantageously for the future.

When reviewing our commercial operations, we identified several opportunities to better align our sales force and improve commercial execution. As a result, we have taken several actions to realign the organization and improve the company's ability to execute on our growth strategy. Specifically, we reorganized Pernix's sales force, including a reduction of 54 positions, with most of these reductions from neurology team.

Overall, we reduced the company's total full-time workforce by approximately 23%. We increased our focus on the highest prescribing specialists and de-emphasized the less productive primary care audience to maximize the value of Treximet. In the pain area, which will become a greater emphasis for Pernix, we have retained our sales force head count and increased our coverage for Zohydro ER prescriptions.

Similar to our strategy for Treximet, we are refocusing our efforts on the highest prescribing specialists with whom we have a significant opportunity to accelerate our growth. Additionally, we have flattened our sales and the marketing organization to improve efficiency and execution, which we believe will not compromise our ability to grow our key brands.

Going forward, our focus will be on enhancing revenue growth for our current brand, especially Zohydro ER with BeadTek which we view as a major value driver for Pernix, as well as pursuing other growth opportunities.

We anticipate that this restructuring, combined with the reorganization of our senior management team, will result in annualized cost of savings of approximately $11 million. We believe our management and sales force structure now optimally position Pernix for future revenue growth and profitability.

Let me now turn the call over to George Jones, our Vice President of Sales and Marketing to discuss our commercial progress.

Thank you, Graham.

Since John and Graham came on board, we've addressed a number of challenges. Importantly, after our review, we determined that our sales territories were extremely large and not optimally aligned.

Our sales force is spending a significant amount of time driving from prescriber to prescriber, which led to substantial inefficiencies and sales calls on prescribers with lower prescribing volumes. We also evaluated our sales management structure that consisted of two distinct management team covering the same geographies. We deem this structure inefficient and suboptimal for execution, especially for company our size.

As a result, we have optimized our field force and fully implemented these changes. We now have one fully integrated sales management team and a national sales force with specialists focusing on either Zohydro ER or Treximet as their primary product. Every sales specialists promotes Silenor as a secondary product.

As part of the optimization, we have focused our sales specialists on the highest volume prescribers who have the greatest potential for growth. It's worth nothing that despite the neurology sales force reduction, we expect to sustain the coverage of a large majority of high-volume Treximet prescribers, with only about 14% of Treximet prescriptions expected to be impacted.

Moving to our pain sales force, we expect the optimization will enable us to increase our coverage of Zohydro ER with BeadTek prescriptions by 19%, while shifting our focus to the highest value pain specialist, with whom we have significant opportunity to accelerate our brand growth.

With that, I'd like to highlight some of our key commercial accomplishments for the second quarter. First, we saw accelerating prescription growth for our three core brands during the quarter. Treximet prescriptions increased by approximately 7% compared to the first quarter of 2016. While prescriptions decreased by 1% compared to the second quarter of 2015, prescriptions for the month of June increased 1% compared to June 2015, consistent with the improving trend we have observed since April 2015.

This marks the first time since 2010 that Treximet have shown year-over-year growth on a monthly basis and is significant considering the brand was declining 25% year-over-year [indiscernible] (12:35). Silenor TRx grew 7% sequentially from Q1 2016, and had year-over-year growth of 15% in Q2 2016 versus Q2 2015. We want to highlight for our investors that we were recently notified by Symphony Health that prescriptions for Treximet and Silenor were overstated from May and June – May/June and the first three weeks of July 2016, due to their miscalculation of our PPD prescriptions.

We have been told that our weekly and monthly data for these periods will be restated by the end of August and the growth rates referenced above are based on Symphony's best estimate for the impact of the restatement.

Regarding Zohydro ER with BeadTek, TRx grew 11% sequentially from Q1 2016 with year-over-year growth of 11%. Importantly, this growth accelerated during the quarter, with Zohydro ER with BeadTek prescriptions reaching an all-time high for the month of June of 15% increase from June 2015.

Second, we are pleased to report the strong uptake of our Pernix Prescriptions Direct or PPD, our prescription fulfillment program. PPD is gaining increased traction as more patients utilize the program, with the prescriptions in the program for Treximet and Silenor increasing by more than 80% compared to the first quarter 2016.

We believe the rapid growth of PPD during the second quarter contributed to the improving prescription trends across our portfolio. Due to the improved patient convenience and access to our medications, we expect to see continued growth in PPD. In recent weeks, PPD as a percentage of our total prescriptions has reached over 15% for Treximet and 10% for Silenor. This compares favorably to the 11% for Treximet and the 7% for Silenor that we reported on the first quarter earnings call.

Third, we are pleased to report that Pernix products have retained their formulary positions for 2017 at both Express Scripts, and CVS/caremark, the two largest pharmacy benefit managers in the U.S. We expect that this bodes well for continued growth momentum into 2017.

I will now turn the call back over to Graham.

Thanks, George.

I would now like to provide an update on our R&D program. We have conducted a careful assessment of our research and development program since John and I came on board. As a result of this assessment, we announced this afternoon that we are discontinuing the development of a new formulation of Treximet that we had indented to launch prior to generic entry in early 2018.

The company recently experienced a delay related to the manufacturing of our proposed new formulation, and based on the revised development timeline we do not believe the required spending on this program can achieve an acceptable return on investment.

While we expect to realize near-term cost savings, we still believe that Treximet and our authorized generic will be important components of our product portfolio. We believe that this two-pronged strategy will enable us to retain approximately 30% of Treximet net sales in 2018 and approximately 20% in 2019 and 2020, as compared to our sales estimates for 2017. We also expect that both net sales and profitability per prescription will increase for the brand as managed care rebates expires beginning in 2018 and due to a reduction in the royalty rate from 18% to 5%.

Regarding Zohydro ER lifecycle management, as a reminder the company inherited a development program for Zohydro ER with BeadTek as part of the acquisition of Zohydro ER in 2015. Several key studies designed to highlight some of the above abuse-deterrent characteristics of Zohydro ER with BeadTek have been completed.

The first study was a Category 1 study to evaluate Zohydro ER with BeadTek for susceptibility to physical manipulation and chemical extraction of hydrocodone compared to the original formulation of Zohydro ER. The study demonstrated that injection by needles and syringes of various sizes is deterred in Zohydro ER with BeadTek.

And that Zohydro ER with BeadTek deters abuse via common means such as crushing, grinding, and dissolving in commonly available in other aqueous and non-aqueous solvents. Further, all formulations studied were seen to decompose when heated, indicating abuse by inhalation of vapor will not be effective.

In a separate Category 3 intranasal Human Abuse Liability study, we assessed the abuse potential of crushed Zohydro ER with BeadTek capsules administered intranasally to nondependent, recreational opioid users with intranasal experience.

The primary objective of the study was to assess the abuse potential of crushed Zohydro ER with BeadTek compared to the original formulation of Zohydro ER, with secondary objectives comparing Zohydro ER with BeadTek and the original formulation, to hydrocodone API and placebo.

The study demonstrated a statistically significant reduction in drug liking for Zohydro ER with BeadTek compared to the original formulation, thus meeting the primary objective of the study. However, the difference in drug liking compared to hydrocodone API was not statistically significant and the secondary endpoints did not demonstrate statistical significance.

While these study results support some of the abuse-deterrent properties of Zohydro ER with BeadTek, most notably the potential to deter intravenous abuse, we believe an opportunity exists to strengthen the properties of the product. As a result, we have prioritized the development of a next generation version of Zohydro ER with enhanced abuse-deterrent characteristics.

The recent strengthening of our intellectual property portfolio for Zohydro ER through 2033 has allowed us to consider several options for our next generation product with enhanced abuse-deterrent properties.

Moving to Silenor, we presented positive data from a Phase IV Study of Silenor at the SLEEP 2016 International meeting, which took place in Denver, Colorado in mid June. The Phase IV study assessed the effects of nighttime administration of Silenor versus generic Ambien and placebo, on arousability, gait, balance, and cognitive performance, after going to sleep, in 52 healthy male volunteers.

The result of the study demonstrated that Silenor was statistically superior to generic Ambien on all measures studied. In addition, the results also indicated that subject taking Silenor did not have impairment on any of these performance measures and we're comparable to placebo.

One of the most interesting findings in the study was that a majority of the subject in the generic Ambien group did not wake up until they were exposed to noise of at least 110 decibels, which is similar to that of a jackhammer. The results of this head-to-head study further support certain key benefits of Silenor, and we are encouraged by these data.

Moving on to our intellectual property estate, we have significantly improved our IP for Zohydro ER with issuance of three additional patents in the second quarter, bringing the total number of patents to seven, all of which are Orange Book listed.

In total, we now have four patents that cover important safety information related to a method of dosing patients with hepatic impairment with hydrocodone. These four patents expire on July 25, 2033. As a reminder, we filed a citizen petition with the FDA earlier this year, which requested that the FDA refused to approve any ANDA or 505(b)(2) NDA citing Zohydro ER as a listed drug, and seeking to omit from its proposed labeling safety-related information protected by our patent. Pernix is continuing to invest in this brand and we currently have six additional patent applications pending relating to Zohydro ER.

Now, let me turn to our financial update. I will discuss our overall financial results for the second quarter 2016, the sales performance of our core brand and operating expenses, and I will then address our balance sheet and the liquidity in detail. In reviewing sales, I will discuss gross to net an important measure of net sales performance in the pharmaceutical business.

For the sake of clarity, if I mention a gross to net of 55%, that means, we realized net sales of $0.55 for every dollar of gross sales after discounts, rebates and returns. As stated in our press release issued this afternoon, net revenue was $36.7 million during the second quarter of 2016, an increase of 13% from $32.5 million in the first quarter of 2016, and a decrease of 22% from $47 million in the second quarter of prior year.

The sequential increase in net sales was driven by stronger demand for our three core brands and a favorable gross to net, offset by wholesaler inventory reductions. The year-over-year decrease during the second quarter was primarily attributable to wholesaler inventory reductions and higher revenue deductions for managed care rebates, partially offset by higher pricing.

Now, let's look at the specifics for each major product. For Treximet, net sales increased sequentially by $1.5 million, or 9% during the three months ended June 30, 2016, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016.

Year-over-year, compared to the three months ended June 30, 2015, net sales declined $7.7 million, or 30%. However, we are pleased to report that Treximet's gross to net improved sequentially in the second quarter of 2016 to almost 47%. We believe that we will sustain Treximet gross to net in the mid to high 40s% level for the full year 2016.

Net sales of Silenor increased sequentially by $0.6 million, or 17% during the three months ended June 30, 2016, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016. Year-over-year compared to the three months ended June 30 in the prior year, net sales decreased by $1.8 million, or 31%. Silenor gross to net were 33%, consistent with the first quarter. We expect gross to net for Silenor to be in the mid 30s% for the full year 2016.

Turning to Zohydro ER, net sales increased sequentially by $0.4 million or 7%, during the three months ended June 30, 2016, compared to the three months ended March 31 this year. Year-over-year Zohydro net sales increased $1.9 million or 48% compared to the prior year period. This increase was due to an increasing demand as well as the impact of full quarter of sales in the three months ended June 30, 2016 as opposed to two months of sales in the prior year period when Zohydro ER was acquired. Our gross to net for Zohydro was 69% during the second quarter. We expect [ph] a growth from that (29:55), for Zohydro ER for the full-year 2016 to be in the mid to high 60s%.

Gross profit as a percent of net revenue for the second quarter of 2016 was 66.8%, up from 65.4% in the first quarter of this year, due primarily to higher net sales of Treximet and the impact of a minimum royalty on Treximet net sales. The 2016 second quarter gross profit of 66.8% was down from 70.6% during the second quarter of 2015, due to lower gross to net on our core products and impact of our minimum royalty on Treximet net sales.

SG&A expenses was $25.5 million this quarter, compared to $24.9 million in prior year period. The increase in SG&A was driven primarily by the additional of the Zohydro ER sales force and related to selling and marketing expense for the full quarter versus the two-months in the second quarter of 2015.

R&D expense for the second quarter of 2016 was $2.5 million, compared to $1.5 million in a prior year period. The increase was related to the increased spending for Treximet and Zohydro ER, consistent with prior quarters, we are reporting at adjusted operating results, which are non-GAAP measures that we believe are important for evaluating our business performance.

Second quarter 2016 adjusted EBITDA was negative $1.4 million. This compares to negative $4.5 million in the first quarter of this year and a positive adjusted EBITDA of $7.5 million for the prior year period. We expect the recent restructuring of our sales force and management team will result in continued improvement in adjusted EBITDA for the reminder of the year.

Now let me turn to our financial condition. We are working to improve our financial flexibility and strengthen our balance sheet. As of June 30, 2016, the company had a total liquidity of $40.8 million, consisting of $29.2 million of cash and approximately $11.6 million available to draw under its $50 million revolving credit facility.

Total principal amount of debt outstanding at the end of the quarter was $339 million and net debt was approximately $310 million. The total principal amount of debt consisted of $195 million of 12% senior secured note, $130 million of 4.25% convertible notes, and $14 million under our revolving credit facility. On August 1, this year, we made a $17 million payment on our 12% senior secured notes, including approximately $12 million of interest and a $5 million to pay down the principal of the notes.

To further strengthen our balance sheet, the company utilized its controlled equity offering program to access the capital market and raised approximately $12 million through the issuance of approximately 24 million shares of common stock during the three months ended June 30, 2016.

To continue to improve our financial flexibility, we have retained advisors to explore options to restructure our debt and assess other potential alternatives in order to maximize value for all stakeholders. As I discussed earlier, we are in early stages of implementing changes to stabilize the business and drive growth. While we made important progress thus far, we are not yet in a position to provide full-year guidance.

To summarize, over the last three months, we have completed an initial assessment of our products, sales and marketing execution and cost structure. We expect the recently completed changes will allow us to be more efficient and bolster the performance of our core brands.

Going forward, our key priority for the company is to continue to improve our commercial execution and drive growth of our key brand. In addition, we're pursuing opportunities to improve our operating cash flow and explore new growth opportunities, while engaging with our lenders to address our balance-sheet. We believe we have a number of options at our disposal to create value for our stakeholders. And we look forward to executing on these initiatives in the near future.

With that, I would now turn the call over to the operator to open up the line for Q&A.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And we'll go first to Difei Yang with Brean Capital.

Hey, good afternoon. Thanks for taking my questions. So just [ph] top order (37:23). First one is on the – could you provide visibility on roughly the timeframe where you think that resolution or at least the pathway becomes clear? Would it be before next February?

Yes, we have – this is Graham. Thank you, Difei, for your question. We have just begun the process. And although we are not putting a handicap to the exact timing, but we do have a sense of urgency to work on it and with our lenders and all stakeholders and to come up with a solution and ultimately that will help us improve our financial flexibility.

Okay. Thank you. So then moving on to Zohydro ER, so 2016 was the first year that Zohydro ER was off the exclusion list. So can you comment on what are you seeing prescription trend-wise, and what are you hearing from this field with regard to how easy it is to prescribing Zohydro ER relative to a year ago? Thank you.

You're welcome. Thank you. This is George Jones, and I'll take that question. Being off the exclusionary list with ESI has marked a huge improvement of our access situation for Zohydro ER. We evaluate our market share within the ESI plan month-after-month. And in early March we surpassed the national average in terms of Zohydro ER market share within that plan. And that's a vast improvement from where we exited 2015.

The feedback from our field representatives is that, it has become much easier for their customers to gain access to Zohydro ER in this new environment but we continue to work with our other managed care plans to improve our access all the time.

Okay. Thank you.

And we'll take our next question from Serge Belanger with Needham & Company.

Hi. Good afternoon. Just a couple of questions. I know you wanted to stay away at this point from providing guidance going forward. But there's been a lot of changes, both at the top of the company and also on the ground. Just wanted to, if you could, I guess, frame what we should expect on, at least, for the second half of this year in terms of the top line?

Yes. Hi, Serge, it's Graham. Thank you for the question. The way we look at it so far in the second quarter, we are very encouraged by the improving trend across all three core brands in terms of prescription volume and demand.

And the first quarter, as you see, the actual performance took a dip because of year-over-year comparison to last year, some inventory destocking. For the remainder of the year, while we have not given guidance, but if you look at the growing trend across the brand, so second half versus the first half, we'll continue to see the growth momentum for the second half of the year.

Okay. And then you mentioned on the call you issued about 24 million shares during the second quarter. Just wanted to know what is the capacity of this equity offering program?

The capacity we have – just a second, Angus? Yes.

Yes. Sure. This is Angus Smith, Vice President of Business Development and Strategic Planning. It's a $100 million program in total. And as we mentioned, we issued about $12 million of that during the quarter.

Okay. So there is $88 million remaining. This was the first $12 million...

Yes, first time we utilized the program.

Okay, got it. Thank you.

You're welcome. [Operator Instructions]

We'll take our next question from [indiscernible] (42:19).

Hey, thanks for taking my questions. I was wondering what the timeline is for development of Zohydro with BeadTek, and you may have mentioned this, but how do you plan to transition sales to this product from the current Zohydro?

So we are currently evaluating various options to enhance our abuse-deterrent properties. And as a reminder, the current approved version Zohydro ER with BeadTek does have abuse-deterrent characteristics and property, such as the study that we just talked about on the call, intravenous abuse-deterrent properties.

Going forward, we will take a full advantage of our strong intellectual property position that we have and continue to invest in this brand through a lifecycle management project. So we are – this is an active area for us to continue to strengthen the brand and then add additional abuse-deterrent and other innovative features to the product.

Got it. Thanks. And then in terms of Silenor, how are you using the new data versus Ambien in the field, and what's the feedback that you're receiving on this?

Yes, this is George Jones, Vice President of Sales and Marketing. The feedback, we're not yet using this data with our representatives in this field, because it hasn't been published yet in a peer-reviewed journal and that's one of the thresholds that you need to promote with data.

But when we presented the data at the SLEEP Meeting in Denver in June, the feedback was phenomenal from the KOLs and the attendees at this program, some of them calling this groundbreaking data in the field of sleep medicine. So we are very excited about this data and encouraged, and evaluating how we're going to use it in the field than our commercial activities.

And [ph] Sam (44:38), just to add up to what George said, we are planning and in the process of publishing the results hopefully this year.

Okay. Thanks.

And that concludes our question-and-answer session at this time. I'd like to turn the conference back to our speakers for any closing remarks.

Hi. This is Graham. I would like to thank you for joining this call. And we look forward to updating you during the next quarterly call.

Thank you, everyone. That does conclude today's conference. We thank you for your participation.