Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Douglas L. Drysdale — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Pernix Therapeutics Holdings, Inc.
Sanjay S. Patel — Chief Financial Officer, Pernix Therapeutics Holdings, Inc.
Elliot H. Wilbur — Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC
Louise A. Chen — Analyst, Guggenheim Securities LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Pernix Therapeutics Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call. My name is Shannon and I will be your event specialist today. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. We will conduct a question-and-answer session at the end of the prepared remarks. And additional instructions will be provided at that time. As a reminder, this call is being recorded for replay purposes.

On the call today is Doug Drysdale, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Sanjay Patel, Chief Financial Officer.

Please be advised that Pernix has issued a press release this morning containing financial results for the quarter ending September 30, 2014. The release, including the financial tables and reconciliation of non-GAAP financial results is available on the company's website at www.pernixtx.com. The company also expects to file its current report on Form 10-Q with the SEC by the end of the day.

During today's call the company will be making forward-looking statements and it's possible that actual results could differ materially from current expectations. Please note that under the Safe Harbor rules, Pernix is under no obligation to update the information contained in these forward-looking statements even if actual results or future expectations change materially.

The company recommends that you refer to the cautionary statements contained in the SEC filings for a more detailed explanation of the inherent presentations of such forward-looking statements. The company will also discuss non-GAAP financial measures during the call. A reconciliation of the company's non-GAAP financial measures can be found in the earnings release issued today.

At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to Doug Drysdale, to begin the discussion of Pernix quarterly performance. Doug?

Thank you. Good morning, and welcome to the Pernix Therapeutics third quarter 2014 conference call. I'll be providing an update on our business activities and our progress since the close of the second quarter. Sanjay will then provide a more detailed description of our third quarter financial results.

As you've likely seen in our press release, this has been a very strong quarter in which we've seen significant growth driven by our specialty brands, TREXIMET and SILENOR, as well as improving costs from our ongoing restructuring initiatives leading to meaningful top line and bottom line growth.

Specifically, the company's third quarter net revenues grew by approximately 72% versus the same period last year. Excluding TREXIMET and the impact of discontinued and divested products, net sales for the quarter were up 20% year-over-year. Our year-to-date results continued to be strong as well with sales advancing 11.4% compared to 2013.

The success we've achieved year-to-date clearly demonstrates that our current strategy for growth along with our restructuring activities to transform Pernix have been effective. Accordingly, we are reaffirming our guidance for 2014, as well as 2015. Sanjay will cover in greater detail our guidance later in the call.

Now to the discussion of the business. The third quarter of 2014 saw tremendous progress towards Pernix's transformation to the specialty focus pharmaceutical company, most significantly with the completed acquisition of TREXIMET. While we expect full year 2014 sales from non-core, branded, and generics products to be relatively flat year-over-year comprising a solid base business, we expect our specialty brands TREXIMET and SILENOR to be key growth drivers.

With the addition of TREXIMET, we've expanded our sales team to 100 territories to help drive future growth. The aligned sales force optimized for TREXIMET targets was trained and prepared to promote TREXIMET prior to the close of the transaction.

Third quarter net sales TREXIMET was $16.3 million based on a one month of active promotion by the Pernix sales force, and including some initial restocking in the wholesale and retail channels. Initial selling efforts are being well received and feedback from the field force, physicians, and patients has been encouraging.

Weekly prescription counts for our insomnia brand, SILENOR, have increased over 30% since we began promoting the product with our original smaller sales team in May. As awareness of the SILENOR product profile increases, following the recent launch of our revised marketing campaign, both physicians and patients are realizing the benefit of SILENOR over traditionally used sleep aids.

Our expanded sales team is primarily focused on selling TREXIMET and SILENOR. With the addition of 25 new geographies where Pernix was previously absent, we believe we are well positioned to drive volume growth and achieve our sales goals. We have also engaged a contract sales force to promote CEDAX, our cephalosporin product during the cough and cold season. This contract sales force is an addition to select Pernix territories where our representatives continue to promote CEDAX, providing a total of 148 sales professionals behind the CEDAX brand.

Our business development activity is continuing the solid pace as we evaluate and pursue opportunities in adjacent and complementary specialty areas. Our deal pipeline is dynamic and contains on average around 30 active deals at any one time. We have several active offers out, and we continue to work in a disciplined manner to acquire valuable new assets for the company.

Regarding our product development activities, Pernix is on track to submit an sNDA for the use of TREXIMET in adolescent patients by the end of this month, with an approval expected in 2015. We have also commenced the development of an alternative dose version of TREXIMET aimed at extending its exclusivity beyond 2018.

For SILENOR, we have initiated an arousability study that will compare cognitive function upon nighttime awakening in patients taking SILENOR versus Zolpidem. Additionally, given the safety profile of SILENOR, we plan to continue our development program for taking SILENOR over-the-counter. More details will be provided on our SILENOR OTC switch plans as we firm up that program likely in the first quarter of 2015.

Our development program for OTIC, acute otitis media has seen the completion on a Phase 2B trial in the U.S. and the database was locked in September of this year, with results expected around year-end.

Finally, a 510-K response for Hylira for wound healing was resubmitted in September 2014, and the application was considered acceptable by the agency.

Enhancing efficiencies, productivity, and executional excellence across Pernix Therapeutics continue to be important mechanisms to improve our profitability. We're already seeing quantifiable benefits from these efforts, which are reflected in our results year-to-date.

Our management team has made impressive progress behind the scenes to improve processes and procedures, as well as to add or upgrade talent where appropriate. These actions have created a very strong platform capable of managing additional product assets that we may acquire.

In summary, our third quarter and year-to-date results show increasing promise for a strong full year of earnings. We continually strive to deliver shareholder value, and we remain focused on accelerating revenue growth and profitability.

Now, let me turn the call over to Sanjay to provide more detail on our quarterly results and provide further detail on our guidance. Sanjay?

Thank you, Doug. And again, welcome to everyone on the call. We are pleased to report that strategic initiatives undertaken earlier this year are starting to positively impact our financial results.

As Doug mentioned, strong net sales for TREXIMET during the month of September, as well as continued performance for SILENOR for the full quarter drove significant top-line growth. This combined with improved efficiencies in our selling, general and administrative functions contributed to positive cash flow this quarter.

As you'll see in this morning's release, net sales this quarter were $31.5 million, which represents an 81% increase versus the previous quarter and a 72% increase versus the third quarter of 2013. Our gross profit margin for the third quarter of 2014 was 62.9% compared to 47.7% for the same quarter last year. The increase this quarter was driven by a significantly improved product mix.

Total operating expense this quarter excluding amortization was $15.4 million compared to $12.6 million for the same quarter last year. Third quarter operating expense included SG&A expense of $15 million compared to $11.7 million in the same period last year. The overall increase in SG&A was driven by additional marketing and selling expenses for TREXIMET and SILENOR. Despite the increase, SG&A as a percent of net sales was 48% this quarter compared to 64% in the prior year.

Excluding amortization and marketing, operating expense for the quarter was down 12% year-over-year. R&D expense for the third quarter of 2014 was approximately $300,000, reflecting continued development for OTIC and Hylira, as well as lifecycle management efforts for SILENOR, The SILENOR OTC development programs and commencement of TREXIMET lifecycle management initiatives.

On a GAAP basis, net loss for the third quarter of 2014 was $11.7 million or $0.31 per share compared to a net loss of $5.8 million or $0.16 per share for the same quarter last year. Consistent with prior quarters we are reporting adjusted operating results which are non-GAAP measures that we believe are important for evaluating our financial results.

This quarter, our adjusted EBITDA was $6.9 million compared to a loss of $2 million for the same period last year. Our adjusted non-GAAP net loss was $0.02 per share versus $0.07 per share in the third quarter of 2013. This quarter included $8.2 million of amortization expense associated with the acquisition of TREXIMET intellectual property and is excluded from our adjusted figures. For the nine-month period ended September 30, 2014, net sales were $67.9 million compared with net sales of $60.9 million for the same period last year.

Adjusted EBITDA for the first nine months of 2014 was $1 million and our adjusted non-GAAP net loss was $0.18 per share. As of September 30, 2014, we had cash on hand of $16.4 million with $303 million of debt, including $65 million of convertible notes and $220 million of TREXIMET notes.

Today, we would like to reaffirm our financial guidance for 2014 and 2015 with the addition of TREXIMET, Pernix estimates fiscal 2014 revenue to be in the range of $110 million to $120 million with adjusted EBITDA of $22 million to $24 million. Pernix expects fiscal 2015 revenue will be approximately $230 million with adjusted EBITDA of approximately $95 million.

This concludes my prepared remarks. I will now ask the operator to open the line for questions. [Operator Instructions]

Our first question is from Elliot Wilbur of Needham & Company. You may begin.

Thanks. Good morning. First line of question is around TREXIMET, and Doug, I'm just wondering if could maybe help clarify for us a little bit the current inventory situation. I mean just look at the IMS data, it looks like there was a fairly healthy buy-in in September, maybe you can just give us a sense of how much physical inventory the company has on hand? And then sort of what you've been able to ascertain with respect to inventory at the wholesale level, at the retail level, at what point should scripts really begin to reflect or should company ex-factory sales really begin to reflect script trend? And then also, I think there had been originally potential purchase price adjustment potentially tied to the batch failure issue, I just want to confirm if in fact that has occurred?

Hi. Good morning, Elliot. Thanks for the questions. I appreciate it. So, you're right, if you look at the IMS data and look at the script data, [indiscernible] (12:54) some little blips in August and September, as supply handed over to Pernix. I think if you look at the script data right at the end of August, there was a week that dropped lower and then the script amount bounced back in September. We think that's patients, who couldn't get product in the last week of August and had to wait till the following week. So, it's good to see that bounce back and looks like we didn't lose these patients. From an ex-factory point of view because the [indiscernible] (13:20) channel ran down in August, we think we sold in September maybe an extra week to 10 days of inventory as we refilled the channel and it looks like that's – things are normalizing now in October and November.

So, I think we're on a steady state run rate now as we go forward. And so there seems to be a normal – back to normal levels in the channel, about two weeks in the wholesalers, about a week in retailers is what we generally see and we have a couple of months of inventory on hand with good regular supply from GSK now being re-established. So things have been managed quite well. We got through the initial concerns about the shortage without any material impact and we run a good run rate. In terms of the purchase price adjustment, you'll see in our filings and in our comments that we've ended up reducing the total purchase price of TREXIMET by about $15 million as a result of some of those challenges, but that was a good outcome all around.

Okay. And then, just with regard to relaunching the product, maybe you can describe more specifically what exactly that means? Is that just basically reintroducing it to the existing Pernix call base or has the Pernix sales force been able to target all the high-prescribing physicians or replicate the prior GSK call patterns? And then just thinking about the numbers themselves, I mean obviously they've kind of – perhaps been a long state of decline and you continue to see sort of gradual decreases sort of week over week, but maybe you could just help frame expectations in terms of when you think we should reach stability and sort of what you think kind of reasonable expectations are in terms of being able to actually increase volume trends from current levels?

Okay, thanks. Thanks, Elliot. So, with regard to your questions, what we – we've expanded the sales team. We originally had 85 sales reps, five regionally focused, all of them were in the Southeast because of historic Pernix acquisitions, but we completely redesigned the sales force, now to 100 reps, but we've added about 25 territories of the West Coast and the Midwest. And the whole of national footprint of our sales force is designed around primarily TREXIMET prescribers. So, our initial strategy was to target existing prescribers at TREXIMET that had been loyal over the years, as the product has gradually declined and hadn't been promoted since 2012 and [indiscernible] (16:00) physicians were still prescribing. So, our first goal is to reintroduce TREXIMET to them, and then to colleagues and to expand prescribing with existing prescribers, and then expand that into the high-prescribing migraine universe.

And our initial efforts are primarily feet on the ground, and with fresh materials for the sales team. And as we move into the first quarter, we'll see a revised marketing campaign expanded to healthcare providers and consumers through other channels to such as the web, social media, et cetera. So, it's a typical stage relaunch, but with a very focused sales promotion, as we did with SILENOR, and what we saw with SILENOR is a turnaround in prescriptions after a good couple of months of feet on the ground, before any marketing and then we kicked in the marketing once we were confident that the product is responding.

Here with TREXIMET I think we will see the same kind of thing. The response from physicians has been great. Many of our customers thought that the product had been withdrawn because they haven't seen a rep in almost four years. And so, that's great news for us, and of course it takes several weeks forward to see a response in the script data. Many of our reps have only seen their customers once or maybe twice, it's early days. Once they've been in a few times, I'm sure we'll see – we're confident we'll see the decline turnaround.

Okay. And then last question for you. Had been quite a bit of concern around the time of acquisition regarding some more aggressive tactics on the part of the PBMs, some of the managed care organizations in terms of formulary restrictions and the like, and maybe if there's any sort of update that you can provide in terms of current formulary coverage for TREXIMET, any changes from the prior GSK status or any new initiatives that we should be looking for thinking about going forward?

I think as we spoke before on other calls, we had [indiscernible] (17:59) kind of priming the pump with managed care payers, prior to closing the transaction and we're trying to work in a very collaborative way. And it seems that effort has continued and discussions and negotiations with managed care continue to be very productive. And that we've seen no material change in coverage and no material change in tier status with the product since we increased the price, so things are going very well there. And then on the SILENOR front, we continue to push and expand our coverage of the SILENOR adding lives has been covered improving the tier status where we can. And as we move into 2015, we have several plans we expect to pick up SILENOR and even improve status ahead of other products as we move into 2015. So we're very encouraged by our expanded managed care efforts over the last several months.

All right. Thank you.

Thanks, Elliot.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our next question is from Louise Chen of Guggenheim. You may began.

Hi. Thanks for taking my questions. I had a few. So, first question I had was obviously something people ask a lot about is your business development. And the last time I met with you all, you had talked about looking at possibly 30 deals or so and one area of focus was pain. So just wondering if you can update for us on that? And if there's any possibility of potentially another deal close before the end of the year? And then second question I had was with respect to your guidance and I was wondering if you could help us maybe walk through how we translate your 2014 and 2015 guidance into EPS, there are a couple of moving parts here on a tax rate perspective margin, and it would be helpful if you can give a little bit more color on that front. And then, just lastly, maybe, I know that under the old management team, there were two pediatric drugs in development. I don't know if that's still a focus for you if that's something that's kind of fall into the wayside as you refocus on CNS and psychiatry and these other products? Thank you.

Thanks, Louise. That a lots of questions, I'll try and -- try to remember them all as I go through. So, in terms of our business development activities, yeah, the number of deals varies a little bit, it's a bit dynamic and goes up and down as we discard or reject deals, we try to be very disciplined, but we always have around that kind of number 30 or 30 plus deals that are active. And, we have several active offers out to companies [indiscernible] (20:26) by products and also broader acquisitions at any one time. And we're in active due diligence in a number of opportunities. But this doesn't mean that necessarily we'll get to agreement, or that we'll – we'll still have the same view once we get through diligence, we're going to be very disciplined.

So, we're very active, I can't say when I will give any guidance on any timing for announcing a deal. But, we've got a lot of activity going on and have a dedicated team that really works full time on business and corporate development.

We like the pain space, as you mentioned obviously, and the obvious target for us is CNS, as we have a CNS sales and marketing organization. And, we have capacity within the bag to add further products there, but we like adjacent areas, we like the pain space primarily because we think that that space is about to get very disrupted with a lots of new entrants, and we're going to create some new opportunity to create a franchise in that area. So we're actively looking, and we'll keep you updated as anything comes up in that space, but we're doing a fair amount of work there.

We also like women's health, and when I think about our brands in TREXIMET and SILENOR and Khedezla. Three conditions there, [indiscernible] (21:40) pain, insomnia, and depression, which are all more prevalent in women and many of those conditions are prescribed for by OB/GYN, and I would say that if I look at our script count, we're probably underrepresented in OB/GYNs in terms of our own products, so I think there's an opportunity to grow our product base with those customers. So, adding women's health products to the bag would potentially support that going forward. So, it's another area that we're looking at, but we're also – in general we're focused on chronic specialty products that need smaller sales forces but can also be opportunistic.

I'll talk about the pipeline, and then I'll hand over to Sanjay to provide guidance for next year, and then some of the other facts you mentioned around EPS and tax. The pipeline is good. I mean, we ran our existing products, we do have still one pediatric product, OTIC for otitis media that's a legacy program, the database was locked in September, and we expect to see results by the end of the year, maybe early 2015.

And then but the focus going forward is really expanding the TREXIMET franchise, we are working on an alternative dose there to expand the IP of that product. We expect to start enrolling patients second quarter 2015, which is likely a filing then second quarter 2016. So that's on track, we've got a CRO engaged, and then on SILENOR we're working on two programs there. One, an arousability study, and the rationale for that is – I think there is a lot of awareness of some of the side effects and challenges [indiscernible] (23:25), some of the amnesia, and unintended sleep behaviors such as eating or driving in the middle of the night, and the idea over these studies have shown that SILENOR at its highest doses can be taken without causing loss of cognitive function when the patients wake up in the middle of the night, and we expect so that based on SILENOR's side effect profile – tend to be successful and a useful marketing tool.

And then the other program around SILENOR is one we've talked about a little bit in the past, and now we are getting more engaged around and that's switch of SILENOR to OTC status. We're continuing discussions with our advisors and consultants on the best program. We're refining a program we've worked on in the past, and we expect to give more information about the specifics of that in the first quarter, once we've spoken to FDA and we've laid out a protocol. So, those are the major development programs that we have ongoing. Sanjay, you want to talk about guidance?

Sure. Thanks for the question, Louise. As it relates to our guidance, we've provided top-line net sales guidance and EBITDA guidance so far. We have not issued formal EPS guidance at this point, but I can sort of walk you through how to think about it. I would look at – our operating expenses are growing modestly, but not as quickly as our top-line, we've maintained a fairly efficient organization. The biggest up tick in spending will be around marketing campaign and our SG&A line. R&D should be roughly flat, G&A should be roughly flat, and that gets you to an EBITDA number.

The important component to think about is, obviously the amortization of the purchase price for TREXIMET. And amortization factors in, in two different ways, one is obviously from a GAAP standpoint it factors into the add back, but importantly, you have to look at the way we're treating this acquisition from the standpoint of tax authorities. We've structured the TREXIMET deal as an IP transaction, and what that means is we can amortize the purchase price over a shortened period of 3.2 years.

So if you look at the fully loaded all in cost of approximately $250 million plus the small continued payment of nearly $2 million, and amortize that over 3.2 years, you calculate your tax shield which can be used to [indiscernible] (25:48). The other piece that you need to factor into your analysis is our share count. So our diluted – sorry -- our basic share count is just under 38 million shares. If you include the dilutive impact of options and the convert using the treasury method, you end up with approximately 58 million shares. So we intend to – certainly the calculation that we've issued in our press release factors all of these things in as we look at cash EPS. We will look to issue that guidance going forward in more detail.

Okay. Maybe if I could just push it a tiny bit more. So for the fourth quarter, if I just do quick math on the guidance that you gave for the remainder of the year, are you at a couple of pennies accretive or positive in the fourth quarter, does that sound in line? And then consensus for 2015 is at $0.96, do you think that that fairly accounts for all the things that you've mentioned in terms of the moving parts. I just wanted to – at least sort of get a ballpark because I know that you will have potential upside for business development and looks like TREXIMET and SILENOR are progressing better than expected. But just as we know today just based on your guidance, do those sound sort of in the range of what's fair?

Yeah, I would say the figure out there for 2015 sounds to be in the rough ballpark. Again we've not issued formal guidance. So that number may move around a little bit. But that sounds about right. If you add back the cash, taxes, savings, et cetera, we get to a similar number. And for the full year that appears to be in the right ballpark.

And then for fourth quarter of 2014, couple of pennies positive, does that sound fair?

That sounds fair.

Okay.

But, I would like to take it offline with you at some point. We should try and sit down, and go through in a little more detail.

All right. Thank you very much.

You're welcome.

Thank you. I'm showing no further questions at this time. I would like to turn the conference back over to Doug Drysdale for closing remarks.

Thanks, Shannon, and thank you all for the questions today. As I said earlier, this has been strong quarter driven by strength of our specialty brands and with a strong base of business holding out there, and our ongoing initiatives to increase profitability. So, in closing, thanks for joining the call. I will remind you that the materials concerning today's earnings release and the replay of this call will be available on the Investor Relations section of our website. Thanks for your interest in Pernix Therapeutics and for joining the call today. Thanks.

This concludes today's Pernix Therapeutics earnings conference call. Thank you and have a nice day.