Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Joseph T. Schepers — Director-Investor Relations & Communications, Pernix Therapeutics Holdings, Inc.
Cooper C. Collins — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Pernix Therapeutics Holdings, Inc.
David P. Becker — Chief Financial Officer, Pernix Therapeutics Holdings, Inc.
Randall S. Stanicky — Analyst, Canaccord Genuity, Inc.
Irina Rivkind — Analyst, Cantor Fitzgerald Securities
Daniel Cheng — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.
Elliot Wilbur — Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC
Nathan Cali — Analyst, Noble Financial Capital Markets

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning and welcome to the Pernix Therapeutics' First Quarter 2012 Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. All lines have been placed on mute. [Operator Instructions]

At this time, I would like to turn the conference call over to the company's Director of Investor Relations, Joe Schepers. Please go ahead sir.

Thank you and welcome to Pernix Therapeutics' first quarter 2012 conference call. On the call today are Cooper Collins, President and CEO; and David Becker, CFO.

Before we begin, I would like to point out that the company issued a press release this morning containing financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2012. The release including the financial tables and reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures is available on the company's website at www.pernixtx.com. The company also expects to file its current report on Form 10-Q with the SEC by the end of the day.

Before we begin, allow me to read the following Safe Harbor statement. This call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the company, or industry results to be materially different from any future results, performance, or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.

When used in this presentation, statements that are not statements of current or historical facts may be deemed to be forward-looking statements without limiting the foregoing the words, planned, may, expect, believes, estimate, or continue, or similar expressions or other variations or comparable terminology are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Listeners are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof.

Except as required by law, the company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. Investors are urged to examine these and other risks and uncertainties detailed in Pernix's periodic public filings on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. During the call, we may also discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures such as EBITDA. The company believes that EBITDA, which we define as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, is a meaningful non-GAAP financial measure.

At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Cooper Collins.

Good morning and welcome to our first quarter 2012 earnings conference call. During this morning's call, I would like to provide an update on key business activities and a brief overview of our consolidated financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2012. Later in the call, David will provide a more detailed review of our financial results.

We are pleased to report strong growth in net revenues for the first quarter despite a soft cough and cold season. For the first quarter, we achieved net revenues of $14.5 million, which is an increase of approximately 43% from the prior year quarter. This increase was primarily due to the increased sales of CEDAX and certain generic products and a decrease in Medicaid rebates. Our generic product portfolio contributed approximately 39% of Pernix's total net product revenue for the quarter ended March 31, 2012.

The strong performance by Macoven was primarily due to several product launches in the second half of 2011. We expect that Macoven will continue to contribute significantly to our future revenues.

We are continuing to execute on our horizontal integration strategy focused on branded, generic and over-the-counter products. During the first four months of 2012, we made several investments that are expected to drive future growth of the company. First, we recruited and have begun hiring our new gastroenterology sales force. We also executed a development agreement for a niche product in the pediatrics market. We strengthened our financial position by completing our At-the-Market offering. We also announced today that we acquired the exclusive rights to the cough-related intellectual property from the joint venture with SEEK for the United States and Canada. This will facilitate execution of our strategy to introduce an OTC product line in the United States in 2013.

Now, I'll provide an update on several key business developments. As you have probably seen this morning in our press release, we unveiled the name of our new GI product, which is Omeclamox-Pak. We remain on track to launch Omeclamox-Pak, the first product in our gastroenterology portfolio, this summer. This branded prescription product is a 10-day therapy of omeprazole delayed-release capsules, clarithromycin tablets, and amoxicillin capsules formulated to eradicate H. pylori in adult patients. The launch of Omeclamox-Pak broadens our prescription portfolio outside of pediatrics.

We are pleased to offer patients suffering from H. pylori infection and duodenal ulcers with a new treatment option that is expected to be available by prescription in July 2012. If H. pylori is left untreated, it can damage the stomach and small intestine wall causing peptic ulcer disease and, specifically, duodenal ulcers. Symptoms of H. pylori-induced duodenal ulcers generally surface in adults and may include burning pain in the abdomen, nausea, vomiting, bloating, and weight loss.

As previously mentioned this morning, we announced in a press release that we have acquired the exclusive rights from SEEK, our former joint venture partner, to commercialize and market products utilizing cough-related intellectual property in areas of cough, cold, sinus and allergy in the United States and Canada. SEEK will retain exclusive rights to commercialize and develop the intellectual property outside the United States and Canada.

Under the terms of the agreement, we paid SEEK $5 million in connection with the acquisition of the exclusive rights in the U.S. and Canada. The joint venture was terminated and we'll pay royalties to SEEK on the sales of products utilizing the joint venture's intellectual property in the United States and Canada. We will no longer contribute to the funding of Phase III clinical trials for Theobromine in the EU. However, we will be entitled to receive royalties from SEEK product sales outside of the U.S. and Canada.

Turning to our co-promotion for NATROBA, as we enter the peak summer camp season for head lice, we believe our nationwide point-of-sale coupon program initiated at the end of the first quarter should generate an increase in prescriptions for NATROBA.

Finally, we've significantly strengthened our financial position with the completion of our ATM offering in April 2012 that raised total net proceeds between February and April of 2012 of approximately $23.9 million. With approximately $57.8 million in cash as of May 11, we are well positioned to pursue strategic acquisitions and licensing opportunities that will expand our branded portfolio in pediatrics, gastroenterology and other therapeutic areas, as well as OTC products and generic products.

Now, I'll turn the call over to David for a more detailed review of the financial results.

Thank you, Cooper, and good morning. As Cooper noted, net revenues increased by approximately 43% to $14.5 million for the first quarter of 2012 compared to $10.1 million during the first quarter of 2011. Income before taxes was approximately $2 million in the first quarter of 2012, compared to $1.7 million during the first quarter of 2011. And after-tax net income for the first quarter of 2012 was approximately $1.2 million or $0.05 per basic share and $0.04 per diluted share as compared to $1 million or $0.04 per basic and diluted share in the first quarter of 2011

EBITDA, which is a non-GAAP measurement, increased approximately 19% to $2.7 million in the first quarter of 2012 compared to approximately $2.2 million during the first quarter of 2011. Cost of goods sold was approximately $4.7 million for the first quarter of 2012 as compared to approximately $2 million during the first quarter of 2011. This resulted in gross margin of approximately $9.8 million or 68% of net sales for the current quarter compared to $8.1 million or 80% of net sales for the prior year quarter.

Our gross margin percentage in the first quarter of 2012 was primarily impacted by the growing sales of generic products that have lower gross margins than our branded products. And additionally, our NATROBA product sales carry much lower overall gross margins than our other branded products.

Our selling, general and administrative expenses for the first quarter of 2012 were approximately $6.8 million, which was an increase of $1.6 million from the first quarter of 2011. The increase was primarily due to growth in the corporate infrastructure to meet the company's business objectives which included the hiring of additional key management physicians after the first quarter 2011. The increase also included, professional costs associated with the Omeclamox license, the pediatric development program that we announced in February, the ATM offering, the acquisition of the IP Rights from our former joint venture with SEEK. It also included market research on the OTC opportunities related to the joint venture cough-related intellectual property, and finally, market research and pre-launch planning activities associated with Omeclamox.

Depreciation and amortization expense was approximately $638,000 compared to approximately $493,000 in the first quarter of the first quarter of 2011. The increase in amortization expense in the current quarter primarily relates to our new license agreement for Omeclamox. The income tax provision for the first quarter of 2012 was $783,000 compared to approximately $723,000 in the prior year quarter. Our effective income tax rate for the first quarter of 2012 was approximately 40% compared to 43% in the first quarter of 2011.

Our weighted average common shares outstanding for the quarter ended March 31, 2012 were 25.9 million basic shares and 26.5 million diluted shares. Weighted average common shares outstanding for the quarter ended March 31, 2011 were 22.7 million basic shares and 23.1 million diluted shares.

Now turning to the balance sheet, as of March 31, 2012, we had approximately $39.2 million in cash and cash equivalents and working capital of $37.2 million, which includes accounts receivable of $16.4 million and inventory balance of $5 million. We also had $4 million in borrowing capacity available under our revolving line of credit. As it relates to other sources of liquidity, we concluded our At-the-Market, or ATM, equity offering sales program in April. Under the ATM sales agreement, we sold approximately 2.7 million shares of common stock in April through Cantor Fitzgerald for total net proceeds of approximately $21.3 million.

We had previously sold approximately 269,500 shares of common stock under this ATM program for total net proceeds of approximately $2.5 million. And as of May 11, including the net proceeds from the ATM offering and deducting the $5 million payment to SEEK, we had approximately $57.8 million of cash.

And now I'd like to make a few comments regarding the guidance for 2012. The company expects net revenues for the full year 2012 will increase by approximately 20% over 2011 with approximately two-thirds of this revenue expected in the second half of the year and this includes the launch of Omeclamox.

From an operating expense standpoint, we are now able to refine our estimates for increased spending as compared to 2011. As a result of the termination of our joint venture with SEEK, the company will no longer contribute to the funding of development activities outside of the U.S. and Canada. And as a result, the company now estimates that its total operating expenses will increase between $10 million and $13 million for the full year 2012 as compared to the full year 2011.

That concludes our financial review this morning and I'll now turn the call back over to Cooper for his final comments.

Thanks David. In summary, we are pleased with our strong growth and net revenues during the first quarter of 2012 and we'll continue to invest in our future success. We believe that the company is well positioned for continued revenue growth in the second half of 2012 with the launch of Omeclamox-Pak this summer, the continued strong performance of CEDAX, sales of generic products and a coupon promotion of NATROBA during peak summer camp season.

Looking ahead, we plan to introduce an OTC product line in the U.S. based on the cough-related intellectual property that we acquired from our joint venture with SEEK in 2013. With our strengthening cash position, we are currently pursuing several opportunities to further expand our product portfolio in pediatrics, gastroenterology and other therapeutic areas as well as generic and OTC products.

Operator, please open up the phone lines for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And first, we'll go to Randall Stanicky with Canaccord Genuity.

Hey, thanks very much guys for the questions. I just had two, Cooper, one tactical and then one big picture. On the tactical side, can you just maybe with Omeclamox, just maybe walk through the launch plans, how we should think about that opportunity? When we're going to get the second GI product out there? And then, maybe if I could ask you a back door question to what your expectations are, how much of the growth are you attributing to that product for this year?

Okay. I'll let Dave take the growth question, but I'll kind of start with the marketing plan first. So we're going to be targeting about 60% of the H. pylori riders, the high decile riders at first with our initial 30 reps. I think we'll end up having a little more than 30 promoted. But the following year we're going to go up to 55. So we're going to have a pretty decent start as far as the amount of sales reps go and we expect to hit those high decile reps. The core message I think on this product one, if you compare the Prevpac which is kind of a dominant player on the market, does over a $100 million in sales with no promotion out there. Prevpac is a 14-day therapy, this is a 10-day therapy. So it cuts down days of therapy and the pill burden on the patient and also has omeprazole as opposed to Prevacid, which the majority of physicians prefer omeprazole.

And then obviously we're going to be promoting it, so we'll be the only one, well, Prevpac will not be promoting against us. So we feel that's going to be of an advantage. We'll have couponing strategies kind of typical with other things you've seen with CEDAX where we're able to grow promotionally sensitive products when I think other companies haven't been able to. So, we feel like we have a really great opportunity here. Kind of the entry cost to get into this NDA was pretty low. It's an exciting opportunity for us to have this product to jump into GI with the follow-up product. Our product we'll be launching this summer as well is a line extension on our original REZYST probiotic line.

We have some more substantial clinical data around this strain. It's shown to be resistant to clarithromycin, or amoxicillin which is obviously in Omeclamox. So hopefully it'll help to prevent some of the side effects and the patients taking Omeclamox – it's hard for everybody to say, I guess. Hopefully, it'll help prevent some of those side effects that can be used in a combination, but also used on its own for other GI issues. So we're excited about both of these opportunities at this point. Dave, you want to follow on...?

Yeah. And the 20% year-over-year growth implies $12 million to $13 million increase in net sales. Now, that's a full year number. And keep in mind that Omeclamox will only be in the market for half of the year. But in terms of a percentage of that overall $12 million to $13 million of growth, I would say, Omeclamox is close to half of that.

That's great. And so, Cooper just one big picture question for you that kind of factors into some of the growth numbers. As you think about Pernix and the growth, revenue growth over the last several years, it's been 40-ish percent CAGR on the top line. You've had some pretty unique, I'd say macro challenges this year right from cough and cold. NATROBA, which you've implemented a couponing program, how do we think about the growth profile or how do you think about the growth profile of Pernix, as we think about the next three years given the opportunities in new products ahead of you, but also the business development that you're seeing right now?

I think when you think about our overall growth for 2012, you made a point on NATROBA, I think obviously the NATROBA numbers didn't come in where we'd hope they would or so far in 2012 where we hoped they would. I think they won't hurt our overall growth as a company. We have a ton of business development opportunities right now. If you look at our horizontal integration strategy, it opens us up to just about any specialty on the prescription brand side, because we're going on to gastroenterology, we're interested in other spaces like dermatology, women's health, oncology. So just about any brand of deal we can look at because we're willing to build a sales force because we're confident in our ability to build a successful sales force around a product. So we can go in and just about brand specialty. The generic side of the business opens you up to any generic products, basket of products or companies that are available or we'd be interested in, assets we'd be interested in purchasing.

And then now on OTC side, you see, we're going to be launching Theobromine as an OTC product. So, we'll obviously be building hopefully a world-class OTC team behind that asset and may be bringing some additional OTC products, but it also opens us up for other products that can – we can buy a launch of OTCs or other Rx products that we can buy that may be have a better fit in the OTC market and take it across the spectrum like we've talked about in the past. So I think the opportunities for us to grow are out there and we should be able to experience significant growth over the next few years.

And the way we've built this company is really if there is -- we have an issue with one product, it really doesn't hurt our overall growth strategy that's kind of the way we've tried to de-risk this company. We'll have multiple specialties, each one of those specialties will have multiple products. Then we'll have generics which will have dozens of products. And then OTCs hopefully one day they will get to dozens of products as well. So, I think you can kind of see, I think NATROBA probably hurt our overall sales growth a little bit, may be not as much on our profitability side, but hurt our overall sales growth this year. But it doesn't take the company down to where if it was a one product company. So, that's how we've tried to do from the beginning.

So, I wish we didn't have to experience something like this a stumbling block with NATROBA so early, but I think it's important for people to understand that that's how we've kind of hedged our bet with this company. And if we have one product like that that doesn't exactly achieve our expectations, it doesn't necessarily take the company down like you would see in your typical biotech or specialty pharma that just have – it's a one-trick pony, has just one product to go at it with.

If I could just add to Randall, the investments that we've made this year really in the last six months with the investment in the Omeclamox license, which as indicated will be about half of the growth for this year being in the market half of the year. But that's a $100 million opportunity that we're going after not to say that we will capture all of that, but that's the market that we're going after. The pediatric development program that we announced back in February, we will spend on that over the course of the next couple of years in the $5 million to $6 million range. That's north of a $100 million opportunity that's a real nice opportunity that we're excited about.

And with the $5 million payment to SEEK to secure the U.S. and Canadian marketing rights exclusively and own the majority of the economics on an OTC opportunity that will be patent protected and close to a $4 billion market is a big opportunity, and those just don't exist. So, if you look that the investments that we've made and the opportunity to grow our top line based off of those three investments, it's significant. But we shouldn't minimize 20% growth. Last time I checked, you do that four years in a row and you've doubled your business. So, we're very pleased with where we're at and fundamentally we feel very strong and solid cash position today.

And the last time that we spoke, you guys talked about being a pretty full set of opportunities ahead in terms of BD, and it sounds like that's the case right now. Is there anywhere specifically – I know you have a pretty broad net cast and a diverse platform, but is there anywhere specifically that you'd have a preference in bolstering up from a BD perspective?

I think you'll probably see us go into some other therapeutic areas. We've been looking at some products that maybe we could sell in pediatrics and other spaces. Interestingly enough, we may have some pediatric reps that have had some gastro experience and some strength there that might be carrying Omeclamox as well that we've learned through the course of this acquisition and hiring. So, we're always looking for the synergies. But we have talked a lot about derm, women's health, oncology, those type of things. But I would say definitely, you'll see us go to another specialty if not this year, probably early next year.

I would say on the BD front outside of the branded side, I think you'll obviously see us do some significant things with OTC this year preparing for the launch of the intellectual property that we just acquired and generics too. I think our generic company has really grown well. And I think it would be wise for us to exploit that opportunity because the country is moving towards generic, so we want to make sure we are there. We also have a very unique authorized generic strategy on a lot of our brands.

So, I would say this year look to see some OTC in generic deals, maybe some brand product acquisitions, and maybe a whole new division starting up again in 2013. But we want to kind of get this GI division off to a great start in 2012 and then move to the next one.

This company is built on a great BD effort, like you have seen us buy BROVEX, CEDAX, and Macoven. So, we're going to continue that and continue to grow, and that's the reason we have all this cash right now is to execute on some of these opportunities.

That sounds great. Thanks, guys, for the color.

Thanks.

And next we will go to Irina Rivkind with Cantor, Fitzgerald.

Hi. Thanks for taking the questions. I wanted to dig a little deeper into the termination of the SEEK relationships. Just wondering, are they still going to run the European study? And what about the scenarios? If the data look really good, can you license some of that data to apply to your OTC product versus if it's not good, can it hurt you, can we talk about that? Thanks.

Okay. Thanks, Irina. So, yes, they are going to continue with their Phase III studies and launch of products. As I think we mentioned earlier, we also have a royalty back on that as they start selling products. We do have an agreement to share any additional data that we gather.

So far from the standpoint of negative data hurting, I don't think that it will necessarily – I don't think it will happen, but I don't think, even if there wasn't as quite as effective as we thought in the past, that it will affect our strategy because we're using kind of a specific carve out intellectual property to launch an OTC monograph product. So, it won't necessarily affect our strategy either way, so I wouldn't be concerned with that. But it could affect the royalties that we receive in Europe. Dave, do you have anything to add to that or not?

Okay.

Okay great. And then just a follow up on GI product, when you I think about peak sales in this market, what market share do you guys think you can capture? And also could you just touch based on formulary coverage for this year and versus your competitor's formulary coverage? Thanks.

Yeah. I think we kind of look at – we look at Prevpac, obviously that's the one we are targeting that's the big product in the class. I think soon over $100 million were priced 10% or so percent below their price. I think a reasonable goal would be to shoot for 50% over the first couple of years or so, try to get to that point. I don't think it's very reasonable to say that we will capture over 50% and up to a 100% or $100 million drug I just think even though I believe this is a better product, I think compliance can be better, I think from the feedback we've gotten from the doctors, they are excited about it. We are having some great experiences here with stocking at this point, well, at least the contracts do stock the product when we launch.

So, I mean, I still don't think you can say, hey we're going to take $100 million of sales in this product. But a slow build, a few million this year to $10 million, $20 million, up to $50 million one day I think is a possibility. But it's hard to really jump out there and say especially after NATROBA, I'd kind of like to launch this one, hit some data points and then start giving guidance. I know we're going to launch it really strong. The question is, how do we adjust the environment after we launch? I think that we launched NATROBA really strong and got up to the 1,400 prescriptions after the second month or so, in a week where you had products like OVIDE been out for over a decade it hit 5,000, only hit 5,000 prescriptions in a week.

So I think we launched it strong. I think managing it after and making sure you're on the formularies you need to be on and you give back in the place you need to give back to keep the coverage and keep the momentum going in that direction is really important. So, once we get to that point and continue to manage that launch, I think those are the kind of numbers we think we could hit moving to $20 million, $30 million, $40 million even $50 million. But I definitely wouldn't figure on this being a $100 million product.

Thank you.

Thanks Irina.

Moving on to Daniel Cheng with Stifel, Nicolaus.

Hey guys thanks very much. Firstly, just on Omeclamox, can you talk about the treatment paradigm, is the growth really driven by new patients and how does that work?

So, I think that some of the growth is going to be based on new patients, but this could be a product for somebody that's tried another H. pylori product like Omeclamox. I mean like Prevpac that are failed for whatever reasons. One of the issues of Prevpac is you're taking it for 14 days and you could have some pretty severe issues with diarrhea specifically and people tend to migrate away from their meds when you're having those kind of issues. So, I think you could also steal a lot of those patients that tried it, didn't make it through the full course of therapy for whatever reason and then would move over to Omeclamox. So, I think you can pull from both sides of the business there.

Okay, great. And then moving onto NATROBA, I think the co-pay buy down was implemented late March or mid-March, we haven't yet seen a pickup in scripts and I think you mentioned the summer camp program. So how do you think about that program going forward? Would you really see summer camp in maybe the fourth quarter as being your biggest quarters for that product?

I think there's a bunch of balls in there right now with NATROBA. The coupon I would like to have seen a bigger impact. The feedback that we've gotten from physicians and obviously our representatives too is there's a lot more sensitivity here for Medicaid coverage. Like with CEDAX we're able to lose some major state and go in a different direction, but there seems to be a lot more sensitivity in life – with life. So, we're trying to work on some of those formularies.

I think that certain Medicaid formulary wins are going to be crucial to the success of NATROBA going forward. Pernix and ParaPRO are negotiating together with certain Medicaid plans. So, we're doing what we can to get the product on. It is in my opinion clearly one of the best safest products out there in the market. So, it's just a matter of negotiating and making it work, but I think – just to be completely honest with you, the couponing program is a big part, but Medicaid coverage on this product is probably the biggest part. So we're working diligently to accomplish that where we feel it's necessary. You saw some pretty major falloffs when we lost states like Texas and Ohio and New York on Medicaid, that's where you really kind of saw a collapse of the numbers. And I think there is an opportunity to negotiate more aggressively with those states and across the nation with Medicaid. On NATROBA that could really help that product grow significantly and get back to where it deserves to be because it's a great drug.

Great. Okay. And then just lastly on the guidance. So that $10 million to $15 million in additional OpEx, is that – that doesn't include COGS, correct?

It does not, no.

Okay.

And that's probably – if you look at that, that's total operating expenses versus about $27 million in operating expenses in 2011. And so, I think a good way to look at that is about 80% of that would fall into SG&A lines and the 20% of that would be in the product development.

Okay, great. Actually another follow-up on NATROBA. Are you happy with the current agreement as it's structured with ParaPRO and are there any thought about potentially updating that agreement?

I think right now we're having discussions with ParaPRO on what is the best thing for NATROBA, whether that's more geographic targeting and different arrangements from a promotional or trade perspective. But there is nothing specifically that we'd want to talk about at this time, but we are both – the both companies are trying to do what's best for the drug. So we're working towards that goal. As soon as we change anything, we'll let you guys know. But I feel like even with the decline in NATROBA sales, I feel like we have a strong partnership with ParaPRO and we all had the same goals in mind and nobody is pointing fingers, we're all working together to get it done. So I feel good about where we're headed with that product and our partnership, but I wouldn't want to talk about anything specifically at this point.

Sounds good. Thanks a lot.

Okay. Thanks

And next we'll go to Elliot Wilbur with Needham & Company.

Thanks. Good morning. Since we're on the subject of NATROBA, Cooper, just a couple additional follow-up questions here. Can you maybe just remind us sort of where the bulk of the existing detailing is concentrated geographically? And then just with respect to the class, I mean, how much of head lice treatment products are a Medicaid book of business versus private pay?

So in the key states for us in NATROBA and where we're promoting the product heavily, I think you need to say Texas, Louisiana, kind of the southern part there in New York, Ohio, Indiana. We are also promoting heavily in California just with some difficulties with some of the managed care plans that they have over there. But those are kind of the states where I think we have a lot of feet on the street and those are also the states that are going to be key on Medicaid. And coincidentally, the majority of the sales in those states are Medicaid sales for lice. I think the sensitivity for prescription lice medication is – the Medicaid sensitivity for prescription lice is very high in a majority of the dominant states. OTC is obviously the cash bank part of the business, so it's a little different there. But the prescription side of the business is majority Medicaid and we've got to pick our battles and win some battles there to make this product successful.

Okay, thanks. And then just switching gears to Omeclamox. Just maybe if you could just share with us kind of – certainly people are going to look at this and kind of realize it's a combination of three generic ingredients and no existing IP and that obviously may raise some concerns. My suspicion though is that it's probably fairly complicated path of getting a generic approved maybe you could just sort of talk about some of the barriers there?

Yeah. Those are great questions and I'm glad we have a chance to talk about that because I think that's something that needs to be addressed so you can kind of see what we saw when we looked at this product. First, from a generic perspective, the company that we got this product from or at least that management team tried for years to genericize a product like Prevpac and it's very difficult multi-leg study. And, I mean, one of those – it's a very expensive and very difficult path that you're likely to end up spending millions of dollars and not getting an approval because something went wrong, because there are some multiple products in the package, multiple combinations that have to be tested against each other and together and separately. So that actually led this generic crew into developing its own brand product and licensing it originally to a major gastro and we were willing to put it first physician and build a group around it, so we ended up with the product. So the genericization of these products will be very difficult. So we feel confident about that and obviously we're having Macoven, we've done a lot of homework on that.

So – and then – it is a makeup of other – three other drugs: clarithromycin, amoxicillin and omeprazole, which you do have generic combinations. So the doctor would have to write three prescriptions of generic products or actually – sorry about that, they'd write two prescriptions of generic products: clarithromycin and amoxicillin, which will come with a generic co-pay, whatever call it $10 a piece, whatever the number is,$5 a piece. And then they would have to buy the Prevacid over-the-counter. So once you add all that together, you're ending up with a $25 to $35 co-pays and OTC purchasing and making your own combination of products.

So one of the things we're doing with this product is we're launching a co-pay assistance program to bring that product down to the generic co-pay. So instead of paying three co-pays, you'll pay one co-pay, it will probably be lower than your cost would be on buying two generics and a OTC. It will make it easier for the patient. It could – it's all right there. It's a convenience pack. So it's in order as direction, you're not having to go to three different bottles and figure out what to take when. The compliance will improve greatly which hopefully will help to eradicate H. pylori making Omeclamox overall more successful because of that. So I think the genericization and the generic competition is something that we plan for, and our team feels really good about that opportunity. Plus, we'll obviously be promoting these this way, so the doctors will get that message pretty quickly.

Okay. Then just real quickly for Dave, if my math is correct and just going through kind of numbers, I mean you're expecting a fairly pronounced step down in revs in the second quarter of somewhere around $8 million to $9 million range just kind of based on your guidance. Obviously, that's largely related to kind of CEDAX step down. But just I'm wondering if there's anything else there in terms of maybe the generic division, some of the recent launches not having as much of a favorable impact there, or if there's maybe some other moving parts in the revenue line that you could talk about?

Yeah, I think you are right on your math. I would say that, in a normalized environment, you would expect in a company like ours with a concentration in cough, cold and seasonal products and including CEDAX in that, you're going to expect somewhere near 15% of your sales to be in that quarter. Now, if you look at Q2 of 2011, we had a pretty stellar quarter and that's because we had reformulated to the CEDAX 180 and that product was taken off and we were loading sales into the channel in anticipation of prescriptions as that product was upticking. So, you had that dynamic in the last year that kind of really skews the what you would expect for Q2 in this business.

But we also see – we did, as you pointed out, it was a soft cough/cold season and we think that wholesalers and retailers are going to manage their inventories closely on the cough/cold related products in the second quarter,, which we would expect them to do.

We will get a little bit out on the Omeclamox potentially, get some factory sales at the end of Q2. That won't be a matter of trying to get sales out by June 30. It will be a matter of getting the product out in time so that there's product available when the reps start promoting. So that may happen on June 30, it may happen on July 2. So, that's really the dynamic there.

I would say we feel very strong about CEDAX growth for 2012. The NATROBA numbers, we've taken those down, obviously. There's a reasonable amount of product that's in the channel that needs to be worked off. So, we've kind of reflected that in our overall analysis for the year, but I think it does primarily play out in the second quarter.

I was going to add one thing, and I think that obviously we're trying to eliminate some of the seasonality with NATROBA. And because NATROBA hasn't quite hit the numbers we expected, I think that's one other thing that hurts us in the summer time. We hope to gain some ground in July, August going forward, but I think second quarter, clearly NATROBA didn't hit the numbers anybody expected.

All right. Thank you.

We will now go to Nathan Cali with Noble Financial.

Hey, guys. Good morning. Thanks a lot for taking the questions. Most of them were answered already. Do you have a breakdown of revenues by category?

We'll have our traditional breakdown in the Q when we file that in the next couple of days, so I think we will stick with that format.

Okay.

One of the things I think we did say in the press release that the Macoven or the generic business represented 39% of net sales for the quarter. And I believe we said at the end of fourth quarter 2011, it was about 32% or 33%. So the Macoven is growing nicely. We expect it to be a big part of our business going forward.

Thanks a lot.

And at this time, there are no more questions. This concludes Pernix Therapeutics' first quarter earnings conference call. Thank you and have a nice day.