Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Joseph T. Schepers — Director-Investor Relations & Communications, Pernix Therapeutics Holdings, Inc.
Cooper C. Collins — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Pernix Therapeutics Holdings, Inc.
David P. Becker — Chief Financial Officer, Pernix Therapeutics Holdings, Inc.
Elliot Wilbur — Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC
Randall S. Stanicky — Analyst, Canaccord Genuity, Inc.
Annabel Samimy — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.
Irina Rivkind — Analyst, Cantor Fitzgerald Securities
Nathan Cali — Analyst, Noble Financial Capital Markets

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning and welcome to the Pernix Therapeutics' 2011 Fourth Quarter Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. All lines have been placed on mute. [Operator Instructions] At this time, I would like to turn the conference call over to the company's Director of Investor Relations, Joe Schepers. Please go ahead.

Thank you and welcome to Pernix Therapeutics' Fourth Quarter 2011 Conference Call. On the call today are Cooper Collins, President and CEO; David Becker, CFO; and Tracy Clifford, Corporate Controller.

Before I begin, we would like to point out that the company issued a press release this morning containing financial results for the quarter and year-ended December 31, 2011. The release including the financial tables and reconciliation of non-GAAP financials is available on the company's website at www.pernixtx.com. The company also expects to file its Annual Report on Form 10-K with the SEC by the end of the week.

Before we begin, allow me to read the following Safe Harbor statement. This call may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the company, or industry results to be materially different from any future results, performance, or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.

When using this presentation, statements that are not statements of current or historical facts may be deemed to be forward-looking statements without limiting the foregoing the words, plan, may, expect, believe, estimate, or continue, or similar expressions or other variations or comparable terminology are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Listeners are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only on the date hereof.

Except as required by law, the company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. Investors are urged to examine these and other risks and uncertainties detailed in Pernix's periodic public filings on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. During the call, we may discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures such as EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA. The company believes that EBITDA which we define as earnings before interest, taxes, amortization, and depreciation is a meaningful non-GAAP financial measure. Adjusted EBITDA further eliminates certain other non-recurring items.

At this time, I would like to turn the call to Cooper Collins.

Good morning and welcome to our fourth quarter and full-year 2011 earnings conference call. During this morning's call, I would like to provide an update on key business activities and a brief overview of our consolidated results for the fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2011. Later in the call, David will provide a more detailed review of our financial results.

We are pleased to report our fourth quarter and full-year 2011 results were highlighted by strong growth in net revenues. For the fourth quarter, we achieved net revenues of $21.4 million, which is an increase of approximately 74% from the prior-year quarter. The increase in net revenues was primarily due to a higher volume of product sales, including the new CEDAX product formulation, launch of Natroba, and a significant increase in the sales of our generic products.

For the year ended December 31, 2011 net revenues increased by 82% to $60.6 million from the prior year. We're continuing to execute on our strategy to diversify our product portfolio through the launch of the new CEDAX formulation, Natroba and several new generic products. As you may know, we have also announced our expansion into the gastroenterology market. We're on track to launch a new FDA approved GI product in mid-year of 2012.

In the fourth quarter, we also expanded our management team with the addition of several senior level appointments. In December 2011, we added David Becker as Chief Financial Officer, who joined the company with more than 10 years of experience in the healthcare industry, including an extensive background in the cough, cold and allergy markets. From 2000 to 2007, he served as CFO of Adams Respiratory Therapeutics prior to its acquisition by a Reckitt Benckiser, and he played a key role in growing the OTC products, such as Mucinex, and acquiring brand including Delsym. Furthermore, Dave has extensive experience in mergers and acquisitions and a successful capital raising activities.

We also added Chuck Hrushka as Vice President of Sales and Marketing, who is responsible for managing, development and execution of Pernix's marketing function and sales plan. Chuck brings Pernix over 25 years of global sales and marketing experience in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry. Prior to joining Pernix, he served as Vice President of Marketing at Shionogi Pharma, formerly Sciele Pharma, Inc., a global specialty company that develops and commercializes products in areas of pediatrics, women's health, and cardiovascular.

In the first quarter of 2012, [ph] Paul Obe (5:16) joined our company as General Counsel. [ph] Paul (5:18) was previously a partner at a large Texas-based law firm and has 16 years of experience in corporate and securities laws. He has assisted several growing public and private companies with legal advice acting as a General Corporate Counsel for clients in biotech and energy industries. His experience has included providing counsel on numerous financial transactions and including debt and equity offerings as well as many mergers and acquisitions.

Together, these key appointments have enhanced our corporate infrastructure by bringing valuable pharmaceutical experience to our management team in critical areas that will position Pernix for its future success. Going forward, our management team has focused on continued growth through the horizontal integration of our branded prescription, generic and over-the-counter businesses.

Now, I will provide an update on several key business developments. During the fourth quarter and full year of 2011, the new CEDAX 180 milligram formulation was a key growth driver for the company's branded prescription business. Our sales force has delivered consistent performance for the new 180 milligram double-strength suspension formulation of CEDAX despite the warm winter soft flu season and the first quarter formulary changes.

Now for an update on Natroba; while this product has performed below our expectations for the fourth quarter, we are actively working with our partner ParaPRO to leverage a superior clinical efficacy that this product offers in the head lice market. In March of 2012, ParaPRO allowed us to introduce a new nationwide point of sale coupon program for Natroba, which is similar to our CEDAX coupon. We believe this is generating increase in prescriptions for Natroba and we have already started seeing improvement in the weekly prescriptions.

Turning to our generic business. We are pleased to report that Macoven made significant contribution to our revenue growth and successfully launched several new generic products in 2011. Our generic product portfolio contributed approximately 32% of Pernix's total net sales for the year ended December 31, 2011. We expect that our generics business will continue to make a significant contribution to our future net revenue growth.

Now, a brief update on our joint venture with SEEK for the development of Theobromine, our BC 1036, a non-codeine antitussive drug candidate treating persistent cough. Joint venture is currently planning to initiate a pivotal Phase III trial in the European Union in the first half of 2012 and is currently evaluating OTC strategy in the United States, which may include Pernix having the opportunity to market this line.

Now, I'd like to provide an update on our recent business development initiatives that we completed in the first quarter of 2012. In January of 2012, we completed a licensing agreement with a private company for a new FDA approved prescription product to treat gastroenterology disease. Under the terms of this agreement, Pernix obtain exclusive marketing rights to this gastroenterology product in the United States. This new product will be positioned as a first line therapy in the niche market of more than $100 million annually in the United States.

This agreement expands our branded product portfolio to a new specialty area beyond pediatrics. Prior to launching this product, we plan to establish a sales force of approximately 30 representatives dedicated to gastroenterology. We expect to invest in the recruiting and training of this additional sales team as we have invested in pediatrics. We remain on track to launch this product by mid-year of 2012 and we believe this product will serve as a key growth driver for Pernix in the second half of 2012. It is important to point out that we do have complete marketing control of this product as it is not a co-promotion like Natroba.

In March of 2012, Pernix entered into a product development agreement with a private company for a prescription product for the pediatric market. Under the terms of this agreement, Pernix obtained exclusive marketing rights for its late stage development product in the United States and Pernix will pay the cost related to the development of this product.

Pernix expects to invest $6 million over the estimated 36 month period for development and regulatory expenses related to the product candidate and Pernix's development partner will manage the development program. Pernix and its development partner expect to commence pivotal Phase III studies in the next 12 months. We believe this product and development has a potential to be a first line therapy in a niche market in excess of $300 million.

Now I'll turn the call over to Dave for a more detailed review of the financial results.

Thank you, Cooper, and good morning. As Cooper just noted net sales increased by approximately 74% to $21.4 million for the fourth quarter of 2011 compared to $12.3 million for the same period in the prior year. Income before taxes was approximately $6 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 compared to $2.9 million for the fourth quarter of 2010. And after tax net income for the fourth quarter of 2011 was approximately $3.9 million or $0.15 per basic and diluted share as compared to $1.5 million or $0.07 per basic and diluted share in the fourth quarter of 2010.

Excluding the $380,000 impairment charge that was based upon an updated appraisal of a parcel of land owned by Pernix, our net income for the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2011 would have been $4.3 million or $0.16 per basic and diluted share. Adjusted EBITDA, which is a non-GAAP measurement, increased approximately 94% to $7 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 compared to approximately $3.6 million for the fourth quarter of 2010.

Now moving on to the expenses, cost of goods sold was approximately $7.5 million for the fourth quarter of 2011 as compared to $2.7 million for the fourth quarter of 2010. This resulted in gross margin dollars of $13.9 million or 65% of net sales for the current quarter compared to $9.6 million of gross margin dollars or 78% of net sales for the prior year quarter.

Our gross margin percentage for the fourth quarter 2011 was impacted by several factors. A write-off of approximately $700,000 of inventory related to expiring product, sales of Natroba which has a lower gross margin and our other branded prescription products, and growing sales of our generic products that have lower gross margins than branded prescription products. For comparison purposes, if we exclude the inventory write-off and the impact of Natroba, our gross margin would have been approximately 74% of the resulting net sales.

Our selling, general and administrative expenses for the fourth quarter were approximately $7 million, which was an increase of $1.7 million from the fourth quarter of 2010. The increase was primarily due to the $380,000 impairment charge on the land, the hiring of several key management positions, bonuses, commissions, incentives and stock compensation expense for sales personnel as well as administrative employees.

Depreciation and amortization expense was approximately $612,000 compared to $680,000 in the fourth quarter of 2010. The majority of depreciation and amortization expense in the current quarter relates to the acquisitions of CEDAX and Macoven.

The income tax provision for the fourth quarter of 2011 was $2.1 million compared to approximately $1.4 million in the fourth quarter of 2010. Our tax rate in the fourth quarter of 2011 was approximately 35%, which compares to 49% effective tax rate in the prior year quarter.

Now I'd like to discuss the results for the full year 2011. For the year ended December 31, 2011, net revenues increased 82% to $60.6 million compared to $33.2 million in the prior year. Income before taxes was $12.9 million compared to $10.8 million in the prior year period and after tax net income for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $8.3 million or $0.35 per basic share and $0.34 per diluted share compared to $9.3 million or $0.40 per basic and diluted share in the prior year.

Excluding the $380,000 impairment charge to the value of the land, net income for the year ended December 31, 2011, would have been $8.7 million or $0.36 per diluted share. Please note that our effective tax rate was 35% for the full year 2011, which compares to a much lower 14% for all of 2010.

As a reminder, net income for the year ended December 31, 2010, included one-time income tax benefits associated with the termination of Pernix S Corporation status and the recognition of certain net operating loss carry forwards associated with the 2010 reverse merger with Golf Trust of America. Therefore, we believe the net income for the year-ended December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 are not directly comparable.

For the year ended December 31, 2011, adjusted EBITDA increased approximately 45% to $15.8 million compared to $10.9 million in the prior year period. Cost of goods sold was approximately $20.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to $5.4 million for 2010. This resulted in 2011 gross margin of $40.1 million or 66% of net sales compared to $27.8 million gross margin for 2010 or 84% of net sales.

The $12.3 million increase in gross margin dollars resulted from the overall increase in product sales while the gross margin percentage decline was the result of the following factors. An approximate $2 million of inventory write-offs were expired in discontinued products; sales of Natroba, which have lower gross margins than our other branded prescription products; and a growing volume of generic products with overall lower gross margins when compared to branded products. If we exclude the inventory write-offs and Natroba product sales, our gross margin for the year ended 2011 would have been 78% of the resulting net sales.

For the year ended December 31, 2011, SG&A expenses were $22.5 million, which was an increase of $7.3 million from the prior year. The increase included the $380,000 impairment charge for the land and the balance of the increase was primarily due to the hiring of key management positions as well as other factors previously noted.

Depreciation and amortization expense increased to $2.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to $1.2 million for the prior year period. The year-over-year increase was attributable to the acquisitions of CEDAX and Macoven.

Weighted average common shares outstanding for the quarter ended December 31, 2011 were 25.7 million basic and 26.2 million diluted shares. Weighted average common shares outstanding for the quarter ended December 31, 2010 were 22.6 million basic and 22.7 million diluted shares. The increase reflects the new shares sold in the July 2011 registered direct offering that generated net proceeds to the company of $19.3 million in exchange for 3 million new shares of Pernix common stock.

For the year ended December 31, 2011, weighted average common shares outstanding were 24 million basic and 24.5 million diluted. And for the year ended December, 2010, weighted average common shares outstanding were 23.4 million basic and diluted shares.

Turning now to the balance sheet. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $34.6 million in unrestricted cash and cash equivalents, working capital of $36.6 million and $4 million in borrowing capacity under our revolving line of credit. We also had an accounts receivable balance of $20.6 million and inventory of $6.3 million.

As it relates to other sources of liquidity, Pernix initiated an At-the-Market or ATM, equity offering sales program in February 2012. Under the ATM sales agreement, Pernix made from time to time offer and seek to sell up to $25 million of its common stock through Cantor Fitzgerald. To-date, the company sold approximately 264,000 shares of common stock under this ATM program for total net proceeds of approximately $2.5 million. At March 22, 2012, our total common stock outstanding is approximately 26.1 million shares.

Now, I'd like to look ahead to 2012. In 2012, the company anticipates investing in the launch of its gastroenterology product, which includes establishing a GI sales force of up to 30 sales representatives. Additionally, the company also plans to invest in the development of Theobromine and the recently announced development project for the prescription pediatric market.

The company expects these investments, along with the expansion of the corporate infrastructure, will increase operating expenses in the range of $12 million to $15 million for the full year of 2012 as compared to the full year of 2011. Company also expects stronger revenue growth in the second half of 2012 compared to the first half of 2012.

In terms of revenue, we expect that our 2012 quarterly revenues will have a similar percentage relationship for the full year 2012 revenues as was experienced in 2011. For example, in 2011, the third and fourth quarters comprised approximately 63% of total net revenues. We expect similar quarterly net revenue percentages in 2012.

That concludes my financial review this morning and now I'll turn the call back over to Cooper for his final comments.

Thanks, Dave. In summary, we're pleased with our significant growth in net revenues and adjusted EBITDA achieved during the fourth quarter and full year 2011 and we expect continued revenue growth in 2012. The investments that we made in 2009 and 2010 enabled us to generate strong revenue growth in 2011.

I believe that you will see a similar growth pattern going forward. In 2012, we're in another investment phase for the company that I believe will drive potentially great revenue growth in 2013 and 2014. As Dave mentioned, we are investing in our GI product launch, the development of Theobromine and our pediatric product development project.

We are confident that we continue to execute on our growth strategy which includes the horizontal integration of our branded prescription, generic and OTC businesses that provides us with the unique opportunity to leverage products across the spectrum unlike any other specialty pharmaceutical company.

In addition, we believe Pernix will see stronger results in the second half of 2012 as we're confident in the continued growth of CEDAX and we expect to see traction from the new point of sale coupon program for Natroba, launch our new GI product by midyear and continue to grow our generic business. We also expect to utilize our solid financial position to license and acquire branded prescription products, generics, OTC products and companies.

Operator, please open the phone lines for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We will go first to Elliot Wilbur with Needham & Company.

Thank you. Good morning. First question for Cooper and/or Dave. Just with respect to the operating expense guidance for 2012, I want to make sure that we are on the same page. You are specifically referring to operating expenses not total cost and expenses, which includes COGS, is that correct?

Yeah, that is correct. So for 2011, the operating expense total was just under $27 million. So, the $12 million to $15 million range of investment would be incremental to that $27 million.

Right. And then could you just sort of walk us through what the expected split would be between SG&A and R&D in terms of that increase?

Yeah, I'd say that two-thirds roughly would be in the SG&A. You have sales reps samples, commissions and so forth and then a third of that would be in the, what we would call, R&D, but that would also be inclusive of the joint venture P&L as well.

Okay. And then for Cooper, moving on to some of the more recent licensing activity with respect to the GI product. What point in time do you plan on disclosing what that agent is? I'm assuming sometime before launch, but just curious sort of what, when we can expect to hear a little bit more about that? And then, can you maybe just for both that product and the other undisclosed pediatric product, can you just give us maybe a little bit more granularity on the markets? I'm assuming you're not going to tell us what the indications are specifically or anything as of yet. But, in terms of a GI product be $100 million market and the other one being a $300 million, are these markets where you have sort of one dominant entrench competitor that makes up a bulk of those sales or are these highly fragmented markets with low levels of current promotion where in there it should be easier to gain share?

Okay. Yeah, I will try to get to those in order there. So, the GI products were planned to launch midyear. We plan to announce what the product is, I'd say, on the – probably by the May, our first quarter conference call in May. There is going to be a GI conference in May that we're going to be announcing that product. The reason we have not announced that product so far is there is really kind of one large brand competitor in that space right now that we will be competing directly against. We – our product should be a first line therapy in front of that product because it is a big pharma product that's not being promoted. I would really want to do anything to kind of aggravate the situation that calls them to launch out some kind of a coupon program prior to us having our feet on the street or at least talking to GIs about it.

So, that's why we haven't really announced the name. It's not for any other reason other than kind of competitive reasons. So, we're trying to keep it as confidential as possible, but we plan to be talking about the product specifically in May because there are some conferences that we're going to have to – we want to talk about the product with the GIs that will be attending. There is going to be a lot of thought leaders there. So, it will be public information in May either before the earnings call or by the time we have the earnings call.

As far as the size of the market, I kind of gave you a little color on the GI product. There is kind of one main competitor and there is obviously always some kind of generic competition in the space, but really kind of one name brand there that we're going to be going after and we feel like we have a better product.

So moving on to the pediatric side, that development project is very unique. It's in a space there hasn't really been any new drug development in, but there is a lot of drug use in that space. So we feel like we'd be capturing most of that business by getting an approval on this specific product. So it is unique because of that, so we don't see that there are any new drug competitors, there haven't been. So, but obviously with those kind of products, some people figure out what you're doing there is a race to develop them in front of you and also a race to get a generic prepared. So we want to kind of stay ahead of the curve. But, I think once the clinicals are filed, we'll give an update there and everybody will put the pieces together and figure out what the product is.

Okay. And then one last question for you Cooper, moving to Natroba. Can you talk about sort of what has led you guys to implement the couponing program? I guess, my sense is, at least in the checks that we've done, we don't really have a sense that price and co-pays have really been much of an issue versus just awareness and still even pharmacy stocking. So I'm just wondering sort of what metrics you guys have seen that lead you to believe that a couponing strategy is going to be effective in terms of accelerating the uptake of the product?

Okay, sure. So let me kind of walk you through the progression there of Natroba. We launched the product out, built it up to over 1,000 prescriptions and we pretty quickly had a little bit of a fall off and that was due to stocking. We alleviated that pressure. We bounced right back up to 1,400 a week. And then we started getting pressure from Medicaid agencies or state Medicaid programs on price and that caused a lot of push back with physicians on price to the private pay and insured patients as well.

So, initially the product launched out with around a $35 co-pay and pretty rapidly increased, I think as the plan digested the product a little bit to over a $60 co-pay. So, when you have a product that the standard of care has been OTC for so long, it's so easy for the doctor to just switch back to OTC or pushback to a generic product even though they all agree that this is clearly a superior product. We also had a [ph] peril (28:16) written on the product stating basically that the product is a standard of care. The only negative they found in the product is price.

I would say that ParaPRO and Pernix both agree that this is the best product in the market, one of the safest and easiest products to use. So, the only thing that's holding us up right now is that patient that either thinks the co-pay is too high and wants to move over-the-counter, the pharmacist that recommends the generic because the co-pay is one-tenth of the brand co-pay or something like that. So we've had discussions and it took months of discussions.

Typically with CEDAX we saw similar problems at launch. We launched a coupon out in a few weeks. The difference is because we have a co-promotion partner here it took a few months, and this coupon is not your typical coupon, it is a co-pay buy down coupon, so when the patient does get to the pharmacist even if there is a generic option and they say, all right, well your co-pay, I would say it'd be $65 with – without a coupon and with a coupon say it's $30. So you're getting down to that price where it's much less likely they're going to turn away from a much better product over $20 or so. But when it's $50, $60, we have been seeing a lot of walk away. So, even though it doesn't appear there should be a lot of price sensitivity when it comes to lice, we've experienced it specifically from the physicians, they like the product, they want to use it, but they don't want to deal with the pushback from the customer, especially when there are some OTC options, although we know that our product is twice as effective as OTC options. They'll stop at the OTC product first. So, I do believe that this coupon program will really help.

To give you some specific examples, we launched out – ParaPRO allowed us to do a test market but they didn't want to approve it for the full sales force. So, we did a test market with about 20% of our sales force in various geographic areas. That test market niche averaged on all the territories across the board was about a 42% increase in the first two weeks just in those test markets. So that's where you see kind of the scripts go all the way down and bottom out at right about 500 and then well, I guess, it was 482 was the actual bottom and then you see them kind of increase back into the 600s. That was all just the test market with 20% of the sales force.

We were able to roll out the coupon. After some discussion, ParaPRO allowed us to roll out the coupon. It's been printed and shipped out. I think every sales reps will have it this week. We've had – I'd say, probably up to half the sales force started getting it last week and it's progressing. But everybody should have and hopefully by the end of this week. So, you should start to see the product climb back to where it was a few months ago. I think that this product is going to have to be continually managed until we really get the doctors and especially the pharmacists behind it.

The pharmacists have been difficult because of price and recommending generics, things like that. But I do feel we're going to get the product back to where it was, get it back on track, maybe do some additional marketing strategies, additional couponing, and things like that. But, even though it is the best product, it has to meet a certain price threshold I think to make the consumer comfortable and the doctor to really get behind it.

Yeah, thanks. Cooper, just – can you just hit on the stocking issue as well? I mean, I guess, we continue to hear situations where somebody actually gets a script and then has to wait 24 hours to 40 hours for the pharmacy to order the product...

Right.

Which probably is too long when you have someone panicking because of lice outbreaks?

Yeah, right. Yeah, exactly. So, this is a little different from a stocking perspective. Typically, we'd stock products and the first bottle goes out and before the next patient gets there, they have another one or two bottles in stock. With lice in particular, we're not sampling the product because it's really effective after one use. So, you probably never get the script filled if you sample it. Where with, say, our antibiotic we give him a sample. It will last him a day, they can wait a day, and they're more likely to wait a day for an antibiotic like that if they have a sample.

But with lice, what's happening is a lot of times the patients are coming in and they got two kids. They both – one has lice, maybe the other one has lice. They get – the doctor writes prescription for two bottles and there is only one bottle in stock. So, the pharmacists say, hey, we've got one bottle. We'll, have the next bottle tomorrow." "Oh, I want to treat both my kids" or whatever. And they say, "well, I got two bottles of generics," whatever. And so, we lose a script due that.

Or the person comes in and fills a script, the next person walks in and gets the script. They don't have a sample to get through a day and they do not want to go home with lice. So, they want to leave there today with a prescription, a generic prescription or they want to leave there with another brand or they're going to get an OTC, so you kind of lose that. So it was a different stocking dynamic I think than we were used to. So that's why you saw kind of that run up to 1,100 and then kind of fell off and then we were able to alleviate the stocking pressure and it popped back to 1,400 and then, we started to see the pricing pressure really push down on us.

We lost some key states on Medicaid, which is important to point out. A lot of our competitors are willing to lose money to be on Medicaid and we aren't. So, sometimes, we have to walk away, sometimes they just take our product off and we lost key states like Texas, Ohio and New York, which we redirected the sales reps. And – we've done this before with CEDAX. You've seen similar issues with CEDAX and we saw some of that happen in the first quarter where CEDAX was running up really fast. They had some formulary resets. We redirected the reps and because we had an aggressive couponing strategy with CEDAX, and we did the redirection. The sales really didn't fall, it kind of flattened out and started to grow in a different direction, but also in a much more profitable direction because we don't have to pay Medicaid rebates. So I think those are – that's important to point out too when you're looking at what actually happened with Natroba. But, we all believe with this new marketing couponing strategy, we can get the product back on track and going in the direction and be the type of product we all expect it to be.

All right. Thanks for taking the question.

All right. No problem. Thanks for calling.

And we will go next to Randall Stanicky with Canaccord Genuity.

Great. Thanks guys for the questions. Cooper, with respect to the strength that we're seeing in CEDAX, can you just tease out for us, how much of that is seasonal versus just a strong uptick and where I'm going with this as I'm trying to understand where we could get to from a ramp perspective with the 180 mg out and if you can give us any color around where you think peak sales could go to that would be really helpful?

Okay, sure. So, I think it is – there is some seasonality to CEDAX, just because there is some lowering effects and then it kind of follows the cold and flu season, which everybody that follows the space knows the cold and flu season was very weak this season. So, did not have as much of an impact as we'd hope for. It's kind of sad to say but company like us kind of hope for strong cold and flu season because it drives business and that's what we are here for to have a patient when it comes to these types of disease states. So, anyways, I think it is definitely seasonal, but I would expect to see it continuing to grow. So, when you look at like your lows of the year, say in July, I would hope to see some significant growth from July of 2011 to July of 2012 and I think you could even continue to see growth for CEDAX into 2013.

We have some additional marketing strategies which we'll specifically talk about when we discuss kind of the horizontal integration of the company, taking them – acquiring a brand like CEDAX, launching it out, doing a coupon program, initiating a more aggressive coupon program and even maybe going on to use Macoven as an authorized generic to appeal to those doctors who are looking for a generic. Even though there is IP around the product, a lot of insurance companies are driving doctors towards generic and a lot of patients are asking for therm. So, we can use that additional strategy with Macoven to grow the product on a generic base.

So, I do see continued growth with CEDAX and it will always be stronger in the winter months than the summer months. But if we can show growth in the summer – we can show growth through this summer, then I would expect that kind of same type of percentage growth into the winter and it depends on how we pick and choose the formularies. If there are some formularies, we – Medicaid formularies, state formularies, we don't want to participate in because we lose money in which a lot of pediatric companies are in that position. CEDAX was in that position when we acquired it and we walk away, we redirect the sales force, but there is so much room to grow an antibiotic, I mean, the market is so huge especially for middle ear infections and pediatrics.

And as you think about where you think the product can get to, do you have internal targets? The script trends have obviously been really strong.

We do. The funny thing about our target is there is kind of – there are a lot of, I would say, data points we try to hit depending on formulary coverage, regional coverage and those kind of thing. So, it's hard to really kind of give you a straight guidance, say hey, we think we are going to do $20 million or $30 million or $40 million of the products because all those numbers depend on state-by-state formularies, the amount the rest directionally go. If we open a specialty, say, like gastroenterology and those reps are going to be calling on some family doctors or maybe we can put the CEDAX solid dose capsule in their bag to call on. So there is so many different aspects of this product, especially on the pediatric side that we look at, it's hard for us to kind of give a kind of straight guidance. We could say, hey, if everything goes perfectly and we are profitable on all these – Medicaid programs is where we will be. But at the end of the day, we are trying to pick the most profitable sale. So it may – the prescriptions, the weekly and monthly prescription may fluctuate based on those kind of decisions.

Got it. Okay. And then, just on cough and cold in general, I mean, we've seen several companies come out with report, talk about what's been an obviously weak cough and cold season. Can you just remind us how much exposure do you guys have there, and then how do you think about the December versus the March quarter in terms of the relative exposure?

On the cold and cough side, as a percentage of business, it was, I would say a 100% of our business in 2012, probably not a 100% of business, but definitely the great majority of our business, say in 2009. I mean, 2011, it's probably dropped to below 20% or so. We would have to really dig in those numbers to get them right. But, I think the cold and cough side of business, you'll see – you won't see it growing. You'll see the company overall growing which will make it kind of a smaller percentage of our business. You may see it declining because there is less promotion there. But, I'd say the exposure is very limited there just because of the direction the company is going with other acquisitions like CEDAX, generic products and the Macoven side.

One of the things I think you'll see the company move towards is maybe some OTC opportunities on the cold and cough space to really kind of allow a brand to live and flourish as an OTC, where the generic competition is not quite as effective, where if you generic a prescription, cold and cough product, the sales – you may lose 90% of your sales in the first 90 days, where if it's over-the-counter and you've built a nice brand, you could see the product living and continuing to get three-quarters of the scripts even with the store brand generic on the market.

So I think, I mean, I think that's the way I kind of think about cold and cough. I mean, I could see us really using our horizontal integration strategy to help those cold and cough brands live, just like CEDAX we've launched a cold and cough product out with coupon program, add another more aggressive coupon, launching authorized generic for a cold and cough product, which we've done in the past from [ph] co vendor (40:48) and then move – eventually move the product over to an OTC, a true OTC product over-the-counter, maybe do some advertising and those type of things and then the brand lives forever on that side, while also utilizing the strategy on the generic co-pay side to get to that point.

So it's a little different if you think about say the Zyrtecs to the world. Zyrtec goes straight from prescription with Pfizer to OTC, and it's built a great OTC brand. But there is still kind of that middle ground where you'll see a bunch of – there is going to be some U.S., but definitely international companies participate on the generic there. And they'll have a generic out and patients have the choice to pay generic co-pay or get the OTC and we've still seen the Zyrtec brand, the generic Zyrtec brand grow as a prescription generic product, while Pfizer is still incorporating the OTC strategy. So for us, the generic is actually a kind of a middle ground for us. So we look at that where we'd completely integrated across the spectrum and take products across from brand, generic into OTC. So pull every little dollar we can out of what we would view as a great value as far as an acquisition goes early on just to put in a prescription side. So we're trying to find ways to pull every dollar out of them.

Well, and just my last question. It sounds like – you just answered part of it, which is OTC is going to be a focus, but as a follow-up to Elliot's question around GI, as you ramp up to those 30 reps, how many GI products is ideal in terms of leveraging those reps appropriately and then is that sort of the [ph] BD (42:24) focus here as you go forward?

So specifically for us on the prescription side of the business, we like to have multiple specialty divisions. So we'll have pediatrics. GI is kind of the first branded specialty we chose to jump into outside of pediatrics. And each specialty, say – other specialties we like are women's health, which is why you've seen an investment in TherapeuticsMD for the company, which has grown nicely. So we were thinking about going to women's health, we met with these guys and we felt, hey, maybe we'll take some of that budget, invest in this company and see how things go and participate in their success. So and then we chose to take the opportunity to launch this GI product. And also we had a second GI product that we kind of developed internally. So it made sense now we're going to be launching with a first and second line product, long-term each specialty we like to see with three to four products.

So you'll see, let's say, we end up in GI, pediatrics and derm, you'd probably see anywhere from nine to 12 products just in those specialties. We could go as high as five products, but I would say that would be the limit and probably go as low as three to be really comfortable. What you'll really see us do is try to kind of hedge, almost do a perfect hedge on the company, where you have the brand, generic and OTC sides. Hopefully one day they'll all be generating about the same amount of revenue and then the same thing on each division. So you have the prescription division, which hopefully GI, peds and derm or women's health or oncology whatever we go into, each one of those will have three to five products carrying equal weight. So we'll never be that company that one product knocks – one product gets knocked off and it's over for us, or some patent we thought we had, somebody files a Paragraph IV and then it's over. If we lose one product, we have so many other products and so many other specialties and divisions that we'll just move on to another product and we'll replace it or grow in another direction. So that's really kind of what you see us doing. It's more of a business person's pharmaceutical company than I'd say a pharmacist's pharmaceutical company.

That's great. Thanks guys.

Thank you.

Thanks.

And we'll go next to Annabel Samimy with Stifel, Nicolaus.

Hi, guys. Thanks for taking my question. Just while we're on the GI focus and talking about new deals, you made a big investment in GI with a 30 person sales force. Do you have additional deals on the horizon that you'll quickly be able to fold into the GI sales force or is there something that needs to build over time, that we shouldn't expect too much at this point?

I kind of – you kind of broke up there at the end, can you kind of hit that last sentence again for me?

Sorry, you made a big investment in the 30 person sales force for GI, have you identified a number of additional products that you can quickly fold into their bag or is this going to be over time you'll be able to leverage that sales force?

Okay. So we have a product that we've been working on for, I guess over year now that's going to be ready to launch at about the same time as this product and it is a GI product. However, it can be promoted across the spectrum. So we'll be able to promote the product in GI as well as peds, so we should – it's not going to be first or second position in peds, but it will be a second position product for us in GI. So you will have an additional product there. So we are starting with two products in GI.

We are shopping for a third product or maybe a late stage development project where we have a year or so to really grow that first line product and then move into a second another launch and have three nice products in that division.

Okay.

I just going to address on the general business development side, we are not just looking at GI products, we are looking for GI products, but we're looking at specialties, we're looking at generics, baskets of products, companies everything. So the way we've set ourselves up to be horizontally integrated really kind of opens up all opportunities. So we don't have specific opportunities that we have to look for. We are really open to any specialty in pharma.

Okay. And with the launch of the new products, can you give us a sense of what you think your gross margin trends could be, I mean, Natroba clearly has lower gross margins. But with some of these new products, is it going to be enough to offset it just give us a sense of what we should be expecting going forward?

Hey, good morning Annabel, it's Dave. I think from the gross margin perspective, you have to kind of wrap your mind around on a quarter-by-quarter basis something starting with a five and at the low-end and with the seven on the high-end, and probably over the course of four quarters, coming into about the mid-point there. So, most of the new products that we would look at are going to have your typical Rx branded pharma margins that are probably going to start with eight on it. And that's certainly our objective.

Okay, great. And then, if I can go back to Natroba, a little bit. You mentioned that you lost Ohio, Texas, and New York. These are pretty big license markets. So is there anything that you're going to try to do to address that loss or try to get back into Medicaid, or are you going to change pricing, generics on some of your products – some of your branded products? What kind of strategies are you going to use sort of offset the loss of those sales – potential sales rather?

So, ParaPRO and Pernix are negotiating with all those states. We just don't want to get into place where we're given the product away or losing money on it. So, we are negotiating with those states. We think that there is an opportunity to get coverage there going forward where we just had to be very disciplined because we've seen – I mean, we've seen products like CEDAX, that we're losing money doing 6 million in sales and losing money. And we want to be very careful on getting our product in that place. So, but I do feel confident that we're going to gain some formulary coverage back for Natroba and CEDAX. We just have to make sure we do it the right way.

It is especially on the life side, it is a big part of the business and I know that ParaPRO is getting more aggressive on pricing as kind of a ground has shifted underneath their feet. When they started developing this product, there was not as much price sensitivity in pharma. So I guess, they are having to decide what direction they want to go? They want to go for more market share, do they want to go for higher prices. And I think right now we're all working together to build market share. So we're getting a little more aggressive with these discussions. But just like a coupon, also I think the coupon wasn't something that ParaPRO really wanted to do. I know they did not want to do it early on and still think it was something they probably didn't want to do even we got to a point where all felt like we had to do it.

So, but it's just the – like I said, the ground has shifted underneath their feet. So, we have to adapt and that's one thing, I think Pernix does really well is kind of adapt to those changes is why we kind of talk about Pernix being swift, nimble and agile.

Okay. And in terms of changes to the market there is going to be a new competitor in this space, so you're going to have to contend with. So is there anything that you're going to need to adjust in your marketing approach either it's physicians and nurses in light of the new competition?

So yeah, I mean I think we're definitely going to have to address that. It's – we have – I'm sure you've reviewed the packaging sort of the new product launching. I think it's – in my opinion I'm kind of proud to say that Pernix is identified the lice market as a place we really want to play and then companies like Sanofi decide to jump into it. So I think we obviously identify the growing market. It grew double digits in 2011 when a ton of that going on. So I think that's a credit to our management team for kind of going in that direction early on.

You have seen the package insert with the select competitor products so you can – I'm sure you can see the benefits of Natroba over that products. So, we feel like we definitely still have a superior product. We're still very excited to compete on that level. We are going to have to do I would say more aggressive selling. I think that their strategy – one of their strategies is to go after more, low decile writers, which haven't been targeted in the past just because of their coverage, the amount of coverage that they will have. So that's a place we're just – we're not going to go, we're not going to spend our time one. So, we'll just focus more on the high decile folks and make sure they have the right coupons and make sure we're talking to the nurses in the school districts, which we've been doing a lot of lately. And we've identified just additional price issues and trying to get coupon and coupon programs, make sure that school nurses are aware of our coupons and coupon programs.

So I feel pretty confident that this will be a – I think that Natroba will be a contender here for sure. I think also that having two really good products in the market will probably be great for the market, because there are some older drugs that have severe side effects like – if you look specifically at a product like malathion and it probably does – and definitely does over 50 million hours a year in this space as brand and generic.

If you look at a product like that, it causes secondary burns on kid's heads and they've just recently added that to their package insert. I'm not sure how familiar doctors are with that. I know the FDA is very familiar with it, because there was a recent change. Products like that, and Lindane, and those products. When you have two really safe products on the markets really safe and very effective products, it's tough to use those other products as a physician, but it's also difficult I'd say for the FDA to have two really safe products that can clearly supply the national demand and allow products like that to stay on the market. So I think there maybe some opportunity there.

Okay, great. And if I can ask one more question on Macoven, can you give us a better sense of, I guess, the pipeline for new generic for Macoven and whether the volume of NDAs and approvals that you're expecting are going to be picking up or generally remain flat how is that – can you give us some sense of how that growth is going to proceed?

I'd say that Macoven – what's still great about Macoven is they are able to identify kind of these niche opportunities that a lot of the times don't require an abbreviated new drug approval. So they've been really great at identifying those opportunities. Obviously they have ANDAs and even some Paragraph IV opportunities. I think to see – to really see the Pernix portfolio – ANDA portfolio grow instantly, you're going to see more acquisitions of baskets of products. Now that Macoven has shown the growth that we expected, we're little more comfortable getting – putting some money behind Macoven and allowing that overall generic division to grow. We do see generics – we're obviously not the only ones, everyone has seen generics really take over the United States. But we do see generics as a place that we really want to play and you want to be able to hedge your bet as well as OTCs. We see the same thing there. There is a lot of products going over the counter. So I would expect to see us do some acquisitions on the ANDA front and also expect to see us do some things on the OTC side as well. We think that's going to be – OTC is really the resting place for big prescription drugs. And if you can manage to get through the pathway and generics of what Americans are asking for. So I think utilizing that strategy across the board is going to be a big part of what we do here at Pernix.

All right. Thanks a lot.

All right. Thanks Annabel.

[Operator Instructions] We'll go next to Irina Rivkind with Cantor Fitzgerald.

Hi. Thanks for taking the call. I just had some questions around guidance. You've previously shown that the CAGR over the past four years has been about 41%. So I was just hoping we could extrapolate to 2012 to see if you're expecting similar revenue growth on the top-line? And then also with the increased investment in operational expenses, I was just wondering if you're expecting directionally earnings to be higher than 2011 or lower than or about in line? Thanks.

I'll first kind of talk about the compound annual growth rate. So, when we look at compound annual growth rate over a three or four-year period, we kind of look at it more as a three or four-year period where if you pull out that three or four-year period, we'd like to be in the 30% to 40% growth rate. But I think if you kind of look at – so let's say we look at the past few years at Pernix, you've seen say – 2009, 2010, say you had net sales at $27 million or so in 2009, net sales of $33 million or so in 2010, and then you see a nice big jump up to $60 million in net sales. So, I think that's kind of a pattern that you'll see with Pernix. I think you'll see growth every year, but you'll see substantial growth coming after a year or two of investment. So, I think if you kind of look at the history of sales of the company that's how we – that's kind of how we performed in the past. As far as specific guidance, I'll let Dave take that, I know we're not really going to give specific guidance. He is kind of talk to that a little bit in the earlier part of the call, but I'll let Dave take that.

I'm not going to give numbers here. But obviously we grew 82% at the top line in 2011 versus 2010 from $33 million to $60 million, it's about a $27 million increase that equates to the 82%, obviously cannot continue on the 82% growth rate like that. But, I think in terms of aggregate dollars from one period to the next, I think that the continuation there would be a reasonable assumption. And you did point out the fact that we are making significant investments in the sales and marketing for the new GI product, product development for Theobromine as well as the new pediatric product. So, that will – that certainly will impact the SG&A in the range of $12 million to $15 million.

Okay. And then I just have one follow-up. In general, could you point to any catalyst that we should be aware of for the coming year?

I would say it's hard to say without giving too much competitive information out. But I would say – I'd go back to what I said before. I think you'll see us looking to obviously acquire brands. We've had some brand acquisitions teed up, they just haven't closed yet. So, you'll see some of those. I mean I think you're going to see some acceleration on the ANDA front, us may be buying some baskets of products and things like that.

The OTC side, I think we haven't really gotten any questions on Theobromine, but one of the opportunity, the joint venture is looking into right now is the U.S. OTC opportunities and Pernix would like to be involved in that going forward, because we feel like this is something we've done in the past. The addition of Dave Becker who is with Adams Respiratory and Mucinex is kind of the start of really looking into some of these OTC opportunities.

So, I think that could be something you could see us really kind of push the pedal down on a little bit as the OTC side of things materialize with Theobromine. We have had some other OTC products in development. So, it could be a nice little division in the future for us, but we've always plan to get the OTCs eventually, but if the Theobromine opportunities are there then you could possibly see that accelerate in that. I'd say that could be a nice growth driver for us going into 2013.

Thanks so much.

Thanks Irina.

We will go next to Nathan Cali with Noble Financial.

Hey, guys. Thanks for taking the question this morning. Congratulations on nice performance in 2011. Just a couple of follow-up questions, some of my questions were answered. As far as the generic sales in the fourth quarter, could you give us guidance on what those were?

I think we talked about the kind of percentage Macoven and generic revenue overall, but I'll let Dave take that?

Yeah. So, for all of 2011, the generic products were about 32% of the net sales. And we haven't given anything out on a quarter-by-quarter basis. The fourth quarter is certainly a strong quarter for our branded cough, cold products as well as CEDAX. So I'll let you to kind of make an adjustment in your head there. I think if you look forward to 2012, the generic business we have expectations around that 32% range as well.

Could you give us guidance on what the net revenue margins were?

No, we're not giving – not on any particular product or class of products.

Okay. As far as Natroba, the purchase commitments for Natroba of $33 million in year one. Could you give us some guidance on that and then what the accounting activity is for those purchase agreements?

Well – so that's on a distribution agreement which is separate from our co-promotion agreement with ParaPRO. However, it's all tied to demand of product. So, I think that those – we obviously do have those obligations. But those – that agreement I would say is definitely something we're discussing with ParaPRO based on kind of the expectations have changed. I wouldn't say long term. I think the expectations are still the same for Natroba but short term they have. So, that's something we feel like we're working with a partner that really wants to grow the product and any obligations that may hurt the product overall we'll probably be able to work through as partners.

Any guidance on – I know you probably may not give us this – but expectations on revenue for the GI products in 2012?

No, not yet. We haven't given that. I mean, I think that you could probably see us start adding kind of some guidance, some high-level guidance as we launch products and hit data points. And Natroba is a perfect example of why we don't really give a lot of guidance. The first three months, we hit or exceeded our data points, and then we had Medicaid issues that popped up and we had pricing issues that popped up and – so, I mean, you really have to manage I think a launch for 6, 9, 12 months before you can confidently put those points on the chart and then like I was saying before there are so many things that can affect that.

We kind of have – we may have three points and say if we get Medicaid coverage here, this is where the Rx is going to go. If we stay away from Medicaid completely, which a lot of companies are doing, this is where the prescriptions are going to go. If we target this whole different specialty here, this is where the prescriptions will go. So, until we're really comfortable where those points align, we don't want to put something out there.

Okay. As far as the data for the pediatric product that you guys have seen, what does the Phase II data look like for that product and what are the expected – what are your expectations for a approval for Phase III based upon that data?

What I'll say is from meetings with the FDA that we'd reconsider it late stage because some of the II stuff will be able to be done concurrent with Phase III stuff. But other than that we don't really want to talk about it specifically.

Sure, thanks. And then as far as Theobromine, with the potential for the Phase III in the U.S. and the EU, any expectations for approval on that timelines and then how much R&D costs are you expecting to be associated with that in 2012 and 2013?

I'll talk about kind of the – what's going on with the joint venture in Europe and I'll let Dave address the budget there. So, the joint venture, obviously we talked a little about the OTC opportunity for the Theobromine intellectual property in the U.S., so as the two companies have been spending a lot of time on this opportunity, some of the European clinicals have been slowed down. But if we go straight towards – if we determine what direction we're going to go in the U.S., once that decision is made, pretty much simultaneously the European clinicals will be put back on track and move forward with approvals. But that's why you've kind of seen a little bit of a delay there on the European side just because we've been putting a lot of time and effort into what we see could be a really big opportunity here in the United States.

But that by no way means that the European development is on hold or permanently taken off because we have – we've had a lot of interest once we segmented the auction in just the European rights. So, I think, that's going to move forward no matter what we determine in the United States, but there are some bigger opportunities here that we're exploring. So, that's why you've seen a little bit delay. I'll let Dave address the budget now.

Yeah, Nathan. I guess, I'll go back to the previous comment and that was the growth in the operating expenses of $12 million to $15 million for 2012 versus all of 2011 and I indicated about a-third of that growth is going to be for product development and the Theobromine. And so that would indicate $4 million to $5 million for both of those initiatives. And in 2012, I would say you would see more of that spend on the Theobromine asset as opposed to the pediatric development program and then over time you'd probably see that switch in 2013 and 2014.

All right, guys. Congrats again and thanks a lot for taking the questions.

Great. Thank you, Nathan.

Thank you.

And that concludes our question and answer session as well as the Pernix Therapeutics fourth quarter earnings conference call. Thank you and have a nice day.