Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Lisa M. Wilson — President, In-Site Communications, Inc.
Douglas L. Drysdale — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Pernix Therapeutics Holdings, Inc.
Sanjay S. Patel — Chief Financial Officer, Pernix Therapeutics Holdings, Inc.
Traver A. Davis — Analyst, Piper Jaffray & Co
Serge D. Belanger — Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC
Donald Bruce Ellis — Analyst, Avondale Partners LLC
Irina Rivkind Koffler — Analyst, Cantor Fitzgerald Securities
Akiva Y. Felt — Analyst, Oppenheimer & Co., Inc. (Broker)
Elliot H. Wilbur — Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Pernix Therapeutics Q1 2015 Financial Results Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session, and instructions will follow at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, today's conference is being recorded.

I would now like to turn over this conference call to Ms. Lisa Wilson. You may begin, ma'am.

Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. On the call today are; Doug Drysdale, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Sanjay Patel, Chief Financial Officer of Pernix Therapeutics.

Please be advised that Pernix issued a press release this morning containing financial results for the quarter ending March 31, 2015. The release, including the financial tables and reconciliation of non-GAAP financial results, is available on the company's website at pernixtx.com. The company also expects to file its current report on Form 10-Q with the SEC by the end of the day on May 1, 2015.

During today's call, the company will be making forward-looking statements, and it is possible that actual results could differ materially from current expectations. Please note that under Safe Harbor rules, Pernix is under no obligation to update the information contained in these forward-looking statements, even if actual results or future expectations change materially.

The company recommends that you refer to the cautionary statements contained in its SEC filings for a more detailed explanation of the inherent limitations of such forward-looking statements.

At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to Doug Drysdale.

Thank you, Lisa. Good morning, everyone. Today, we released our financial results for the first quarter of 2015. The fundamentals of our business are strong, and we're on track to build a leading portfolio of CNS and pain management brands. We're very excited to have closed the Zohydro ER franchise acquisition last week. Zohydro ER with BeadTek is a unique extended release formulation of hydrocodone and plays an important role in the multi-billion dollar pain management category.

Based on our analytics of its historic positioning and uptake, we believe there is substantial opportunity for improved execution. We're eager and ready to implement our strategy to maximize the growth potential of this platform. Recognizing the importance of abuse-deterrents to physicians, patients and the FDA, we will quickly transition to the next-generation product, Zohydro ER with BeadTek, which I'll discuss in greater detail later in the call.

As you'll hear from Sanjay, we financed the deal in a smart way, which reduced our cost of capital and increased our financial flexibility. This will enable us to maximize shareholder value from the Zohydro ER transaction, and we're very excited about the long-term sustainable cash flows this franchise will provide.

Turning to Treximet. Frankly, I'm disappointed in the performance year-to-date. And I believe our execution can and will be improved. As you'll hear from Sanjay, there are a number of factors underpinning the softness in Treximet sales in the first quarter. Some of it is timing-related, including the delay in receiving physician samples from our supplier. We released single-dose samples into the market, beginning in late March, which is already starting to drive new prescription growth.

We fully expect the underlying Treximet business will improve throughout the balance of the year, supported by volume growth and a stabilization of gross to nets. We remain confident in our long range plan. And if we look at the rolling 12-month period beginning April 1, we believe Treximet is on track to deliver close to our prior guidance.

Silenor continues to respond very well to our selling efforts. Total prescriptions were up 66% year-over-year in first quarter 2015, while new prescriptions were up 79%, indicating an increase in awareness and adoption.

Silenor fulfills the unmet need of a prescription sleep aid that is non-addicting and without the next day hangover-like effects. We believe Silenor will benefit from the additional selling efforts of the new sales force we've brought on to promote Zohydro ER.

Today, we have three significant CNS brands; Treximet, Silenor and Zohydro ER, which position us well for significant top and bottom line growth over the next several years.

I'd like to now turn the call over to Sanjay to review our financial results. Sanjay?

Thanks, Doug, and good morning, everyone. Overall, the strategic initiatives we undertook in 2014 have provided a solid financial foundation and positioned the company for continued growth and margin improvement. As you will note from our press release this morning, net revenue was $33.9 million during the first quarter of 2015, up 78% from $19.1 million in the first quarter of 2014. Compared to the fourth quarter of 2014, which was the first quarter to have a full three months of Treximet sales, our revenue was down 37%.

Let me walk everyone through the gap between the fourth quarter and this quarter, which was primarily the result of lower than anticipated Treximet sales, channel inventory reductions and previously discussed normalization of gross to nets. Largely due to a manufacturing delay, single-dose samples of Treximet were not available to our sales force until late March.

Samples are a key driver of physician prescribing behavior, and our prior guidance factored the use of samples to partially offset the seasonality that is commonly experienced in the first quarter. The delay in receiving Treximet samples negatively impacted prescription levels. This translated into lower Treximet sales volume, which accounted for approximately 30% of the delta between our fourth quarter 2014 and first quarter 2015 results.

Encouragingly, since distributing approximately 40,000 samples beginning March 23, we have seen a steady uptick in new prescriptions. For Treximet, new prescriptions are up 11% since our first week of sampling versus a decline of 2% for the overall triptan market. We believe new prescriptions are an important leading indicator for total prescription growth.

During the first quarter, channel inventory for Treximet declined due to lower prescription volume and an inventory work-down of approximately 1.5 weeks by our wholesale and retail customers. Roughly 50% of the delta between the first quarter of 2015 and fourth quarter 2014 was related to this channel inventory adjustment. We expect that as prescription volumes continue to rise, we will see a corresponding increase in wholesaler inventory re-stocking.

The remaining difference relates to our gross to net performance. As outlined on our fourth quarter earnings call, we fully expected normalization in gross to nets as we completed our contracting process with managed care organizations. During the first quarter of this year, we saw gross to nets of approximately 60% for Treximet. In other words, for every dollar of gross sales, we had net sales of approximately $0.60. We expect to maintain a normalized gross to net rate in the mid-to-high 50% range going forward based on increased utilization among patients who are covered by managed care plans with whom we contract.

As a result, we have adjusted our net sales guidance for 2015 to reflect the impact of our first quarter results, and we've revised expectations based on, one, the timing of Treximet sales, and two, the addition of sales for Zohydro ER with BeadTek for the remaining eight months of the year. I will provide a revised guidance shortly.

Our gross profit margin for the first quarter of 2015 was 67.3% compared with 47.7% for the same quarter last year. The increase this quarter was primarily due to a change in product mix to include the Treximet product line.

Total operating expenses in the first quarter of 2015, excluding depreciation and amortization, were $34.4 million compared to $31 million during the prior period. Operating expenses included SG&A expense of $21 million compared to $13.6 million during the first quarter of 2014.

The increase in SG&A was driven by an increase in investments in selling and marketing for Treximet and Silenor, increased compensation expense, legal settlement reserves and training costs, offset by a reduction in operational and G&A expenses. SG&A as a percent of net sales decreased to 62% during the first quarter 2015 compared to 72% in the prior period.

R&D expense for the first quarter of 2015 was essentially unchanged at just under $1 million compared with the prior year. Consistent with prior quarters, we are reporting adjusted operating results which are non-GAAP measures that we believe are important for evaluating our financial results.

First quarter 2015 adjusted EBITDA was $4.6 million versus a loss of $2 million for the prior year. Subsequent to the end of the first quarter, and in connection with our acquisition of the Zohydro ER franchise, we raised $130 million in gross proceeds from the sale of senior convertible notes. We used $80.9 million of the proceeds to finance the cash portion of the Zohydro ER acquisition; approximately $8.3 million to pay fees and expenses related to the acquisition and the offering; and approximately $2.2 million to pay the consent fee related to our previously announced consent solicitation for our 12% senior secured Treximet notes.

The remaining net proceeds of approximately $38.6 million provide us with growth capital and greater financial flexibility at a significantly reduced cost of capital. As part of this financing, we also entered into an agreement with the holders of our 8% convertible notes, under which those notes were converted into 18.1 million shares of common stock. We further issued 2.3 million shares of common stock as an inducement payment to the 8% note holders and to settle the present value of the coupons on the notes.

As of March 31, 2015 on a pro forma basis, we had cash on hand of $57.5 million and $360.7 million of debt. This includes $220 million of Treximet notes at 12%, $130 million of the new convertible notes at 4.25% and $10.7 million under our revolving credit facility. It is worth noting that despite a modest increase in total leverage, we have kept our annual interest expense roughly flat, while improving our blended cost of capital from 11% to 9%. As a result, we have improved our financial condition and we intend to make further improvements going forward.

Our pro forma share counts, after giving effect to the conversion of our 8% convertible notes plus the shares issued pursuant to the Inducement and the shares issued to Zogenix in conjunction with our acquisition of Zohydro ER, is approximately $61 million. The new convert represents approximately 11.3 million additional shares.

Turning now to our updated financial guidance. Consistent with our regular practice, our guidance does not account for one-time charges, legal settlements and other non-cash items. With our revised expectations for Treximet and with important investments in the Zohydro ER franchise, we estimate 2015 revenue will be in the range of $220 million to $240 million. We estimate our adjusted EBITDA will be in the range of $45 million to $55 million. Our revised net sales of guidance assumes year-over-year growth for Treximet prescriptions, continued growth for Silenor, and eight-month contribution from Zohydro ER and the continued decline in our seasonal and legacy products.

Our revised EBITDA guidance assumes meaningful investments in our commercial infrastructure including the addition of the Zohydro ER sales force and continued marketing and R&D spend. We believe these investments are necessary and will position us for a strong 2016 as well as provide a platform for sustainable long-term growth.

I'd now like to turn the call back over to Doug.

Thanks, Sanjay. Looking at the quarter overall, we made significant progress which we believe will drive sustainable top-line growth, improved margins, and deliver significant shareholder value. I feel good about the progress we've made over the last year. Pernix is a very different company today than it was a year ago. We now have three significant CNS brands in our portfolio: Treximet, Silenor, and Zohydro ER with BeadTek. Each of these brands has substantial organic growth potential and we're constantly exploring opportunities to add strategic brands to the portfolio.

We have improved the financial profile of the company and have a stronger balance sheet with which to fund our strategic initiatives and expand the business. And the organizational initiatives we began last year including the Pernix Pharmacy Direct program are gaining momentum.

Our goals for 2015 are aggressive, but we are confident we're on the right strategic path to deliver long-term shareholder value and improve the lives of individuals that use our products. While I've already discussed Treximet at length, I'll just reiterate that we're in the early stages of this re-launch. You'll remember that Treximet had not been marketed since 2011 until we began promoting it again in September of 2014. Now that we have samples available to prescribers, new prescriptions are gaining momentum. As prescriptions increase, wholesale inventory will likely follow suit.

With the new sales initiatives we've begun in the first quarter, as well as consumer initiatives planned for the second and third quarters of this year, we expect to see improved results in the coming months. We feel confident in our ability to positively direct the trajectory of the Treximet business.

As I've shared with you, one of our value drivers is lifecycle management and the prudent investment of time, expertise and funds in that pursuit. I'm glad to report that in April, the FDA granted pediatric exclusivity to Treximet. This adds an additional six months of U.S. market exclusivity to the product's Orange Book-listed patents, which extends its lifecycle until February 14, 2018.

In addition, we submitted a supplemental New Drug Application, the expansion of the Treximet label to adolescent patients, last November. We look forward to FDA action by the May 14 PDUFA date. If approved, this would expand the market for Treximet, while providing relief for millions of adolescent migraine sufferers. Development of an alternative dose version of Treximet is also under way, aimed at extending its lifespan beyond 2018. We are currently in discussions with the FDA to finalize the details of this program that we anticipate could add years to the life of this brand.

Now, let me turn to the Zohydro ER franchise acquisition which we closed last week. We're very excited to bring the Zohydro ER brand into our portfolio. The franchise is early in its lifecycle, has significant opportunities for promotion and has a very long IP runway. It's an excellent strategic fit with our CNS focus and further positions Pernix to become a leader in the opioid pain market. The franchise includes an existing sales base that exited 2014 with a $23 million annual sales run rate. It includes Zohydro ER with BeadTek, a market-ready next generation product utilizing widely recognized abuse-deterrent technology that we're in the process of launching. And a third generation product, ZX-007, an innovative AD tablet formulation of the hydrocodone ER with patents extending to the end of 2029.

This transaction was immediately accretive to revenues and we expect it will make a meaningful EBITDA contribution beginning in 2016. The consideration for the acquisition included an $80 million upfront cash payment, 1.7 million shares of Pernix common stock and potential regulatory and commercial milestone payments of up to $283.5 million. Over $200 million of these milestones is tied to the achievement of annual net sales thresholds in excess of $500 million. We look forward to growing product sales over time to achieve this milestone.

We believe we acquired the franchise at an ideal point in its lifecycle. At the end of April, we received inventory of Zohydro ER with BeadTek. This product is bioequivalent to the first generation of product, maintaining the efficacy and safety of the original formulation with true 12-hour dosing. The BeadTek technology is a capsule which contains an indistinguishable mix of inactive beads, active immediate release hydrocodone beads and active extended release hydrocodone beads.

When taken as directed, the inactive beads in Zohydro ER with BeadTek remain inert. However, when crushed and dissolved in liquids or solvents, they immediately form a viscous gel. We will be restocking the market with this new formulation beginning next week. Two large pharmacy chains that constitute approximately 35% of the retail market have already agreed to remove restrictions associated with the stocking of the first-generation product, and we are in advance discussions with a major PBM to have Zohydro ER now with BeadTek removed from their restriction list.

While we have some work to do to maximize the full value of this brand, we see tremendous opportunity to do so as we improve managed care access over time. Our focus will be on capturing increased share of the 114 million prescriptions written in the hydrocodone market annually. We will address the chronic pain portion of this market, which is potentially valued at approximately $10 billion to $15 billion in annual sales.

We're on track to file the sNDA for Zohydro ER with BeadTek in the second half of 2015 that will include data from the Human Abuse Liability study conducted in accordance with the 2015 FDA guidance. If approved, this would enable Pernix to include abuse-deterrent claims in the label for Zohydro ER with BeadTek.

As part of this acquisition, we are adding a second sales force of approximately 100-people scoring the hydrocodone prescribers. These sales professionals will initially detail Zohydro ER and Silenor, expanding to include any complementary products we may acquire in the future. They are managed alongside our neuroscience sales force whose tremendous success with Silenor is a leading indicator of what we aim and expect to achieve with Treximet and Zohydro ER going forward.

We have aligned the Zohydro ER sales team's activities and incentive programs to better match our performance targets. Training this pain management sales team on Zohydro ER with BeadTek and Silenor is our top priority and has already begun this week. We also expect the Zohydro ER acquisition to positively impact Silenor sales. Zohydro ER provides sales synergies with Silenor in an untapped market segment. Chronic pain sufferers who have – report having poor or un-refreshing sleep.

Chronic pain patients are three times more likely to have a concomitant sleep disorder. And over 50% of people suffering chronic pain and sleep difficulties say their work suffers as a result. The non-addictive, non-scheduled Silenor represents an attractive option for chronic pain patients.

We continue to advance our plans to develop an over-the-counter version of Silenor to help millions of people suffering from insomnia to have a more restful sleep. This dedication could prove to be a major growth driver for Pernix, providing patients with a more accessible treatment option and extending our franchise beyond the current 2020 patent expiration. As a next step, we have a meeting scheduled with the FDA in June to review our development plans.

Overall, there are some near-term wins that will positively impact our performance in the coming months, as well as some longer-term activities that will drive sustained growth. We fully expect Zohydro ER with BeadTek to become our largest product. Each percentage of market share we gain in the hydrocodone market could translate into approximately $400 million in annual sales. We think that's a pretty attractive opportunity.

At the end of last year, we piloted the Pernix Pharmacy Direct program, which enables patients to receive their medication directly and allows us to retain a greater percentage of total prescriptions, while also reducing the rate of prescription abandonment. We saw fill rates improve by 25% in the initial territories where the PPD program was piloted. We expect to roll out the program nationwide by the end of the year and that it will be a meaningful contributor to sales growth across all of our promoted products.

We're excited about the opportunities before us. For the balance of 2015, we plan to focus on four key areas of growth and profitability. One, we are fully implementing our Treximet strategy now that we have product samples available for our sales force. This process is well under way, and we expect to see growth in Treximet reflected in our second quarter results. Two, the nationwide rollout of the Pernix Pharmacy Direct program will drive increased sales across all of our promoted products through reduced scripts abandonment. We expect to cover our major metropolitan markets by the end of the year.

Three, the integration of Zohydro ER with BeadTek is a key priority as this franchise will enhance our long-term growth profile. It not only adds a strong brand to our growing portfolio, but also strengthens our Silenor promotion capabilities with the addition of 100 sales representatives. And, four, we will continue to work diligently to expand managed care access across all of our products.

We're confident that the portfolio we have today, three strategically promoted brands, each in large markets with significant growth potential, will serve as a solid platform for Pernix to deliver long-term shareholder value and improve the lives of individuals that use our products. I look forward to updating you as we make progress in the coming quarters.

With that, I'd like to open the line for questions. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

Our first question comes from Traver Davis of Piper Jaffray.

Hi, guys. Thanks for taking the questions. Just wanted to drill down a little bit on some of the Treximet assumption. So maybe can you just let us know – and you already talked about how volume has bounced back a little bit since the sample initiative. But has the gross to net in 2Q, what you're seeing so far, begun to stabilize a lot like we saw or similar to the levels that we saw in the fourth quarter? And also just trying to get an idea of how quickly we could see the sales trajectory accelerate back up to closer to what we saw in the fourth quarter. Do you think that we'll start to see Treximet sales level closer to what we saw in the fourth quarter back, the half of the year or sooner than that? And then I just have a follow-up question on leverage, [indiscernible] (24:04).

Thanks, Traver. So with respect to gross to nets, as we got into the end of Q4, we had gross to nets in the high 60%s which we discussed on the last call. In Q1, the gross to nets were approximately 60% and we expect gross to nets for the balance of the year for Treximet to be in the mid-to-high 50%s. The reason for that is essentially contracting as we've improved access for Treximet and brought more plans online and more covered lives have joined, the gross to nets have reached what we now considered to be a relatively stable level. With respect...

Got it. Has that already began in 2Q or is that – there's still kind of room to stabilize there?

Yeah, to be honest, it's a little early to say. We haven't closed even in the first month of the second quarter but based on utilization patterns, it would appear that we're roughly in line with Q. With respect to sales growth, we expect year-over-year growth for Treximet in terms of volume. Clearly, the guidance is back-end loaded to an extent but given that we had samples out in the field, we distributed 40,000 samples so far, we fully expect that Treximet will continue – will begin growing throughout the balance of this month and into the rest of the year.

I'll just add to that subject – thanks, Sanjay, is that that the feedback we get from physicians remains very positive, the fundamentals of the product remain strong and there aren't any major significant negative issues that we see or hear about. So our assumptions around the product has not changed, the fundamental is still the same.

It's taken us a while to get samples out there, that's disappointing. But we've now, as Sanjay mentioned, distributed 40,000 samples, single tablet samples, which is quite a lot of samples. And we've already seen a change in the trend for new prescription. The new prescriptions are up 10%, 11% since we started distributing samples. So that's a good leading indicator for growth and we remain optimistic.

Okay. That's helpful. Just one follow-up – I just want to switch gears to the balance sheet and leverage. So maybe you can just give us an idea of what leverage looks like right now post-close for the Zohydro transaction, also bearing in mind the recent convert issuance. And then maybe just your general thoughts on deleveraging over time and also how this leverage has an impact on your ability to do further deals in more near-term rather than several months down the line. Thanks.

Thanks. It's a good question. So as it relates to our total leverage, we have two pieces of paper outstanding. We have the $220 million Treximet notes at 12% and we have the new convert at $130 million at a rate of 4.25%. Just to point out, the balance of our cash interest payments for the balance of this year are approximately $16 million. Our interest expense on a cash basis is relatively unchallenging.

In terms of total leverage, on a net basis, we're – given on our new EBITDA guidance of 5 times to 6 times for the year, certainly that's high for a public company. But given the type of paper that we have, we feel very comfortable. I just want to point out that the Treximet notes have a very flexible pay down schedule. If Treximet does very well, we pay them down very quickly. If Treximet is slow, we pay them down slowly. And of course, that convert is an equity-like instrument that is interest only.

So as it relates to additional acquisitions, I'll let Doug pick up on this. But from a financial standpoint, we're – I think, it's levered as we like to be. The only circumstance in which we might add additional debt is if we were to bring in immediate cash flows that we can add to our EBITDA.

Yeah, thanks, Sanjay. I'll just to add to that. We're comfortable with our current leverage position and our cash position. We're not looking to add additional debt at this point in time. The focus is certainly right now on execution. We have an active deal pipeline and an eager business development team that's constantly looking at things, so we're definitely in the deal flow. But the major focus for the CDC, me included, is on Zohydro ER integration and launch of that product, and continue the focus on the re-launch and growth of Treximet. So execution is very important, I think, in the near-term here as we want to show positive results to our team and to our board and to our shareholders.

Great. Thanks, guys. Appreciate it.

Thanks, Traver.

Our next question comes from Serge Belanger with Needham.

Hi. Good morning. I guess another question on Treximet. You named a few factors between, to account for the delta between the 4Q and 1Q number including lower prescription levels, gross to net adjustments and inventory, can you just provide additional color on how each of these factors accounted for the delta?

Hi, Serge. I'd be happy to do that. So you correctly pointed out. There are three components. 30% of the delta is related to Treximet volume. 50% of the GAAP is related to the reduction in channel inventory from, again, five weeks approximately at the end of Q4 to approximately three-and-a-half weeks. So it's really a one-and-a-half week adjustment. And then, the last piece, 20% is related to lower gross to nets versus the fourth quarter.

So, coming out of 1Q, are we going – do we have normalized levels of inventory and gross to net adjustments?

Yes, we do. So what I would say is that both at the end of Q4 and at the end of Q1, we're within the normal range on inventory. Wholesalers will fluctuate up and down a week or two here and there. So we are within normal ranges and expect to maintain that throughout the rest of the year. As far as gross to nets, once again, we think we'll be in the mid to high 50%s for the balance of the year.

Okay. And then, on Silenor, you talked about – now that you're promoting Zohydro with the new sales force, there's additional opportunity with chronic pain sufferers suffering from insomnia. I guess, just provide a little more color on what this opportunity represents and when we could start seeing an impact.

Yes. Serge, this is Douglas. It's a good question. So we see this as a great opportunity for Silenor, and quite honestly, as we looked at the brand over the last year, we've been looking at different ways that we could add more promotional support behind it. It's certainly a brand that has the potential to be broadly prescribed. And so, putting more promotional effort behind it, we think, would provide a good return.

So these customers that we'll be calling upon with our pain management team, primarily primary care and pain prescribers, managing chronic pain patients, it's really opening a whole new segment for us. It's about two – two-thirds of chronic pain sufferers have issues with sleeping. So we think that's a significant opportunity in a group of patients and physicians that we haven't tapped into before. So, we're excited about the trajectory of Silenor. We grew scripts on a run rate basis at almost 100% last year, and we think we can continue to drive an aggressive growth with the addition of a couple – another 100 people.

Okay. And then one last one. I think during the last earnings call, you talked about GSK lawsuits. Just you didn't provide an update, so I just wanted to know where that was.

Yeah, I can provide update there. I mean, I think what we can say is that we continue to be in verbal discussions with them. We've verbally agreed that we'll work towards an agreement, if that makes some sense. And so it's moving forward in an amicable way, and I think we'll have – I certainly expect that we'll have a resolution before the end of the year. So, no major concerns at this point. Not resolved, but certainly moving in the right direction amicably.

All right. Thank you.

Thanks, Serge.

Our next question comes from Donald Ellis with Avondale.

Good morning, guys. Most of my questions have been answered. Just a couple remaining. Sanjay, can you give us some idea about research and development? It was $2.3 million in the quarter – I'm sorry, in the December quarter and about $1 million in this quarter. What are you looking for, for the rest of the year?

Yes. Thanks for the question. So, previously, we've been guiding to $10 million to $15 million in R&D for both 2015 and the year following. We've had some realignment of expenses, but with the Zohydro piece coming in and realignment of some of the Treximet pieces, we expect to be in the $10 million to $15 million range for 2015, so essentially unchanged.

Great. Thanks. And next, regarding – did Zogenix have wholesaler agreements and do you have a good idea what the inventory channel levels are for Zohydro?

Yeah, I can take that. So, yeah, I think the inventory levels for Zohydro are not abnormal than what you'd expect within the normal range. We're currently in the process of taking and filling orders for Zohydro ER with BeadTek. And this is part of what I mean about acquiring the product at exactly the right time. We won't be selling any of the first generation product it seems, because of timing of closing.

So, we'll be shipping product to customers, Monday and we're taking orders now and filling those and we're already seeing customers reaching out and asking to replace their Gen 1 product with the Gen 2 product, which is to be expected.

Last question, with respect to your PDP (sic) [PPD] (34:11) program, is that just a marginal piece of your business right now?

Yeah. Don, it's fairly small in terms of volume right now, and we've been piloting it in seven sales territories in California; and five in the Chicago area. We've now fully rolled it out into two sales regions. And as we roll it out further territory-by-territory we're slowly optimizing it. We learn something every day just in terms of fine tuning.

So volumes through the program are relatively low at this point. But the results are very encouraging, so we expect to fully implement that this year, at least across some major metropolitan areas so it has certainly become a more important part and a larger part of our volume.

Sounds great. Thanks for taking the questions.

Thanks, Don.

Our next question comes from Irina Koffler with Cantor Fitzgerald.

Thanks for taking the questions. I just wanted to get into the Zohydro switch a little bit more. So should we expect any returns from the old product to hit your P&L in the next quarter, and are you going to be stocking in a certain amount of quantity for the BeadTek, maybe you could provide some parameters around that and also would you be able to guide us a little bit on the gross to nets for the BeadTek Zohydro? Thank you.

Hey. Good morning, Irina. Thanks for joining the call. Yes, I can take the first couple and then hand the gross to nets over to Sanjay. In terms of returns, our arrangement with Zogenix is that, we would not be taking any of the generation one returns. Those go back to Zogenix as we've been selling that product. So we are stocking in the second-generation product with BeadTek. And as I mentioned, that's beginning, we're taking orders now. We'll be shipping Monday.

So I'd expect the usual kind of stocking. It's hard to say exactly because it just depends on how quickly wholesalers use their Gen 1 or send it back or who knows what each customer is going to do. But we expect there'll be a fairly rapid transition from Gen 1 to Gen 2, given that Gen 2 has these abuse-deterrent technology within it. So that's – I just look at that as a usual launch. I imagine a couple of weeks or so of stocking of the Gen 2 product is probably a reasonable estimate.

In terms of gross to nets, Sanjay for Zohydro with BeadTek?

Yeah. So, Irina, in terms of gross to nets, we expect for Zohydro to be in the low 60%s, 61%, 62% range for the balance of the year.

And just to add to that sort of expectations, we haven't got that product fully contracted across all of managed care. This part of the opportunity for Zohydro ER with BeadTek is that it's a – we've inherited a patchy managed care situation, which I think everybody knows.

And for us, that's exciting. That means we can continue to make improvements over the course of the year and expand the access. And we fully expect to do so. We're already making good progress in that area.

As we put those contracts in place, we'll be buying access, it's just the way it works, so we'll be – those discounts will increase as we get into the year, but we'll also be expanding volume as a result. So I just want to set expectations around gross to nets going forward.

And then just a general question on gross to nets for the entire business or maybe I don't know, Treximet because that's the biggest brand, longer-term beyond 2015 should we directionally expect improvement in gross to nets or should they remain about the same, or do you expect them to maybe tick down a little bit as you get even more broader coverage?

That's a good question. So I'd give a response and Sanjay can correct me if he thinks I'm wrong. So I'd say, for Treximet, we're pretty much stabilized. And we said in the fourth quarter call that our gross to nets in the fourth quarter were a little high, and that's primarily because we were putting our contracts in place in a staggered way, and they were coming in gradually over time. So first quarter was lower than the fourth quarter, which we fully expected.

Silenor, I'd say that we inherited that, and I think I mentioned this before, inherited a number of contracts in the past, historic Pernix that have a number of price protections and other factors in them that make gross to net situation and price improvement situation a little challenging, and we're working through those. And I think, I've indicated before, we'd be working through those really through the course of 2015 and 2016, and then I fully hope that we will see an improvement in gross to nets gradually over time as we work through some of those historic contracts.

And then with Zohydro ER with BeadTek, maybe we've outlined that situation low-60%s today. I can imagine it getting down into the mid-to-high 50%s as an estimate, tough to say overall, but that'll be a good thing, in my mind, as we're buying access and bringing that product to many, many more patients nationally.

Okay. Thank you.

Thanks, Irina. [Operator Instructions]

Our next question comes from Akiva Felt with Oppenheimer.

Hey, good morning. Thanks for taking the questions. I was just wondering if it'd be possible to provide a little bit more color on the Zohydro component of the 2015 guidance, and also how we should think about modeling Zohydro for Q2. Thanks.

Shall I take that, Sanjay?

Go ahead.

All I say is that, we're a little bit reluctant to give product-by-product guidance. We have three products, each at inflection points. Treximet is certainly in the process of turning around, we're seeing some good leading indicators there from the [ph] NRxs (40:03). Silenor, we're about to add 100 salespeople, so we fully expect that to inflect. And Zohydro ER with BeadTek is a re-launch, so we're looking at that quite cautiously.

We're very excited about Zohydro ER with BeadTek and the potential for that product. But everybody knows, I think, on the call, there have been headwinds. There's been some negative PR. There've been some managed care challenges. And while we fully expect to overcome those, and we're excited about them, exactly predicting the timing of that is a little bit challenging. So, we're not going to give product-by-product guidance at this point. I think each of our products has quite a bit of variability in it. I will say that the product exited last year with a net sales run rate of $23 million. We fully expect to grow it year-over-year, and – but we're kind of cautious about indicating what the exact timing of that ramp will be, as you can imagine, as we transition from one product to another.

Okay. Thank you.

Thanks, Akiva.

Our next question comes from Elliot Wilbur with Raymond James. Your line is open, Elliot, you can ask your question. If your phone line is muted, could you please unmute the phone line?

Yes, good morning. Can you hear me?

Elliot, we can hear you. Was that mimicking our 8 second delay from the last call?

I thought that might be a good idea. I will refrain from making any comments and just stick with a simple follow-up question. Doug, with respect to Silenor as we track weekly prescription trends and look to monetize those, what should we be thinking about in terms of the gross to net realization on that as it currently stands?

Thanks, Elliot. Good question. So Silenor gross to nets have also been impacted as we've increased access, as you know, we've had only 60 million lives covered towards the middle of last year, and we steadily added new plans. So we expect gross to nets to – this quarter they were in the 45% range. We expect them to be roughly 40% throughout the balance of the year.

Okay, and just as a quick follow-up, sounds like there may still be some moving parts around Treximet contracting and gross to net, the number that you threw out there, 50% to 55%, is there any potential near-term swing factor that you think could have material impact on that or is that, at this point you think high probability realizing that number?

Yeah. The mid-to-high 50%s for Treximet, I think is a pretty conservative number. All the contracting has essentially taken place with Treximet. So determining gross nets on a go-forward basis are really about predicting the mix in utilization between the various plans. So we've taken a more conservative stance and just try to be – play it safe with that estimate.

Yeah. Just turning to reiterate the answer we gave to Irina, Treximet gross to net is now pretty stable, and the transition was just also putting in place new contracts within inherent contracts when we acquired the product. So that contracting took some time over the fourth quarter into the first quarter, but I think it was stable.

Silenor, it's not where we want it to be. But it's a matter of inheriting some old contracts, and if anything, we expect Silenor to improve. This may take the balance of this year and into next year before we start to see some of those, those gross to net improvements.

And if we see a gradual reduction in Zohydro ER, gross to nets will be positive since we are adding many millions of lives to coverage, which we still believe at this point in the last cycle of each of these brands are maintaining broad access to patients is important. So we'll continue to contract, make sure we gain that access with the major plans [ph] or PBMs (43:55).

And then I have one strategic question for you, Doug as well. I guess with respect to the non-core products that are still in your current book of business, I guess obviously you've assembled a core portfolio now, and the companies could be benchmarked and valued off of growth and the new asset base, do you have some legacy products there, how important are those to you in terms of near-term cash flow generation and resulting impact on the EBITDA and profitability line versus potentially exploring disposition of those assets and delevering in a more rapid fashion or using the proceeds to potentially pursue more R&D-based projects or even product acquisitions?

Yeah. It's a good question, Elliot. We've said before that we got attractive offers for those products. We certainly consider them seriously. That said, the generics portfolio, we spent a fair amount of time on over last year, and while we trim the portfolio, we've quite significantly increased the margins there, and those products are quite nicely cash positive. So they're adding to the cash balance over time.

The cough and cold portfolio is a little bit seasonal. That's just entirely seasonal, but it's relatively small. And so, some of the variance you see in the range of our guidance, but the revenue and EBITDA line is based upon some of that seasonality. The first quarter cough and cold season was remarkably light. There shouldn't be a lot of sick people around, but I guess, it wasn't bacterial infections, there must have been a viral infection. So we had a fairly light first quarter.

And some of the variability in our guidance comes from trying to predict whether or not fourth quarter will be a good strong cough and cold season or a weak cough and cold season. So – and there is some small variability in that part – small part of the portfolio, but relatively small comp contributors to sales and earnings. And at the moment, they continue to add to the bottom line, but always open to attractive offers.

All right. Thank you.

Thanks, Elliot.

And I'm not showing any further questions at this time. I'd like to turn the conference back over to Doug Drysdale.

I think that's it for today. So thank you very much for the questions, everybody, and we look forward to updating you on future calls. Thank you.

Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's presentation. You may now disconnect and have a wonderful day.