Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Douglas L. Drysdale — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Pernix Therapeutics Holdings, Inc.
Sanjay S. Patel — Chief Financial Officer, Pernix Therapeutics Holdings, Inc.
Donald Bruce Ellis — Analyst, JMP Securities LLC
Serge D. Belanger — Analyst, Needham & Co. LLC
Akiva Y. Felt — Analyst, Oppenheimer & Co., Inc. (Broker)

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the Pernix Therapeutics' Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call. My name is Vickie, and I will be your event specialist for today. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. We will conduct a question-and-answer session at end of the prepared remarks, and additional instructions will be provided at that time. As a reminder, this call is being recorded for replay purposes.

On the call today are Doug Drysdale, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Sanjay Patel, Chief Financial Officer of Pernix Therapeutics.

Please be advised that Pernix issued a press release this morning containing financial results for the quarter ending September 30, 2015. The release, including the financial tables and reconciliation of non-GAAP financial results is available on the company's website at www.pernixtx.com. The company also expects to file its current report on Form 10-Q with the SEC by the end of the day today.

During today's call, the company will be making forward-looking statements and actual results may differ from current expectations. Please note that under Safe Harbor rules, Pernix has no obligation to update the information contained in these forward-looking statements, even if actual results or future expectations change materially.

The company recommends that you refer to the cautionary statements contained in the SEC filings for a more detailed explanation of the inherent limitations of such forward-looking statements.

I would now like to turn the call over to Doug Drysdale. Please go ahead, sir.

Good morning. Thanks for joining the call today. This morning we released our financial results for the third quarter of 2015. This is a solid quarter highlighting our continued progress. We are executing our strategy to build momentum across our three core brands and create a leading portfolio of CNS and pain management products.

I'd like to begin with a few highlights. Certainly overcoming the challenges we faced at the start of the year, we continue to drive positive growth for Treximet this quarter. Based on Symphony data, new prescriptions were up 18% for Treximet since we initiated sampling at the end of March and total prescriptions were up 7% over the same period.

Furthermore, total prescriptions of Treximet per prescriber are trending upwards, while the number of overall prescribers remains largely unchanged. As of September, Treximet share of new prescriptions in the branded triptan market grew up to 14.5%, up from 12.7% in January.

We also maintained solid commercial insurance coverage for Treximet since acquiring the product and we expect no material changes to coverage in 2016. We will continue our efforts to maintain growth and we'll talk about this more later in the call.

Turning to Zohydro ER, despite the challenging managed care environment of 2015, we have maintained market share against larger more ingrained competitor in the single agent ER Hydrocodone market.

We continue to believe that managed care wins are a key performance driver for future growth. Our efforts to increase managed care coverage since the acquisition have led to positive responses from 15 managed care providers and we anticipate further wins as we drive towards broad commercial coverage.

The removal of Zohydro ER from the Express Scripts Exclusion List for 2016 was a significant step forward for Zohydro ER, and reflects the drug's improving acceptance in the marketplace. This improving coverage for Zohydro ER is a solid platform for growth. We anticipate a 62% increase in managed care coverage starting in January 2016 to more than 250 million covered lives.

Silenor continues to be a solid performing product in our portfolio, with total prescriptions up 101% since our successful re-launch in the second quarter of last year. For the quarter, new prescriptions were up 64% compared to third quarter of 2014.

Prescribed to people suffering from insomnia characterized by difficulties with sleep maintenance, Silenor is the only non-controlled, non-addictive prescription sleep medication for people with trouble staying asleep. Unlike other sleep aids in the market, Silenor is not associated with common reported side effects such as unintended sleep behavior or hangover-like effects the next day.

While the total of new prescription growth moderated over the summer, we have since doubled our selling efforts through the cross-training of our entire sales team beginning September 1, adding 100 sales representatives for the promotion of Silenor. Today, a total of 200 representatives are detailing Silenor and we are clearly seeing signs of growth from our new paying audience.

Key to furthering the momentum of our core three brands, Pernix has expanded and recently cross-trained 200 persons especially sales force. As we stated on last quarter's call, we've been focused on refining the targeting and improving the efficiency of our expanded sales organization, which we believe and is essential investment that will prepare us for the strong 2016.

Later in the call, I'll expand on our integrated commercial platform, including a discussion about our recently launched program Pernix Prescriptions Direct or PPD and the success we have seen so far. I'll also talk about our IP and lifecycle management strategy as it pertains to each of our core brands.

At this time, I'll turn the call over to Sanjay, who will review the quarter's financial performance. Sanjay?

Thank you, Doug, and good morning, everyone. As stated in our press release issued this morning, net revenue was $48.6 million during the third quarter of 2015. This represents an increase of 54% from $31.5 million in the third quarter of 2014 and 11.2% compared to this year's normalized second quarter revenue of $43.7 million.

As Doug mentioned, we continue to drive positive growth for Treximet. On a sequential basis from the second quarter of this year to the current quarter, total prescriptions were up 7.3% and new prescriptions were up 13.1%.

This compares favorably to the overall branded triptan market, which remained roughly flat over the same period. We are encouraged by Treximet's steadily improving trajectory and we remain committed to accelerating its growth.

Gross-to-nets for Treximet were approximately 56% in the third quarter. In other words, for every dollar of gross sales we realized net sales of $0.56. We expect gross-to-nets for Treximet to remain in the mid-50%s for the remainder of this year.

For Zohydro ER, gross nets were approximately 62% in the third quarter and we expect them to remain in the low 60%s for the balance of the year. And finally, for Silenor, gross-to-nets were approximately 40% and we expect them to hold steady for the balance of this year.

Gross profit as a percentage of net revenue was 75% this quarter. This compares to 60% in the same quarter last year. The improvement in gross margin was driven primarily by increasing contributions from Treximet and Zohydro ER, which have higher margins than our legacy and generic products.

Total operating expenses for the third quarter of 2015 were $30.6 million. This excludes depreciation and amortization, and the change in fair value of contingent consideration, which is a non-cash charge related to the acquisition of Zohydro ER. Operating expenses in the same quarter last year were $14.4 million.

SG&A expense was $27.4 million this quarter, compared to $14.1 million in the prior year period. The increase in SG&A was driven by the addition of the Zohydro ER sales force, investments in selling and marketing for our core brands and training costs. As a percentage of net sales, SG&A was 56.4% this quarter, compared to 44.7% in the same quarter last year.

R&D expense for the third quarter of 2015 was $3.2 million, compared to $290,000 in the prior year period. The increase was mostly due to ongoing work related to Zohydro ER and Treximet lifecycle management.

Consistent with prior quarters, we are reporting adjusted operating results which are non-GAAP measures that we believe are important for evaluating our financial results. Third quarter 2015 adjusted EBITDA was $8.7 million versus $6.9 million for the prior year.

Our adjusted EBITDA is steadily improving and we believe it will continue to improve as we build momentum in our branded portfolio, improve efficiency and manage our operating expenses. Although we have made some large investments this year, most notably in the pain space, we expect these to drive meaningful growth in operating leverage in 2016.

Since February of 2014, we have raised a total of $465 million of debt. Of this, $50 million represents the committed amount under our new revolving credit facility. We also retired $65 million in the convertible notes exchange, which we discussed in detail last quarter.

Over the last 18 months, we've steadily improved our cost of capital. Most recently, we secured a new revolver with Wells Fargo at LIBOR plus 1.5% to 2%. This compares favorably to the prior rate of LIBOR plus 7.5% with the combined of 9% floor.

Going forward, we will continue to look for opportunities to improve the efficiency of our capital structure. As of September 30, 2015, Pernix had cash on hand of $57.2 million and $350 million of debt. In other words, we had net debt of $292.8 million.

This includes $210 million of 12% Treximet notes, reflecting the $10 million principal payment we made on August 1, $130 million of 4.25% convertible notes and $10 million under our new revolving credit facility. Although our net debt-to-adjusted EBITDA ratio is at the higher end of our comfort zone, I'd like to highlight a few important points.

First, as Treximet growth accelerates our paydown of the 12% notes will also accelerate. Under the terms of our indenture, 50% of net sales of Treximet are used to service these notes. Second, our convertible notes are interest-only and in early October, we paid our last remaining cash interest payment for this year of $2.4 million. Third, our adjusted EBITDA has been a good proxy for unlevered free cash flow so far this year.

Year-to-date, we reported adjusted EBITDA of $21.2 million. Over the same period, our unlevered free cash flow was $16.6 million. Adding back $2.7 million change in working capital and capital expenditures of $1 million brings that figure up to $20.3 million. And fourth, we are not paying cash taxes this year and we anticipate this will be the case next year as well. This is the direct result of the way in which we structured our Treximet acquisition, supplemented by net operating loss carry-forwards. I want our investors to understand these points as they meaningfully change the analysis of our debt-to-EBITDA ratio.

Our business is accelerating. We believe this organic growth will enable us to naturally deleverage over the next year. That being said, we remain confident in our ability to source and close new business development and M&A transactions in the near-term. In fact, we view our most attractive pipeline candidates as catalysts to further deleverage and diversify our business.

Today, we are reaffirming our financial guidance for 2015. We continue to expect net revenue for 2015 to be in the range of $170 million to $180 million and adjusted EBITDA to be in the range of $30 million to $35 million.

With that, I'll turn the call back over to Doug.

Thank you, Sanjay. Pernix's overall strategy is focused on acquiring, developing and commercializing prescription drugs in specialty therapeutic areas. We grow this organically through a combination of increased volume, optimizing price when a drug is undervalued and maximizing managed care coverage. An integrated and sophisticated commercial platform is key to this strategy.

The efforts we've made in expanding and deepening our commercial team close to 2015 have been necessary investments to create a more effective platform that better positions Pernix for continued growth in 2016.

September 1 marked the completion of cross-training of our pain management and neuroscience teams. The entire sales team is now trained to promote all three drugs, expanding the average capabilities of each sales representative and therefore nearly doubling our sales bandwidth.

In addition to our cross-training initiative, we have refined our customer targeting and enhanced our analytics to ensure that our sales efforts are directed towards customers with the greatest potential and access to Pernix products. As we noted on our last call, we also hired our new marketing leadership with strong pain and migraine experience to fully integrate our commercial efforts, such as engaging key opinion leaders and aligning selling efforts directly with managed care coverage.

Now turning to Pernix Prescriptions Direct or PPD, which we rolled out nationally for Treximet and Silenor in August. We believe that this program offers a valuable service to our patients and target healthcare professionals that will also create value across our promoted brands, as patients receive their intended prescriptions and are more likely to remain adherent to their prescription regimen, reducing the number of abandoned prescriptions.

Based on [indiscernible] (13:42) data, as few as 4 patients out of 10 patients actually receive the medication that their doctor prescribed, as a result of low patient compliance, reimbursement challenges and pharmacy substitution. PPD is a patient support program that helps patients receive the medication that was prescribed for them by their healthcare provider.

PPD facilitates the processing of prescriptions with the goal of providing the patient's medications directly to their home. PPD support services work with PBMs with the aim of maximizing the patient's insurance benefits by assisting in scripts adjudication. Commercially insured patients can receive their medication directly and affordably.

PPD support services are provided under contract by a third-party provider. Pernix does not own or have any option to buy this provider and the relationship is on a non-exclusive basis.

Our independent third-party provider provides script adjudication services, patient assistance with prior authorization and step edits, patient counseling, options to provide automatic refills, script dispensing and fulfillment, patient follow-up and customer care services designed to ensure that patients receive the medication their doctor intended.

Pernix has no influence over patient formulary coverage and we offer a co-pay program similar to the co-pay program available in retail pharmacies. Our PPD partner was selected after approximately eight months of piloting the program through several established alternative providers.

During the pilot phase, we worked with several partners to evaluate and determine the most effective and efficient partner with which to launch the program. All agreements with our third-party vendors are in arms length in nature.

By offering an improved and convenience and health plan management, we believe PPD will improve pull-through for prescriptions within the program. Having just started to roll out the program nationally in August, less than 1% of total prescriptions of Treximet and Silenor will fulfill through PPD, though we're encouraged by the rapid growth rate of the program in recent weeks.

Already we're seeing 15% week-over-week growth in patients added to the program and we are encouraged by early fulfillment rate which appear to be about 50% improvement over the market data. Currently prescriptions filled via this program are not yet captured by Symphony or IMS.

We continue to manage and track the rollout of PPD very carefully. The availability of data on a daily basis provides tremendous visibility into our business that was previously unavailable to us, allowing us to respond and adjust to the needs of patients and healthcare providers in real-time.

We are seeing strong uptake in the program ahead of initial expectations and expect to reach critical mass in our major metropolitan markets by the end of the year, positioning us well for continued growth in 2016.

Another important part of our overall strategy to drive long-term value resides in our line extension programs. For Treximet, we have a multipronged program in place that includes multiple line extensions, including new brands targeted for a launch in 2017 and our own generic version in 2018, [indiscernible] (16:42) our branded programs in parallel in order to maximize the opportunity for success.

Our aim is to launch at least one of these new Treximet brands in 2017, potentially more. We are highly sensitive to the potential for generic [indiscernible] (16:55) on these programs and therefore are unable to provide further product details. But what I can say is that we expect a good portion of Treximet patients will transition to these new offerings, which we anticipate will be protected by our 2026 Orange Book patent. Therefore, we are requiring generic challenges to certify against this patent.

In terms of generic entry, I want to stress there are only two potential generic players who would enter the market in 2018, as a result of a prior settlement, meaning that Pernix's own authorized generic will be one of only three competitors. Three additional generic entrants are currently on file but are blocked from entering the market until 2026, upon expiry of the '183 patent.

We therefore believe this could remain limited generic market for sometime after 2018, given the existence of this 2026 patent. From an economic perspective, in addition to the sales from our planned branded line extensions, it's also worth noting that our own generic version will not be subject to managed care rebates, and that the royalty that we pay on the net sales of the current Treximet formulation will be reduced from 18% to 5% at that time.

In summary, we believe there are significant opportunities to expand the use of Treximet through these branded lifecycle programs, while also retaining a good share of the value of generic Treximet post-LOE.

Turning to Zohydro ER, the substantial amounts of overlapping IP in the opioid space serve as significant barriers for new entrants into the market. On September 24, we announced the issuance of the central patent for Zohydro ER with BeadTek. This patent covers a formulation of a combination of inactive beads with BeadTek abuse deterrent technology and active Hydrocodone beads, and does not expire until September 2034. This patent comes after the launch of Zohydro ER with BeadTek on May 4, 2015 and will be a valuable addition to this growing Zohydro ER patent estate. The FDA has since added this patented formulation to the Orange Book.

We are also actively moving forward with ZX007, our third generation product aimed at improving abuse-deterrent properties further and expanding the IP estate of the Zohydro ER franchise. This is a complex formulation expected to demonstrate multiple levels of abuse-deterrents. Pernix has the right to license this formulation from Altus until late 2028.

According to the data from RADARS, or the Researched Abuse, Diversion and Addiction-Related Surveillance System, which has measured rates of abuse, misuse and diversion of prescription drugs in the U.S. for over 11 years, Zohydro ER has no record of patient abuse or diversion.

The RADARS Surveillance Drug Diversion Data and Poison Center Data through second quarter 2015, goes on to conclude that Zohydro ER is not a public health risk and has shown little tendency to increase over time that has been available. Further the data suggest that the drug is either not desirable or is unavailable for abuse.

We also believe that managed care sees the current abuse-deterrent technology as important, as evidenced by favorable coverage and the removal of Zohydro ER from the Express Scripts Exclusion List beginning January 1, 2016.

Silenor's last Orange Book patent is set to expire in 2030. Our plan is to bring an OTC version of Silenor to the market prior to 2020, when generic entrants will be permitted to launch. We are continuing to progress our discussions with FDA on this effort.

In conclusion, 2015 is an important investment year for Pernix and we will continue to invest our resources in positioning our branded portfolio for continued growth through optimizing our sales platform to maximize targeted selling efforts behind all three brands, expanding and improving managed care access and driving prescription growth through the national expansion of PPD.

We will continue our efforts to perpetuate the Treximet growth trend, as a result of our integrated commercial platform, driving new and total prescription growth and increase market share. Encouraged by our progress so far, we remain optimistic about our ability to obtain broad and favorable coverage for Zohydro ER. The product's acceptance in the market has improved markedly as is evidenced by the removal of Zohydro ER from the Express Scripts Exclusion List 2016 and other formulary wins.

Furthermore, there are low reports of abuse. This should encourage prescription growth and bodes well for our commercial plans. We believe that through our managed care wins and increased efforts, we are poised to unlock the value of Zohydro ER in 2016.

Finally, Silenor is showing solid continued growth. The increased promotional efforts by our pain sales force has led to increased selling power, which has enabled us to reach that previously untapped market segment.

Silenor's unique status as a non-controlled, non-addictive sleep medication is proving to be an attractive option for chronic pain patients who often experience sleep issues. We will continue our efforts to increase adoption.

We are working hard to drive organic and inorganic growth, as both will support faster deleveraging of our business. While we have more work to do, we believe that our strategy paired with the key investments we are making across our business has strengthened Pernix's competitive position for a year of significant growth in 2016.

That concludes our prepared remarks today. We are happy to take questions at this time. And now, I'll turn the call back to the operator and open the line up for Q&A. Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Don Ellis with JMP Securities. Your line is now open.

That might be Don Ellis, but okay. Can you hear me?

Yes, we can hear you.

Good. Thank you. Sorry about that. Couple of questions. You mentioned that you expected a 62% increase in managed care coverage in 2016. Can you tell us what percent of that is from Express Scripts?

That's a good question, Don. Thanks for the question. Typically, Express Scripts is about a quarter of the market. So for us, we are expecting about 250 million covered lives in January by the time we get there and about a quarter of that is Express Scripts roughly.

Great. Thanks. Can you give us some indication of the number of managed care approvals as you call it in the third quarter versus the second quarter?

Yeah. I can give you a rough. Let's see -- we've won about 15 so far and the bulk of them, maybe half of them start in 2016, with a good number they've already kicked in so far in October and November. So it's beginning to open up gradually.

Okay. I assume that Treximet, Zohydro and Silenor's stocks in all of the major wholesalers at this time.

Yeah. No, no issues [indiscernible] (23:51)

Great. And last question. Other revenue, pharmaceutical revenue was up more than what we are expecting. Can you give us some reasons why that was the case and can we expect that to continue?

Hi, Don. This is Sanjay. Thanks for the question. So there's a bit of a fluctuating mix in our product portfolio. It's always hard to peg exactly, but it's just the combination of certain products where you took price up a little bit and had better pull-through. And, overall, I mean, the margins within that portfolio were better than expected as well.

Okay. Well, congratulations. Good to see your revenue beat this quarter. Thanks.

Thanks, Don.

And our next question comes from the line of Serge Belanger with Needham & Company. Your line is now open.

Hi. Good morning. First, a couple of questions on Treximet. You've been really able to grow prescriptions trends over the last couple of quarters. I guess, what do you think is the reasons for the key turnaround? And then, Doug, you mentioned, I guess, two key metrics that prescriptions per prescribers have significantly increased and the prescriber base was mostly stable. I know it's early after the sales realignment and the launch of the PPD program, but what impact do you think these two changes will have on these two metrics going forward?

Yeah. Serge, thanks for the question. Yeah. We are happy with the way things are going with Treximet. The growth rates beginning to pick up, and at this point in time the data you're seeing it doesn't include the PPD scripts as well, which is another good sign.

In terms of growth, the growth is really come from refining our targeting and to high volume prescribers of branded migraine treatments that's been very helpful. That's where we're seeing the growth and that's where we're seeing the increase in prescriptions per provider.

Sampling continues to be very, very important here with migraine patients, not just the physicians, but with the patients as well, and we are continuing to drive that. We're just understanding some impact of expanding the sales team, that was really September 1, so that's still early days, but certainly that's having an impact.

And PPD is going great, patients signups there are growing very strong and continue to grow week to week. So, I think, it's a combination of all these things. Make sure we're getting to the right prescribers and getting closer to the patient.

Okay. And then I saw Silenor sort of received, I guess, 7% prescription growth. However, the sales number was slightly down over the second quarter. Just wondering if there was a one-time adjustment or I guess, what was the reason for that, the number to be down?

Yeah. There is a slight change in gross-to-nets. So the gross-to-nets in second -- first quarter and second quarter for Silenor are a little bit higher, around 46%, 47% and this quarter they were closer to 40%.

All right. Thank you.

Thanks for the question.

And our next question comes from the line of Difei Yang with Brean Capital. Your line is now open.

Hi. This is [ph] Derek (27:09) filling in for Difei Yang. Can you hear me?

Yeah. [ph] Derek (27:13) we can hear you.

Thanks a lot for taking my questions. Regarding Treximet, the uptake was very strong in the month after the re-launch. But it's been softening since mid-September. So can you just talk about the underlying reasons for why that may be the case? And can you also comment on how much you would expect the PPD program to contribute to the overall business of Treximet? If you can provide some quantitative figures, that would be very helpful.

Okay. Let me answer [indiscernible] (27:43) question. Okay. So yeah, I think it's true to say that we had a couple of data points for Treximet in recent weeks that have been softer. But we're not too concerned about. First of all, week to week swings happen frequently. And second of all, we're seeing good uptake of Treximet through the PPD program. So those scripts are somewhat captured in the Symphony data and won't be until the end of November.

So just a few more weeks and then we'll start to see that data flow into Symphony, which I think would be good for everyone to see. In terms of PPD impact, it's still very early days, still less than 1% of scripts going through the program for Treximet and Silenor. The uptake rate is very strong.

We're not at a point here where we want to start giving specific weekly numbers, but it's growing very rapidly. And in addition to that the fill rate is very encouraging. It's about a 50% increase over the average fill rate we're seeing in the marketplace.

So I think over time, we'll start to share PPD stats. It's still early days and we're still kind of getting the program up and running, but just to say at this point we got many, many patients in the program and doctors continue to sign up and we think that's positive to both Treximet and for Silenor's growth as well.

Thank you. And for Zohydro ER, the uptake has been relatively flat so far. Can you provide some guidance on when you would expect it to improve?

Yeah. We're encouraged by the managed care coverage wins. And we're not terribly surprised that the scripts have been roughly flat and they've been roughly flat for our competitor as well. And I think both us and Purdue have been going through similar managed care contracting timelines. And so we've been unlocking those doors. These things take time. The encouraging thing is that we've managed to maintain market share of Zohydro ER versus Hysingla fairly consistently against a much larger sales team.

So I think that says a lot about the product. And certainly in plans where we have good coverage, we're seeing growth. So as we mentioned we're adding a lot of lives. We should be at 250 million lives covered by January 1. So I think between now and then we'll start to see some uptake, but really the big opportunity is removal from the Express Scripts Exclusion List, which is January 1. So I think we expect to see an uptake in first quarter next year.

And last question, I know you talked about the Treximet line extension program. Can you just give us more color on the roadmap, where it's going?

Sure. I mean, I give you as much as we can. We're working on several different line extensions and we're hoping to bring one or maybe two of those brands, line extensions to market in 2017. It's a fairly straightforward program. Both programs are fairly straightforward from a development point of view. We don't need to do any clinical studies. It's really just scale up and PK stability, regular kind of work. But those programs are kind of on track to launch in 2017. We'll start the new patients over from the existing brand at that time.

Okay. Thank you.

Great. Thanks for the question. [Operator Instructions]

Our next question comes from the line of Akiva Felt with Oppenheimer. Your line is now open.

Hey, good morning. As we get towards the end of the year, do you expect to see some more disruption in first quarter 2016 Treximet sales from the managed care plan resets as we saw earlier this year? And then I also wanted to ask, what is the Treximet fill rate that you are seeing currently in the retail pharmacy network? Thanks.

Good morning, Akiva. Thanks for the question. Okay. I think we'll see across all the brands some softening in first quarter, I think that's to be expected these days. I think as we look across the brands, across the space in our therapy areas and in others, we see similar softening in first quarter. So I think that's to be expected. And I'm not sure it will be as impactful as last year. And last year I think it was somewhat of a change after a significant price increase.

And I think the market has settled and accepted the increase. We've continued to grow and add patients and we maintained our managed care coverage. So I think the impact will be different, but certainly we expect to see softening across all the brands in the first quarter and that's the way we're forecasting for next year.

In terms of PPD again, I don't want to give stats as yet and it's really because it's early days and we find each week that the stats are improving. So if I give you the stats today, they will be different next week. But I will say that patient signs up are growing week over week, fill rates are growing week over week and coverage scripts are growing week over week.

And so each week we're seeing improvement as the sales team rolls out the program and as the physicians get used to the program and starting to enroll patients. So we'll certainly share more stats as the program continues. But so far we are extremely pleased with it and it's running ahead of plan.

Great. Thank you.

Thanks for the question.

And our next question comes from the line of [ph] Brandon Long (33:11) with Janney Montgomery Scott. Your line is now open.

Hi. Thanks. I was hoping if you could speak about line extensions for the Zohydro ER. And how you see the abuse-deterrent market expanding with -- if you're not seeing any record of drug abuse currently?

Yeah. We continue to work on line extensions for Zohydro, and ZX007 that's going to plan. [ph] The plan is – the continue plan is (33:41) to move through that formulation as that program develops, we think that formulation has high levels of abuse-deterrents and this provides further barriers to entry.

The market has been fragmented, I think and continues to be fragmented. We are very much focused on Hydrocodone. So although there are other players entering in [ph] ADTF (34:07) growth space, many of those are focused on other molecules. And so far, we were seeing just two player market for Hydrocodone and we expect it to be that way for some time.

Okay. Great. Thank you.

Thanks for the question.

And we have a follow-up question from Serge Belanger, Needham & Company. Your line is now open.

Thanks for taking another question. Your R&D line went up significantly this quarter. You mentioned some of it was due to work on the lifecycle strategy of Treximet and the line extensions for Zohydro. Is any of this increase -- does it include the OTC switch for Silenor? And I guess when do you expect to provide us with more updates in terms of development of this switch?

Yeah. Serge, thanks for the question. So as we've said previously, we anticipate spending $10 million to $15 million in R&D, both in 2015 and 2016. We are right in that zipcode right now. This quarter, majority of the spend for R&D was related to the Zohydro ER work. Some of it was obviously related to work around the Treximet line extension. And a small piece for Silenor OTC, but not a significant piece to report this quarter. A lot of those studies were actually one that we have plenty of time to work on. The OTC switch wouldn't happen until 2020. So we may end up doing more of that next year.

Okay. And then in terms of your [indiscernible] (35:41) product portfolio, you mentioned there is some discontinuation of less profitable products. Is that an ongoing process for that portfolio and we should expect additional pruning as we go forward?

Yeah, I think the majority of that work was done when we came in last year. We had approximately 60 products in that portfolio and today it's somewhere in the neighborhood of 30 products, 35 products. We've analyzed every product rigorously and continue to do so every quarter and every month in fact, just to look at their profitability, what's going on in the pricing environment, what's happening with volumes, what's happening with margins, are there abilities to sort of take price in some cases, and if something is not profitable, simply, we'll take it out.

So, it's hard to sort of characterize in specific terms, given the large number of products. But we are continually looking at it. We've got a good team now in FP&A that actually came from Alvogen, which has helped us significantly in realizing more profits from that business.

Thanks. Congrats, again on the great quarter.

Thank you.

I think that concludes the questions for today. So thank you for joining today's call. Last quarter, we told you that we would be spending time, investing in expanding our commercial platform and driving growth of Treximet, expanding the managed care coverage for Zohydro ER and rolling out our PPD program.

I think that's exactly what we've been doing, so we are on track. We hope that we had a solid quarter and continue to be on track for achieving guidance for the rest of the year. So thanks for the call today and thanks for the questions. Thank you.

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. This does conclude the program and you may all disconnect. Everyone have a great day.