corrected transcript


Pernix Therapeutics Holdings,


Inc.
 
PTX
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
May 17, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


PARTICIPANTS


Corporate Participants


Tim Ryan
 
– Managing Director, The Shoreham Group


Cooper C. Collins
 
– President, Chief Executive Officer & Director


Tracy Simmons Clifford
 
– Chief Financial Officer, Secretary & Treasurer


Other Participants


William G. Vlahos
 
– President, Odyssey Value Advisors LLC


Jason G. Stankowski
 
– Founder & Partner, Clayton Partners LLC


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Greetings and welcome to the Pernix Therapeutics First Quarter 2010 Results


Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]


It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Tim Ryan for The Shoreham Group. Mr. Ryan, thank


you. You may begin.


Tim Ryan, Managing Director, The Shoreham Group


Thanks, Melissa. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us on our first quarter 2010


investor call at Pernix Therapeutics. My name is Tim Ryan. I’m with The Shoreham Group. And


we’re pleased that you’re taking the opportunity to learn more about Pernix, and we’re looking


forward to updating you on our progress.


This call contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation


Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks,


uncertainties and other factors, which may cause the actual results, performance or achievement of


the company or industry results to be materially different from any future results, performance or


achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.


When using this presentation, statements that are not statements of current or historical fact may


be deemed to be forward-looking statements, without limiting the foregoing of the words planned,


intend, may, will, expect, believe, could, anticipate, estimate or continue or similar expressions or


other variations or comparable terminology are intended to identify such forward-looking


statements.


Listeners are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which


speak only as of the date hereof. Except as required by law, the company undertakes no obligation


to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or


otherwise. And investors are urged to examine these and other risks and uncertainties detailed in


Pernix’s periodic public filings on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


Today’s call will run approximately 30 minutes. We’ll begin with management introductions,


followed by a brief company overview. We will follow our prepared statements with a question-and-


answer session.
corrected transcript


Pernix Therapeutics Holdings,


Inc.
 
PTX
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
May 17, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Pernix’s President and Chief Executive Officer, Cooper


Collins. Cooper?


Cooper C. Collins, President, Chief Executive Officer & Director


Thanks, Tim. Good morning, everyone. With me today is Tracy Clifford, our Chief Financial Officer.


My part of today’s discussion will focus on three areas: first, an introduction of Pernix Therapeutics;


second, some high level comments on our financial results and events during the first quarter of


2010; and finally, some remarks in our strategy going forward.


Over the past three years, we have realized significant growth. Pernix growth sales have increased


from $19 million in 2007 to $38 million in 2009, achieving a compounded annual growth rate of over


– over this period of 41.46%. We have also been able to grow pre-tax income from $2.8 million in


2007 to $9.2 million in 2009.


Historically, Pernix has focused on high gross margin product opportunities that require low capital


expenditures and low product development risks. Being able to grow profitably has generated


substantial cash flow while allowing Pernix to self-finance to-date, amass a $13 million cash


position and a debt-free balance sheet.


Moving on to our first quarter of 2010. First, let me say how pleased we are at having delivered


over $8.8 million in net sales for the first quarter of 2010, a 23% increase over the first quarter of


2009. As a company, Pernix’s focus is growing our business year-over-year and to date we have


consistently proven capable of doing so. However, we do not focus Pernix on a quarter-to-quarter


basis, due to some seasonality in the business, which I’ll get into more detail later, investors should


not extrapolate one quarter’s performance on an annual basis.


To accommodate this growth, we have added 11 sales representatives in the fourth quarter and we


anticipate adding another 20 to 30 sales representatives through the balance of the year. Pernix


has achieved a number of milestones this quarter. On March 24, 2010, we acquired the antibiotic


CEDAX from Shionogi Pharma, Inc.


Pernix expects to be able to effectively leverage its sales and marketing organization to grow this


once-daily, oral, third-generation cephalosporin, which is indicated for mild to moderate acute


bacterial exacerbations of chronic bronchitis, acute bacterial otitis media, pharyngitis and tonsillitis.


The first quarter of 2010 represents the first quarter as a publicly traded company for Pernix.


Effective March 9, 2010, Pernix successfully merged with Golf Trust of America, in addition, gaining


a stock exchange listing on NYSE Amex. Pernix also bolstered its balance sheet by adding


approximately $6 million in cash as a result of the merger.


Regarding our strategy going forward, the objective for Pernix is to continue to show solid organic


growth supplemented by product acquisition, in-licensing, and co-promotion opportunities. This


strategy has increased and will continue to increase earnings by focusing on promotionally


sensitive products for the pediatric marketplace that effectively leverage our sales force.


Tracy will provide detail on our net sales and costs for the first quarter, but first I would really like to


reiterate how pleased we are with the momentum we are seeing in our business and financial


performance that we have delivered thus far in 2010.


Now, I’ll turn it over to Tracy for a detailed review of the first quarter.