raw transcript


PetroQuest Energy, Inc.
 
PQUE
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 17, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning. My name is Phyllis [ph], and I will be conference facilitator today. At this


time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Fourth Quarter and Year-End 2004 Conference Call.


All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After speakers' remarks,


there will be a question and answer period. [operator instructions]. Thank you.


Mr. Zehnder, you may begin your conference.


Todd Zehnder, Director of Corporate Communications & Marketing


Thanks, Phyllis [ph]. Good morning everyone. We would like to welcome you to our fourth quarter


conference call and webcast. Participating with me today on the call are Charles Goodson,


Chairman, CEO and President and Mike Aldridge, CFO.


As you have come to expect, we would like make our Safe Harbor statement under the Private


Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Statements made today regarding PetroQuest's business


which are not historical facts are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties.


For a discussion of such risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ from


those contained in the forward-looking statements see 'Risk Factors' in the company's annual


report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003.


With that, Charles is going to start with an overview of the quarter.


Charles T. Goodson, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer


Good morning. During the fourth quarter, we produced 3.6 bcfe, or 39 million cubic feet of gas


equivalent per day which was a 33% increase of production in the comparable quarter of 2003.


This exceeds our previously issued guidance range of 35 to 37 million cubic feet of gas equivalent


per day. Our Main Pass 74 Field remained shut-in as a result of third-party pipeline damage


sustained during Hurricane Ivan. Had we not have been shut-in as a result of the storm, we


estimate we would have produced approximately 4.5 bcfe, or 49 million cubic feet equivalent per


day.


Revenues were $22.6 million with product cost realizations averaging $37.56 per barrel of oil with


$6.37 per mcf of gas. Net income was $5 million, net income per share was 11 cents. For the


year, we produced 14.2 bcfe resulting revenue of $84.9 million and net income of 35 cents per


share. Third quarter, our fifth consecutive year of positive net income, also our production has


grown at a compound annual rate of 43% over the last six years. We ended the year with a 101.4


bcfe of proven reserves which is a new company record. 45% of our reserves are on long life


basins and 78% are gas. On a percentage basis, proved un-developed reserve decreased to 32


percent. Our reserves have grown at a compound annual rate of over 40% for the last six years.


Moving onto operations. During the quarter, we drilled a successful well at our Jambalaya Prospect


in Vermilion Block 287 in which we have a 30% net revenue interest. The well wall is


approximately 43 feet of net productive sands. The well should begin producing this week at a


gross rate of approximately 6 million cubic feet equivalent per day. We also drilled a successful


well at our Bisque Prospect located in south Louisiana and carrying approximately 153 feet of net


productive sands. We have an approximately 35% net revenue interest in this well. The well is


expected to begin producing in the next week at a gross rate of approximately 15 million cubic feet


equivalent per day.
raw transcript


PetroQuest Energy, Inc.
 
PQUE
 
Q4 2004 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 17, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


We are also currently in a completion phase of a third successful well at our Cracklin Prospect in


south Louisiana. We logged approximately 50 feet of net productive sands, and we have an


approximate 30% net revenue interest in this well. We anticipate production to begin during the


second quarter. We are also currently drilling our File Prospect in south Louisiana. The well has


gross enriched reserves of approximately 7 bcfe, and we hold a 50% working interest.


During the fourth quarter, we drilled two wells in the southeast Carthage Field of which we hold a


100% working interest. Both wells encountered productive sands in the Cotton Valley and Travis


Peak formations. The wells are in their early stages of production, we expect each of them to


average approximately 1 million cubic feet equivalent per day. Subsequent to year-end, we drilled


and are completing another 100% of operated well in southeast Carthage Field. It also


encountered productive sands in the Cotton Valley and Travis Peak formations. We are currently


drilling the second well of a 10 to 12 well program of 2005.


Our drilling program in the Arkoma Basin continued in the fourth quarter with six additional


horizontal CBM wells drilled and completed. This brings the total wells drilled and completed in this


area to 16 through the end of the year. Subsequent to de-watering which is estimated take


approximately 12 weeks, gross production is expected to average approximately 150 to 200 mcf


per day per well. Drilling continues in the basin where we have drilled an additional pre-productive


CBM wells during 2005. We plan to utilize the secondary beginning in March to [indiscernible] of


our current acreage. We anticipate drilling approximately 40 wells in the basin during 2005. We


have logged pay in numerous additional zones and tested hydrocarbons in one of those zones.


Also, additional prospective horizons are being evaluated that could be drilled during the current


year.


At this time, I would like to turn it over to Mike for the CFO review.


Michael O. Aldridge, Chief Financial Officer, Senior Vice President, Treasurer and Director


Thanks, Charles. Our capital expenditures for the year were approximately $86 million which


includes approximately $23 million from acquisitions throughout the year and $5 million of


capitalized interest and G&A. We spent approximately 23 million related to our drilling activities in


the fourth quarter the bulk of which related to the drilling and completion operations which Charles


previously discussed. Our drilling capital budget for 2005 is approximately $70 to $80 million. At


December 31st, we had a $43 million borrowing days under our commercial bank credit facility with


$26.5 million outstanding against it. In addition, we have $12 million outstanding on our $20 million


subordinated term credit facility. That resulted in a debt-to-book cap of 24% at year-end. Our


current plan calls for producing between 40 and 44 million cubic feet equivalent per day net to the


company for the first quarter.


With that, I will turn it back over to Charles.


Charles T. Goodson, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer


During the fourth quarter, we continued our active drilling program with unprecedented success.


We maintained current production volumes even though our Main Pass 74 Field was shut-in and


we have started 2005 with successful wells in all three of our core areas. And, I am pleased to say


that all six wells drilled this year have been successful. We expect to maintain a high level of


activity during 2005, and as we plan to drill more wells this year than the previous four years


combined.