Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Matt Quantz — Manager-Corporate Communications, PetroQuest Energy, Inc.
Charles T. Goodson — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, PetroQuest Energy, Inc.
James Bond Clement — Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer & Executive Vice President, PetroQuest Energy, Inc.
Ronald E. Mills — Analyst, Johnson Rice & Co. LLC
John W. Aschenbeck — Analyst, Seaport Global Securities LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day and welcome to the PetroQuest Energy Incorporated First Quarter 2017 Earnings Conference Call. Today's conference is being recorded.

At this time, I'd like to turn the conference over to Matt Quantz. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you. Good morning, everyone. We would like to welcome you to our first quarter conference call and webcast. Participating with me today on the call are Charles Goodson, Chairman, CEO and President; Bond Clement, CFO; and Art Mixon, EVP of Operations and Production.

Before we get started, we would like to make our Safe Harbor statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Statements made today regarding PetroQuest's business, which are not historical facts are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. For a discussion of such risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements, see Risk Factors in our annual and quarterly SEC filings and in forward-looking statements in our press release. We assume no obligation to update our forward-looking statements.

Please also note that on today's call, we will be referring to non-GAAP financial measures, including discretionary cash flow. Historical non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in our press release included in our Form 8-K filed with the SEC.

With that, Charlie will get us started with an overview of the quarter.

Good morning. During the first quarter, we produced 5.2 Bcfe or approximately 58 million cubic feet of gas equivalent per day, a 58 million cubic feet equivalent per day was comprised approximately 39 million cubic feet of gas, 1,500 barrels of oil and 1,700 barrels of NGLs. Our first quarter production increased 13% from the fourth quarter of 2016, which confirms our year-end comments that the fourth quarter would represent the low point in our production and we expect quarterly growth as we have now began a long-term development program in our Cotton Valley assets supported by a very high margin Golf Coast production.

Looking out, we are forecasting the second quarter production to be approximately 62 million cubic feet equivalent per day to 65 million cubic feet equivalent per day, and our third quarter production guidance to range between 80 million cubic feet equivalent per day and 84 million cubic feet equivalent per day. Our second quarter forecasted production takes consideration, the timing delay of the recompletion at our Ship Shoal 72 field. This production was originally scheduled for June and now is expected to occur July due to rescheduling. Due to the low level of activity in the Gulf of Mexico, we've elected to only utilize equipment that has been continuously active as opposed to reactivating equipment that has been stacked.

This project is slotted between projects for other operators therefore subject to slight delays. Also, our next Cotton Valley production is not scheduled to occur until early June when our three well pad for PQ #23-25 begins flowing back. When assuming the midpoints of second quarter and third quarter guidance, we are forecasting sequential quarterly production growth in the third quarter of approximately 30% from second quarter. The midpoint of third quarter guidance also represents a 64% increase from the fourth quarter of 2016.

With three additional Cotton Valley wells, PQ #26-28 expected to come online in the fourth quarter, we continue to work towards our stated 2017 goal achieving a production rate approaching 100 million cubic feet equivalent per day during the fourth quarter, which would represent an approximately 100% production growth from the fourth quarter 2016. This intensified production growth coupled with a significantly improved gas price versus 2016 should result in a consistently rise in cash flow profile throughout the year, which should translate into a significant relative deleveraging by yearend 2017.

You can now begin to see the early stages of our growing cash flow profile when comparing fourth quarter 2016 cash flow numbers to the first quarter 2017. Over that period our cash flow increased 156% from $3.6 million to $9.2 million. Ultimately, this increasing cash flow will be appreciated by the market and we would expect that shareholder and value accretion should follow up.

In addition, if you refer back to our conference call last quarter, we're also testing well density and spacing parameters, designing multi-bench pads and performing micro-seismic to establish frac efficiencies while still achieving significant production growth within cash flow.

Now, turning to operations, where in South Louisiana, our Thunder Bayou well continues to flow at approximately 61 million cubic feet equivalent per day. The daily production mix consists of approximately 39 million cubic feet of gas, 1,500 barrels of oil and 2,200 barrels of natural gas liquids. During the month of March, which was a full – the first full month of production, the well generated approximately $2.3 million of net field level cash flow. In total, our Thunder Bayou and La Cantera projects produced over $3 million of net field level cash flow during March, annualizing that cash flow number equates to approximately $1.75 per share on a stock that's currently trading below $3. We recognize natural gas companies are all under pressure. We just feel like this is worth pointing out.

Moving onto East Texas, during the first quarter, we completed our PQ #22 well located on our 50% acreage. To-date, the well has achieved a maximum 24-hour rate of approximately 11 million cubic feet equivalent per day or continues to produce to-date. This well's average cost per lateral foot was approximately $800, which represents a new company record as efficiencies of running a full-time program are starting show up in overall well cost. This particular location was selected because that established [ph] $4 (06:05) production on two units that would risk of exploration from two late like vertical wells. The 7,100 foot lateral was drilled across both units and addressed this issue.

You may recall that the overwhelming majority of our acreage within Carthage Field HBP from the existing legacy long wide vertical and growing horizontal production. So, this is an usual occurrence. It's worth pointing out that this location required the initial seven stages of PQ #22's laterals that fall within 700 feet of an offsetting horizontal well that has produced approximately 2.3 Bcfe. So, while we are pleased with 11 million equivalent per day rate, we believe IP Rate would have likely been even higher as we not has to effectively [ph] trend an (06:54) offsetting producer along the [ph] middle (06:57) of the well.

At the end of day, this well achieved multiple objectives including providing another positive data point from our Cotton Valley inventory and firming up long life production on two important units. Over the remainder of the year, we'll have multiple new data points to consider in our evaluation of optimum lateral length as our current three well pads has lateral lengths of approximately 5,900 feet, 4,500 feet and 4,600 feet; and the two well pads we are going to next, has lateral lengths of 6,600 feet and 6,700 feet. If the incremental cost of longer laterals economically support high recoveries in addition to addressing acreage that could be stranded due to unit configuration, and we'll certainly apply this concept where unitization allows.

We've recently reached total depth on PQ #25 the final well in a three well pad on our joint venture. Completion operations are scheduled to commence in approximately one week and postproduction is expected in early June. The middle well PQ #24 will test a separate bench, the E-Sand while the two offset wells will be completed in Eberry. The E-Sand does produce in multiple vertical wells on our acreage and in horizontal wells drilled by other offset operators, but this will be the first time we completed a horizontal well in this particular zone.

In addition, we'll place a micro-seismic equipment in the PQ #24 well bore during the completions of PQ #23 and PQ #25. We plan to frac our PQ #23 well with approximately 700 pounds per foot of proppant while PQ #25 will be fracked with 1,250 pounds per foot. The comparative performance of these two wells will give us important data relatively optimizing our frac jobs as we can contrast propagation heights and IP Rates based on different [ph] proppant (08:54) sizes. We use this technology in Woodford and we're able to get the valuable information that significantly improved our performance.

By using this technology in the Cotton Valley, we expect to be able to obtain similar valuable information about the effectiveness of our current frac design. Armed with this new data [ph] my belief is changed (09:14) in certain aspects of our completion design, which could ultimately increase reserve recoveries and/or lower completion cost in this tight sand trend. Following this three well pad, we'll move to PQ #26 and PQ #27, a two well pad and then to single well location PQ #28 all in our joint venture acreage. These three wells are expected to be online in the fourth quarter.

With that, I'll turn it over to Bond.

Thank you, Charlie. Through the combination of production growth and higher pricing, revenues for the first quarter were up 28% from the fourth quarter. In fact revenues for the first quarter of 2017 were higher than any quarter last year. It's certainly nice to be in a much stronger pricing environment. When you consider the comparison to the year ago first quarter, first quarter production was 31% lower, but revenues were 20% higher. All-in realizations this quarter were 75% higher than the year ago period. Looking out at the strip hold till we execute our production growth plan it's possible, we can move revenues from $67 million last year to over a $100 million this year, quite amazing what a difference a year makes.

Following through from our revenue growth, we posted a substantial increase in our cash while during the first quarter of 2017. Based on second quarter and third quarter production guidance, we're expecting sequential cash flow growth, which should result in significant deleveraging that Charlie alluded to earlier. As we execute our business plan, we believe that we could be in a position to re-enter in the traditional RBL market sometime during 2018, which will help us capture a much lower cost of first lien capital.

Quick discussion on some other recent accomplishments, at the end of the first quarter 2017, we drew $20 million under our term loan and paid off the remaining $23 million of the 2017 unsecured notes. At March 31, we have eliminated the current liability which had been on our balance sheet since the third quarter of 2016. This was the last debt in our refinancing process that commenced over two years ago. Since the end of 2014, we've refinanced or repaid almost $425 million of debt, a tremendous achievement considering that the capital markets have been essentially closed from micro cap energy companies over this time.

Turning to expenses for the first quarter, our LOE totaled $7.1 million or a $1.35 per Mcfe, which was within our guidance range. So, reducing our second quarter per unit LOE guidance to $1.20 to a $1.30 to account for a higher forecasted production volumes next quarter. G&A cost for the first quarter totaled about $3.2 million, G&A costs were slightly lower than our guidance range. And for the second quarter, we are guiding to $3.5 million to $4 million range consistent with first quarter guidance. Interest expense during the first quarter totaled $7.2 million, which was just below our guidance range of $7.3 million to $7.5 million. For the second quarter, we're guiding the interest expense to remain in $7.3 million to $7.5 million range and are forecasting approximately $7.5 million of non-cash PIK interest.

Looking at CapEx for the first quarter, we invested approximately $11.5 million. The breakout of capital was approximately $10 million of direct CapEx and $1.6 million of capitalized overhead in interest. Our 2017 guidance range of $40 million to $48 million remains unchanged and at the current strip pricing hold, when we achieve our anticipated production, we expect to spend slightly below our anticipated cash flows.

Lastly on the hedging front, we recently put in place another gas hedge for 5 million cubic feet equivalent a day swap with a floor of $3.40 per Mcf for the first quarter 2018. We now have approximately 35 million cubic feet equivalent per day of gas hedge for first quarter of next year at an average price of $3.24 per Mcf. We do believe fundamentals for gas are positive as we head into the summer, continued growth in demand from coal displaced power generation and exports to both Mexico through LNG appear more than sufficient in our minds to counter any near-term supply increases resulting from associated gas in West Texas or the limited rigs working in the Northeast.

As always, we will continue to look for opportunities to add to our 2017 and 2018 hedge positions with an eye towards increase in our average floors.

With that, I'll turn it back over to Charlie to wrap up.

This quarter illustrates an inflection point where we returned to growing the company. If you look back to previous calls, you will see that PetroQuest team working with stakeholders consistently delivered what we promised in preparation for the growth we are now delivering.

As we wrap up our comments, I would like to emphasize several very important themes. Number one, our very focused execution of our business plan, as we move through the remainder of 2017 and beyond. Our outlook on production with volumes approaching a 1,400 million cubic feet equivalent per day by yearend while prudently utilizing cash flow to grow at current commodity prices certainly illustrates the quality of our assets. Reduced leverage ratios which will come with growth should over time translate into share price appreciation for the stakeholders as the market focuses on these metrics.

Number two, as stated earlier, we are integrating a tremendous amount of science and data gathering into our 2017 drilling program. So much are the results we achieved while developing the Woodford shale, this incremental data we are capturing and using will be key to our continued success in delivering tight curve results. A final comment, [indiscernible] (14:38) to widen your focus beyond PetroQuest to the overall ArkLaTex area focusing on the size and scope, [ph] develop all (14:46) resources in place within the Cotton Valley tight sand in the Bossier and Haynesville Shales.

This area will continue to attract more and more industry attention and capital and will be highlighting with multiple IPOs and significant M&A activity that has and will occur this year [ph] along. We've come to (15:04) stakeholder appreciation and we along with others developed great long life liquids rich production reserves in one of the most strategically located basins in North America accessing the large and growing markets essentially at our doorstep.

With that, I will turn it back to Matt and we'll open up for questions.

Yes, operator we are ready to open up the Q&A.

Thank you. [Operator Instruction] We will go first to Ron Mills with Johnson Rice.

Good morning Charles. Hey, question just on whether it's the PQ #22 well even going to the PQ #21 well. Can you give us any early indication and thoughts on well spacing, I think you've saw a little bit of interference, I think in both of those wells, as you drilled on tighter spacing. Just curious as to your thoughts on well spacing and where – what the spacing looks like on the upcoming PQ #23 to PQ #25, three well pad and the PQ #26 to PQ #28 wells?

Yeah. I'll start off by saying this is a tight sand versus a shale. So, it's not going to be totally consistent. We've seen places where we spaced under a 1,000 feet and see no interference. And then in this kind of unusual situation where we had to drill well very close to – and it was a heel of the well. We saw a small amount pressure reduction. And in the end it's pretty good, because it's showing that we can drain more area with less wells.

But I would say in general, spacing is going to be somewhere between a 1,000 feet and 1,300 feet. I think we originally were talking 1,500 feet to 2,000 feet and then we drop that down to 1,500 feet and then we've actually drilled under a 1,000 feet. So, when we look at the individual sand fitness that we are drilling into whether its 20 feet or 40 feet and what other vertical wells have done. We have a lot of data to give us that indication. And I'd say that 700 feet clearly is probably in pretty much any basin is pretty close. And – so somewhere the 1,000 feet to 1,300 feet, I would say would be the answer to your question on a general basis.

And then in terms of...

Hey, Ron, on...

...yes. Yeah, Bond.

On your follow-up on the three well pad, they were on the distance from the two offset – from offset well – offset well is about 2,000 feet. So, we've got pretty a clearance there in the middle well as we talked about we're going to drill a separate bench that we haven't tested yet. So, we'll address any potential spacing concerns by going to that secondary bench in the middle well. And it relates to the two well pad going to up north, we've got over 1,200 feet of space in between those two wells. So, it shouldn't be an issue, but just reiterate what Charlie said, this PQ #22 wasn't a density test, it wasn't a spacing test. The bottom location of this well was dictated based upon unit configuration and we wanted to hold those two units. So, that's just where the well had to be located.

Yeah, now understood. And then in terms of cadence of the completions, you provided good color on second quarter and third quarter. Just want to make sure the 100 million a day that Charlie referenced is that a fourth quarter rate or an exit rate because it sounds like the next three wells will be coming on in December. So, and just I know you didn't provide fourth quarter guidance and probably because of the timing. But, I'm trying to get a sense as to, is the 100 million a day fourth quarter versus or is it a through December 31 rate?

Yeah. I don't know if it's December 31 rate or December 15, we've just stated all along. Our goal is to be at 100 million a day at some point this year, but way it's going to line up looks like it's going to be sometime during the fourth quarter based upon the timing of the remaining three wells that will be brought on line at, that quarter. But it's definitely not an average rate for the fourth quarter, we've never said that. We just said our goal is to at some point double production this year, which obviously translate well into 2018 in terms of bringing three new wells on in the fourth quarter. It's going to translate into continued sequential production growth as we move into 2018.

And then lastly, Charlie, you mentioned the whole ArkLaTex region, any commentary at all in terms of what does the market look like in your area in terms of potential to continue to expand your Cotton Valley footprint? And any plans I know we've talked about the Bossier going back several years now, but there is a lot more activity in both the Bossier and Haynesville in East Texas as well. So, curious if there is any commentary about what to look for in either acquisitions or deeper zones?

Let's start off with the growth, we are constantly growing our acreage position as we speak and in and around our core 50,000-plus-acres. Secondly, as we continue to come back [indiscernible] (20:46) active and people see the results that we are getting in the Cotton Valley. There, we are getting calls and are talking to others let's say may have a 1,000 to 5,000 to more acreage in and around the Carthage area that is held by production by vertical wells that would like to access our ability to bring an entire team to that. So, we will definitely see growth in addition to the acreage we have and then as far as the I think the second part of the question was...

Yeah. I was asking about Bossier versus activities ramping everywhere, right.

We basically have drilled one Bossier well on the very southern end of our acreage. And as it came on, it was the early lateral 6 million a day, fairly dry and then we've watched with lot of interest company's just to the Southeast of us really increasing rates and stuff it looked a lot like ours larger fracs. It is definitely something that we're interested in and I think we've always said that we think at least 50% of our acreage looks very perspective for the Bossier. Because, so far we've seen a very dry reservoir and one well [ph] on one (22:19) penetration. It clearly is something that will be behind our Cotton Valley, but we're going to start talking probably on our next conference call about 2018, both us and our partner are looking at budget for 2018 and over time, hopefully we can start talking about the Bossier when we could effectively [ph] drive (22:49) back into the mix and start drilling that. So, hopefully that answers both your questions.

It does. Thank you, so much.

Thanks, Ron.

We will go next to John Aschenbeck with Seaport Global.

Good morning.

Hey, good morning guys. Thanks for taking my question.

Sure.

First one here is just kind of a follow-up on Ron's question just in terms of acceleration. I appreciate the detail that you are still on track to hit that 2017 [ph] accelerated (23:21) targets. So, not to get too far ahead of myself, I know you also contemplated the idea of adding an additional rig at yearend and I was wondering if that was still the case, and if so, what factors play into that decision specifically I am just trying to understand what commodity price assumptions will ultimately dictate that?

As far as, I think I just touched on that and I'll maybe expand a little bit. We would contemplate the next rig being on our [indiscernible] (23:52) acreage with Chevron and we meet with them quarterly and we just finished the meeting and they are looking at it being a 2018 budget item to start drilling out there and we are too. And we'll articulate that in our next conference call. We have a board meeting coming up, but [ph] I believe that's what (24:14) we anticipate, we have so much acreage and so much – I mean it offsets our joint venture, that's clearly where we can grow, easily four rigs out there over the ensuing years. So, that's something we'll talk about in next conference call, but clearly 2018 I would say would be a target to grow to a second rig.

Got it, appreciate the detail. Apologize, if I missed that, but in terms of commodity prices, would that just be in a call a $3 flat per Mcf [indiscernible] (24:56)?

Yes. Hey, John, this is Bond. Certainly, thinking $3 per Mcf, when we look at the economics of the Cotton Valley and we run it through a model and we need to make sure that that second rig is fully funded. Certainly, $3 per Mcf had worked for us and obviously we will start hedging into the remainder of 2018. As that April 2018 contract starts to move up as we get closer, we will start layering in the back half of 2018 and have some good gas price protection by the time we get there.

Right, good deal, appreciate that. My follow-up is on the PQ #22 well and I appreciate the opening remarks just kind of explain the wells performance, I think that was really helpful. So, just actually more so – kind of looking to upcoming tests particularly this test in the E-Sand. I was wondering if you could walk us through any type of risk to that well's performance, if any considering, it will be the first time you test the bench. And I am really just trying to get a feel for whenever the results are released for that test, should we be looking for an IP Rate closer to what's detailed on your type curve call it 2.5 million per thousand foot or should we be risking that a little bit?

Yeah. I think we do a good job of articulating that. One, we have a 100 well bores that have in some form or fashion produced out of that interval and we've also seen other offset operators that have tested it. And we feel just comfortable that it should have a rate that is close to what we are seeing in the Eberry. One thing that we have done is, we have – within those intervals we have to really discern which [ph] liniment (26:51) or whatever you want to call it, section you land your lateral [ph] in (26:54) and the consistency of that. We have a lot more information on the Eberry the E will be the next one and so. I mean, there is a risk to everything. I think, we have currently an inventory. I think we have probably 29 Eberry wells and 37 E-Sand wells and there are basically those two sands around – one on top of the other. So, it's a not in significant portion of our joint venture inventory and along with our inventory on the Chevron acreage. So, we feel very comfortable that, yeah, that was probably a very prudent thing to do, widen the spacing on the Eberry between those two wells we drilled, move into the E-Sand and we're very comfortable with that.

Right. Appreciate that. That's it for me.

It appears there are no further questions at this time. Mr. Quantz, I'd like to turn the conference back to you for any additional or closing remarks.

Yeah, thank you. Thank you everybody for their time this morning and please call or email with any additional questions.

This concludes today's conference. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.