Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Matt Quantz — Manager-Corporate Communications, PetroQuest Energy, Inc.
Charles T. Goodson — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, PetroQuest Energy, Inc.
W. Todd Zehnder — Chief Operating Officer, PetroQuest Energy, Inc.
J. Bond Clement — Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer & Executive Vice President, PetroQuest Energy, Inc.
Ronald E. Mills — Analyst, Johnson Rice & Co. LLC
Will O. Green — Analyst, Stephens, Inc.
Sameer Uplenchwar — Analyst, GMP Securities LP
Blaise Matthew Angelico — Analyst, IBERIA Capital Partners LLC
Richard M. Tullis — Analyst, Capital One Securities, Inc.
Ravindranath Sreenivas Kamath — Analyst, Seaport Global Securities LLC
Daniel D. Guffey — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning and welcome to the PetroQuest Energy Incorporated Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call. All participants will be in a listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] After today's presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask questions. [Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Matt Quantz, Manager of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you. Good morning, everyone, and we would like to welcome you to our second quarter conference call and webcast. Participating with me today on the call are Charles Goodson, Chairman, CEO and President; Todd Zehnder, COO; and Bond Clement, CFO.

Before we get started, we would like to make our Safe Harbor statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Statements made today regarding PetroQuest's business, which are not historical facts, are forward-looking statements that involve risk and uncertainties. For a discussion of such risk and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements, see Risk Factors in our annually and quarterly SEC filings and in our forward-looking statements in our press release. We assume no obligation to update our forward-looking statements.

Please also note that on today's call, we will be referring to non-GAAP financial measures, including discretionary cash flow. Historical non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled to the most-directly comparable GAAP measures in our press release, included in our Form 8-K filed with the SEC yesterday.

With that, Charlie, get us started with an overview of the quarter.

Good morning. During the second quarter, we produced 9.7 Bcfe or approximately 106 million cubic feet of gas equivalent per day. These volumes reflect two months of our Arkoma assets that were sold during June. The sale reduced the second quarter total production by approximately 1 Bcfe. 106 million cubic feet equivalent per day was comprised of approximately 79 million cubic feet of gas, 1,700 barrels of oil and 2,900 barrels of NGLs. Revenues for the quarter were $32.6 million with product price realizations averaging $57 a barrel of oil and $2.78 per Mcf of gas. NGL product price realizations averaged approximately $15 a barrel.

Before I turn it over to Todd to go through the rest of the operations, I'd like to take this opportunity to discuss our recent Arkoma asset sale. On June 4, we closed the most significant transaction in the company's history, which was a culmination of more than 10 years of outstanding work by our Tulsa team. This was a win-win transaction for both parties. In total, we received $280 million in gross sales proceeds, of which a portion was used to repay all of our outstanding bank debt.

The deal's valuation was attractive on almost every metric. We received 9.3 times cash flow, $6,000 per flowing Mcfe and approximately $7,000 per acre. But most importantly, the transaction substantially improved our liquidity position. And at the end of the second quarter, we had $141 million of cash and will be receiving another $14 million before the end of the year.

The primary point I'd like to stress this morning is the following: with our greatly improved liquidity position and premier asset base, we have the flexibility and the tools needed to navigate this low-price environment for an extended period of time. Our upcoming one-rig Cotton Valley's program, which Todd will discuss here shortly, combined with the anticipated Thunder Bayou recompletion, should allow us to grow production in excess of 20% over the fourth quarter 2015 to fourth quarter 2016 period with a very modest CapEx program. We remain very optimistic about the future and the ability to not only survive but grow during this downturn.

With that, I'll turn it over to Todd.

All right. Thanks, Charlie. Starting off with East Texas, this morning, we announced that we are evaluating plans to resume our horizontal Cotton Valley drilling program during the fourth quarter. Even though current commodity prices remain challenged, our projected rates of return at current strip pricing and current well cost justify us running a measured one-rig program for the foreseeable future.

This trend simply just keeps exceeding our expectations. For example, our latest horizontal Cotton Valley well, PQ Number 18, was drilled in a section that had approximately one-half the pay sand thickness as our previous wells. This location was originally selected for a couple of reasons, the first being that it was one of the few units in the field that had a leasehold expiration issue due to a late life depleting vertical well holding the unit.

Secondly, and more important, by drilling this location, we were able to increase our ownership in approximately 60 previously-identified locations that could have been held up by our partner. The fact that this well only had 16 feet of pay, while still achieving a 30-day average flat production rate of approximately 12 million cubic feet equivalent per day, confirms our geologic siltstone contribution theory and causes us to rethink our original inventory estimates of this asset. With each well drilled in our Carthage field, our expectation of total recoverable reserves increases.

Now turning to Thunder Bayou, where we are currently flowing at approximately 40 million cubic feet equivalent per day, we've experienced very little drawdown in the reservoir pressure since the commencement of first production, which occurred on June 22. In addition, we are happy with the higher-than-expected oil cut that we've seen to date, which currently stands at approximately 27 barrels to 28 barrels per million or approximately 800 barrels to 900 barrels of LLS oil per day. We remain very confident about the 130 Bcf of 3P reserve potential that has been assigned by Ryder Scott, and our internal estimates continue to call for approximately 150 Bcfe.

We believe that these reserves will ultimately come to see us through positive performance revisions and will require nothing more than an approximate $800,000 gross cost recompletion into the upper part of the pay section. As a reminder, we are currently forecasting this uphole recompletion to occur sometime early to mid-2016, depending on fluid rates in the well. With this simple and inexpensive procedure, we believe that we'll be able to significantly increase the current production rate of 40 million cubic feet equivalent a day. Clearly, this is an incredible asset, but especially in the current environment where capital and production are coveted items.

Now, moving on to the Woodford, we recently established production on eight new wells in our East Hoss field related to our dry gas JV. These wells achieved an average maximum 24 hour rate of approximately 4.1 million cubic feet of gas per day. In addition, we recently completed eight new wells that are in the early stages of flow back. While it's still early, several of these wells appeared to be the best wells drilled to date in the JV. We currently had two rigs running in this part of the trend and our NRI is generally approximate 15% in this part of field.

Lastly, we continue to actively look for ways to lower our costs and improve our efficiencies to help offset the impact of lower commodity prices. Given the current service cost environment, coupled with the expected drilling efficiency gains, from running a full-time rig in Carthage, we believe that we'll be able to realize further cost reductions going forward. Right now, our internal goal for the next batch of Cotton Valley wells is to drill and complete the wells for approximately $4.5 million, which will represent an approximate 15% decline from our most-recent average well cost.

With that, I'll turn it over to Bond.

Okay. Thanks Todd. As Charlie mentioned earlier, the Arkoma divestiture's significantly improved our balance sheet and liquidity position. At the end of the quarter, we had zero drawn under our revolver and a cash balance of approximately $141 million. In addition, we will be receiving another $14 million in cash associated with the sale before year end, of which we've already received $4 million post the end of the quarter.

We're currently evaluating deleveraging and refinancing options with respect to our 10% notes, which are not due to until September of 2017. These options include continuous discussions with our bank group as well as actively monitoring the debt capital markets for improvements to current conditions. In the meantime, we will continue to build up our cash balance that could be used in our deleveraging and/or refinancing efforts as we consider our options relative to lowering fixed charges and extending the maturity of our 2017 notes. The bottom-line here is we have some time to try and position ourselves to a better market than currently exist relative to the debt capital markets.

Turning to second quarter results, LOE totaled $11.2 million or $1.16 per M, which is in line with our guidance of $1.10 to $1.20. We expect to have an increase in per unit LOE going forward as our sold Arkoma properties were our lowest per unit LOE assets. While absolute LOE costs are expected to decline from second quarter levels, we are guiding third quarter's LOE unit costs to be in the $1.30 to $1.40 per M range.

G&A cost in the second quarter totaled $6.5 million and included $1.4 million of non-cash stock comp expenses. Overhead costs were higher than our previously-issued guidance of $5 million to $5.5 million, primarily due to $800,000 of expenses related to the Arkoma transaction, which primarily included a fairness opinion as well as associated legal costs.

When looking at our total same quarter G&A costs including the capitalized portion, but excluding the one-time $800,000 of our common divestiture-related charges, our total G&A costs are down about 12% compared to the second quarter of 2014. Looking at the next quarter, we should see a drop in our total G&A costs as we realize the full quarter of G&A savings relative to our Tulsa office.

Interest expense during the quarter totaled $8.6 million, which was slightly above our guidance due to lower capitalized interest as a result of the asset sale and the resulting decrease in our unevaluated property balance. During the quarter, we capitalized $1.4 million of interest. So, in total, interest costs were $10 million. With the repayment of all our bank borrowings in June, we would expect total interest cost next quarter to be down about 5% and we would also expect capitalized interest to be lower next quarter from what we saw during the second quarter of 2015.

During the quarter, we invested approximately $23 million in CapEx. The breakout of this capital is approximately $17.5 million of direct, $2 million in leasehold cost and $3.7 million of capitalized overhead and interest. For the first six months, CapEx has totaled approximately $50 million. As we've said before with Thunder Bayou now compete, we continue to forecast a short drop in spending during the back half of 2015 and believe we will still be in the $60 million to $70 million range for total CapEx spend for 2015. If we do move forward and restart our Carthage program late this year, we would not expect our full year spending budget to be materially higher than the top of our guidance range.

Regarding our third quarter production guidance, we expect to produce 75 million to 81 million cubic feet equivalent per day, which reaffirms our previously-issued guidance. As Charlie mentioned, if we do move a rig back into Carthage late this year and our 2016 Thunder Bayou recompletion occurs, as currently modeled, early indications are next year is expected to be a strong year for production growth when comparing fourth-quarter 2015 rates with fourth-quarter 2016 rates. Importantly, however, we expect to achieve this growth with a CapEx program expected to be well below 2015 spending levels.

On the hedging front after terminating a couple of our 2015 gas hedge contracts in order to comply with the covenant in our bank credit facility, we have approximately 10 Bcf of gas production hedged for the remainder of this year at an average floor price of $3.51 per M. On the oil side, we continue to have 77,000 barrels hedged for the remainder of 2015 at an average floor price of around $56.70. We'll continue to look for opportunities to begin assembling our 2016 hedge book and expect to ultimately end up, as we normally do, with about 50% of our production hedged by early in 2016.

With that, I'll turn it back to Charlie.

Thank you, Bond. I'll summarize the action taken by our company over the last several quarters as a flight to quality over quantity. We began this year with significant assets in three core basins. We quickly surveyed the commodity price collapse and determined we should shrink both our debt and inventory of assets.

Fortunately, all three assets were generating excellent returns, which therefore allowed us the flexibility to choose which area we should focus on with the highest return economic growth. Through a series of meetings with our executive team and board, we laid out a set of outcomes we felt could be achieved and dedicated resource to achieve them.

The results are a dedicated focus on the Cotton Valley, East Texas and North Louisiana, while harvesting great returns from our renewed high-margin Gulf Coast assets. Our Cotton Valley assets offer low-cost production and reserve growth with realistic goal of continuing to lower our F&D, increase our already upper quartile IRRs.

On the other hand, the sale of our Woodford assets to an entity on a negotiated basis was a win for both organizations and it seldom happens as seamlessly as did this transaction. They're planning to increase activity in the Woodford and we in the Cotton Valley. Our Mid-Continent team continues to operate and grow the Woodford assets as we are reimbursed all out-of-pocket costs. The valuable experience our team now has from assembling, growing and developing these assets has quickly transformed the Cotton Valley. We're confident we can refinance the remaining debt on a very satisfactory basis.

This will be accomplished as we reactivate our drilling program in the Cotton Valley, showing how we can economically grow production and reserves. The market seems to currently be indiscriminate toward all E&P companies. As we articulate our reemerging story regarding our accomplishments as well as our renewed focus, we believe the market will take notice.

Capital management and liquidity will be equally important as growth. And investors will sort through the sector and make the correct choices where they will invest. In our mind, the hard decisions are behind us. What we have accomplished as a team is prudent for the quality of the team and the assets.

With that, we look forward to seeing you in the coming months and I will turn it back to Matt for questions.

Thanks, Charlie. Operator, we are ready to open it up to the Q&A, please.

We will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] And we have a question from Ron Mills from Johnson Rice. Please go ahead.

Good morning. A couple of questions, on Cotton Valley, Todd, you referenced your siltstone theory, you reconcile on your presentation you have your planned activity in inventory. What do you have as your existing inventory and on the siltstone theory? It sounds like you think you may end up having two or three potential zones to develop across this position. What kind of impact can that have on your existing inventory?

Yeah, Ron, I think, I general, right now, we're saying we are confident in probably about 240 existing locations that we would consider proven, probable, basically in those category, there are plenty of offsetting operators that have drilled other zones around those and we've been doing a lot of work on that. And whether it's other members of the Cotton Valley or the siltstone, it could be clearly a two-fold and even more in some sections of the field. So, whether you want to call it other zones, other benches, whatever, we think that the available inventory out there could be a factor of two to three over that 230 what we consider as close to proven as possible.

And if you think about adding the rig back later this year, what's the primary target? Is it what you've already been targeting or would you – I guess, at what point would you start to test potentially other either the siltstones or other members of the Cotton Valley?

Yeah, I think right now it's the primary members, we would be hanging around the E member, the E Berry, the E-4 is what our nomenclature is, and probably, on the E side of the field, with the field as well. We've been questioned about when will we step out and prove up the rest of the field plenty of times. And my answer is that part of field is proven up through the 40 vertical wells to 60 vertical wells that we've drilled plus the offsetting operators on the west side.

So, from our perspective, because this whole unit is HBP, it just makes more economic sense for us to hang out on the East side, where there is water-injection wells, where the gathering infrastructure is already located, where we have processing facilities. Especially in this commodity price environment, it doesn't seem like a time to be going and just poking around the different parts of the field, because we already consider it a proven asset.

Okay. And then, if you bring that rig back in, I think, maybe, Bond, for you, talked about – couple of you talked about 20% growth fourth quarter 2016 over fourth quarter 2015. Bond, you mentioned you'd be able to execute that with a lower CapEx budget than 2015. Directionally, what kind of CapEx budget would get you there, especially, if you had a one-rig program? On a net basis, is that your 50% working interest? Just trying to get a range of that CapEx that you referenced.

Right. We're working out the – as we talked about, we're working out plans relative to the 2016. We would think primarily be drilling 100% wells at this point in time. So, you're talking about probably a six to seven well program in 2016, which is going to be – we're going to be very flexible depending upon commodity prices. And then the other major movers we cited, if the initial zone depletes at Thunder Bayou, as modeled, which is somewhere around first quarter to second quarter 2016, go ahead and recomplete that into the upper member, which is a much bigger sand package and likely able to produce at a significantly higher rate than where we're currently at.

Ron, this is Charlie. Let me – I'm going to add a little bit to that. I want to make sure people don't feel like we're drilling wells into siltstone. In each of these benches, there's probably seven benches that have been tested in and around the Carthage field, by us, we've drilled two of them, and the other five have been drilled by the other operators right around there. We also have about 120 vertical wells that have penetrated and drained virtually no area in our Chevron joint area in our 100% acreage.

What we're doing is we are landing a lateral in the sand, it might be 15-feet thick, it might be 40-feet thick. But when you look at the overall interval of, say, 60 feet or 80 feet on that zone, it's interspersed with some siltstones. So, what we're finding is, we are fracking through those siltstones probably into the next sand lens and all of this is contributing, which allows us now to see that we are producing 8 Bcf in excess as we're able to stay in those sand stones and then frack through these siltstones, which all contributes to the reserves of the well. So, I just want to make sure that the market doesn't feel like we're drilling wells into siltstones.

Okay. Perfect. And then on the deleveraging, is this just something, Bond, that over the course of the next two quarters or three quarters you will continue to monitor those options, or are there particular kind of milestone dates that we should look for?

No, I don't think there is any milestones. It's going to be a function of putting ourselves in the best market available. As we look out to the capital markets today, the debt capital markets specifically, they don't seem to be functioning very well as it relates to small-cap E&P companies. So, we'll continue to stockpile our cash position and we want to be able to put ourselves in the best possible market to have good execution. And at the end of the day, as I mentioned on the call, we have some time. So, we're not going to be forced into doing something that we don't believe is a fair trade relative to lowering our fixed charges and extending the maturity to 2017. We just can't saddle ourselves with fixed charges or a coupon that we don't think is acceptable.

Okay. Great. Thank you, guys.

All right.

And our next question comes from Will Green from Stephens. Please go ahead.

Good morning, guys.

Good morning.

Good morning.

I wanted to follow-on on that 20% growth and kind of with what Ron was asking. So, when we think about that 20% growth from this 4Q to next 4Q, what all is embedded in that? Is that just the six to seven well program in East Texas? Are you also considering – there's some Thunder Bayou activity. Is there anything else on the docket that we should consider that goes into reaching that 20% growth goal from 4Q to 4Q?

The primary thing, Will, that's hard for you guys to model, is other recompletions that we had in the Gulf Coast. It's sort of the lever that we've been able to pull the last few years, is that just from our historical drilling operations and our acquisition, we have uphole recompletions that we'll go and do. Nothing that is material like the Thunder Bayou recompletion or maybe moving uphole at La Cantera at some point next year, or the – I guess it's probably starting with a couple of wells this year and six wells to seven wells next year. So, you're looking at eight wells to nine wells that would be contributing in East Texas. So, the primary things are the East Texas program, the Thunder Bayou uphole recompletion and then maybe just a scattering of other recompletions.

Got you. That's great color. And then what's kind of the decision point on taking up a rig in East Texas this quarter – or this year, I should say? It looks like the rates have been pretty good and it looks like you guys are well above breakeven even at kind of current commodity prices. So, what's kind of the decision point getting that up and running this year?

Well, what we are doing right now is in this pullback that everybody is in, we are balancing leverage, liquidity and growth. And we are just trying to make sure that we don't over-swing on any of those. So, they are all pulling against each other a little bit. But we know that our business is one that we've got to keep drilling economic well and the returns that we're posting, assuming gas prices stay flat to improve and the liquids pricing, to a lesser extent, stay flat to improve, it's a better investment decision.

So, the question could be why aren't you out there with two rigs right now. And we're just trying to make sure that we preserve the liquidity and some cash to help put this refinancing effort. But we do see there should be an opportunity at some point over the next few quarters. We're trying to be patient and yet at the same time prepare ourselves and get ready to grow.

I think, Will, one thing we're working on for the upcoming presentation circuit is, using 2014 East Texas program is a proxy of what one year of – or one rig week program can effectively do in that field. That year we drilled six wells, we invested about $39 million of net CapEx, we grew reserves by almost 90%, production by 70% at an F&D of somewhere around $0.70 an ounce. So, with not a lot of relative capital, you can grow reserves and production quite rapidly in East Texas, as we've shown in 2014. And as we sit here today, we hope 2016 is sort of a proxy for that, providing good growth metrics at a pretty low capital investment.

And two, we really have two areas to focus on. We have our 100% acreage, which we can drill at will and have years of development there and can add to it in a very extensive level. Then we've our Chevron acreage, 48,000 acreage, which is all HBP. And we're meeting with Chevron at all levels and they are very encouraged with what we've done out there and are interested in seeing a dedicated program to this field as they review what we've accomplished over the last 18 wells. And so, with us, it's making sure that we accomplish on both areas, the economic and smooth growth back into the field. And that's what we are looking at right now. And say more likely to – we can start immediately whenever we want to with 100% acreage and that's ready to go. And the other is – should be behind it, but we're going to manage cash flow and time it where it makes sense for us after we're gone through this huge transformation of the company.

Great. Thanks for all that color, guys.

All right, Will.

Okay.

And our next question is from Sameer Uplenchwar from GMP Securities.

Good morning, guys, and congrats on recapitalizing the company and the strong Arkoma divestiture. Sorry, I've lost my voice. I'm just trying to understand on the Cotton Valley, I know we all wanted to go from zero to 60 very, very quickly, but you're trying to balance the use of cash. Could you discuss the what-if scenario of how many rigs could you add based on the 101 locations you have? And how many – what the activity level should be to convert some of the 826 net risk potential locations into the 101 or add to the 101? And would you look at bringing in partners as you're trying to balance everything out? How should we think about this?

All right. Let me try to answer all that. In general, we're calling our inventory level that we are extremely confident in at 236. So, I'm not sure the 101 may be a net number, quite possibly. But think about it on gross locations basis. And then it just sort of comes down to using your capital wisely and how many rigs. I mean, we've run two rigs out there before. Our operations group has run as many as nine rigs throughout our company at any one given time. So, I don't think it's really a function of how many rigs we can run. I feel comfortable on our group that we can run what makes the most sense. I think you kind of hit it on the head. We don't want to go from zero to 60. We want to go from somewhere – we want to find our way somewhere in between there and manage the growth and the liquidity and the leverage.

As far as kind of the second part of the question is, the number of locations it would take to prove up other parts of the field, I'd go back to the comment I've made many times that we don't feel like this is unproven inventory. And like Charlie said, all these vertical wells throughout the field, we have logs, we have all the different zones that we've already logged, that we've tested a lot of the verticals zone. And then, as important is some of those zones have been tested to the west of us. And literally, one unit in the middle of our field that we don't own has been tested by another operator. So, we just don't – we don't have this desire to go out and put a rig all over the field and may be incur another X% of the well cost, because you're having to move rigs, build pad and make gathering commitments and saltwater commitments that just aren't necessary right now.

So, we're really – not that we haven't in the past, but we're really going to be focused on capital efficiency. And dollars are precious right now. So, we're going to drill what we feel are the best wells that are the cheapest wells in areas that we don't have to incur a whole bunch of additional cost on.

And I'll add one more thing to it. The well that we just drilled that Todd talked about expanded our inventory and we want to see what the 90-day rate was on that well. And so, with the 142 verticals, every one of those verticals on the field has a prime location for a bench. Then it has two or three other benches that we seal the wall and we can then go after. And so, now, it's prioritizing what this well has told us we might have a location offsetting another well now that we can go to for a much cheaper price, because it's a little bit thinner than the well we drilled, but now with this 18 wells – hell, that's an 8 Bcf well. So, at the end, we've always said, we can't un-drill wells. When you look at the Woodford, we spent – we basically drilled up there 100 and – I forgot what the number is now – Woodford?

Woodford, 150.

150 wells – I think it's 206, actually.

Okay.

206 wells in Woodford. And every one of those had a plan behind it and we feel like we can do the same thing here. That was a dedicated effort over five years with partner, we feel like here that we'll grow inventory. And while everybody wanted us to come out right behind the sale with a rig, smart thing to do was to wait and see what the 18 well did. And that transformed a lot of locations to proven as opposed to probables.

Got it. And then what about bringing in a partner to help you bring that forward or add somebody somewhere else?

That's clearly an option, Sameer, if we – like we've mentioned, some of this acreage we already have partners on. Some of the acreage we own 100%. So, if we want to maybe accelerate the program or prove up or enhance returns, we can do that. Right now, we want to make sure we nail down exactly what our program's going to be. Because one of the things is we manage capital some time through our working interest, like most people, and if we're going to be drilling wells are already 50%, we may not need to sell down some of those. So, that's clearly an option. And I think that the return that we're showing and the results that we've shown make this area very, very coveted by people. And I can say that for a fact, just due to the reverse inquiry that we've had on our asset. So, we can do that and it's something that we are considering.

Got it.

And I'll just add to Todd said, with our 100% acreage, we have the ability, on a well basis or on a program basis, to bring partners in. We have partners in Thunder Bayou and places like that and we're – I mean they've a huge amount of cash flow coming in. And they've been partnering with us for a number of years. This adds the diversity to it we want to do that. But at this point in time, what we're looking at is getting the program started and once we do, we'll let everybody know and give you as much color on it as we can.

Got it. So, on the flip side of that question is you have discussed delevering to paying down your 2017 notes. What about an acquisition where you can get EBITDA and delever that way. How are you thinking about it from that perspective, either getting higher working interest in your existing properties or going outside of your core zone and looking at something else? On that end, have you looked at it and what's some of the color on that end?

The short answer is yes, we have. So, I think growth in the denominator is a way to delever the company, if it's properly financed as well. And so, there is really no option that hasn't been pursued in some form or fashion. The last several months were really about the sale curve. Now, it's about how to best grow the company coming out of it. And an acquisition would be an opportunity. It's just that it has to come with the economics that could rival what we have in inventory right now, because, as Charlie mentioned, we came into the year very inventory-rich. We had three really good areas and we had to pare down. So, it'd have to come in with expected return that compete with what we have and it'd have to make sure that it'd be properly financed. So, that's not – we don't have anything that's imminent, clearly, but it's something that we have thought about.

Got it.

I think one of the reasons we picked the Cotton Valley, it has huge growth potentials in it, a lot of acreage, a lot of hot assets. But we are – with what we have, we certainly have a great growth strategy, but that's a good question.

Got it. And last question from me. Like based on your current CapEx assumptions, what amount would be required or offered to the bondholders to repurchase after 365 days? And the second part of that question is, can you repurchase the bonds right now, because they're trading below par? Can you repurchase them in the open market today?

Well, the way indenture works – I'll hit the second part first. The way the indenture works, it specifies we can call the bonds at par using asset sale proceeds. So, we're not really able to go out into the open market and capture the discount that the bonds are trading. As far as the second part of the question, our current expectations are to have refinanced, delevered or invested the capital within a 365-day period. So, as we sit here today, we don't anticipate having that problem.

Got it. Thank you.

Sure.

And our next question comes from Blaise Angelico from IBERIA Capital Partners. Please go ahead.

Hey, guys. Good morning. Just curious, as you all are thinking about planning the restart of the Cotton Valley program, could you talk a little bit more about the service cost environment, specifically, what kind of rig rates you're seeing? And then, as you get from the $5.2 million gross cost, I think you referenced in the release to the $4.5 million you talked about earlier in the call, just curious how much of that cost reduction is due to service cost reductions and how much of that is related to more permanent type of efficiency gains. If you guys can put some additional color around that, that would be helpful.

All right, Blaise. I'll start my answer by caveating that we are not out there just yet procuring services for the Cotton Valley, but we're operating three rigs and about to go to four in the Arkoma. So, we clearly see that service costs have continued to flatten to reasonably decline over the last quarter, is what I would say. If you think about the last time we started drilling in the Cotton Valley, getting back to the Cotton Valley, specifically, the last time we started a program, we procured most of the service back in November of 2014. So, while things were softening a little bit, they hadn't softened like we're seeing now. Completion costs on the three wells that we brought on this year are clearly seeing some of the benefit that is out there. But on the drilling part of the equation, we really didn't get much of that benefit.

So, for me to quantify what of the 15% is exactly due to service costs, I'd be guessing a little bit, but maybe a third of that would be service cost, to half of it, and then the rest is due to a function of a couple of things. One, for the activity that we're going to be doing in the future, we think the services that we're going to get, the rigs that we're going to get and so forth are going to be better. And I can just tell you by having a full-time rig we know we can drive down days. And so, that's going to be a permanent efficiency that will be out there. So, that will make up the other half to maybe two-thirds.

All right. Thanks, guys. Appreciate it.

Yeah. Thanks.

And our next question is from Richard Tullis from Capital One Securities. Please go ahead.

Yeah. Thanks. Good morning, everyone. So, Todd or Bond, as we start to piece together the potential 2016 CapEx program, at Thunder Bayou, would the only cost expected to be incurred would be the recompletion for next year?

Yes. That's all that we have planned right now. We'll evaluate a second well and over time that could be a potential. It's definitely not in the CapEx budget right now. And we don't necessarily think we are going to need to drill one. But we're doing some reprocessing of seismic, we're watching production and so forth. So, we haven't completely ruled out a second well in that reservoir. But right now, we don't have one planned.

Okay. What would be expected spending level on Gulf Coast, Gulf of Mexico area? I know you mentioned some recompletes and, of course, you won't have the larger expenditure for Thunder Bayou next year.

It would be pretty minimal, Richard. I don't have the specific numbers in front of me, but I wouldn't expect it to be more than $3 million or $4 million net for 2016 on recompletions, some small P&As that we'll need to take care of, et cetera.

Okay. Any anticipated spending for the Fleetwood JV next year?

Right now – I got that question last night. Right now, the Cotton Valley results and expected returns just clearly outweigh everything. So, we're not saying never. But with prices where they are, obviously, it's more of an oily development and with prices where they are, we're just – we're thinking right now that Cotton Valley is going to win.

Okay. That's helpful. I know you mentioned the Thunder Bayou recompletion could materially, I guess, in my words, impact production there next year. I mean, are you talking about a 50% increase, a 100% increase? Any sort of ranges you could give.

It's probably a little early to say with too much conviction what it will do. I would say this, maybe in more of a general answer, the 30 million wet, which equates to 40 million equivalent right now is not putting the drawdown, nor the pressure – it's not pulling the well very hard. So, the bottom zone potentially overdrawn could have a rate increase. Everything is caveated on when do we start seeing water, because you know it's got water [ph] draw (40:22) reservoir below it. So, whenever that happens, we'll just look at what the rates are; we will look at how much we have produced at that time and it will give us conviction that this is all one reservoir, which we really do believe that's the case.

If that is the case, then we probably move uphole and again then produce it higher rate. What that ultimately turns out to be, not exactly sure. We know the well will do plenty more. The well will do whatever we want it to. It's the only well in the reservoir, so we're going to be managing it like it is; the most-important asset to our company right now. And so, we will – we've set it with 1.5-inch tubing that it will clearly do over 50 million a day on a wet basis, which will equate to 60 million-plus. And that maybe end up where we're pulling it. It could be a little bit more than that. But there's a lot of factors that we're watching before we say this is the rate that we're going to go out with.

Okay. And then just lastly, I know you have zero drawn on your borrowing base at this point. But any sort of guideline that you're seeing for the fall redetermination, any sort of idea of how you might be impacted?

No. Richard, you'll remember when we – we actually had a sort of an interim redetermination in connection of the asset sale. And so, we adjusted our schedule. So, our next redetermination is scheduled for September 1. So, we've got a meeting on the books with the banks at the end of next week and we are in the middle of the process now.

Okay. All right. Well, that's it for me. Thanks a bunch.

Sure, thanks.

And our next question is from Ravi Kamath from Seaport Global. Please go ahead, sir.

Yeah. Hey, guys. A couple of questions. One, you talked about Q4 2015 to Q4 2016 20%, just wondering what your expectation is for the Q4 2015 production.

Yeah. We obviously didn't put guidance out there. A lot's going to be dependent up on the timing of recompletions relative to the La Cantera and Thunder Bayou. And at this point, especially on Thunder Bayou, we just don't know. So, we purposely haven't put out fourth quarter 2015 production guidance. Just give us a little more production history and we'll have something out in connection with our next ops update.

Okay. And maybe directionally can you provide is it going to be up or flat?

As we sit here today, roughly flattish with third quarter.

Flattish. Got it. Yeah. And then, secondly on the Hoss JV, any additional plans beyond the eight wells that are currently flowing back?

Yeah. We have two rigs still running out there. And if you remember, when we brought that project to fruition, we set it up for 38 wells. And our intention is to finish drilling those 38 wells, I believe the latest rigs schedule hasn't been completed or last well being spud sometime in the late fourth quarter, maybe November-ish and so we'll tend to most of those wells through a completion of this year and then just see what happens after that. But I don't want it to have just been embedded. The rates that we're seeing right now on these latest wells are clearly some of the strongest that we've seen out there and very happy for ourselves and our partner out there.

Got it. And then last one, I think there were some working capital adjustments that you were expecting from the sale of the Woodford assets. Is that all reflected in June 30 balance sheet or is there more cash that might go out for working capital adjustments?

No. It should all be reflected in the balance sheet. The biggest component of that's going to be the $14 million that we're showing as deferred sales proceeds. And what that is, is we received $1 million dollar per well spud fee on the next 14 wells. So, we've already collected $4 million, we have another batch of $4 million set to come in. So, we would expect that $14 million to be on our balance sheet as cash by the end of the year.

Got it. Great. Thanks, guys.

Thank you.

And we have a follow-up question from Ron Mills from Johnson Rice. Please go ahead, sir.

Hey. Todd, can you just walk through kind on the way a rig line would work in the Cotton Valley, if you take one rig, probably drill six wells or seven wells for the year in terms of time to spud the rig release or spud the first production?

Well, I think in general, it would drill more, if we kept it out there all year. It's just that for right now we are – once again, we are managing liquidity with growth with leverage. So, I think in general, Ron, you would probably drill more like 10 wells to – I don't think, we can get 12 wells on one rig, but you would definitely be able to drill 10 wells with a rig. So, what our plan is right now – and this is very preliminary for us. We don't typically put out any sort of firm production, capital guidance like that. So, we're just trying to directionally tell the investor community what our plans are. It's to pick up that rig sometime in the fourth quarter and just hold on to it, and then just manage our CapEx, cash flow, our refinancing efforts. So, we're just sort of – instead of just keeping our rig out there all year and just saying full speed ahead, we just cut it off in, I believe, six wells into 2016.

If you're asking specifically kind of how it would look, most of the wells we'll be drilling next year are in existing units that we have either pad built or would be one-pad wells. So, you're not going to have as many batch completion as you've seen in the past from us. Not that there won't be any, but that's generally the thought process right now. So, I guess, if you think about a well spudding, you probably have first sale 60 days later is a general comment. And just start that November 1 of this year for planning purposes and just do one every 60 days and you'll be bringing another one on 30 days later.

And so, the best way to plan is just kind of an even activity level through the year as I try to think about the way the growth would look through the year?

That's right. That's right. And like I said, we're very early in this process. We have to vet everything out from a drilling program. We've to vet out what it looks like on total returns, what our final well programs going to look, how many 50% versus 100% wells, if we're going to bring in other partners on some of these 100% wells and make sure our board is in conjunction with where we're going.

Okay. Thank you so much.

Sure thing.

And we have a question from Dan Guffey from Stifel. Please go ahead sir.

Hi, guys. You've been drilling between 4,100 foot and 4,200 foot laterals in East Texas. Curious if you guys had any ability to go longer or are you geologically constrained?

No, we clearly can go longer and have gone longer in the past. I think last year, we drilled – or actually one of the wells this year we drilled was 5,500 feet or 6,000 feet, it a PQ Number 16, was – how many feet – it's somewhere – I believe it was somewhere around 5,000 feet, 5,500 feet. And some of the other wells brought the total footage down – I don't have that number right in front of me. I guess, the short answer, Dan, is yeah, we clearly have the ability. This is East Texas, so we're not drilling on 640s out here. It's all unit based. So, sometimes it may only take a shorter lateral and then sometimes you really need to extend that lateral out there to make sure you are not stranding any acreage in a unit.

Okay. Yeah, it makes sense. So, the $5 million well cost that you guys have in your marketing book that's based on, call it, a 4,100 foot, 4,200 foot lateral?

That's correct. That's sort of been what the standard has been.

Okay. I guess, I know obviously everything is based on how everything is unitized, but I'm just curious when we head into 2016, will you be trying to go after some of those longer laterals on that 100% working interest acreage?

Instead of flying at the cuff, I think maybe it will make sense to kind of look at that with more detail and get back to you after the call. I think, in general, the answer would be, yeah, we probably – I'm looking at Matt, we probably have some that are a little bit longer. I don't think we have anything set up that's 6,500 feet to 7,000 feet right now there.

Okay. Great. Thanks for all the color, guys.

Okay.

And this will conclude our question-and-answer session. I would like to turn the conference back over to Matt Quantz for any closing remarks.

Yeah. Just thanks everybody for their time this morning and, hopefully, we'll get to meet with you guys at the EnerCom Conference in a couple of weeks.

The conference has now concluded. Thank you for attending today's presentation. You may now disconnect your lines.