raw transcript


PetroQuest Energy, Inc.
 
PQUE
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 9, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning. My name is Natasha and I will be your conference facilitator today. At


this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the PetroQuest Energy First Quarter Conference


Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers’


remarks there will be a question and answer period. [operator instructions]. Thank you. Todd


Zehnder, you may begin your conference.


Todd Zehnder, Director-Corporate Communications & Marketing


Thank you, Natasha. Good morning everyone. We would like to welcome you to our first quarter


conference call and webcast. Participating with me today are Charlie Goodson, Chairman, CEO


and President; and Mike Aldridge, CFO.


As you have come to expect, we would like to make our Safe Harbor statement under the Private


Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Statements made today regarding PetroQuest business


which are not historical facts are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties.


For a discussion of such risks and uncertainties which we call as actual results to differ from those


contained in the forward-looking statements, see risk factors in the Company’s Annual Report on


Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004. With that, Charlie will get us started.


Charles Goodson, Chairman, President, Chief Executive Officer


Thanks Todd. During the first quarter we produced 3.3 Bcfe or 37.1 million cubic feet of gas


equivalent per day, which was a 3% of production in the comparable quarter of 2004. Revenues


are $21.7 million with product price realizations averaging $43.40 per barrel of oil and $6.14 per


Mcf of gas. Net income was $4 million, net income share was 9 cents.


During the first quarter, we drilled three wells in the South East Carthage Field in which we have a


100% working interest. All wells encountered productive sands in Cotton Valley and Travis Peak


formations. We have now connected four wells since we began our drilling program during


September 2004. The new wells are currently producing from both horizons and are each


averaging approximately 2 million cubic feet equivalent per day. Our total net production in this


area is in excess of 10 million cubic feet per day. Our goal for the year was to have an exit rate of


10 million cubic feet per day in this field. We have accomplished this in the first four months. We


continued drilling of our 10 to 12 well program for 2005.


Our drilling program in Arkoma Basin continued in the first quarter with six additional horizontal


CBM wells drilled and completed. Initial growth production rates have been increasing from our


prior rates of approximately 150 to 200 Mcf per day per well to approximately 300 to 500 Mcf per


day per well. We plan to utilize a second rig beginning in June to accelerate the development of


our per acreage. We anticipate drilling approximately 42 wells in this Basin during 2005.


During the quarter, we drilled a successful well at our Pebble Beach prospect in Vermillion 311 in


which we have a 27% net revenue interest. The well log, approximately 89 feet of net productive


sands was completed and tested and is now in process of subsea tieback to the host facility. The


well should begin producing during July at an initial gross rate of approximate 15 million cubic feet


equivalent per day. We also drilled a successful well at our Fee-lay [ph] prospect located in South


Louisiana, accounting approximately 42 feet of net productive sands. We have an approximate


27% net revenue interest in this well and the well is currently producing the gross rate of


approximately 4 million cubic feet equivalent per day.
raw transcript


PetroQuest Energy, Inc.
 
PQUE
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 9, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


We are currently drilling – we are currently in the completion phase of a successful well at our


Cracklin Prospect in South Louisiana. We log approximately 50 feet of net productive sands and


have an approximate 26% net revenue interest in this well. We anticipate production again this


month, at an initial gross rate of approximately 8 million cubic feet equivalent per day. We are also


currently in completion phase of a successful well, at our Lacustrine [ph] out prospect in South


Louisiana. We logged approximately 29 feet of net productive sands and we have an approximate


24% net revenue interest in this well. We anticipate production to begin in this month, at an initial


gross rate of approximately 5 million cubic feet equivalent per day.


We are currently drilling our Gumbo prospect at South Louisiana an offset to our Fee-lay [ph]


discovery. The well has gross and risk reserves of approximately 6 Bcfe and we hold 6% working


interest. We are also currently drilling our Spanish Bay prospect in Gulf of Mexico, well has gross


and risk reserves of approximately 20 Bcfe, and we held a 34% working interest.


Lastly, we are drilling our Augusta prospect in Gulf of Mexico, the well has a gross and risk


reserves of approximately 15 Bcfe, we hold a 12.5% working interest. On April 12th, we acquired


an exploration production company with operations in the Gulf of Mexico. We acquired


approximately 10.5 Bcfe for total consideration approximately $15.6 million. The acquired


properties are currently producing approximately 6 million cubic feet equipment per day. We


assume that discovery 5 million cubic feet per day for the remainder of 2005 and 4 million cubic feet


per day for 2006. The acquisition increased our option rate, which were about, approximately 42


percent. We've also executed agreements to acquire approximately 6.7 Bcf of reserves in over 15


miles in gathering in pipelines in Arkoma Basin for approximately $28 million. The properties are


currently producing approximately 2 million cubic feet per day and there is a rig operating on


properties. This acquisition expands our net acreage position at Arkoma Basin to over 21,000 net


acres and adds approximately 250 drilling locations where we have already identified approximately


12 Bcf of probable and possible reserves. Additionally, the transaction brings our pipeline


ownership to approximately 108 miles, which were used to transport our own gas, as well as


generate revenues transporting third party gas. At this time, I will it turn over to Mike.


Michael Aldridge, Chief Financial Officer, Senior Vice President, Treasurer and Director


Thanks Charles. Our capital expenditures budget for the year is approximately $85 million to $95


million, which does not include any capital used to fund acquisition. We spent approximately 23


million related to our drilling activities in the first quarter, the bulk of which related to the drilling and


completion operations, which Charles previously discussed.


At March 31st, we had a $60 million borrowing base under our commercial bank credit facility with


39 million outstanding against it. In addition, we had $12 million outstanding under our $20 million


subordinated term credit facility. This result in a debt to book cap of only 29% at that day. In


connection with our acquisition of TDC on April 12, our borrowing base was increased to $67.5


million, and our borrowings were increased to 56 million. As of today, our borrowing base is 65


million, and our borrowings outstanding under our senior facility are 63 million. In addition, we still


have 12 million outstanding under the $20 million term facility. I am pleased to say that on Friday


we priced $125 million of senior notes at 10.38 percent. This is the first time in our corporate


history that we have sold public debt. We expect to receive the proceeds from the offering this


week.


As a result of all the successful wells drilled and our recent acquisition effort, our current plans


called for producing between 47 million and 52 million cubic feet equivalent per day, net to the


company from the second quarter, and between 52 million and 57.5 million cubic feet per day net to


the company for the year ended December 31, ‘05. We ended the first quarter producing


approximately 42 million cubic feet per day, and are currently producing around 49 million cubic