Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Matt Quantz — Manager-Corporate Communications, PetroQuest Energy, Inc.
Charles T. Goodson — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, PetroQuest Energy, Inc.
J. Bond Clement — Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer & Executive Vice President, PetroQuest Energy, Inc.
W. Todd Zehnder — Chief Operating Officer, PetroQuest Energy, Inc.
Will O. Green — Analyst, Stephens, Inc.
Ronald E. Mills — Analyst, Johnson Rice & Co. LLC
Richard M. Tullis — Analyst, Capital One Securities, Inc.
Ravindranath Sreenivas Kamath — Analyst, Seaport Global Securities LLC
Daniel D. Guffey — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, and welcome to the PetroQuest Energy, Incorporated Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call. All participants will be in listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] After today's presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask questions. [Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Matt Quantz, Manager of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Thank you. Good morning, everyone. We would like to welcome you to our third quarter conference call and webcast. Participating with me today on the call are Charles Goodson, Chairman, CEO and President; Todd Zehnder, COO; and Bond Clement, CFO.

Before we get started, we would like to make our Safe Harbor statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Statements made today regarding PetroQuest's business, which are not historical facts, are forward-looking statements that involve risk and uncertainties. For a discussion of such risk and uncertainties, which could cause the actual results to differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements, see Risk Factors in our annual and quarterly SEC filings and in the forward-looking statements in our press release. We assume no obligation to update our forward-looking statements.

Please also note that on today's call we will be referring to non-GAAP financial measures, including discretionary cash flow. Historical non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in our press release, included in our Form 8-K filed with the SEC.

With that, Charlie, will get us started with an overview of the quarter.

Thank you, Matt. During the third quarter, we produced 7.4 Bcfe or approximately 81 million cubic feet of gas equivalent per day. The 81 million cubit feet of equivalent per day was comprised of approximately 59 million cubic feet of gas; 1,300 barrels of oil; and 2,400 barrels of NGLs. Revenues for the quarters were $26.9 million with product price realizations averaging approximately $49 per barrel of oil and $3.29 per Mcf of gas. NGL product price realizations average approximately $14 a barrel.

First, I'd like to briefly discuss our refinancing effort focused on our notes maturing in September 2017. Bond will get into more detail in a few minutes, but I feel I should make a few comments as it seems to be a much discussed topic across the sector.

With PetroQuest's refinancing effort was begun, we elected to divest our Woodford assets early this year and we began this effort in January of 2015. The result of this asset sale reduced our net debt from $421 million down to $191 million when considering our cash position.

Second, in accomplishing this, we sold our largest asset allowing us to focus for the first time on what we perceive as our best set of assets. In addition, we [ph] slapped (03:16) our 2015 spending plans allowing us to continue to build cash during this period of time.

Over the past few months, we've been able to fully engage with the executive and board level focused on reviewing the various options that create the most value to all of our stakeholders, which obviously include both bondholders and shareholders.

As we move forward, we'll gravitate to those ideas that accomplish this and avoid those that do not. Our number one goal is to create maximum value for our owners. I'll now move into the area where we feel like we can most readily accomplish this, which is East Texas.

We are currently drilling the vertical section of our PQ #19 horizontal Cotton Valley well. We started with that having a refrac to work in the area which will be constructive to our 2016 growth profile. And just a reminder, in 2014 we grew our Cotton Valley production reserves 67% and 87% respectively. This growth was achieved by drilling by just six wells and spending only approximately $40 million in net capital.

Also, keep in mind that the 2014 drilling programs were performed in a much higher service cost environment. Even in significantly lower service cost atmosphere we come to find ourselves in, as well as expected efficiency gains, we believe that we'll be able to achieve our per well drilling complete cost of $4.5 million. That being said, given the further deterioration in gas prices we have seen over the last couple of months, we will prudently evaluate our Cotton Valley drilling program beyond PQ #19 on a well by well basis.

With our Cotton Valley return just competitive as any other oil and gas trend in North America given the near-term uncertainty in gas prices, we believe that our measured and flexible drilling approach is the best strategy taken consideration in this climate. With that said, because of our size we are simply on the radar screen of affecting the imbalance in domestic natural gas.

The #19 well is the first in the line of 10 wells that are designed to dramatically lower our competed well costs. Also it begins the effort we have been striving for where the Cotton Valley is our number one focus, take consideration when we apply this focused effort on Woodford, we drove our spud through completion time, pre-frac from 46 days to under 10 days. With the state-of-the-art rig and location for the first time, our goal is to drop down cost so these properties' full cycle returns are profitable below $2.

With the lowest decline rig production profile and the proximity to the Gulf Coast markets, we feel this is very realistic. However, I want to make it perfectly clear our efforts are to drive down the incoming threshold for this project as would be the goal of any manufacturer. But on the other hand, it is not to help drop down the price of natural gas. We certainly feel when our industry continues to outspend cash flow to grow production, they are destroying shareholder value.

Now turning to Thunder Bayou, where we're still flowing at approximately 40 million cubic feet equivalent per day and accumed approximately 3.5 Bcf of gas, 90,000 barrels of oil in just over four months. This one well contributed nearly $4 million of net field level cash flow during the third quarter.

Even at these low profit oil and gas prices, one incredible reservoir. As expected, we started to see some saltwater from the lowest member of the Cris R section and the timing occurred as modeled. This further confirms Thunder Bayou is in an identical reservoir setting as is La Cantera, which is performing in line with our current 200 Bcfe EUR estimates.

PetroQuest has a 30-year history of developing overpressured Gulf Coast reservoirs and the last thing you want at 20,000 feet is a pressure depletion reservoir that will be susceptible to catastrophic reservoir collapse early this depletion. Very simply put, both La Cantera and Thunder Bayou are 200 Bcfe and 150 Bcfe gas bubbles being pushed into our wellbore [indiscernible] (07:09) ocean saltwater [ph] amazing and (07:10) very effective creation of nature that does not need horizontal drilling or fracking. Due to the utilization of state-of-the-art 3Ds, our wells are perfectly located at the highest point of reservoirs being the optimal take point.

In addition, we recently drilled our saltwater disposal well that should be operational in approximately two to three weeks. This 10,000 barrel per day saltwater well will be supportive of our efforts to continue to flow the lowest zone [indiscernible] (07:36) during an incredibly increasing saltwater production profile.

Thunder Bayou continues to track in line with our original production and reserve estimates and we remain very excited about this 130 Bcfe 3P reserve potential that has been assigned by Ryder Scott. Our internal numbers are somewhat higher at approximately 150 Bcfe, which also includes a Lower Cris R-1.

Sometime during the first quarter of 2016, we expect to re-complete the upper section of the Cris R-2 formation, where the vast majority of the reserve is located. This $800,000 re-completion, $400,000 net to PetroQuest into the upper portion of the Cris R-2 zone which has 154 net feet of pay should significantly increase our production profile. Just a reminder, we are currently producing from only 48 feet of net pay, so clearly we have some upside with the current production rate of 40 million cubic feet equivalent per day.

Lastly, touching on the Woodford, we recently established production on eight new wells in our East Hoss field related to our dry gas JV. These wells are achieving an average maximum 24 hour rate of approximately 5.2 million cubic feet equivalent per day. We have an average [ph] NRI (08:53) of approximately 11% on these wells. In addition, we recently completed three new wells that are in their early stages of flow-back. We currently have one rig running in this part of the trend and have three gross wells left to drill under the JV. Once the drilling program has been concluded, we'll evaluate further plans for the remainder of our Woodford assets.

With that, I'll turn it over to Bond, to go with the financials.

Great. Thanks, Charlie. Starting off on the balance sheet, where we're currently evaluating numerous refinancing and deleveraging options related to our $350 million notes. They are not due until September 2017.

As we outlined in the release last night, these options included using cash to redeem a portion of the notes at prevailing market prices, exchanging the portion of the notes for secured second lien notes or using various combinations of cash on hand and secondly in our first lien notes to delever and extend the debt maturity schedule.

We're also evaluating sources of debt capital beyond our existing bondholders that could be combined with existing cash to delever and push out the maturity. As most of you are aware, the credit markets for energy remain in a very challenged state, so we plan to be patient and prudent in determining the best approach for the company. We continue to focus significant internal resources on addressing the debt maturity overhang, which when resolved should be beneficial to all stakeholders.

Turning to the third quarter results, our LOE totaled about $10 million or $1.35 per M, which is in line with our guidance for the $1.30 to $1.40. When combined with severance taxes, our third quarter lifting costs were down nearly $2 million net or 14% from the second quarter of 2015. G&A cost for the third quarter totaled around $4.7 million and included $1.2 million of non-cash stock comp. Overhead costs were lower than our previously issued guidance of $5 to $5.5 million. Total overhead costs were down about 28% sequentially.

Interest expense during the quarter totaled $8.5 million, which was in line with guidance. During the quarter we capitalized about $700,000 of interest. So, in total, interest costs were around $9.2 million. Capitalized interest is down from historical norms due to a decline in unevaluated property balance in connection with the Woodford sale.

Looking at capital spend for the quarter, our net CapEx totaled about $5 million, which was down significantly on a sequential basis from the second quarter and consistent with our front-end loaded CapEx guidance. The breakout of capital for the third quarter was approximately $1.3 million of direct CapEx, $1 million in leasehold costs and around $2.7 million of capitalized overhead in interest. I will point out that our CapEx for the quarter was net of a non-cash credit to the full-cost pool of approximately $6 million that resulted from the reduction of our estimated abandoned obligations to reflect the current lower cost environment that we're in.

Through 09/30/2015 net CapEx was totaled about $56 million and we believe full-year CapEx should remain toward the top-end of our initial guidance range of $60 million to $70 million. Effectively the restart of our Cotton Valley drilling in the fourth quarter has replaced the Fleetwood drilling that we had initially forecasted in the back half of this year. As we look up to next year, we expect to fund our CapEx program with cash flow from operations as well as cash on hand and we do not expect to utilize our revolver.

Quickly touching on fourth quarter production guidance, we expect to produce around 67 million cubic feet to 73 million cubic feet equivalent per day. Our fourth quarter production volumes have been negatively impacted by an incident at a downstream third-party production facility located along the Gulf Coast. As a result, we expect five offshore fields to remain shut-in for the remainder of the year, which will differ about 5 million a day equivalent of production, of which about 36% of that is oil related.

While this has been as totally out of our control, it further supports our desire to focus on the Cotton Valley where one well can quickly make up these volumes flowing into some of the most flexible and underutilized infrastructure near Gulf Coast markets.

On the hedging front, we have 4.6 Bs or roughly all of our gas production for the rest of this year hedged at an average floor of $3.54 per M. On the oil side, we have about 46,000 barrels hedged for the remainder of the year at an average floor price of $56.68. We do have 10 million a day hedged for the first half of next year at $3.22 and we'll look for opportunities to build upon our hedge book for 2016. But we believe the current strip as it relates to gas has more upside potential and downside risk at this time. We'll remain patient and look to begin layering in some additional 2016 hedges when we see some colder weather.

With that I'll turn it back over to Charlie to wrap up.

We like many of our peers find ourselves in yet another challenging period that has left no company large or small unaffected. However, with our assets, experience in liquidity, we're positioned to weather this downtime and benefit from a more balanced commodity environment. Our Cotton Valley and Thunder Bayou, La Cantera properties jointly provide us with a unique platform to post growth in conjunction with a very tempered CapEx program.

As Bond mentioned, we're diligently [ph] reviewing (14:04) all the refinancing, deleveraging options and [indiscernible] (14:07) developing a holistic solution that will benefit the long-term success of all of our stakeholders. There's no doubt the overall fundamentals for natural gas, natural gas liquids and crude will improve throughout this decade; made certain by the huge drop in capital deployed. Demand is growing and the overall supply of the various sources of natural gas including approximately 20 Bcf per day of associated gas and crude production will continue to roll over.

Current production levels are unsustainable long-term at these commodity prices. [indiscernible] (14:36) projects are profitable at these prices certainly when you consider full-cycle economics and therefore, supply as in a process rebalancing good demand. [ph] When consider (14:45) lot of wasted time wishing we all had the perfect crystal ball but end of day this is a very resourceful industry and is once again taking the necessary steps to balance supply and demand and capital discipline.

With that, I'll turn it back to Matt and we'll [ph] open the call (14:59) to questions.

Yeah. Operator, we're ready to take some Q&A please. [Operator Instructions]

Our first question comes from Will Green of Stephens. Please go ahead.

Thanks. Good morning, guys.

Good morning.

Hey, Will.

So, I appreciate the color you provide on the uphole recomplete that you guys are looking at next year. I understand the timing of that is variable. Would that at all affect the way you guys are planning for the Cotton Valley, for instance, I mean, should we look for you guys to fill in gaps of the Cotton Valley or is that not really the case as the Cotton Valley kind of stand-alone at this point?

I would say those are mutually exclusive, Will, the timing of the recompletion is going to be driven by the reservoir and the project and the consistency of the Cotton Valley is really going to be driven by economics with the forward capital spend that we're doing in the Cotton Valley. Like Charlie said, don't worry, we're retaining as much flexibility as we ever have on that and that will be just driven by what we see as current [ph] cause (16:30) and the forward-look of gas prices [indiscernible] (16:32)

All right. You've seen a lot of the industry focus on higher profit loading. Can you guys remind us what you guys are doing in the Cotton Valley currently and is that potentially a place where you guys see an opportunity to incorporate that into the program and potentially get some better returns?

Not really. I mean, we haven't done that much yet, Will. We are pumping pretty standard jobs we had in the last couple of years. We've been doing a lot of work with peers in the area during this recent downturn and looking at people's sizes [indiscernible] (17:07) and so forth. It's not something that we have built into the current program, but we're always looking to make things better.

So, maybe something you guys would look at once the program resumes soon?

Yeah, we'll look at it, I can tell you for #19 we don't have a larger sand package plan for that right now.

All right. I appreciate the color, guys. [indiscernible]

(17:37), talk to you later.

Our next question comes from Ron Mills of Johnson Rice. Please go ahead.

Good morning. Just maybe as a follow-up to Will's question, depending on the timing of the recompletion, what kind of impact do you think that kind of production can have whether it's facility related or whatnot if you're talking about [indiscernible] (18:04) 150-plus section versus the 48-feet [indiscernible] (18:09) that it's currently producing from?

Well, I guess, I'll answer, I guess, Ron, probably the equivalent rate we're flowing right now we're making about 30 million gas alone 40 million equivalent when you put it for the Ngl and oil. It wouldn't be farfetched to say that you could double that rate. We'll assess that once we recompleted uphole, the facility is clearly designed to be able to handle that. We'll just assess that once we make the recompletion. But, the impact – the true impact would be in that by the time we recomplete it, it may be down to 15 million a day gas, we'll just have to asses just how low the rate gets before we want to move uphole. So we'll have a significant impact to net production when we pull off the recompletion. And so, I guess, that probably answered most what you asked.

All right. And then, when you think about the timing, I know it depends on how that current zone declines. I think, Charlie said, now you would think sometime in the late first quarter or sometime in the second quarter. But, when you look at what Bond talked about of spinning within cash and cash flow, is that something that with the recompletion and limited activity at Cotton Valley that you guys think you'll be able to at least keep production relatively flat fourth quarter to fourth quarter of next year or how does that profile look?

The answer is yes, and it's probably ought to be up and I'll answer that with pro forma for the, I would say, even adding back the $5 million that were curtailed right now, we ought to be up fourth quarter to fourth quarter with a very limited program and the recompletion efforts at Thunder Bayou.

And I think the question also entails our desire for next year is to spin at or around cash flow. That's been mantra. And you well know for this company, for the last decade, for us, it's challenging and commodity prices that we're in right now, but that's where we go and try to balance our model on an ongoing basis, and that will be the goal for next year as well.

Great. And then lastly, Bond, for you, the timing of addressing the notes, how under the gun are you? In other words, I know notes [indiscernible] (20:40) on the unsecured side, you usually have debt incurrence test. I guess, two-pronged question. Are you under the gun in terms of when you can potentially add more second lien debt or are the notes concentrated enough where you really have bought yourself quite a bit of time with your recent revolver, I mean...

Ron, I mean, obviously everyone knows the ACTA calculations are going to come down at the end of this year versus last year. That being said, that's not going to be the driving factor in whatever decision we make in terms of the refinancing. So, we don't feel like we have a gun to our head to get something done before the ACTA basket resets to the lower SEC prices. That being said we like to get something done sooner rather than later, but we're going to take a prudent and patient approach and see where the credit markets are vis-à-vis the commodity markets and make the best decision for the company. And really that's about all I can tell you in terms of the decisions that we're having.

Perfect. Thank you.

Our next question comes from Richard Tullis of Capital One Securities. Please go ahead.

Hi. Good morning, everyone. Going back to potential thought spending for next year, Charlie or Bond, are you still looking – we know about the Thunder Bayou recomplete. Are you still looking to do some minor Gulf Coast activity and then several or at least a couple of Cotton Valley horizontal wells next year or it'll all be dictated by the cash flow?

Basically we can't [indiscernible] (22:28) other Gulf Coast activity [indiscernible] (22:31) at this point in time. We just feel like that capital should be deployed to the Cotton Valley, because it's, kind of, the focus of our company there is as we've said it's a well-by-well basis. And we'll make that determination as we're drilling one well whether we move forward and drill the next well or not, because the rig is on a well-by-well basis. So we've reserved the maximum amount of flexibility. And if we start seeing gas prices flatten out and get supported, and we'll move in that direction. If on the other hand, if it goes the other direction, we're prepared to hunker down and do what's necessary. And it's – we have that flexibility.

Okay.

Hey, Richard. This is Bond. I will just add something Todd said earlier. When you think about 2016, we're in a really good situation as it relates to what people call maintenance CapEx for next year, because with that $400,000 recompletion and very minimal activity in the Cotton Valley, we put together a plan that's fully funded, that's half production growth off of where we're forecasting the fourth quarter of this year today.

Okay. So, really with just minimal spending with the recomplete and a couple of Cotton Valley well as you could, you'll still show production growth like 4Q-to-4Q, I suspect?

That's correct.

Okay. Charlie had mentioned still solid rates of return for Cotton Valley horizontals. What do you estimate the rate of return to be right now, say, for a type curve well there using current commodity prices and current well cost?

Probably with a three-year strip and [ph] 275 to 285 range (24:18) it's probably a 20%, 25% rate of return.

Okay. Okay. And then what did you say the well cost is currently? I missed that at the very beginning.

We have a current estimate of $5 million, which we fully intend to come in below. Our internal goal for this program is $4.5 million.

Okay. Are you not at the $4.5 million yet for this #19 well?

Well, that's our goal for this well. It wasn't [indiscernible] (24:48) but putting a big horsepower rig on there, having state-of-the-art equipment, this is the first time we're drilling at Cotton Valley well with what I would call superior technology. And so that's going to be the driving force.

Okay. All right. Todd, thank you. And then, just lastly, what's the liquids component of that shut-in production along the Gulf Coast?

It's around 36% to 40% of that 5 million a day that's oil, Richard.

Okay. All right. Well, that's all I have. Thanks a bunch.

Thank you.

Sure.

Our next question comes from Ravi Kamath of Seaport Global. Please go ahead.

Yeah. Hi, guys. A couple of questions. One, on the borrowing base, I believe, you have a December 1 redetermination, is the expectation that that will stay at the [ph] 55 (25:46) or any thoughts there?

We haven't seen the price deck that our bank group has rolled out with yet. Assuming the price deck stays consistent with our last redetermination, our expectation would be the borrowing base would stay flat.

Great. And then I believe you have $14 million deferred payment that was due on the Arkoma Basin sale, was that received in Q3?

Yeah. That pretty much reconciled the increase in our cash balance from June to September. We did receive the entire $14 million of the deferred purchase price.

In Q3, okay, great. And then on the Permitted Lien capacity, can you kind of quantify that. I'm coming up with maybe $150 million, $120 million once your [indiscernible] (26:39) is that in the ballpark?

We don't typically talk about PV-10 on an interim basis. So we will be more free to talk about that once we the year end and put out our Ryder Scott numbers.

Got it. Great. Thank you.

Thanks.

Our next question comes from Dan Guffey of Stifel. Please go ahead.

Good morning, guys. Can you discuss a little bit the M&A market in East Texas, kind of bid/ask spreads what you are seeing. And then if you guys have any interests or have been in discussions about bringing in a partner to farm out some of that East Texas Cotton Valley, so you can ramp drilling quicker?

On the M&A market, we are not out there looking at anything too material right this second, but we are picking up and [indiscernible] (27:31) acreage right around our drilling program, and that's on an ongoing basis. There are different companies and packages that are available in the area, I don't think it's something that we've gotten too ingrained in just yet.

I think we've been pretty open that we have been contemplating bringing in other sources of capital or drilling up larger deals and especially became through the context of a refinancing effort, we could bring in capital to help drill the Cotton Valley at the same time, so that capital provider would have enhanced returns versus just helping us refinance the notes.

So that's really been kind of our – most of our avenues that Bond has talked about earlier on the call that we've been looking to give ourselves more maturity and yet give a partner a chance to come and participate and we deem as one of the most competitive basins here at least in the current gas market that we see.

But then also we already have a partner in the large Chevron acreage. It's a 50-50 deal there. So what we are really looking at is if we've got partner being on somewhere 100% acreage or something really contemplate buying and bringing a partner in with that acquisition. We've seen a lot of – there's a lot of bits and pieces of acreage in the area that we could pick up and it'd be hard for someone to go in there and just start their whole business plan in that area. But we can certainly pick up 5,000 acres here, 3,000 acreage that would easily allow us to bring a partner in on that time.

Okay. Great. Thanks for the color. And then I guess just last for me a little bit more clarity around the timing of the upper zone and Thunder Bayou. I guess I heard you mention 50 million cubic feet a day, I guess is there a threshold or a trigger of when you guys will go complete the upper zone? Is it a function of costs and how much saltwater is being produced versus gas, or is there a natural gas volume that will trigger your decision to go in and complete the upper portion?

It really shouldn't be driven by cost because we have saltwater facilities that are put in place and we should be up and running here in a couple of weeks. So the disposal of saltwater won't be a driving fact, it will really be as long as the reservoir is currently able to flow at these high rates that we're – we have a [indiscernible] (30:01) of pressure to lift the water that we have right now. And is also reservoirs producing at high [indiscernible] (30:05) rate where economically in present value [indiscernible] (30:10) accretive to do so along with secondary is to look and make sure we have effectively sept these bottom sands to make this – one thing is these bottom sands may not be fully communicating with the upper parts.

So if we do recomplete, we want to make sure we've effectively swept everything in the reservoir. And like Charlie mentioned we are already up to over 4 Bcfe, I think on our way to I believe 3D number down there is about 12, so we are a third a way there already for 3P. So we feel pretty confident that it's going to be some time in the first half of next year. And exact date, not really sure and I guess just trying to clarify the question, it's driven by a number of factors, recovery and profitability being two that's important.

Okay, great. Thanks for all the detail guys.

And this concludes our question-and-answer session. I would now like to turn the conference back over to Matt Quantz for any closing remarks.

Yes. I'd like to thank everybody this morning for their attendance and we will talk to you guys soon. And please follow-up with any additional questions.

The conference has now concluded. Thank you for attending today's presentation. You may now disconnect your lines. Have a great day.