Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Matt Quantz — Manager-Corporate Communications, PetroQuest Energy, Inc.
Charles T. Goodson — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, PetroQuest Energy, Inc.
William Todd Zehnder — Chief Operating Officer, PetroQuest Energy, Inc.
J. Bond Clement — Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and Treasurer, PetroQuest Energy, Inc.
Ronald E. Mills — Analyst, Johnson Rice & Co. LLC
Will O. Green — Analyst, Stephens, Inc.
Rehan A. Rashid — Analyst, FBR Capital Markets & Co.
Kim M. Pacanovsky — Analyst, Imperial Capital LLC
Andrew Coleman — Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc.
Andrew S. Peterson — Analyst, Simmons & Co.
Tim Rezvan — Analyst, Sterne, Agee & Leach, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, everyone, and welcome to the PetroQuest Energy Incorporated Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast. All participants will be in a listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] Please note, today's event is also being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference call over to Mr. Matt Quantz. Sir, you may begin.

Thank you. Good morning, everyone. We would like to welcome you to our third quarter conference call and webcast. Participating with me today on the call are Charles Goodson, Chairman, CEO and President; Todd Zehnder, COO; and Bond Clement, CFO.

Before we get started, we would like to make our Safe Harbor statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Statements made today regarding PetroQuest's business, which are not historical facts, are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. For a discussion of such risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements, see Risk Factors in our annual and quarterly SEC filings and in the forward-looking statements in our press release. We assume no obligation to update our forward-looking statements.

Please also note that on today's call we will be referring to non-GAAP financial measures, including discretionary cash flow. Historical non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in our press release, included in our Form 8-K filed with the SEC yesterday.

With that, Charlie, will get us started with an overview of the quarter.

Thank you, Matt. During the third quarter, revenues were $56 million and posted net income of approximately $5 million. Product price realizations averaged approximately $98 per barrel of oil and $27 per barrel of NGL. Natural gas realizations were $3.57 per Mcf.

We produced 11.6 Bcfe or approximately 126 million cubic feet of gas equivalent per day during the quarter. The 126 million cubic feet equivalent per day was comprised of approximately 89 million cubic feet of gas, 1,850 barrels of oil, and 4,300 barrels of NGLs. Our third quarter production represents the highest quarterly rate in the company's history, which is a testament to the strength of our asset base we have assembled and the dedication and hard work of our employees.

PetroQuest, as we all do, has many goals this year. I'd like to focus my discussion before turning the conference call over to Todd and Bond on just three, all of which are extremely transformational for our company. To begin, we completed an acquisition last year that was very instrumental in providing the increased cash flow this year and thus allowing us to fund all three. These three projects will be the core of our growth for the next five plus years.

In addition, our growth will depend on how aggressively these projects are funded. Put another way, each of these three areas could consume the vast majority of our cash flow. Therefore, our capital allocation will be a function of what commodity we feel compelled to focus on along with the IRRs and ROIs each delivers.

The first of the three major goals this year was de-risking a multi-zone Cotton Valley acreage position that currently stands at 200 plus locations with expected significant upside. When you add our productive Travis Peak and Bossier Shale immediately above and below the Cotton Valley and develop our acreage approximate 50,000 acreage position, you can see why this is one of our top project – priorities for 2014. However, we use an extremely conservative approach that focused on drilling six wells, all of which were successful and on line. We did release our two rigs in July to evaluate well performance including decline rates. Maybe our [indiscernible] (4:08) was too conservative and we should continue drilling as the results speak for themselves as evidenced in the operations update section of our third quarter release.

This year's Cotton Valley results have greatly exceeded our pre-drill expectations on every level. After monitoring the early production profile of these wells, we request an interim review from our third party engineering firm. They completed their analysis a few weeks ago and have assigned an average EUR of approximately 9 Bcfe per well on five wells.

As noted, PQ number 11 had some operational issues and delays. And while its production profile from a limited amount of frac stages is excellent, we understand to consider an outlier. It is also worth noting that these wells are in the early stages of productions and the recoveries can vary somewhat over time.

From a cost standpoint, we used $6.8 million in average well cost based on historicals for our economics. The cost of our last three wells was $6.2 million. Combining recent well costs with third party EURs sets up a very attractive play with potential F&Ds of less than $0.75 per Mcfe. As we begin a continuous and uninterrupted 2015 plus program, we expect to see further reductions in service cost levels. We're moving a rig back in the field this week to started 2015 program. We will spud the PQ number 16 with 100% working interest. With only six new Cotton Valley wells contributing, we grew our total Carthage field reserves and production by a staggering 94% and 195% respectively from year end 2013.

This hopefully gives everyone sense of the growth potential of this asset and why we are so excited about the impact it will have on our company. The next major goal of 2014 was the development of West Relay field in the liquids-rich portion at Woodford Shale. Our team has done an excellent job, acquiring, developing and derisking our 35,000 acre position. We stepped out over eight miles from North Relay Field and have now proven up and are rapidly moving our acreage into a full APP position where it can also be developed at a speed determined by the capital budget.

Year-to-date we have completed 20 wells and we estimate by year end we will have drilled and completed a total of 30 wells in West Relay. As Todd will elaborate on later, we saw significant variations in amount of time the individual wells being watered leading into sales, but this seems to have had no impact on well EURs.

More importantly, the West Relay wells have a much improved type curve over North Relay wells. Again, starting up the West Relay program, we used a more conservative approach thus leading into a more moderate ramp-up in production. Also, when considering each of the nine, three to four well pads we drill this year requires a 2 mile step out from all facilities and gathering infrastructure, one can hopefully appreciate how forecasting cannot always be an exact science. However, results are outstanding.

Third, testing Thunder Bayou in 2014 and hopefully developing another very large field two miles from our La Posada facility was our third major goal and can very well single-handedly recharge our Gulf Coast basin high margin cash flow. However, when you consider the additions of the Fleetwood project that adds a much oilier component to our inventory, we believe the market will begin to see why we continue to be so excited about an obviously unappreciated basin.

When you're the first to see a 200 square mile state-of-the-art 3D in this area that, quite frankly, did not have adequate 3D coverage, but possibilities are tremendous. We feel confident that we can continue to develop and grow our company with the de-risked returns offered by the multiple project inventory provided by Fleetwood. On several other projects we will utilize not only state-of-the-art seismic, but also horizontal drilling and fracing to hopefully see transformational results comparable to the Cotton Valley that we achieved during 2014.

As mentioned, these three 2014 goals are expected to dramatically transform PetroQuest and have been instrumental in helping us to achieve a year of excellent results, including posting record reserves and production. While we are certainly not satisfied with fourth quarter production, we will continue to bring on pads at West Relay. We should be growing throughout the quarter and expect that our exit rate along with two Cotton Valley wells will set us up for a strong sequential growth in first quarter of 2015.

With that, I'll turn it over to Todd.

Thanks, Charlie. In yesterday's press release, we announced our latest Cotton Valley well PQ number 11, which achieved a maximum 24-hour growth rate of approximately 5.8 million cubic feet of gas a day and 360 barrels of natural gas liquid.

We've experienced a mechanical issue during the completion operation of this well, which limited the number of effective fracs. We believe that only 70% of the fracs are currently contributing the wells performance and if adjusted for the four non-producing stages, this would have been in line with our other 2014 wells in terms of IP rates. Regardless, this well is expected to still generate attractive rates of return even with this mechanically hindered rate.

As Charlie mentioned, we're bringing a rig back into our Carthage field this week to commence the drilling of our PQ number 16 well. This 100% working interest well is expected to be completed during February as part of a two-well pad within a more robust 2015 program. We are looking forward to continuing the momentum that we have been experiencing and believe there is still room for improvement both in terms of well performance and the cost side of the equation. As you can see from our extended rates in the Cotton Valley, we are extremely excited about this asset and excited about getting back to drilling as well.

Moving on to the Gulf Coast where our high-impact Thunder Bayou prospect is drilling ahead at approximately 18,000 feet, we're currently on schedule in terms of original plan and we expect to reach TD in late November or early December, if all continues as planned. This project offers an ideal risk/reward opportunity. For a net cost of approximately $10 million, we will expose ourselves to over 80 Bcfe of net unrisked reserve potential and if successful, an F&D of less than $0.20 per annum.

If this project is successful, it will be the proverbial game changer and will significantly alter next year's production and cash flow profile. Any reserves found assuming logged this year will be booked during 2014.

However, if the well is unsuccessful, we will have only spent approximately 5% of this year's budget on the project. So stayed tuned, we are anxiously awaiting the results and we will update the market as soon as we have fully evaluated all the upcoming data.

Moving a couple miles south to our La Cantera project where we are currently installing additional water handling equipment to our existing production facility. Due to increased water production from La Cantera field, we continue flowing at reduced rates during the third quarter. We initially expected facility work to be completed in September and to increase our rate again, but we are forecasting similar rate in the fourth quarter as work remains ongoing. And we expect total gross production to average approximately 60 million cubic feet equivalent per day.

Increased water production is a normal occurrence in Gulf Coast reservoirs and while we're currently flowing at lower rate, we still believe that our original EUR number will be realized as the water production in this case does not change our view of the reservoir. Since its discovery in 2011, our La Cantera project has generated over $60 million and field level cash flows net to PetroQuest.

Now turning to Fleetwood where we expect to spud our Mallard prospect in the next 30 days. The 20,000 foot test, which is the only fleet with prospect we are not operating, will target a massive Lower Wilcox 4-way closure structure. At the initial, well, the discovery of the structure will most likely require several additional wells to properly drain the entire reservoir, which we estimate could be as large as 50 million barrels of oil equivalent. We have a 25% working interest in this high-impact prospect that is projected to cost approximately $12 million gross. Like our Thunder Bayou prospect, this project offers another attractive risk/reward scenario that we are looking forward to testing.

Our Widgeon prospect, which is expected to spud in the first quarter of 2015, is a non-conventional horizontal test of the oil-prone Cockfield formation. As we've discussed in the past, what attracts us to this play is that in a lot of ways it's similar to our Cotton Valley asset and that we are entering an area that has been productive from vertical wells.

Offsetting our Widgeon prospect have been 13 vertical Cockfield wells that are expected to ultimately produce on average close to 100,000 barrels of oil per well. By utilizing the latest horizontal drilling and fracing technologies, along with the modern 3D we discovering the area, we expect to increase the ultimate recoveries by a factor of three to five times.

As we are successful in capturing this type of reserve uplift with a drilling complete cost of anywhere between $4 million to $6 million, this project could serve as our repeatable oil play we've been looking for. As you can tell, we're excited about the upside of this project and hope to have initial results during the first quarter of 2015.

In addition to Mallard and Widgeon in just four months of study into 200 square mile 3D, our Gulf Coast team has identified several new prospects, one of which is named Teel. This project is a low risk 9,500 foot non-pressure test of a 4-way closure within the oily Frio sands.

We expect to spud field prior to Widgeon sometime in early to mid-January and have an approximate 25% working interest in this prospect. We move this prospect to the front of the drill order due to its quick time to drill and complete in addition to giving us additional data to begin our horizontal campaign. With holding the exclusive right to this 3D dataset for over one more year, we'll continue to add high quality projects to our Gulf Coast drilling project inventory.

Quickly turning to our Woodford programs where our Tulsa team continues to prove up our West Relay field. Our latest three-well pad achieved an average per well maximum gross 24-hour rate of 2.1 million cubic feet of gas and 365 barrels of natural gas liquids. The average per well costs for this pad was approximately $3.9 million, which is below our 2014 goal of $4 million per well.

In addition, we recently completed a four well pad, which is in the early stages of flow back and are almost finished completing another three well pad. First production from these pads occurred a little later than originally planned, which has impacted our fourth quarter production guidance, but will provide for a good run rate in November and December.

Lastly, in addition to our two rig liquids-rich West Relay program, we recently moved in a rig and spud our first Hoss field well under our new dry gas joint venture.

With that, I'd like to turn it over to Bond.

Thanks, Todd. During the first nine months of 2014, we generated discretionary cash flow of approximately $100 million. This year-to-date discretionary cash flow already exceeds cash flow generated for the entire year last year.

During the quarter, our LOE totaled $13 million, or $1.13 per Mcfe, which is on the low end of our previously issued guidance range. G&A cost for the third quarter totaled $6.3 million and included $1.3 million of non-cash stock comp expenses. Overhead costs were within the range of our guidance. Interest expense during the quarter totaled $7.1 million and we capitalized $2.7 million of interest. Interest expense was also on the low end of our issued guidance range.

Looking at the balance sheet, during the quarter, we invested about $41 million in CapEx. The breakout of this capital is approximately $33 million of direct CapEx, $1.5 million in leasehold and $6.1 million of capitalized overhead and interest. We also received approximately $10 million in proceeds during the quarter from the sale of our Eagle Ford assets that we previously announced.

Through September, our CapEx has totaled $145 million or approximately $136 million net of proceeds from asset sales year-to-date. Please keep in mind that the $145 million of year-to-date CapEx includes non-cash accruals associated with our Fleetwood acquisition of approximately $20 million as of September 30, as is reflected in the short and long-term accounts in our balance sheet label accrued acquisition costs.

Looking at CapEx on a cash basis, year-to-date, net capital spend is approximately $123 million after consideration of asset sale proceeds.

Looking at production guidance we put out yesterday, for the fourth quarter, you can see that we're forecasting production to generally approximate the third quarter of 2014. The consistent sequential production is primarily due to continued constrained rates of La Cantera and normal production declines, offset by expected new production from our West Relay program.

We do expect to exit 2014 at the highest daily rate of year, which should get our 2015 program off to a fast start. Based upon the midpoint of our fourth quarter guidance, we expect to achieve 15% production growth in 2014, which just Charlie mentioned will be our highest annual production ever. Our current projections call for us to produce between 122 million and 128 million cubic feet equivalent per day for the quarter. And in total, we expect our production mix to be approximately 70% gas, 20% NGLs, and 10% oil.

During the third quarter, our bank group increased our borrowing base from $200 million to $220 million. This borrowing base increase, coupled with our Eagle Ford divestiture proceeds, augmented our liquidity position, which currently stands at approximately $150 million.

On the hedging front, we have a fairly strong hedge book for the fourth quarter, which should help to insulate us from the recent pullback in oil prices. We have roughly half of our expected oil production hedged for the fourth quarter at just over $98 per barrel. On the gas side, we have approximately 4 Bcfe of gas hedged at an average floor price of $4.14 for the fourth quarter, a roughly 40% of expected production.

Looking at next year, we currently have 10 million per day currently hedged at an average floor price of $4.16 per Mcf. And we'll continue to opportunistically add to our 2015 hedge book, as we believe there'll be more attractive entry points on the gas side with the first signs of winter as we have seen with the improving forecast this week.

With that, I'll turn it back to Charlie to wrap up.

Thank you, Bond. While commodity prices have pulled back over the last few months, we remain very positive on both the near and long-term future of PQ. All of our assets team have collectively put together one of the best years in the company's 29 year history as evidenced by our projected record production in reserves.

As we look at over the remainder of this year and next, we have several transformative events in front of us. Our high-impact Thunder Bayou project, as Todd mentioned, is drilling at 18,000 feet and beginning to test our objective sections and will do so for the next 3,000 feet. Next, our Cotton Valley acceleration Fleetwood programs are ramping up with multiple new wells results expected throughout the year.

With a strong liquidity position, cost sharing arrangement and diversified growing asset base, we're all well-positioned to continue to generate shareholder value in any type of environment.

With that, I'll turn it back to Bond and Todd.

All right. We are ready to open it up for Q&A.

Ladies and gentlemen, at this time, we'll begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Ron Mills from Johnson Rice. Please go ahead with your question.

Morning, guys.

Hey, Ron.

Hey. Impressive results from the Cotton Valley, just curious if you could – if you think about capital allocation, as Charlie suggested, how does the Cotton Valley rank up there versus even – say, your West Relay field, even considering the promote that you have in Oklahoma?

And based on the IP rates in the longer dated production, it appears that the production data is even supportive of a higher EUR than what you were provided at least looking at the curves in your presentation. Can you comment on those?

Yeah. First thing is, it's definitely going to continue to get a higher allocation of capital based on these results. From a consistently standpoint, it's generating the best rates of return. I think even with a softer oil market and a little softer NGL market, we're still showing rates of return anywhere from 55% to 70% right now, depending on where – if we can keep these well cost around $6 million. So, it inherently is going to start getting more money. And I think you're seeing that by us putting a rig back to work there, starting this week, which is starting the 2015 program because we know that it's a – we got to get more wells drilled out there just because it's the most consistent best returning return that we have right now.

With that said, we have two other areas that are competitive. It's just that we really love what we're seeing in the Cotton Valley just right around where we're drilling, plus some of our peers around us. It's given us a lot confidence that this area is going to have plenty of locations to come for many years. So you're going to see a bigger percentage going to that area on a go-forward basis.

As it relates to the EURs, we've obviously been very impressed with the 60 and 90 day rates that we've posted into our press release last night. I think most people are a little bit pleasantly surprised by how good those rates are as are we. And I think, over time, if you see a flat decline like that, you could see positive revisions to the EURs.

Once again like Charlie mentioned in the call, these are Ryder Scott produced numbers and so they are 100% third-party prepared and really what it's going to take is more production data to see if they will hold a flatter decline like we've seen in the first 30, 60, 90 days or do they have a more consistent decline with some of the other wells within the region.

And so, to the extent that they hold a flatter decline like we've seen so far, you will see upside. But as I mentioned, when you're generating in this gas and oil price environment using $80 and using $3.75, when you're still already generating 50% to 70% rate of return spin-off cost, we're good getting going again just on those numbers as evidenced by us putting a rig back.

And Todd, could you just provide a little bit more color about at La Cantera, the water-handling facilities and the decision to probably flow that at a lower rate, but what may be more sustainable or just a little bit more color behind the La Cantera?

Yes. Earlier in the year, we told everybody that we were installing more water-handling facilities as the couple of other wells were making water. There's one well that's water-free. It's producing in the upper most horizon and that was the side-track that if I remember and it continues to produce water-free. One of the wells is in our lowest section making water and we could move up hole to a zone in the middle, but we would possibly be stranding reserves. So we and our partners met in the quarter and decided to keep flowing the lowest zone and it's doing great. It's actually flowing somewhere between 15 and 20 million cubic feet a day along with liquids.

And so what I think ultimately is going to happen is we're going to recover more reserves. And when you're flowing at that kind of rate, it's hard to walk away from the zone. So I think that you're going to see us produce into a higher number than our 1P reserves as we're doing. It's just going to kick back the rates a little bit from our original forecast. And we've always known that we're not be able to produce 110 million a day forever in this reservoir. And it's just that when water hit -it's going to come – it's going to curtail your rate a little bit.

But the most important thing that we want to convey to everyone is that our EUR picture and our picture of the reservoir has not changed. We've always known this is going to be a water drive reservoir and I think we've already produced about 75 Bcfe out of this container of the potential of 180 Bcf that is our 3P reserve number. So we're not half way there, but we're clearly at a point where we expect water to come in. And ultimately, if the water is helping sweep the reservoir for you, it's going to be the best and most effective drainage method for you. And we're just – we're obviously disappointed that we didn't have it guided properly, but it's that – it's not a reservoir issue for us. And so from that perspective we're fine.

Yeah, I'd like to touch on that too. I mean we've been doing this for 30 years in this company. The three wells are still producing 2 Bcf a month. So it's not like it's hampered. It's very, very, very profitable. And it's just a stage where you go from a water-free to a – water is your friend in 18,000 to 20,000 feet, if you have a pressured place in reservoir, in many cases you have a catastrophic collapse and your [indiscernible] (25:37) is over with. When you have water pushing the gas up to the top of the structure, it will eventually push most of that gas or as much as you can produce out. So we'll now produce in the next three to five years, some of these wells making more and more water will have the capability to do it, we can increase that facility. But again it's – we've diversified this company away from these type of wells where they are – that's all we have going on. And it's still, as Todd said, very profitable, still making a lot of gas and it will do so for a number of years.

Great. And then, Todd, did you say the testing the shallow Lower 4-Way prospect, will you drill deeper to actually get some data as you go ahead of drilling the Cockfield?

Yeah. So what we're doing there is, it's kind of a great – it's a great opportunity. We're going to drill a shallow test at 9,500 feet and just take it a couple of thousand feet deeper and get some data because our first location of Widgeon is just to the south. So we'll get a little data on the Cockfield, have a take point, move the rig south and then drill our first horizontal well.

And hopefully, we're completing field while we're moving that rig over. If by chance it's not a successful well, well, you'll be set up to drill horizontal from that location in the Cockfield. So it's a good way for us to diversify ourselves. We love this little 4-Way that we've seen. It's one of three that we've already identified and Steve and his group are going to continue to work the data. And I ultimately completely feel confident that we're going to find more of these type opportunities.

Great. Hey, thank you guys.

Thanks, Tom.

Our next question comes from Will Green from Stephens. Please go ahead with your question.

Good morning, guys.

Morning, Will.

I wonder if we could hop back to the first question on the Cotton Valley. You guys had indicated that you've been given kind of 9 Bcfe EUR estimate by Ryder Scott, but did ultimately that assumed probably maybe more dramatic decline than you guys are seeing so far. Do you happen to know the decline? I know these are all different wells. But kind of an average first year decline that they're using for those kind of six wells that you've drilled this year there?

I don't have that on top of my head, Will. We can get back to you. We're obviously going to – we will use the first 30 days, 60 days of production that we fed them back in kind of mid-August. And then, they're going to take most likely whatever the decline curves were from the original wells that we have in the area. And I think just not giving you an exact number right now, I think that the curves have looked a little flatter so far.

So we'll have to get back to you on that to get that level of detail, but I do hope that as long as these things do flatten out we will be able to see some sort of upsides.

And, Will, keep in mind, this was an interim review, so they'll be back looking at another 60 days of production data for year-end.

Right, right. And then on Mallard, it sounds like that is spudding soon. Can you guys provide just a reasonable timeframe on when you guys expect to get that kind of tested it online?

Yeah. It's going to spud probably about a week from now and I would think that it's about a 75 day test, would be most likely. So if successful – if we have a successful operation and get that log done at that point, you're looking at late January before we can get some results out. And onshore, if it works, it should be a somewhat quick turnaround and have some production probably late first quarter or next year if it all goes well.

And I'd like to say that what really started this company in 1985 was the Wilcox, which is what we are seeing being gone from no D to 3D. And this is a very well conceived project, 4-Way structure that you just don't see very much in modern South Louisiana. It's in an area that we have great 3D. And I just employed our team for perceiving opportunities on this Fleetwood 3D and this JV and I am amazed with the opportunities that still exists out there in all of these projects that we put together.

Great. I appreciate that color, guys.

Thanks, Will.

Our next question comes from Rehan Rashid from FBR Capital Markets. Please go ahead with your question.

Just two quick questions on infrastructure related. So, Cotton Valley, as we kind of see – look into next year, no constraints from a processing or takeaway capacity to accelerate activity there?

No, Rehan, we've been working with our partner out there, who is MarkWest, and they have – we're ahead of the game both from a gas marketing and they have plenty of room at their plant and then also the other is water-handling. And we are ahead of that game and have plenty of those capacity.

Perfect. Perfect. And then on Thunder Bayou same question, remind me again, how will that get produced if successful?

There's multiple pipeline options within the area, obviously very close our La Cantera, and we have a good relationship with several processing groups out there. It's onshore. So we will have facilities turned around rather quickly and going to – likely going to a plant very close to where we are. So if we log the well sometime in early December and evaluate it within the month of December, I would expect production to be on by the first quarter, probably later in the first quarter, but being onshore, we will have – we should have a good turnaround there.

Good stuff. Pretty exciting next 60, 90 days, I'm keeping my fingers crossed.

Absolutely. Thank you.

Our next question comes from Kim Pacanovsky from Imperial Capital. Please go ahead with your question.

Hi. Good morning, everyone.

Morning.

Thanks for providing the revised IRRs in a lower price environment on the Cotton Valley. Can you do the same in West Relay, in particular looking at maybe the IP rate coming down a little bit from the 7.1?

Yes, I think – and Kim, thanks for the request last night. I worked it in for you think morning, but...

Thanks.

... on the Woodfords Rich I didn't touched on it in the plan comments too much, but in the Woodford we've had I guess 17 wells producing in West Relay and they've had a variety of different flowback, some have come on within 10% to 15% of load recovery, probably more natural fracturing contribution. Some have taken a little bit longer, as Charlie mentioned in his comments. And there's really no correlation to saying if it comes on quicker, it's going to have a better IP rate or a better EUR versus one that produces more water over time that it may end up having a great IP rate. It just takes a little more time to get the water off the formation.

So what we have done in our slide deck is take the average of the IP rate, the spread across the wells that we have presented so far, but we kept our EUR the same, which is sort of, I guess, the type curve that was built off of the North Relay well, the 23 or 27 wells that we have drilled.

So it's a long winded answer from me saying that while these wells have a little bit lower IP rate, we still see that there's somewhat of a tight bandwidth EUR estimates and we feel is that just because it has a lower IP rate, it doesn't mean that it's not going to have somewhere near this type curve. We may not -every well's not going to be exactly 4.6, but we feel that the field is still in this 4.6 Bcfe EUR right now.

Obviously, a higher IP rate is going to help from an NAV perspective or an internal rate of return because you want to be producing the well at a higher rate early on, but we don't see the economics changing dramatically just because of a lower IP rate. At some point, over the first period of time, whether that's three months, six months, nine months or a year, those curves are going to cross each other if one that comes on at a lower rate has a flatter decline. And so while we do want the higher IP rates for first production and it's going to help the IRR some, I don't see a meaningful impact to the numbers like we did when – if you change your price deck quite a bit.

Okay.

Key to this is to keep those well costs where we have and which is actually we have several – even on top of the three that we just disclosed that are under $4 million and there's no better way to increase PV 10 or internal rate of return to managing cost that we're doing.

And can you just remind me what is responsible for the substantially lower cost in West Relay versus North Relay?

Days to drill. Our team up there has done an outstanding job, whereas it was taking on average probably somewhere between 15 and 17 days to drill on North Relay. We have these wells down on average to under nine days and...

Okay.

... have a record out there of – I think, six or seven days is our current record.

So our team like a lot is laser focused on repeatability and doing things right and just continuing to drive down days. You can only get your spread rate down so far and it's going to cost you a certain amount first days to frac well, but if you can get it done in two-thirds to 60% of the time, it's going to drive those costs down. And our team has done an outstanding job up there. And I think we're going to take those learnings and we're cross-pollinating from one asset into another. And we're going to use those learnings into the Cotton Valley and then ultimately down here in Fleetwood, if we ever repeatable horizontal program as well.

Okay, great. Thanks so much for the color.

Sure.

Our next question comes from Andrew Coleman from Raymond James. Please go ahead with your question.

Hey, good morning. Thanks for taking my call here. Looking at the Cotton Valley slide there on page 10 of your October deck and I look at the inventory, can you give me a little more color as to what drives the decision to drill on the eastern and southern part of the field in 2014 and 2015 kind of moving to the northwest? I mean, is there a pressure differential across it, is it structural or is it infrastructure?

The first and easiest answer, Andrew, is infrastructure. Kind of touching back to what Rehan had talked about, it's easy for us to just work our way away from the field. And we have no HBP issues because there are so many vertical wells that are producing in low pressure system. They don't' have the water capabilities and the high pressure system that goes into the MarkWest plant that we need, but we will ultimately step out over time.

I think what you're going to see is we're always going to be adjusting our drilling program and we always try to give our best guess as to where we're going. But I can tell you that our team is already changing things around to where we're going to a well. You'll have a – looking at the slide, you're going to have a green well up in the northeast corner this year because operationally we want to go up there and drill a well. It has infrastructure and it's a very good offset to a well that we want to get and test.

So it's fluid. Typically, we have control all throughout the field. We're learning with every drill we get. We're actually proving up more inventory with other lenses of the Cotton Valley right now. Our team continues to try to unlock more value within the asset base that we have, but we're also going to make good decisions and just march our way out to most economically drill up this field.

And once again, just kind of reiterating, we don't have the – hey, I've got to go hold this 48,000 acres because it's all HBP. So it gives us a little bit of a luxury.

Okay. All right. And then if you could – is it possible to direct me on this slide 10 to I guess the well you all have the mechanical issue with, kind of which one of these wells on there it was?

Let me get back to you, but it's one of the black ones obviously because [indiscernible] (37:48)

Okay. Yeah.

I will find out Andrew.

Yeah. I was just kind of curious if there was – if you had any insights as to kind of what drove it, was it -

It was the casing problem, Andrew. It had nothing to do with formation. We just had a – we had a string of pipe that separated and we had to patch the casing, which is probably pretty common in the industry. We've had it a couple of times. And ultimately, we've got the fracs put away, which was good. We just weren't able to open up a few of the stages below where the patch was. So we don't think it's one of these things that has anything to do with the stresses of the Cotton Valley where we're drilling. If I had to guess, it was a piece of pipe that just wasn't up to par and while we're a little disappointed, we think over time we will still have a very good well up there.

I'd like to add to this. What's important here is looking back at the 60 some odd wells that we drilled, from 2003 to 2007-2008, that gave us a penetration of the heel to toe of most of these wells. So we know going in what we're going to see. We just – the guys picked an area and said, okay, this is where we want to go first – differentiate between quality, it's just we got to look at it from an operational standpoint.

And also, if you noticed, we basically keyed in on some 100% acreage we had, which generated – so we knew going in what our – that we would have a large impact. And that's why we were able to deliver the growth in reserves and production to this area and how we can continue when you put one or two rigs next year, we can grow our company's reserves and productions significantly with this one area.

Okay. All right. And the last question I had is that when I look at some of the blue lines on there, you have there longer laterals. I mean are you – would you be looking at testing bigger – the infamous bigger fracs, bigger laterals that some of the, I guess, your peers are doing or are you guys going to stick to 4,000 to 5,000 foot laterals for right now?

Well, in this area, and I guess don't read too much into every cartoon picture, but actually there are some longer laterals in here. In fact, it really is dependent on the unit that you have in Texas as you're well familiar with. Sometimes we're not able to drill anything longer than a 4,000 foot lateral, like PQ 15, which is a great well. But sometimes we'll be able to drill a 6,000 foot lateral. It's really unit dependent. And as you can see some of them go north, south, sometimes we have to angle it at a 45 and it's really units driven, but you will see us use longer laterals.

The Cotton Valley is a great horizontal play. It's just that a lot of your time is spent in the Cotton Valley because it's got more abrasive – it's a more abrasive formation and say the Woodford where we can drill through it extremely fast and longer laterals are very easy to get done. In the Cotton Valley, it takes you more days to do that and the most – like going back the most important thing is the configuration of the unit. I'll say that we will continue to test things, but based on the results we've seen so far with a kind of what we call our standard wells, we're not going to deviate too far from that.

Okay. Excellent. Thank you for the time and the information here.

Thanks, Andrew.

Our next question comes from Andy Peterson from Simmons & Company. Please go ahead with your question.

Hey, guys. Good morning.

Morning.

Can you guys talk about the rig flexibility you have across your portfolio? So, for example, could you – is it possible for you guys to run your rig in some of your plays or is there commitments involved that require you to run a rig, say, in the Woodford or what have you? Just any color on that will be helpful.

Okay. I'll go through it probably region-by-region just to make it easiest. All of our Oklahoma wells have rig explorations starting as early as December, which is about a month from now. We have another one that rolls off in January and I think the longest one we have going out there is probably around March. So I mean to the extent we wanted to we could be at zero rigs there in March. The Cotton Valley well that we just signed up is for a two well guarantee, but we assume that we will continue to run that, but effectively if we had to, we could be done with that thing in January. And then in Fleetwood, we have a two well guarantee with a two well kicker that will show up, as we mentioned in early January.

So we have maintained a bunch of rig flexibility. And while we like the rigs that we have, we're going to always be looking and always be looking at our capital. And that's one of the things we're doing for 2015 right now, is saying how much are we going to allocate to each region and how much we're going to spend. And consistent with the way we've done in the past, we're going to be pretty fiscally conservative.

I'd like to add to that too that if you think about the 30 wells that we drilled this year across our pad drilling, each of those wells post 640 acreage by production. And so, we've already – by the time we get through, say, mid-year next year, we will have 85% to 90% of our acreage held by production under our current drilling with our partners. And so we'll be extremely flexible of speeding up or slowing down that drilling depending on market prices. And that's what I want to lay out was we gave up a little bit in speed this year moving every well, every pad 2 miles, which really challenged our team. But on the other side, in basically 18 months period, we're holding 35,000 acreage by production.

Perfect. Thanks for the color guys. And then just talking about peak, can you give us any more insight into the well cadence in the Cotton Valley? I know you're spudding PetroQuest number 16 this week, if you haven't done already, but is there any insight to when we could see 17 and so on?

In general, it's probably best, Andy, to use about 30 days from spud to PD on those wells. The first two I think we may have mentioned it in the script, we're going to actually drill some of the pad together and we're going to frac those coming probably mid-January would be my guess and should see first production mid-February.

In general dependent – some of them are going to have pads, so your IP rates may be staggered a little bit, but based on where we are right now, we have – we mentioned it that we're driving the days down in our Oklahoma operations. We have a program that is showing good signs of doing that in the Cotton Valley as well. And I think our goal is to have about a 20 to 25 day well in Cotton Valley. So by the time you rig up, rig down, move over and so forth, if you think plus or minus about 30 days is going to be a good estimate.

Perfect. Thanks, guys.

Sure.

And our next question comes from Tim Rezvan from Sterne, Agee. Please go ahead with your question.

Hi, Tim.

Hi. Good morning, folks. Bond put a little teaser out there talking about a strong exit rate to 2014. I was hoping I could kind of drag a number out of you for how you think production will look heading into 2015?

Well, I think teaser's a pretty appropriate description of that. I don't think we're going to get into that, but we do expect end the year at the highest rate of the year. So while guidance is effectively flat quarter-over-quarter, we do expect a trajectory that's upward as we move throughout the quarter.

And on top of that, Tim, I think maybe Charlie in his comments said as well, we're bringing on – I think we're bringing on, we have seven that are almost ready to flow, four that are flowing back, three more, probably about that many wells coming on throughout the rest of the year. So you should have somewhere around 15 new wells in West Relay plus or minus. And those should give you a good stable production ramp going into the end of the year. And then once again, we'll have new wells that we're drilling right now and then most specifically where we've seen the big production impact has been the Cotton Valley and you'll be right behind that coming over to. And then the wildcard is, we have a good well over down here in South Louisiana. So your first quarter is going to be a fun one.

Tim, what I tried to emphasize is that we've never put our team under more challenged conditions, starting really an aggressive operations for the first half of the year in the Cotton Valley and then watching the decline rates [indiscernible] (46:31), what we've done in Oklahoma might seem simple because when we look at the slice there, the movement of two miles every time you start a new pad was challenging for everybody. So we see 2015 as a much more predictable year. And just getting through the quarter and we're happy with where we are.

Okay. And just a follow-up regarding some of your previous comments, on La Posada that restrained flow rate, I guess is about 60 million cubic feet equivalent a day. Is that going to be a run rate going forward or is that just sort of a 4Q run rate?

Well, it really depends on when do you recomplete an area that don't have water and so forth, but I would assume – from a modeling perspective, it's probably best to use a 60 million a day rate and there is going to times where we're higher than that, there's going to be times where we may be lower than that. But if you think about it, we're still going to be producing about 25 – at that rate we're still producing about 25 Bcf per year. And effectively, if we hold that run rate for the end of the next year, you're going to be getting into 3P reserves probably starting 2016.

Okay, okay. That's all I had. Thank you.

Thanks.

And ladies and gentlemen, at this time, we've reached the end of today's question-and-answer session. I'd like to turn the conference call back over to management for any closing remarks.

Yes. I'd like to thank everybody for their time this morning and please follow-up with any additional questions that you may have.

And ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude today's conference call. We do thank you for attending. You may now disconnect your telephone lines.