raw transcript


Petroquest Energy, Inc.
 
PQUE
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 28, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning. My name is Amanda [ph], and I will be your conference facilitator today.


At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the PetroQuest Energy Third Quarter Conference


Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers’


remarks, there will be a question and answer session. [operator instructions]. Thank you.


Mr. Zehnder, you may begin your conference.


W. Todd Zehnder, Vice President of Corporate Communications


Thank you, Amanda [ph]. Good morning everyone. We would like to welcome you to our third


quarter conference call and webcast. Participating with me today are Charlie Goodson, Chairman,


CEO and President and Mike Aldridge, CFO.


As you have come to expect, we like to make our Safe Harbor statement under the Private


Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Statements made today regarding PetroQuest business


which are not historical facts are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties.


For a discussion of such risks and uncertainties which will cause actual results to differ from those


contained in the forward-looking statements, see risk factors in the company’s annual report on


Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004.


With that, Charlie will get us started.


Charles T. Goodson, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Todd. During the third quarter, we produced 3.9 Bcfe or 42 million cubic feet of gas


equivalent per day which was a slight increase over production in the comparable quarter of 2004.


Approximately, 34% of the production came from our long-lived basins. During the quarter, we


estimate that we deferred approximately 14.8 million cubic feet of gas equivalent per day as a result


of hurricane related downtime. Had production not been shut-in due to hurricanes, we should have


– we would have met our guidance issued guidance. Revenues were $31 million with product price


realizations averaging $48.63 per barrel of oil and $7.92 per Mcf of gas. Net income was $5


million, net income per share was 10 cents.


Moving onto operations. During the third quarter, we drilled three wells in the South East Carthage


Field in which we hold a 100% working interest. All wells encountered productive sands in Cotton


Valley and Travis Peak formations. We have now brought on-line nine wells since we began our


drilling program during September 2004. Our total net production in this area is in excess of a 11


million cubic feet per day. And, our goal is to have a 2005 exit rate of 13 to 15 million cubic feet per


day in this field. We have currently identified over 100 drilling locations in the field and continue to


add locations with the successful well that we are drilling in this area. We have had continuous


operations with one rig since September of 2004 and we anticipate utilizing that rig for foreseeable


future. We anticipate moving a rig under our long-term contract on a second rig at the beginning of


the second quarter of 2006 which will accelerate the development of Carthage Field. During the


last quarter, we utilized another rig in Carthage Field that drilled two wells. We will continue to keep


utilizing that rig on an available basis. And, our goal is to have three rigs dedicated to Carthage


sometime early next year.


We have been very active in east Texas and continue to grow our project inventory outside of


Carthage Field. Currently, we have drilled and completed two outside-operated projects both of
raw transcript


Petroquest Energy, Inc.
 
PQUE
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 28, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


which were successful. And, we currently have the inventory of four additional projects which we


anticipate drilling during 2006 where our working interest range from 50 to 100 percent. As you can


tell, we have significantly expanded our presence in east Texas while maintaining a very active


program in our core Carthage Field.


Our drilling program in the Arkoma Basin continued in the third quarter with 24 additional horizontal


CBM wells drilled and completed. Initial growth production rates are averaging 350 Mcf per day per


well. We currently have two operated and one non-operated rig working full-time in the area. We


anticipate drilling approximately 60 wells in this space and during 2005 of which we have drilled 43


during the first nine months. Although we entered the basin for Hartshorne Coal, our acreage sets


up the opportunity to exploit several other intervals which we have previously discussed. The


Crown Well Sand [ph] in Woodford County fractured shale. We are planning to participate in


several non-operated wells targeting additional horizons in the near-term and have begun an


internal evaluation of these additional horizons as well.


Moving onto the Gulf Coast, we are continuing the tie in phase of successful well our Pebble Beach


projects in Vermillion 311. We logged 89 feet of pay – productive pay, completed test the well and


are now in a process of a subsea tieback to the host facility. We own approximately 27% net


revenue interest in this well. We anticipate production to begin during late December at initial gross


rate of approximately 15 million cubic feet equivalent per day. The initial production from this well


has been deferred as a result of damage to downstream facilities. We are planning on resuming


drilling operations on our Oakbourne Prospect in south Louisiana during the fourth quarter. The


well has a gross and risk reserves of approximately 30 Bcfe, and we own a 20% working interest.


The drilling rig sustained damages as a result of Hurricane Rita and therefore we have been


delayed on this project.


We are currently drilling Pelican Point Prospect in south Louisiana. We expect to reach total depth


during the fourth quarter. Well has gross and risk reserves of approximately 91 Bcfe and we hold a


25% working interest. We are drilling our Poppy Hills Prospect in the Gulf of Mexico and expect to


reach total depth during the fourth quarter. The well has gross and risk reserves of approximately


27 Bcfe and we hold a 25% working interest. We are currently drilling our Chicory Prospect in


south Louisiana which is an offset to our Fee-lay [ph] and Gumbo discoveries earlier this year.


And, we expect this well to reach total depth during November. The well has gross and risk


reserves of approximately 5 Bcfe and we hold a 38% working interest. Lastly, we are drilling our


Cayenne Prospect in south Louisiana which is an offset to our bid [ph] discovery. We expect this


well to reach total depth during the fourth quarter. The well has gross and risk reserves of


approximately 17 Bcfe and we hold a 50% working interest. We are continuing at Main Pass to lay


the lateral pipeline which connects the interstate line. [indiscernible] back on production during the


fourth quarter.


At this time, I would like to turn it over to Mike to discuss the financial.


Michael O. Aldridge, Chief Financial Officer, Principal Accounting Officer, Senior Vice President


and Treasurer


Thank you, Charles. Our direct capital expenditures budget for the year has increased to


approximately a $120 to $130 million which does not include any capital used to fund acquisitions.


We spent approximately $31 million related to our drilling activities in the third quarter a bulk of


which related to the drilling and completion operation which Charles previously discussed. Year-to-


date, we have spent approximately $78 million related to our drilling activities. We are currently


undergoing a regularly scheduled borrowing base redetermination where we expect our borrowing


base to be set at $25 million. We have approximately $40 million of cash as of September 30th.


And, athough we had a $24 million working capital deficit, approximately $30 million is due to a


non-cash mark-to-market liability as a result of hedging activities. Our current plans call for