Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Matt Quantz — Manager-Corporate Communications, PetroQuest Energy, Inc.
Charles T. Goodson — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, PetroQuest Energy, Inc.
James Bond Clement — Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer, PetroQuest Energy, Inc.
Ronald E. Mills — Analyst, Johnson Rice & Co. LLC
John Marshall White — Analyst, ROTH Capital Partners LLC
John W. Aschenbeck — Analyst, Seaport Global Securities LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day everyone and welcome to today's PetroQuest Energy Incorporated's Second Quarter 2017 Conference Call. Just as a reminder, today's call is being recorded.

At this time, I'd like to turn the conference over to Mr. Matt Quantz, Manager – Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you. Good morning, everyone. We would like to welcome you to our second quarter conference call and webcast. Participating with me today on the call are Charles Goodson, Chairman, CEO and President; Bond Clement, CFO; and Art Mixon, EVP of Operations and Production.

Before we get started, we would like to make our Safe Harbor statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Statements made today regarding PetroQuest's business which are not historical facts are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties.

For a discussion of such risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements, see Risk Factors on our annual and quarterly SEC filings and in forward-looking statements in our press release. We assume no obligation to update our forward-looking statements.

Please also note that on today's call, we will be referring to non-GAAP financial measures, including discretionary cash flow. Historical non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in our press release included in our Form 8-K filed with the SEC.

With that, Charlie will get us started with an overview of the quarter.

Good morning. During the second quarter, we produced 6.3 Bcfe or approximately 70 million cubic feet equivalent – gas equivalent per day. The 70 million cubic feet equivalent per day was comprised of approximately 48 million cubic feet of gas, 1,600 barrels of oil, and 2,000 barrels of NGLs.

Our second quarter production was 21% higher than our first quarter's volumes and represents a 39% increase over our fourth quarter average daily production rate of 50 million cubic feet equivalent per day. In addition, since the fourth quarter of 2016, we reinitiated our drilling program. Our revenues are up 50% and cash flow was up over 200%. This pace of recovery and scale of growth speaks to the [ph] quality (02:15) of our assets, the PetroQuest team, and the execution of our operations.

Looking out for the third quarter of 2017, we're guiding 80 million cubic feet equivalent per day to 84 million cubic feet equivalent per day. It's worth noting that our third quarter projected growth rate would have been even higher, if not for approximately 6 million cubic feet equivalent per day of Gulf of Mexico production, as well as untested production from a recently recompleted Ship Shoal 72 well that remains shut-in due to ongoing third-party pipeline repairs. Our updated guidance now assumes this pipeline will remain shut-in throughout the third quarter and we are hearing production should be restored early in the fourth quarter.

As a reminder, our previous third quarter guidance assumes production would be restored August 1st. Even considering these temporary production deferrals, we're forecasting sequential production growth of approximately 18% with the restoration of production from the shut-in pipeline, combined with at least four additional Cotton Valley wells that are expected to be turned to sales before year-end. We remain highly confident in hitting our production target of 100 million cubic feet equivalent per day during the fourth quarter. As a result, our top strategic goal of reducing leverage through organic production and cash flow growth is tracking in line with expectations.

Now turning to our operations, where last month we completed our initial multi well-pad in the Cotton Valley. This three well-pad established a cumulative initial 24-hour gross production rate of approximately 38 million cubic feet equivalent per day. PQ #23 and PQ #25 wells, which were part of this pad posted IP 24-hour rates of 14.5 million cubic feet equivalent per day and 18.3 million cubic feet equivalent per day, respectively.

PQ #25 well's max 24-hour rates had a new company record, but what we are more encouraged about is that this well employed a new frack design that utilized a significantly higher proppant concentration than our previous 24-hour horizontal Cotton Valley wells. This well was completed with approximately 1,200 pounds per lateral foot versus our traditional 700 pound per lateral foot to 800 pound per lateral foot. Even with this higher density completion design, our cost per lateral foot were still $914, which was approximately 15% lower than the average cost for our last 10 wells and approximately 60% lower than our first horizontal Cotton Valley well.

We are also encouraged by the reservoir performance of our PQ #24 well, particularly considering that approximately 50% of the lateral was drilled out of the productive section due to a malfunctioning directional drilling tool. When adjusting the initial rate for the shorter, effective lateral length, we believe this well was comparable to our type curve.

In addition, this was our first horizontal test targeting the E-Bench and we would expect to see similar rate improvement that we achieved in the development history of our Eberry Sand. This initial positive well result increases our confidence level in our total drilling locations. We are currently in the process of reviewing our growing inventory and plan to update these numbers before year-end, aiding in this analysis will be the micro seismic work that was obtained in connection with the completion of our recent three well-pad.

We're currently studying the frack heights and propagations associated with the Berry completion designs of this pad. We will continue to monitor the flow rate and the client profile of these wells to not only update our location count, but more importantly optimize our completion design for our next generation Cotton Valley wells.

This week, we commenced completion operations on two – on a two well-pad, PQ #26 and PQ #27 in Centennial, the northeastern portion of our 55,000 acre Carthage field position. These wells with average lateral lengths of 6,600 feet are currently being completed using approximately 1,200 pounds per lateral foot of proppant, which is comparable to the frack design of our currently record PQ #25 well.

In addition, our PQ #27 will test a tighter [indiscernible] (06:34) cluster of 75 feet versus our traditional 100 feet. We're looking forward to seeing these well results, which could strengthen our hypothesis that higher frack concentrations and tighter frack spacing equals higher recoveries, while positively impacting the cost versus value equation.

Lastly, we're nearing total depth of our PQ #28 well, which is located at the southern end of our acreage. This 5,000 foot lateral well is expected to be completed in approximately four to five weeks. After that, our plants call for moving back to the north to drill PQ #29. Proceeding that well will be another two well-pad that most likely will be completed in early January, which will provide a nice start to our 2018 production growth. All three of these remaining wells for 2017 will have lateral lengths averaging approximately 6,400 feet.

Briefly touching on Thunder Bayou, where the well continues to flow at approximately 60 million cubic feet equivalent per day. Since the well is recompleted into the upper section of the Cris R2 sand in early February, it has [indiscernible] (07:43) over 9 Bcfe. For the second quarter of 2017, the well has generated a staggering $7 million of field level cash flow net to PetroQuest or greater than $1 per share on an annualized basis. The cash flow from this well, along with our La Cantera project in south and other Gulf Coast assets, will continue to support our Cotton Valley development program for many years.

With that, I'd like to turn it over to Bond to go over our second financial results.

Okay, thanks Charlie. Good morning everybody. The positive impact of our production ramp-up is becoming more apparent with each subsequent quarters. Second quarter revenues and cash flow increased sequentially 17% and 22%, respectively. And as Charlie mentioned earlier, we're making nice progress towards reducing our relative leverage.

In terms of top-line growth, we're on track to exceed $100 million of revenue this year. That's a big move from 2016 revenues of only $67 million. With continued successful production growth throughout the back half of 2017 and assuming a relatively constructive natural gas backdrop, we believe we could have a relative leverage metrics at a point where we could enter a more traditional or [ph] beyond market (08:55) sometime in 2018. This obviously will lower our fixed charges and provide much more flexibility than the current term loan offers.

Turning to expenses for the quarter, LOE totaled $7.1 million or $1.12 per Mcfe, which is below our guidance range, reducing our third quarter per unit LOE guidance to $1.10 to $1.20 per Mcfe, to account for our continued higher forecast of production volumes. G&A cost for the second quarter totaled $4.3 million. These costs were slightly above guidance due to higher employee-related costs. For the third quarter, we're guiding back down to the range of $3.5 million to $4.0 million per quarter.

Interest expense during the quarter totaled $7.1 million, which was slightly below our guidance range. For the third quarter, we're guiding interest expense to range between $7.3 million and $7.5 million of which we're forecasting about $6 million of that to be PIK interest.

Production taxes during the quarter were $0.09 per Mcfe, which is on the low end of our previous guidance. For the third quarter, you will notice we increased our per unit guidance range on production taxes to $0.12 to $0.17 per Mcfe, to account for the exploration of a two-year severance tax exemption associated with Thunder Bayou; that severance tax exemption expired in June.

Looking at CapEx for the quarter, we invested about $13 million, which is net of around $2 million in proceeds from the sale of one of our Gulf Coast wells in April. The breakout of the net capital spend was about $11 million of direct CapEx and about $2 million of capitalized overhead in interest. For the first half of 2017, CapEx was totaled about $24.7 million relative to our 2017 CapEx budget of $40 million to $48 million. So, with less than $25 million of total spend during the first half of the year, we've grown production by almost 40%, which is pretty remarkable.

Finally on the hedging front, we've not been active over the last several months, but remain approximately 50% hedged on the gas side for the back half of this year. In total, we have approximately [ph] 6.4 Bs (10:55) of gas hedge for the second half of 2017 at an average floor of $3.22.

Additionally, we have hedged about [ph] 3 Bs (11:02) for the first quarter of 2018 at an average floor price of $3.24. All of our hedges are currently in the form of straight swaps.

As always, we'll continue to look for opportunities to add to our hedge positions and content that the gas has more upside potential than downside risk looking at the current 2018 share price.

With that, I'll turn it back to Charlie to wrap up.

As we hit the halfway point at the end of the year, we're on track to exceed almost every metric of our 2017 business plan; most notably, our production and leverage statistics, which are significantly improving with each passing quarter. Our Cotton Valley performance is clearly demonstrating that this is one of the top gas sets in North America. This trend will continue to garner attention in the ensuing months due to its capital efficiency, premium pricing and potential IPOs.

In addition to the implied returns, PetroQuest is and what continue to rely from the Cotton Valley. We also have to be cognizant that top tier returns are equally important to our joint venture partners for a long-term relationship. As we are now approaching the end of the first year and would have drilled and completed eight to ten wells, we can comfortably say that they are involved in a very attractive investment that creates yet another win-win relationship for PetroQuest and our partners.

While there is no denying that the current commodity prices are posing a challenge for the industry, we believe that we are at an inflection point in the gas market. The reality is there are only a few areas in the country that are economic at the current price, which is why we believe that gas prices will ultimately have to rise to meet the rapidly increasing demand pull from exportation, power generation and new build downstream facilities.

Quoting a very insightful recently released Gulf Coast Energy Outlook report from LSU Center for Energy Studies, natural gas price outlook remains solidly above $3 per Mcf. Gulf Coast natural gas feedstock facilities located between New Orleans and Corpus have or will spend approximately $240 billion for upgrades or new facilities before 2020. And if all applied for approved LNG export facilities are built, U.S. [indiscernible] (13:11) capacity will approach 50 Bcf per day, not including the 10 Bcf per day of pipeline capacity to Mexico.

Bottom line, growth in natural gas demand, as opposed to reductions in supply, will control prices in the future which is a very positive sign for U.S. natural gas producers.

With that, we'll open it for your questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Ron Mills of Johnson Rice, please go ahead.

Hi, good morning Charlie, a couple of questions. First, I know it's still early; but you've had some – obviously some really strong results here on a one rig program and Bond referenced potentially accessing a typical RBL-type facility next year. As you and your board think about future plans, how does this year's success play into how you might think about staying at one rig or potentially increasing to two rigs or what are some of the levers that will determine that?

Well, I mean [indiscernible] (14:36) cash flow is obviously very important. Obviously, the results are very important. We definitely plan to increase activity and it's all dependent on where gas prices go and our ability to fund the program. And – but I can tell you right now that we are very excited about continuing to grow this and we see that a two-rig program in 2018 is definitely – is what we plan on doing.

Okay, great. And then as you move the rig kind of from the north end to the south end and back, as you look at your acreage position, have you seen any great differences between well performance and maybe even secondarily, have you seen any great difference between the separate benches, because from where I've [ph] observed (15:30), it looks like the results have been fairly consistent across the position end zones?

I think we are very pleased all the way from the north end to the south end. And you're always at a [indiscernible] (15:44) see variations, but they're all – from the standpoint of where we began producing, you know 6.5 million a day as initial. Right now, we're averaging about 6.3 million for the first year and these rates continue to increase.

We see that we're – the results we see on the north end impact things on the south end. Things from the south end impact things from the north end. And it's – right now, we feel like we can improve performance simply by tighter frack clusters, proppant size, and as we're dealing with a tight sand. So to answer your question, no, it's pretty much homogeneous what we see from north to south as far as economical wells.

And as we've said, we are still – when you have one rig, everything is magnified, but we feel like when you look at how we've growth our production this area with one rig, it speaks very highly to, one, the quality of the rocks and the execution of our team.

Okay, and then lastly, I'm curious, in terms of the preferred and the preferred dividend, I don't think you made the payment, but can you just talk about your thought process of managing the liquidity and maintaining liquidity, the benefits of that to put into the ground and what the next steps are from your standpoint on that front?

Well, I mean obviously we have come through a very difficult time and we feel like we managed it at a board level for the benefit of all shareholders, equity holders, debt holders; all of them. And as we now continue to grow the cash flow, we eventually want to get back to the clients with everything, that's our goal here.

And Ron, it's Bond. Just to be clear, we are prohibited from making that payment by the First Lien term loan, so our hands are kind of tied as it relates to that, but we are continuing to work through some thoughts internally about how we deal with that piece of the capital structure. We understand that it's out there and there's nothing we could talk about concrete here today, but we are thinking of alternatives behind the scenes on how we address that.

And we basically have on our board; we have people that own the common, we have people that own the preferred and the debt. And we basically have, over time, are cognizant of all that. But most importantly is to utilize our cash flow to grow this company, so all of those holders will be taken care of, so we are certainly...

I agree and I appreciate the clarification on the First Lien holders, because that definitely helps clear that up a little bit too. Let me have someone else jump in. Thanks so much guys.

We'll go next to Roth Capital's John White.

Good morning guys. Can you hear me, okay?

Yes.

Good morning John.

Good morning. Well, congratulations. Strong results up and down all the numbers. I know you're lowering the per – with regarding to lease operating expenses, you're lowering the per unit guide, but your aggregate LOE for the second quarter was pretty surprising. I had $7.7 million, you reported $7.1 million, you want to talk about that or...?

Yeah, sure. Hey John, this is Bond. The biggest driver there, we did receive a transportation credit in the second quarter that was previously unaccrued, the BOEM and that was about, call it, $0.10 per – $0.17 per Mcfe for the quarter, so that was a one-time deal that hit during the second quarter that really benefited us.

All right, I appreciate that detail and your differentials were better than I expected across all three streams, is there any comments on that?

No, it's hard for you guys to model that, given the fact that we sold some of our gas 1st of the month, some of our gas on a daily basis, and those percentages change from month-to-month perspective, so it looks like we just made the right choice during the quarter.

Well, good and again, did you say a date when the micro seismic on the first three well-pad would be completed?

Being reprocessed and formulated now, we expect to have an internal review sometime next week in Houston to look over the data. We've gotten some preliminary results to-date and that's one of the reasons from those preliminary results of why we're trying a tighter [indiscernible] (20:54) cluster on the two well-pads that we're currently completing, as Charlie, I think mentioned. One of the wells, we're going to try a 75-foot spacing on [indiscernible] (21:02) clusters versus our traditional 100 feet, because the preliminary micro seismic data indicated that that tighter spacing might help us close in some of the gaps that it looked like we were getting from a propagation perspective on a 100-hundred foot spacing.

I really appreciate that detail and good luck with the seismic review. Thank you.

Thank you. [ph]

Same thing (21:25).

We'll go now to John Aschenbeck with Seaport Global. Please go ahead.

Okay. Good morning guys, thanks for taking my question. I had a follow-up on the balance sheet regarding Bond's prepared [ph] margin (21:40) in Ron's question. In terms of your ability to potentially enter into a traditional RBL, lower your cost of capital. I was just curious if you guys look out into next year as you grow production and underlying EBITDA and begin to delever, and again assuming, let's call it a $3 per Mcf world. I wanted to get your thoughts. When you look at it internally, what does leverage look like as you exit next year, specifically from a net debt-to-EBITDA perspective?

Yeah, John we don't have any guidance at all for 2018, so it'd be premature for me to tell you what debt-to-EBITDA looks like at the end of next year. I will tell you as we think about our modeling, you look at the growth trajectory and you assume some constructive gas price which obviously we know is going to be heavily dependent upon the weather this winter. We think we can be in a position sometime in 2018 to sit down with the banks and show them a track record of relative deleveraging and show them a continued path forward, drilling low-risk wells to get to a sub four times metric where we can get back into a traditional RBL.

Okay, that's helpful, I appreciate that. And then a follow-up on the PQ #27 and the PQ #28 wells, which I believe are going to be your second and third shot on the Eberry following the PQ #24 well. I was just curious to get some maybe qualitative commentary on how drilling and completions operations have progressed and I guess are progressing on those? And then more specifically, if you ran into any trouble landing those wells?

Hey, just to be clear John, the PQ #24 well was an E sand test, it wasn't an Eberry. That was our first E sand test. As we go back to the north and the wells are completing [ph] back (23:31) in the Eberry.

We have not had any problem landing. No, it was an outlier that happens; tools malfunction and the landing is not a problem, staying in the section is not a problem, it's just, like I said, when you have one rig running, it kind of magnifies these issues that all companies have periodically and our goal is to make sure they don't happen at all.

Understood, that's helpful and thanks for the issue with the nomenclature there on the E Sands, Eberry. That's it from me.

Yes, I mean, I guess the last comment I would say is that we tested all of these benches vertically and we've seen and tested horizontally; and on us and around us and so we're comfortable that, over time, all these benches are going to work and it's just right now we got so many wells that we can drill in the Eberry that we come out of this – where we've been in the last two years, we want to make sure that we use the absolute safest thing to grow production and make it easier in our team to move forward and so we will over time get to all our acreage and all our benches, and just to grow the great growth platform we have.

Got it. Thanks Charlie.

Okay.

And it appears there are no further questions at this time. I would like to turn the call back over to Mr. Quantz for any additional or closing remarks.

Yes, thank you everybody this morning for their time and please call us or email us with questions. Thanks.

And again, that does conclude today's conference. We thank you all for joining.