Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Matt Quantz — Manager-Corporate Communications, PetroQuest Energy, Inc.
Charles T. Goodson — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, PetroQuest Energy, Inc.
W. Todd Zehnder — Chief Operating Officer, PetroQuest Energy, Inc.
J. Bond Clement — Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer & Executive Vice President, PetroQuest Energy, Inc.
Ronald E. Mills — Analyst, Johnson Rice & Co. LLC
Will O. Green — Analyst, Stephens, Inc.
Richard Merlin Tullis — Analyst, Capital One Securities, Inc.
Ravindranath Sreenivas Kamath — Analyst, Seaport Global Securities LLC
Andrew Coleman — Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc.
Daniel D. Guffey — Analyst, Stifel, Nicolaus & Co., Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day and welcome to the PetroQuest Energy, Inc. First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast. All participants will be in listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] After today's presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions. [Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Matt Quantz, Manager of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you. Good morning everyone. We would like to welcome you to our First Quarter Conference Call and Webcast. Participating with me today on the call are Charles Goodson, Chairman, CEO and President; Todd Zehnder, COO; and Bond Clement, CFO.

Before we get started, we would like to make our Safe Harbor statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Statements made today regarding PetroQuest's business, which are not historical facts, are forward-looking statements that involve risk and uncertainties. For a discussion of such risk and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements, see Risk Factors in our annually and quarterly SEC filings and in our forward-looking statements in our press release. We assume no obligation to update our forward-looking statements.

Please also note that on today's call, we will be referring to non-GAAP financial measures, including discretionary cash flow. Historical non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in our press release, included in our Form 8-K filed with the SEC yesterday.

With that, Charlie will get us started with an overview of the quarter.

Thank you. During the first quarter, we produced 10.4 Bcfe or approximately 115 million cubic feet of gas equivalent per day. The 115 million cubic feet equivalent per day was comprised of approximately 88 million cubic feet of gas, 1,600 barrels of oil, and 2,900 barrels of NGLs. Revenues for the quarter were $33 million with product price realizations averaging approximately $47 a barrel of oil and $2.74 per Mcf of gas. NGL product price realizations averaged approximately $18 a barrel.

On the operations front, our Thunder Bayou facility construction is progressing nicely, even though we experienced some minor delays due to several weeks of heavy rainfall. Our latest estimate calls for first production to commence at 38 million cubic feet equivalent per day in approximately two weeks to three weeks. With this significant production boost, we're forecasting record daily production during the second quarter.

Now turning to East Texas, where we recently completed our PQ #18 horizontal lower Cotton Valley well and will begin flowing back this week. As of now, this well will be the last scheduled for our 2015 horizontal Cotton Valley program. However, we'll continue to monitor commodity prices and service costs and we'll consider bringing the rig back in the field during the second half of the year if the climate improves.

While we have completed our planned drilling program, our other disciplines remain active in East Texas. For example, our business development group recently reached an agreement with our partner, whereby in exchange for drilling our PG #18 well and carrying Chevron for their share of drilling cost, we were able to increase our ownership in certain previously restricted sections which unencumbers approximately 60 horizontal drilling locations. In addition, this group continues to look for bolt-on opportunities to increase our footprint in its premier liquids-rich asset.

Before I turn it over to Todd to go through the rest of the operations, I'd like to briefly touch on our liquidity position since this obviously remains an important topic in today's climate. At quarter-end, we had $85 million drawn on $109 million borrowing base plus $14 million in cash equating to $119 million of liquidity. It's important to note that only a portion of Thunder Bayou's PV 9 value was included in our recently amended spring borrowing base number, as this discovery was classified as a non-producing asset by our bank group. As a result we have requested an interim predetermination in early July. At that time, Thunder Bayou will have had several weeks of production history and our lenders should not be limited in the value that they prescribed for this asset once requested by, out of the non-producing category. Per perspective, the 1P SEC present value of Thunder Bayou was nearly $15 million net as of March 31.

With that, I'll turn it over to Todd.

Thanks, Charlie. In the Gulf Coast, as previously mentioned, we're in the final stages of our Thunder Bayou facility construction. As Charlie mentioned, we've had some minor delays due to the significant rainfall and storms that we've had in this area over the last couple of months. However, we expect to be online at our previously-disclosed production rate of 38 million cubic feet equivalent per day, and somewhere about two weeks to three weeks is our latest estimate. Our facilities are sized to accommodate up to 70 million a day in anticipation that future recompilation in the thicker section of the productive interval will yield such rates. We have an approximate 37% net revenue interest in this project.

Turning to Fleetwood, our Pintail and Merganser projects recently reached TD and were deemed to be non-commercial. While both projects found some pay, indicating the presence of hydrocarbons, we elected not to complete due to the estimated economics. Obviously, we're disappointed with these results, but the total net cost of these two projects was only approximately $1.6 million. More importantly, with the recent improvement in oil prices and service cost deflation, we are now considering testing our Widgeon project later this year. This potential repeatable horizontal oil play was the primary driver for our Fleetwood acquisition, as we already had a strong appreciation for tight sand reservoir development.

As a reminder, the play here is to use horizontal drilling to provide substantial uplift to nearby vertical results. On average, vertical wells in the area assume an EURs of approximately 80,000 BOE, and we would expect to achieve three times to five times uplift horizontally. We believe that we will be able to apply the same technology and knowledge that we used in transitioning our tight sand horizontal Cotton Valley asset from a vertical to a horizontal development, where we achieved uplift of around 11 times to our Widgeon project.

Moving on to East Texas where we recently completed our PQ #18 and the well will begin flow back this week. This 5,000-foot lateral well was drilled in the Northeastern-most section of our 50,000 acres Carthage field. As Charlie mentioned, this location was selected by our partner and will test the geological siltstone contribution theory as well as increase our ownership in approximately 60 previously identified locations.

I also want to take this opportunity to update the performance of our previously reported PQ #16 and #17 wells. You may recall that these wells were completed during the first quarter and achieved maximum of 24 hour gas rates of 16.7 million and 14.2 million cubic feet equivalent per day respectively. These wells are similar to our 2014 wells in that they are experiencing declines consistent with our previous tight sand completions.

We typically see a shallower decline curve in the sands versus typical shale play. The 30-day rates for PQ #16 and #17 are approximately 16 million and 13.7 million cubic feet equivalent per day respectively. These 2015 wells have achieved a 36% higher average IP rate and a 29% higher average 30-day rate compared to the 2014 average IPs of 11.3 million and 11.5 million equivalent per day on an IP and 30-day average.

Obviously, we are very excited with the results that we're seeing from this asset. But once again, liquidity preservation is our main focus at the moment, given the current commodity price environment. We will continue to monitor commodity prices and service costs and will reassess our plans regarding the next set of wells later in the back half of the year.

Moving onto the Woodford, we recently established production on nine new wells in our West Relay field. These wells achieved an average maximum 24-hour rate of approximately 2 million cubic feet of gas and 360 barrels of liquids. We will continue to run one rig in our West Relay field and plan to complete eight wells during the second quarter. As a reminder, we continue to remain in ethane rejection in our West Relay field, which caused some differences in our previously-reported rates.

In our Hoss field, we are currently completing four new pads related to our dry gas joint venture drilling program. In total, we have eight new wells that we will begin flowing back in a couple of weeks. We continue to expect to run two rigs in this area for the remainder of 2015.

Lastly, we continue to actively look for ways to lower our costs and improve our efficiencies to help offset the impact of lower commodity prices and drive better returns in this environment. We believe that we will be able to apply many of the same cost saving techniques that were learned in the Woodford to the Cotton Valley.

Just a reminder, we have cut our drilling days in West Relay from approximately 16 to 10 days, which has driven total well cost from approximately $5 million to as low as $3.5 million. We are currently evaluating a new Cotton Valley drilling design, encompassing different factors, that could possibly shave off approximately six drilling days from our current average of 36 days. If successful, we believe the drilling cost could decline from approximately $2.9 million to $2.5 million. These drilling cost savings, combined with the lower fracking cost that we're experiencing now, could result in our next Cotton Valley wells costing as low as $4.5 million.

With that, I'd like to turn it over to Bond.

Okay. Thanks, Todd. During the quarter, our LOE totaled $10.9 million or $1.05 per Mcfe, which is on the low end of our guidance range of $1.05 to $1.15. The 11% decrease in LOE as compared to the year-ago quarter was primarily due to increased production from our onshore properties, which typically incur lower per unit operating expenses. Additionally, our first quarter 2015 LOE benefited from the sale of our Eagle Ford assets in September of 2014. Those assets contributed nearly $400,000 of net LOE and an approximate $3 per Mcfe LOE rate to the first quarter 2014 numbers.

Due to the pullback in pricing, severance taxes during the quarter were less than $1 million. So in total, cash lifting costs were down 14% or nearly $2 million net from the year-ago quarter. G&A costs for the first quarter totaled $5.3 million and included $1.5 million of non-cash stock comp expenses. Overhead costs were in line with our previously issued guidance of $5 million to $5.5 million and were 14% lower than the year-ago quarter, due to reduced employee-related costs.

Interest expense during the first quarter totaled $7.9 million, which was slightly ahead of our guidance due to lower capitalized interest as a result of a decrease in unevaluated property balance during the period. During the quarter, we capitalized $2 million of interest. So in total, interest costs were $9.9 million during the quarter.

Moving on to the balance sheet, during the quarter, we invested about $27 million in CapEx. The breakout is approximately $20 million of direct CapEx, $2 million in leasehold, and $4.2 million in capitalized overhead interest. As mentioned in last quarter's call, our 2015 CapEx run rate was expected to peak during the first quarter and then end up comprising about 42% at the midpoint of our full-year CapEx guidance of $60 million to $70 million, which we reiterate here today.

With Thunder Bayou facility work nearing completion, our 2015 East Texas drilling program winding down, and our cost sharing arrangements in the Woodford allowing us to run three rigs with very little net spend, CapEx will be trending down significantly during the second half of the year. Looking out, we expect that reduced capital outlays, combined with our projected strong production profile, should result in some free cash flow generation during the second half of the year that should help to offset the projected cash flow outspend during the first half of the year.

As Charlie mentioned, we recently completed our spring redetermination. Our bank group slightly lowered our borrowing base from $220 million to $190 million, but kept their commitments unchanged at $170 million. As stated earlier, Thunder Bayou was classified as a non-producing asset in this recent redetermination, which limits the value the lenders can assign. We have requested and have been scheduled an interim meeting in July to allow Thunder Bayou's classification to move from non-producing to producing.

In conjunction with our recent redetermination, we were also able to successfully amend our credit facility to provide relief on all of our maintenance covenants. Looking forward, we should be in good shape from a covenant compliance perspective.

Quickly touching on our second quarter production guidance where we expect to produce between 125 million and 130 million cubic feet equivalent per day as we begin to realize the benefit of Thunder Bayou's production profile. The midpoint of our second quarter guidance represents a sequential production growth rate of around 11% and, if achieved, would be the highest quarterly production in the company's history. On the hedging front, we have approximately 18 Bs of gas production hedged for 2015 at an average floor price of around $3.40. We also approximate 138,000 barrels of oil hedge this year and an average floor price of around $57.

On a daily basis, this equates to about 65 million a day of gas and about 500 barrels per day of oil for the remainder of the year, or on an equivalent basis, this represents about 60% of the first quarter 2015 run rate from a hedge perspective. We will continue to look for opportunities to assemble our 2016 hedge book and as always, we expect to ultimately end up with about 50% of our production hedged, which we normally will have done by early 2016.

With that, I'll turn it back to Charlie to wrap it up.

Thank you. With good reason, the market has been laser focused on liquidity and other financial metrics as commodity prices have challenged virtually every company. The corresponding service costs reductions along with continued efficiencies in technology advances have worked to partially counterbalance pricing for many companies, including PetroQuest.

At the same time, we've never felt better about our properties and the underlying value as we have accomplished so much in all three basins, which have been front and center in the business plan we adopted last year and has been proven successful. Highlighted by Thunder Bayou coming online shortly and complimented by another lower Cotton Valley horizontal as we speak, significant shareholder value has been created in each of our three areas. However, as Todd and Bond highlighted, in this environment, liquidity is our key focus in our operational success and will serve to augment the value supporting our credit facility.

The Gulf Coast high margin cash flow has never looked more sure anchored by La Cantera and Thunder Bayou, two of the highest margin properties judged against any basin. The Woodford shale has allowed us to develop a long-term relationship with a tremendous company, resulting in a win-win partnership illustrating how joint ventures, when properly executed, deliver superior results.

Finally, after drilling only 18 operated lower horizontal Cotton Valley wells in various [ph] features (15:44) of the lower Cotton Valley, our team has delivered superior results that will continue to unlock years of development for PetroQuest and our partner. In addition, the upper Cotton Valley, along with other horizons, offer additional upside.

The point being we have successfully executed as a team, derisking our asset base to facilitate a diversified platform for future growth. Each of these areas will be utilized and will add value when appropriate. In summary, we believe the value of our three core assets far outweigh our current market valuation.

With that, we'll turn it over to questions.

Thank you. We will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Ron Mills of Johnson Rice. Please go ahead.

Good morning, guys. I don't know, Charlie or Todd, who's best for this. Can you describe a little bit more of what happened with the Chevron agreement where they cross-assigned some of interests and how that fits into a more optimized development program? Once you started drilling, did it add potential net locations? Or how do you – how best can you describe that transaction?

Yeah. I'll take a shot at it, Ron. What happened was when this unit was – or AMI was originally formed, it was still a vertical development. And so there were certain areas where the legacy partner had drilled a well, and those were reserved on a vertical basis. And those units had an offset restriction. So what it was doing, it was potentially going to limit our ability to lay horizontals through what we would consider about 60 locations out there.

What we did is on the drilling of this latest well, we went ahead and paid 100% of it, just on the drilling and once completion we went heads up. And what it did was it makes everything in that area unrestricted. So now we can – we know how to plan wells around certain acreage blocks. And it's pretty much puts us 50/50 with a partner who is excited about drilling out there. We remain very excited about the area, obviously, as shown by the results. And we're just – we're going to look for the right time to get drilling out there, I guess.

Okay. And then on the well cost savings in East Texas going from $5 million to $4.5 million, is that primarily driven by the six fewer drilling days? Or it seems like there's also some completion cost savings in there. Can you, kind of, break down the split between drilling and completions?

Yeah. Right now, getting these wells around $5 million is driven by using service cost deflation that's out there and drilling about as good of a well as we've been able to thus far. Our current average is probably somewhere in the 36-day average, some shorter, some longer. And really where it comes down to is we're drilling the vertical portion of the hole outstanding. It's just when we get to the Cotton Valley, it's taking us a little bit longer time due to a tight sands [indiscernible] (19:21) versus the shale, whereas in the Woodford, we can drill those as fast as a couple of days. Sometimes, it's taking us a pretty significant amount of time.

So right now, what we're looking at – probably at a high level [indiscernible] (19:35) what our biggest opportunities are. It's just having a larger hole sections due to lateral, which we're contemplating going up to 7.875 inch hole section there, which is an increase from about 6.75 inch right now. And really what that's going to do is it's going to give you the ability to have more enhanced motors, mud motors, better PDC bits, just a better hole to drill with and we think we can ultimately shave off, like I said, probably as much as six days. And like the Woodford, we're pushing the envelope every time we drill a new batch of wells and getting better. So probably a long ended answer to your question is I don't have a percentage break out. I do know that some of the service cost deflation that we're seeing right now on the pumping is already embedded in that estimate of $5 million. So the majority of the next $0.5 million would probably due to technological advancements.

Okay. Great. And then on Thunder Bayou, when it comes online at that estimated 38 million a day, I know – I think on the flow test, you had talked about 22 barrels of oil per million and 35 barrels of NGL per million. Is that kind of the way the production split on the liquid side should break out? Or how do we think about the production mix of the 30 million in gas and the breakdown of the oil and NGLs?

You nailed it. It's exactly that. I mean, we originally modeled everything off of La Cantera and that's pretty close to what La Cantera does right now. We were able to, when we were doing our flow test, get some gas analysis and confirm that those are the numbers. So when we're looking at our production and modeling that out, those are the assumptions that we're using, it's 22 barrels per million [ph] in the 35 (21:26) and we're saying somewhere around a gross gas rate of somewhere in the 30 million a day range.

All right. Great. Thank you, guys.

Sure. Thanks.

And our next question comes from Will Green of Stephens. Please go ahead.

Morning, guys.

Morning, Will.

I wonder if we could stick with Thunder Bayou for a minute. And do you guys have a sense of once that's gets categorized as producing, if it comes online as you guys expect, how the bookings on that change?

Are you talking about relative to the bank group or just internally?

To the bank group specifically. But I'd love to get your take internally as well, if you're willing to give it.

Well, I'll take the reserve. The reserves aren't going to change from the actual booking at this point. At year-end, we had to classify that reserve as a PUD because there were still significant capital to get the project for final production. So for our SEC reserve, we were forced to call that a PUD and then we're almost in the process of moving it to PDP. That in itself aren't going to change, won't change the estimated EURs of the well. What will ultimately do that is as we produce this well and we see what the lower zone does in conjunction with how we have it modeled, we can possibly start booking positive reserve revisions this year, depending on what production looks like.

And, Will, as it relates to the bank group, while I can't tell you specifically what the value was prescribed in the last redetermination, generally speaking, they limit the undeveloped assets or non-producing assets to 25% to 30% valuations. So it obviously gets capped out at some level. And so moving that asset into a producing category will allow it to be uncapped from what the realistic value is.

Great. And then as we think about this coming online, potentially producing at or above how you guys expect, there's obviously still a big delta of what you guys booked at year-end, a 40 Bcfe versus the 3P at [ph] 150. (23:43) And so, you kind of walked through there being some front-end loaded costs to that, of getting it online, but it still had an impact of I think $50 million to the PV-10. So should I expect that the value of that additional reserve base you guys are booking gets a lot bigger as you guys move more towards that 3P? Does that make sense?

I mean, ultimately, yes, it will, but part of it will have been produced at that point. It's just like most of these big discoveries have. If you think back to La Cantera back in its original bookings, we probably had somewhere in the 45 to 50 Bcfe booked on that original discovery. And we've already produced some 85 to 90 Bcf. And we've had that being booked at roughly [ph] 105, 110 now. (24:38) So it just takes a little bit of time. So the answer is yes. It's just as you produce these reserves, you're going to have positive revisions, if it comes in as we have it expected, but, at the same time, you're going to be running off that cash flow for producing the reserves. Did I answer it?

Yes. Perfect. I appreciate it, guys.

Sure.

And our next question comes from Richard Tullis of Capital One Securities. Please go ahead.

Thanks. Good morning. Just a quick question from me, Todd, I was just trying to get, kind of, a like-for-like well in West Relay comparing the ethane rejection wells now versus, say, the wells drilled in prior quarters or last year. How do they compare if you adjust it for ethane in the prior wells?

I think, in general, the overall equivalent wet gas rate's a little bit lower on this last group of wells as we stepped out to the west some more. What you're seeing is, is a little bit of a richer well and so you can see that when you look at the liquids component of these wells, even though we're at ethane rejection, you're probably still a little higher on a NGL percentage, which shows that it's a little bit of a richer area. It came on with a slightly lower wet gas rate, but it's a different composition. So maybe, I'm shooting off the hip a little bit here, Richard, but maybe 10% to 15% lower on a wet gas number. But once again, the composition is completely different.

Okay. And then the cost compared pretty similar?

I would say that in general, the wells drilled very similar but with lower cost structure driving that West Relay well down to where we've actually drilled a couple of them in seven days. We drilled two of them in a seven day timeframe, which – that's coming down from the low-teens even last year. I mean that, in North Relay, we were somewhere around the 13 day to 16 day and we drove that down in West Relay last year and now we're driving that down even more. It's a combination of a lot of factors, better rigs because of more availability, pushing the envelope with technology, just getting – drilling 170 of these things now, we're trying to do everything we can to drive those costs down as much as possible.

Okay. That's all from me. Thanks, Todd.

Thanks.

And our next question comes from Ravi Kamath of Seaport Group. Please go ahead.

Yeah. Hey, guys. Just a quick numbers question. I think you mentioned Q1 2015 sort of accrual CapEx was $27 million, but you reported cash CapEx in your cash flow statement was $36 million. So just looking for the rest of 2015, what the cash CapEx number will be?

Well, the big difference was the Fleetwood deal. You guys will remember last year when we entered into that transaction, we had to book the entire liability, effectively as CapEx in 2014, so that was accrued at the end of last year. So as we spend the money, obviously, this year, it doesn't go toward your GAAP CapEx per se in terms of you're changing your forecast tool. But on a cash flow statement basis, it will show up.

So when you think about what that number looks like on a go-forward basis, when you look at the liability at [ph] $331 million, (28:18) we've got about another $8 million sitting there in the accrued acquisition costs that will be spent by the end of the year, either in the terms of us carrying our partner on the well or completing the transaction and paying them the balance at the end of 2015. So looking forward, it's probably going to be somewhere around $8 million of Fleetwood cash CapEx, it was counted as CapEx in 2014 on an accrued basis.

Got it. So thinking about the full year cash CapEx would be $60 million to $70 million plus the $8 million? Right?

That's correct. That's right.

Great.

All total.

Great. And then one question on Thunder Bayou, the 38 million cubic feet equivalent per day, how long would you expect that to be maintained at those kind of levels? And maybe talk about first and second year of kind of declines – decline rates on that?

Well, the original thought process was it's going to stay flat for a little while now. Whether that's going to be three months, six months or two years, it's hard to say, because we're looking 20,000 feet below. I can tell you that the analogy across the [ph] decline (29:37) over at the original producing well at La Cantera stayed flat for almost a year-and-a-half to two years. So it's really going to be as a result of whenever water starts inhibiting us to produce that well at a rate that we feel comfortable. So the well should come on water free, and it should stay water free for some period of time, and it will start making water at some point if it's going to be a water drive reservoir.

At some point, we either producing it and dispose of the water as such, or we'll move up hole and drain the rest of the reservoir though a recompilation. So I think we have it modeled to stay flat roughly for probably six months – five months to six months end of this year. And – but that could be – it could come sooner, or it could come later.

Got it. And you said flat to the end of the year and, for 2016, how are you modeling it or how are you thinking about it?

Well, we never put up our production guide as yet, but my guess would be that we'll probably be moving up hole somewhere around there and recompleting in the thicker part of the sand with the high rise, with a higher production rate.

Got it. Great. Thank you.

And our next question comes from Andrew Coleman of Raymond James. Please go ahead.

Great. Thanks a lot for taking my questions here, guys. First of all, I was just kind of looking at the Thunder Bayou, as those volumes start coming on, apologize if you covered it earlier, but will those revenues – will we see that come out and be added into the oil stream? Or will it be broken into an NGL bucket as well as an oil bucket in terms of reporting purposes? Just curious how to think about basis and NGL prices over the next couple of quarters?

Yeah. We'll do it the same way we do everything else, Andrew, and that's break each product down into specific buckets, wherever it belongs. So we'll have the three stream reporting for this well as we do for everything else.

And as it relates to pricing, this oil should get an LOS lift, my guess, is a couple of bucks. It's going to be trucked, not barged and so we will receive the premium pricing.

Okay. Good. So the NGL prices at – well, they were on the $18 a barrel range in the first quarter there, those are probably going to head up a little bit because it's probably getting closer to the Gulf and getting some of that premium price in there on the NGL side too, correct?

Yeah. I think you're using $18, that's probably a blended NGL barrel, and in general, our Gulf Coast barrel is going to be the highest priced of the three regions. So we can circle back offline and kind of share with you what La Cantera's NGL barrel was.

About $20.

Okay. So, Bond is saying La Cantera average about $20 in the first quarter. So depending on what the thesis on what NGL oil prices are going to do from here forward, that's probably a pretty good proxy, because it's going to the same [ph] plant.(32:32)

Okay. Good. Good. And then so I guess second of all, I think this is kind of part of Will's question earlier as well also that with Thunder Bayou, when that comes on, I know you all had the impairment there in the first quarter. As you roll forward, with a little bit lower commodity prices, is there a risk of getting additional impairments in the second quarter? Or do you think that the addition of Thunder Bayou in the movement into the proved category kind of provides a little more cushion to the non-cash numbers there?

No. I mean, Andrew, from an impairment perspective, we still get all the estimated PV-10 from Thunder Bayou on a 1P basis, even though it's PUD versus PDP. And so, as you know, what's going to happen from an SEC pricing perspective, we're going to roll off higher prices on a three-month basis, and you're going to pull in three lower month pricing. So there is a possibility for future impairments as we move throughout the year depending upon what direction commodity prices go. But you're definitely going to be replacing at least for this quarter lower prices with higher previous prices.

Okay. And then secondarily, is the adjusted kind of DD&A run rate that you all pointed to for the second quarter of $1.65 to $1.75, does that factor in the improvements from the book impairment in the first quarter? Or is that still yet to come in the guidance level?

No, it's factored in the impairment. Obviously, when you take a big impairment, your DD&A rate's going to go down on a go-forward basis.

Okay. Great. Thanks a lot, appreciate the help.

Sure.

Thanks.

Our next question comes from Dan Guffey of Stifel. Please go ahead.

Morning, guys. You talked about the bump in liquidity that you're going to get once you have the July redetermination. I'm curious you also mentioned you're going to monitor costs and prices in the environment and if you see those improve, you may allocate more drilling dollars. I guess I'm curious. I guess, what prices do you need to see kind of later in the second half to reallocate capital and where does your first dollar of incremental capital go?

Well, I think in general, Dan, we want to see the liquidity, see what happens. I can't sit here and tell you exactly what's going to happen to our liquidity in the next borrowing base. We feel very good that Thunder Bayou coming on is going to help it. But right now, we want to monitor our liquidity position, first and foremost, and that's why we finished off our programs. We have the biggest asset coming on here in a couple, three weeks and we will see what cash flow looks like with the commodity debt that appears to be strengthening, but we're just going to watch that with anticipation that if we do have the liquidity and we feel comfortable doing it, we'll get back to work later in the year. The incremental dollar of capital, as of today, would go to East Texas just due to the results we're seeing, due to the composition of the flow, the repeatability of it, we feel very confident that we can eke out a good return in that area.

As far as an exact price, as you can well imagine, there's quite a few moving factors. If we are able to drive our costs down to a level of below this $5 million estimate that we're on right now, it will take a lower price to generate a positive rate of return and we can do that in today's world of a five-year strip at what [ph] $3.35 or $3.40 (36:12) and oil probably in the mid-to-high $60s on an LOS basis. But with that said, we're going to be looking at cash-on-cash returns. We're going to be looking at the actual liquidity that we have and making sure that we're not just getting it on a rate of return basis that could take us two years to pay back and eating up liquidity in a pretty tough environment.

Okay. Thanks for the color. I guess one last one for me, looking at the Cotton Valley, your 2014 and 2015 program was primarily on the eastern edge of your acreage in the higher working interest area and even going back into the 2011 to 2013 program, you kind of mainly were focused on that eastern flank. I guess, is there any timetable to go out and test your acreage on the west and the north?

Well, in general, we're on the east because that's where the infrastructure is. And if you think about that map, that's in our presentation, you can see that everything out there has existing well bores producing from vertical contribution. So from a geological standpoint, we have tested this area and we know the expected results.

Additional to that, we have some pretty well-known partners around that area, both within our acreage position. Right in the middle of it, you can see an open area as well as over to the left side, they're drilling some very successful wells. So while we don't have the same amount of horizontals that move to the west and all the way to the western side of our position, we're not going to go do that without existing infrastructure being added. And we're not going to go incur a bunch of infrastructure costs just to go do that because we already feel like that's some proven up the inventory based on what we've done vertically and what the other industry players around us have done.

So with all that being said, we do want to continue to develop the asset throughout the area. So we're working with our midstream partners and our joint venture partner to ultimately get down that road, but it's part of a full-field development.

Okay, great, appreciate the color. I guess, sorry, one last one for me, moving over to the Woodford, just curious if you could provide some detail of what's left on the remaining JV acreage in both the Hoss and West Relay? And...

The West Relay is $18 million as of quarter end and Hoss is, as we've disclosed, it's just a number of wells. Everything we drill out there will be with our partner. And so we've drilled – we have two producers. We're fracking eight of them and it's 19 sections up to 38 wells. So it could be another some 20 to 28 wells that could be drilled out there, of which, we've already drilled quite a few of them.

Okay. Great. Thanks for all the color, guys.

Sure. Thanks.

And this concludes the question-and-answer session. I'd like to turn the conference back over to Mr. Quantz and the team for any closing remarks.

Yes. Thank you, everybody, for their time this morning and please follow up, if you have any additional questions.

Thank you. The conference has now concluded and we thank you all for attending today's presentation. You may now disconnect your lines.