Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Matt Quantz — Manager-Corporate Communications, PetroQuest Energy, Inc.
Charles T. Goodson — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, PetroQuest Energy, Inc.
William Todd Zehnder — Chief Operating Officer, PetroQuest Energy, Inc.
J. Bond Clement — Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and Treasurer, PetroQuest Energy, Inc.
Ronald E. Mills — Analyst, Johnson Rice & Co. LLC
Jeb E. Bachmann — Analyst, Howard Weil, Inc.
Will O. Green — Analyst, Stephens, Inc.
Richard Merlin Tullis — Analyst, Capital One Securities, Inc.
Rehan A. Rashid — Analyst, FBR Capital Markets & Co.
Andrew Coleman — Analyst, Raymond James & Associates, Inc.
Andrew S. Peterson — Analyst, Simmons & Company International
Kim M. Pacanovsky — Analyst, Imperial Capital LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, and welcome to the PetroQuest Energy, Inc. Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call. All participants will be in listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] Please note this event is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Matt Quantz, Manager of Corporate Communications and Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you. Good morning, everyone. We would like to welcome you to our second quarter conference call and webcast. Participating with me today on the call are Charles Goodson, Chairman, CEO and President; Todd Zehnder, COO; and Bond Clement, CFO.

Before we get started, we would like to make our Safe Harbor statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Statements made today regarding PetroQuest's business, which are not historical facts, are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. For a discussion of such risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements, see Risk Factors in our annual and quarterly SEC filings and in forward-looking statements in our press release. We assume no obligation to update our forward-looking statements.

Please also note that on today's call we will be referring to non-GAAP financial measures, including discretionary cash flow. Historical non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in our press release, included in our Form 8-K filed with the SEC yesterday.

With that, Charlie, will get us started with an overview of the quarter.

Good morning. During the second quarter, we produced 10.7 Bcfe, or approximately 118 million cubic feet of gas equivalent per day. The 118 million cubic feet equivalent per day was comprised of approximately 85 million cubic feet of gas, 2,500 barrels of oil, and 3,000 barrels of NGLs. With the back-end loaded production profile, we expect to report quarterly production records in the third and fourth quarters.

Revenues for the quarter were $60.6 million and we posted net income of approximately $9.6 million, which exceeded the net income available to common shareholders earned all last year. Product price realizations averaged approximately $102 per barrel of oil and $30 per barrel of NGL. Natural gas realizations were $5 per Mcf.

Before I turn the call over to Todd to go to the details of our operations, I want to touch on our Cotton Valley program. Our East Texas team has done an tremendous job with this emerging liquids-rich asset as evidenced by our five-well 2014 average IP rate of approximately 12 million cubic feet equivalent.

However, we remain in early stages of development and there is room for improvement as we increase our understanding of this tight sand formation and refine our operational techniques. Please keep in mind that we've only drilled and completed 14 horizontal Cotton Valley wells and yet we've seen a 90% improvement in our average IP rates since our initial wells.

We believe the development of this trend will mirror other resource plays whereby both the costs and well performance continue to improve with each new set of wells. This view supported by the results we have seen to-date has led us to begin planning for a much more robust drilling program in 2015.

As we sit here today, we're evaluating [ph] picking up a (3:35) rig in the fourth quarter which would kick start our 2015 Cotton Valley drilling program that could include more than 15 wells. With more than 200 horizontal Cotton Valley drilling locations identified, we have many years of running room continue to post these top tier results. Our Carthage property is simply the tight sand [ph] plan of a 4 Tcf giant (3:54) field. We feel by adding state-of-the-art technology, PQ and other adjacent owners over time can very possibly double the ultimate recovery of this field. In addition, we're part of a growing resource play that extends across North Louisiana and East Texas.

With that, I'll turn it over to Todd to go over the operations.

Thank you, Charlie. As Charlie just noted, we are very excited about our recent Cotton Valley program. In yesterday's press release we announced our latest three Cotton Valley wells and with PQ #13 and PQ #14 achieved maximum 24-hour gross gas rate of approximately 8.8 million and 9.8 million gas per day, respectively.

Our PQ #15 well contained 3,100 foot lateral, which is approximately 1,500 feet shorter than our PQ#13 and PQ #14 wells, and still posted an impressive 24-hour rate of approximately 8.4 million a day. The liquids cut on these wells is consistent with our previous 2014 results, and are currently producing approximately 570 barrels of natural gas liquids and approximately 30 barrels of oil per day.

It's important to note that our Cotton Valley NGL barrels are akin to a high-quality Gulf Coast barrel which significantly adds to the value of this production stream. We are seeing our typical Carthage Field NGL barrel comprise of 24% of C4s and C5s. This high-quality liquid barrel coupled with a relatively shallow production decline is translating into an attractive rate of return and strong EUR estimates.

As an example, in conjunction with our second quarter reserve report, we increased our internal EUR estimate on our 2013 PQ #9 well. This well has now seen four consecutive quarters of positive performance revisions. Initially PQ #9 was booked at approximately 6.4 Bcfe in the second quarter of 2013. A year later our estimates call for this well to ultimately produce 9.8 Bcfe. Running the economics using this well's EUR estimate and current cost, which we believe will ultimately be driven down over time, the internal rate of return is ranging from 60% to 90%, depending on what gas price assumptions. As Charlie mentioned, we are currently contemplating picking up a rig later this year, and we are planning for a significantly more active drilling program next year.

Moving on to the Gulf Coast where in late June we closed an oil focused joint venture with Midstates Petroleum. Under this partnership, we, along with Midstates, have obtained exclusive rights to a 200 square mile proprietary 3D survey which has generated several conventional and shallow non-conventional oil-focused targets. The first two prospects, Widgeon and Mallard, will commence in the fourth quarter of 2014.

Widgeon is a non-conventional horizontal test of the oil-prone Cockfield formation. What attracts us to this play is that in a lot of ways it's similar to our Cotton Valley asset and that we are entering an area that has been productive from vertical wells over time. Our goal here is similar to what we accomplished in our Carthage field, which was to significantly increase the estimated ultimate recoveries by implementing a horizontal drilling program and resulting frac process.

Offsetting our Widgeon prospect have been 13 vertical Cockfield wells that are expected to ultimately produce on average approximately 80,000 barrels of oil per well. By applying the latest horizontal and fracing technologies, we hope to increase the ultimate recoveries by approximately three to five times.

If we are able to accomplish this type of uplift multiple on a repeatable basis and well costs come in at our projected $4 million to $6 million range, this play will become a tremendous success. However, if uplift multiple turns out to be more than two to three times, the project will still generate attractive rates of return, boost our oil production, and give us an inventory of approximately 40 repeatable oil focused drilling locations. While it's still very early and we have yet to drill a well, we are very excited about the upside of this project and hope to have an initial result by the end of the year.

Next will be our Mallard prospect, a 17,500 foot single pipe test that will target a Lower Wilcox 4-way closure. If the initial well is a discovery, the structure will most likely require several additional wells to properly drain the entire reservoir, which we estimate could be as large as 30 million barrels of oil equivalent. We have 25% working interest in this prospect, which we expect to spud around the same time as our Widgeon test.

We have two additional prospects within the JV area that will be tested during 2015. We will provide more details on our Gadwall and Pintail prospects as we approach year-end.

In addition to planning for our near-term Fleetwood activity, our Gulf Coast team has been active on the operational front, establishing first production from our Eagle Crest discovery and drilling ahead at Thunder Bayou. Our Eagle Crest project was recently brought online and is currently flowing at a 492 barrel of oil rate and 2.3 million of gas per day on a 15/64" choke. We have an approximate 47% net revenue interest in this project, which should provide a nice cash flow stream over the next couple of years.

Moving on to our high-impact onshore Thunder Bayou prospect located in Vermilion Parish, we are currently drilling at approximately 5,000 feet. Our latest estimates call for us to reach total depth of approximately 21,000 feet during the fourth quarter. We have gross drilling cost of approximately $21 million and a 50% working interest in this 162 Bcfe liquids-risk target, this project clearly provides us with an attractive risk/reward opportunity.

Before leaving the Gulf Coast, I wanted to provide a quick update of our Gulf of Mexico acquisition we made last July. Production continues to remain stable and has actually increased from the back-half of 2013. Oil volumes during the first half of 2014 from the assets acquired were up 20% from the second half of 2013, totaling nearly 300,000 barrels.

Finally quickly turning to our Woodford programs where our Tulsa team continues to prove up our West Relay field by consistently posting outstanding results. Our latest three-well pad achieved an average max 24-hour rate of 4.1 million a day of gas and 626 barrels of NGLs. Today our 14 West Relay wells have achieved an average maximum 24-hour rate of approximately 3.6 million a day of gas and 575 barrels a day of natural gas liquids. This performance is exceeding our pre-drill IP rate by approximately 50%. We are very encouraged by the performance we are seeing with each new week of production, but want to obtain additional production history before updating our formal EUR estimates.

That being said, we've added a second rig into play and we have forecasted to bring on a new pad approximately every month. At this rate we should have a significant statistical data set by the end of the year to update type curves. Nevertheless using our existing 4.6 Bcfe type curve, these wells are generating a 100%-plus internal rates of return on a repeatable basis.

From an inventory perspective we believe our West Relay acreage holds approximately 275 gross drilling locations providing multiyear running room under a two-rig program. Lastly in addition to our liquids-rich West Relay program, we are currently planning for potential activity on our Hoss field during the fourth quarter relative to our new dry gas joint venture.

With that, I'll turn it over to Bond.

Thanks, Todd. During the second quarter we generated discretionary cash flow of approximately $35 million, a 77% increase as compared to the $19.8 million during the second quarter of 2013. Based on our production expectations during the third and fourth quarters, we expect our sequential discretionary cash flow growth profile to continue for the remainder of this year.

In addition to our rising production profile, we've experienced significant cash margin expansion over the last year in response to the 56% increase in oil and NGL volumes from the second quarter of last year. Our per unit cash margin has increased from $2.11 per Mcfe in the second quarter of 2013 to $3.10 per unit in the comparable 2014 period. This 47% improvement has helped drive our strong growth in cash flow and earnings.

During the quarter, our LOE totaled $12.2 million, or $1.13 per Mcfe, which was below our previously issued guidance range. Absolute LOE in the second quarter of 2014 was down 4% from the third quarter of 2013, which was the initial quarter reflecting last summer's acquisition. This decrease in LOE highlights an outstanding job by our Gulf Coast team who are focused on integrating these assets into our portfolio and driving down costs by capturing efficiencies between the legacy properties that we owned and the newly acquired assets.

G&A cost for the second quarter totaled $6.5 million and included $1.3 million of non-cash stock comp expenses. Overhead costs were within the range of our guidance. Interest expense during the quarter totaled $7.4 million and we capitalized $2.5 million of interest during the quarter.

Looking at the balance sheet during the quarter, we invested $67.5 million in CapEx. The breakout of this capital is approximately $37 million of drilling CapEx, $24 million in acquisition cost, $0.5 million of seismic and G&G, and $6.2 million of capitalized overhead and interest. I will point out that $24 million in acquisition cost represents our entry into the Fleetwood joint venture that we disclosed earlier this year. Approximately, $10 million of this commitment is expected to be spent during 2014 with the balance to be spent in 2015. For purposes of our balance sheet, however, we are required to reflect the entire $24 million commitment as 2014 capital expenditures even though the majority of dollars won't actually be spent until next year.

Looking at production guidance we put out yesterday for the third and fourth quarters, you can see that we're forecasting sequential production growth as our onshore ramp is in full swing. Our production guidance for the third quarter does consider some downtime in the Gulf Coast for certain facilities maintenance that should be concluded by September. Current projections call for us to produce between 122 million cubic feet equivalent per day and 128 million cubic feet equivalent per day equivalent and 134 million cubic feet equivalent per day and 140 million cubic feet equivalent per day for the third and fourth quarters, respectively. The midpoint of our fourth quarter guidance would represent a 23% production increase year-over-year. In total, we expect our production mix for the year to be approximately 72% gas, 15% NGLs, and 13% oil.

On the hedging front, we have about 440,000 barrels hedged at an average floor price of $98.33 for the second half of this year, a roughly 42% of what we expect to produce during the period. We also have approximately 17 Bcfe of gas hedged at an average floor price of $4.16 for the second half of 2014, a roughly 40% of our expected production.

We recently executed our first 2015 gas hedge, a [ph] 5,000 Mmbtu (15:01) per day contract with a $4.32 floor price and we will continue to look for opportunities to add to our 2015 hedge book as we like to utilize a dollar cost average approach as we've done in the past.

With that I'll turn it back to Charlie.

Thanks. The PetroQuest has evolved since the financial downturn in 2008 is in many ways unique, but at the same time mainstream energy company. We have by design assembled and high-graded our three main and growing core assets. Our business plan continues to be focused on maintaining control of operations, allowing us to balance our CapEx spending with our cash flow, an increasingly popular theme throughout the industry is our ability to allocate capital between our basins is flexible, sustainable in a pre-$50 plus natural gas world when you analyze the diverse set of projects Todd described earlier.

Also we have created a balanced portfolio that enables us to deliver industry satisfactory returns ranging from 30% to 150%. In summary, the second half of 2014 leading into 2015 will be extremely transformational as we accelerate the Cotton Valley along with educating the market about this great evolving trend.

With that, I'll turn it back to our host and open it up for questions.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] At this time we will pause momentarily to assemble our roster. And the first question will come from Ron Mills of Johnson Rice. Please go ahead.

Good morning.

Good morning.

Good morning.

A question, maybe, Todd for you on both East Texas and Woodford. You talked about IP rates relative to type curves higher by 40% or 50%. Two things, at least in Woodford you may look to update that type curve by year-end. When may you revisit that type curve for East Texas as part of it? And your guidance, is that also based off of your existing type curves? In others words, is there some upside related to well performance versus the type curves that exists in the second half because those wells are performing better than those types curves?

Yes, let me address Cotton Valley first. What we did today on the phone was, we just gave an update on our – what we would call our new vintage well, the well that we drilled in 2013 where we had that well booked at about 6.5 Bcfe or 6.8 Bcfe originally. After 15 months of production, we currently have that estimated to be a 9.8 Bcfe type well. I am not sure if we're ready to call that our type curve yet, but what we can tell you is all five wells that we've reported so far this year are at or above the initial production rate of those wells. And with the limited production history we've seen, there is no reason not to think they can't be as good if not better than those wells.

Following up on the second part of your question, those wells, especially the three that have been brought on literally over the last five to seven days, and I'll point out still cleaning up to this day, this morning's production report are higher than – at least on a spot rate, the production rates are higher than what we've disclosed. Those have been modeled in for the rest of this year using our type curve, which is approximately – it's roughly about 8 million a day equivalent IP rate. So if you look at the three wells we disclosed in the press release yesterday afternoon, they are probably at an average of about 12 million, so about a 50% uplift. So there is production upside to those numbers.

Following up on the Woodford, it's the same thing. We have production history on the first I guess 14 wells that we had announced prior to this. So those wells would be baked into the reserve report which is forecasting production. However, all additional wells would be more baked into on a type curve basis.

Okay, great. And if you end up getting a rig I guess back into the Cotton Valley in the fourth quarter, when you talked about significant levels of increases from a relative economic standpoint, that area looks to start to rival even the promoted economics in the Woodford. You've drilled six wells this year. What is significantly higher level? Is that 10 wells to 12 wells, or is it 15 wells to 20 wells potentially?

It's more like 15 wells to 20 wells, Ron. We are currently working on 2015 plans and specing locations, getting rigs. One of the things that we just need to address is for the back-half guidance being a little lower than most people expected was we had delays in both East Texas and the Woodford programs. We're going to drill probably 37 wells in the Woodford versus 50 wells in the original budget and that was as a result of delays in rigs.

And then also just having service delays, rig delays in East Texas really pushed us back probably on average about two months for the program. So we wanted to be clear, the guidance is a little lower than some people had expected, but the well results are coming close to offsetting that, and I think that's the most important thing.

With that being said, we want to get a jump on 2015, and so we're just going ahead and taking the measures right now to get ready and start surveying the rig market, putting our full plant together, and as we sit here that should be somewhere in the 15 wells to 20 wells range.

Okay, and then...

Ron, I want to point out also, what we're trying to do is make sure we have a full development plan on where we're going to be drilling, how many of those wells are 100% versus 50%, partnership elections. It's more than just saying exactly where we're going. We've got to figure out which working interest we're going to be playing in.

Great. And then Bond, maybe for you. The impact of the facility downtime both at West Delta and La Posada. Is there any sense as to what kind of impact that is in terms of timing or volumes during the third quarter, and did you said this will be done by the end of September or are they already completed?

We expect them to be done during the month of September. In terms of an impact on 3Q, just as a rough estimate, Ron, we're thinking probably $6 million to $8 million a day net equivalent downtime for the month of August.

Perfect. I'll jump back in queue. Thank you, guys.

Thanks.

The next question will come from Jeb Bachmann of Howard Weil. Please go ahead.

Good morning, guys.

Good morning, Jeb.

Just a few questions back to the Cotton Valley. Just wondering, Todd, looking at the improvement in the IP rates, if you're tinkering with the completion design there and maybe if you've looked at doing the upsize frac or the depth's too great on the pressure side to have any kind of impact there?

Well, I think we're looking at a couple of things right now. It's the length of the lateral, staying in zones, sand thickness and using what we would consider probably an optimized frac on the wells and number of stages. We've generated probably more frac intensity on these wells and have similar lateral lengths to the old vintage, but we're tinkering with a few different things, but it's not too much new science being done. It's just really using industry practices.

Okay. And then in terms of the partner, Chevron, are you guys pretty much able to submit AFEs to them and get wells drilled without any kind of pushback at this point?

Yes.

Okay. And then looking over to Thunder Bayou, can you remind us, are there any shallow targets in that well?

Once we cut into the tracking fall, there could be additional upside, if you will, but we won't cut into that until we're probably at 16,000 feet to 18,000 feet. It's really playing – probably the [indiscernible] (23:38) deeper from that point.

Okay, great. That's all I had, guys. Appreciate it.

Thanks, Jeff.

The next question will come from Will Green of Stephens. Please go ahead.

Good morning, guys.

Good morning.

To follow on the completion design there. How many frac stages are you guys per foot or how far apart are you spacing those in the Cotton Valley now and how much room is there to kind of tighten those up so to speak?

What we're doing right now is roughly about every 300 feet to 350 feet and it's one of those things if it's not broken, don't mess with it. And the results that we've had so far have been extremely positive. We'll monitor that over time. We will monitor as a result of how these wells look, how other wells in the areas look, and gain as much information. But clearly drilling these lateral that are 5,000 feet with 15 stages roughly and having the well costs coming like they are and the productivity coming on like they are, wildly economic and just excited to get going again.

Great. And then another thing, these Cotton Valley rates look great. I wondered if we could talk about maybe the choke size you guys are using, how the pressures have held up since then. And you guys are obviously pleased with how the curve is shaped, but do you guys have any sense on initial decline for these first handful in the Cotton Valley program?

Are you relating to the 2014 wells or the 2013?

The most recent basket was announced.

What we'll typically do, Will, is we will watch the water rates and how they are flowing back. And as a general rule, we're not going to open those up, pass a 40:60 flow-head choke in general. That's the general statement. Sometimes it's a little less. If they're dryer wells, we may increase them a little bit past that, but for the most part we're going to get to that rate. We're going to watch the water, not flood the system, not flood the water system is what I'm talking about, get them to dry up, and get them up to about 40:60 force, and then just leave them there and watch the decline over time.

What we're seeing from a linear decline curve in general from day one to day 365 is approximately a 60% decline. And so we have 11 wells that have data points that are that long, and we feel pretty comfortable. One of the things we're watching is the higher IP rate wells versus the lower IP rate, is there much of a variability in the decline curve? And once again, I'm using a linear number when I say that. And we're not seeing much of a difference thus far, so that's a good estimate for us to give you right now.

Right. I appreciate all the color, guys. Thanks.

Sure, thanks.

And the next question will come from Richard Tullis of Capital One. Please go ahead.

Hey, good morning, everyone.

Good morning.

Going back to Cotton Valley wells real quick, are you expecting the liquids level – I guess, it's around 25%, maybe a little bit more in the bigger EUR to kind of hold to that same level versus say the older expectations, Todd, or...?

Yes. We are so far, Richard. What we've seen across the field and we've drilled wells, primarily hanging on the East side more than the West side, but we've drilled all the way up and down North and South. And we've seen a pretty consistent liquids cut even amongst the different lenses of the Cotton Valley. These wells are coming in, I'm not sure, if I've said it on the call, probably somewhere in the 50 barrels to 55 barrels per million. And once again to stress the importance, having about the quarter of that coming in at the pentane and butanes, which obviously, are more akin to WTI pricing is really helping out with the economics.

Additionally, we are seeing oil on all of the wells. It really varies, especially early because you're making so much water for us to get an accurate reading and separate it properly. And like I said earlier, the last well we reported has literally been on for like five days. So we don't report any oil. Although we know it's going to be making some oil and that generates 30 barrels to 70 barrels a day on average is where they come in, IP rate, and obviously that's $100.

Okay. Good. Thank you. The 3Q, 4Q guidance I know Bond mentioned that it includes some downtime at facilities. Are you also baking in any potential storm downtime into the number?

We are. Yes. The third quarter guidance it has some downtime both at our – at two major facilities being La Posada and West Delta. We have all of the Gulf Coast hurricane risk for the month of August and September. And then we have lower or what I'll call tight curve IP rates just because they're so new for our Cotton Valley wells, which could all be driven upward over time.

Okay. Thunder Bayou early drilling pace, how are things going there? I guess, 5,000 feet so far, are things going a little bit slow initially or...?

Yes. It took us a little while to get the bit in the ground honestly, Richard, just have to get rigged up, big rig, and we spud a little later than we thought. That was not a financial impact to PetroQuest. It just took the contractor a little longer to get the rig started. Once started, things are going well. We drilled a big surface hole. We have 20-inch surface casing down to approximately 5,000 feet, and we are about to get to the more routine part of the hole before we get down deep, which is the important piece. So, I think, we came out the gates a little slower, but once the bit went in the ground, things are going as expected.

Okay. And then lastly, Todd, looking at the midpoint of 3Q, 4Q guidance, I guess it's implying around 5% to 10% quarter-over-quarter growth. How should we look at going into 2015 with say a similar type CapEx program. Should we look at 5% quarter-over-quarter growth is a possibility there?

Well, Rich, we don't have guidance out for 2015, but I think if you just look at it on an organic basis, the fourth quarter of 2014 guidance is up about 20% to 25% from the fourth quarter of 2013, so looking at next year with no large acquisitions contemplated from an organic perspective, I think the similar type growth rates are reasonable.

Okay. All right. Thanks a bunch.

Thank you.

And our next question will come from Rehan Rashid of FBR Capital Markets. Please go ahead.

Good morning, guys. Thinking about again next year at 15 wells to 20 wells, Cotton Valley, I mean, does this incremental drilling is going to be on top of kind whatever was planned and kind of what's happening in the other areas or will it take away capital from kind of current capital allocation spilt?

Yeah. I guess, one of the nice things about being a small cap company is we are pretty flexible on how we run our business and we're going to allocate capital to the best rate of return possible. So in looking at the results we've had this year, it's just going to be hard not to put this level of activity in the Cotton Valley. So it ought to be a reallocation from various areas, and you know there is a lot that's going to happen between now and the end of the year when we put our CapEx in production and so forth; big wells down here, a new project going down here, additional drilling in West Relay, looking at type curves. So we just know that we have a pretty good program set for next year and once again, depending on where those wells are drilled and the actual working interest that will drive the CapEx needs of next year.

And Rehan, I think the biggest change is from the beginning year to now is the fact that we can [ph] deliver and put (32:11) four rigs in West Relay or we could put four rigs in Carthage at will. And we haven't had that flexibility in the past. And then you've still got the – what's going to happen in South Louisiana, which certainly the impact of [ph] vendor volume (32:29) is going to kind of shake some of that, but I think [indiscernible] (32:36) rate of return project is, we can put capital in either one of those areas at will.

Got it. No, clearly material de-risking since the beginning of the year, if Thunder Bayou comes on good in terms of results, it's going to be online pretty quickly I presume?

Yeah. It's on land; it's in the heart of the infrastructure of South Louisiana. My guess is probably somewhere around February 1, somewhere in the month of February would be a good estimate.

Okay. So, no any longer lead time item from a processing or anything standpoint that will be needed, that will push it out too much further?

That's correct.

Okay. Thank you, guys.

Sure.

And the next question will come from Andrew Coleman of Raymond James. Please go ahead.

Hey, good morning. Thanks for taking my questions. Lot of stuff has been covered, just wanted to touch, I know you guys [indiscernible] (33:31), I guess you all have been looking at some seismic data there. I guess still on track to have that processed by the end of the year, and I guess as you just think about 2015, do you think this will fall in the capital program next year?

At kind of a first painting of the canvas, if you will, we do have some money allocated there Andrew, I wouldn't say that we are done evaluating it, but in the Pawnee area we have some pretty interesting ideas that have popped up. As far as it being a lay down Mississippi Lime well across the board, we don't see that being the play. It ought to be more conventional site opportunities. And they look intriguing. At this point we are letting the Tulsa team finish up their work. And we will go ahead and start looking at those projects and planning for 2015 at some point. But it does have some capital allocated at the first very rough estimate that we will do it internally.

Okay. And of the $127 million of unevaluated PP&E on the balance sheet, roughly how much would be in that bucket from this line I guess that acreage holding cost?

I don't have that in front of me, Andrew. If I'd to guess, I would say it's probably $10 million to $15 million, but I can confirm that back in my office. The big change in unevaluated from the first quarter was obviously the entire Fleetwood acquisition cost of $24 million was booked as unevaluated.

Okay. It sounds good. And then kind of looking at mix, the Cotton Valley wells are about 70% gas as you're kind of at about 70% gas right now. As we look at 2015, at first blush, the Woodford wells are close to 50% gas, a little higher oil mix. I mean, should we still keep turning down that gas mix in the company or do you think 70% is probably a good steady state sort of mix going forward?

I think it's probably good for right now to keep it because it looks like the quarter-to-quarter trends are staying somewhat consistent. But I think the big driving force would be two-fold, one what does Thunder Bayou do and it's a success, what does the production stream look like? And then secondly and probably more importantly is if Fleetwood turns out to be an active development in both the Cockfield and another prospect that we have that we will be talking about later in the year. Those will be extremely oily and hopefully pretty quick hit that could drive the production stream differently.

All right. Thank you very much.

Sure, thanks.

Our next question will come from Andy Peterson of Simmons. Please go ahead.

Good morning.

Good morning.

Sticking with the Cotton Valley, for the 2015 plan on the 15 wells to 20 wells, do you guys have any color on where do you guys might be placing those. Are they going to stick to the more Eastern side of the acreage or do you think you might be doing some additional delineation?

It's going to be a mixture of things. Andy, it's going to be around the East side where we have some 100% acreage. We are definitely going to have some wells there, both in the Northern and Southern parts of the field, but what you'll see is a continued progression to the West.

However, for many reasons – first of all, all this acreage is HBP. So, it's not like we have to move around and hold acreage. We have facilities that we are hanging around that we don't have to incur cost or time delays for both water and gas handling. So we're going to be generally on the Eastern side of the field but progressing more toward the middle. And at this point it appears that it should be a pretty even development between the Southern and kind of Central to Northern part of the field, which are playing in the E4 and the [indiscernible] (37:34) of the Cotton Valley.

And Andy we are working on updated corporate presentation. So we hope to have the map of the Cotton Valley field with some of those locations identified out shortly.

Perfect. Thanks Todd. And then for my follow-up question, is there any additional opportunities for down-spacing and increasing that 197 peak locations?

Yeah, I mean over time there is always going to be ways to generate more locations a) from continued de-risking of this and just taking 48,000 acres and putting a spacing, this is identified location. I think two things, one, you may have additional acreage that will give you horizontal activity opportunity and then as we continue to prove up various lenses of the Cotton Valley, it may have some type of crossover where you could drill multiple wells in an existing area targeting different lenses. But at this point, we have plenty to say grace over as we sit here today.

Sure, sure. And then finally... [indiscernible]

(38:42) is the fact that being able to – with the rates on the shorter lateral it gives more flexibility to put wells in, so because you are less land restricted in the area. So that well to us is extremely important, in fact that it's producing almost at the same rate as our longer laterals.

Okay, perfect. Well thanks for that guys. That's it for me.

Thanks.

And our next question will come from Christopher Shook of Imperial Capital. Please go ahead.

Hi actually it's Kim Pacanovsky. Good morning everyone.

Good morning.

You commented that you need to determine if the higher IP rate wells are declining faster than the lower IP rate wells and so far you haven't seen much of a difference. But how much production history do you need to really make you comfortable that the decline is similar to – and be able to move up those type curves?

Well, you know Kim, it's one of those things that on the initial well that we recall, the most recent vintage came on, on April 1, 2013 if I remember my dates correctly and it took us approximately six months to update that rate from an EUR's estimate of about 20%. With another six months we increased it approximately 20% more. So, I think with more well activity you become more comfortable of booking higher EURs throughout the field. But it's hard for me to say in 30 days I'll feel comfortable calling this a type curve well or 60 days. The good news is we have wells that have performed in this area as we watch these from a rate and a pressure and a water rate standpoint. If they are tracking at or above, we will get to that point much sooner than we would have if we didn't have this well that has 390 to 400 some odds days of production.

Okay, great. And then in the Woodford, FPL has a statement on their website that they've partnered with you in the Woodford and this is I guess an additional 38 well program. Could you just and I know that you guys don't talk about the actual numbers within the program, but can you just talk about the IRRs and if you expect similar IRRs with this additional 38 wells?

Yeah, I mean, first of all, we are excited about the opportunity to be working with another aspect of our partner and it's got a different area that we are going to be playing in. it is a dry gas area and it has strategic reasons for doing that. We are currently in the planning processes of trying to get back to work over there. We have a much smaller working interest in this side. We are going to have about a quarter of the wells. And as we sit here today on a just pure dry gas, we are thinking IRRs in the 65% to 75% range.

And what kind of price [ph] tag (41:41)? [ph]

$4 to $4.25 (41:44).

Okay. All right. And then just one last question, you had mentioned some service delays, could you also talk about what you are seeing on the service cost side?

I mean on the cost side, I think we are seeing firming to slightly upward pressure, if you would. I wouldn't call it at an alarming pace, but clearly with most people like us getting much more efficient with drilling rigs, we're seeing a little bit of tightening and service cost pressure on the fracing side, but nothing too material.

Okay. Great. Thanks a lot, guys.

Thank you.

And ladies and gentlemen, this will conclude our question-and-answer session. I would like to turn the conference back over to Matt Quantz for his closing remarks.

Yes. I wanted to thank everybody for their time this morning, and please follow-up with any additional questions that you have.

And ladies and gentlemen, this will conclude our conference call. We thank you for attending today's presentation. You may now disconnect your lines.