raw transcript


Petroquest Energy, Inc.
 
PQUE
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 2, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning. My name is Leslie, and I will be your conference facilitator today. At this


time, I would like to welcome everyone to the PetroQuest Energy Second Quarter Earnings


Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the


speakers’ remarks there will be a question and answer period. [operator instructions]. Thank you.


Mr. Zehnder, you may begin your conference.


W. Todd Zehnder, Director-Corporate Communications & Marketing


Thank you, Leslie. Good morning everyone. We would like to welcome you to our second quarter


conference call and webcast. Participating with me today on the call are Charlie Goodson,


Chairman, CEO and President; and Mike Aldridge, CFO.


As you have come to expect, we would like to make our Safe Harbor statement under the Private


Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Statements made today regarding PetroQuest business,


which are not historical facts are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties.


For a discussion of such risks and uncertainties, which we could cause actual results to differ from


those contained in the forward-looking statements, see risk factors in the Company’s Annual Report


on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31st, 2004. With that, Charlie will get us started with


an overview for the quarter.


Charles T. Goodson, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer


Good morning. During the quarter we produced 4.6 Bcfe or 50.1 million cubic feet of gas


equivalent per day, which was a 25% increase of production in the comparable quarter of 2004.


Approximately 30% of production came from long life basins. Revenues were $30 million with


product price realizations averaging $44.89 per barrel of oil and $6.20 per Mcf of gas. Net income


was $3.9 million, and net income per share was 8 cents.


Moving onto operations. During the second quarter, we drilled three wells in the South East


Carthage Field in which we hold a 100% working interest. All wells encountered productive sands


in Cotton Valley and the Travis Peak formations. We have now brought on line and began


production of six wells, since we began our drilling program during September 2004. Our total net


production in the area is in excess of 10 million cubic feet equivalent per day. And our goal was to


have a 2005 exit rate of 10 million cubic feet per day in the field. And, we have accomplished to


sustain that in the first half of the year having only drilled 50% of the planned 2005 program. In the


ongoing field study, we have now identified over 100 additional locations and are beginning the


process of utilizing the second rig in Carthage Field later this year.


Our drilling program in Arkoma Basin continued the second quarter with 13 additional horizontal


CBM wells drilled and completed. Initial growth production rates have averaged 350 Mcf per day


per well. We added a second rig beginning in June to accelerate the development of our current


acreage and have it participated in numerous other outside operated wells. We currently have two


operated and one non-operated rig working full time in the area. We anticipate drilling


approximately 45 wells in this basin during 2005, in which we have drilled 19 during the first half of


the year. All the way, we entered the basin of a hard trunk [ph] coal, our acreage sets up the


opportunities for several other intervals including the oil sands and that which updating fractured


sales. We are planning to participate in several non-operated wells in the near term and began our


initial evaluation in several of these areas [ph].
raw transcript


Petroquest Energy, Inc.
 
PQUE
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 2, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Moving onto Gulf Coast, during the quarter, we drilled a successful well at our Gumbo Prospect


located in South Louisiana and Cayenne [ph] approximately 84 feet of net productive sand in the


primary objective. We have an approximately 27% net revenue interest in this well. Pebble is


currently producing at a gross rate of approximately 8 million cubic feet equivalent per day. We are


continuing to tie and to a successful well, our Pebble Beach Prospect in Permian 3/11 [ph]. We


logged approximately 89 feet of net productive sands, completed and tested a well and are now on


the process of a subsea tieback to host facility. We have an approximately 27% net revenue


interest in this well and we anticipate production to begin during September at an initial growth rate


of 15 million cubic feet equivalent per day.


We are also currently drilling our Oakbourne Prospect in South Louisiana. This well has gross


enriched reserves and approximately 30 bcfe, we have 20% working interest. Lastly, we are drilling


our Pelican Point Prospect in South Louisiana. This well has gross enriched reserves of


approximately 91 bcfe and we hold a 25% working interest.


On April 12th, we acquired an expiration production company’s operations in Gulf of Mexico. We


acquired approximately 10.5 bcfe of total – for a total consideration of approximately $15.6 million.


The acquired properties are currently producing approximately 6 million cubic feet equivalent per


day and we assume [indiscernible] is covering 5 million cubic feet equivalent per day, because our


[indiscernible] 2005 is 4 million cubic feet per day for 2006. The acquisition increases our absolute


rate growth by approximately 42 percent.


We have also closed several acquisitions totaling 9.7 bcf and over 50 mile to gathering in pipeline


since in the Arkoma Basin for approximately $33 million. Two of these three transactions closed


during the third quarter collectively, the properties are currently producing approximately 2 million


cubic feet per day and there is a rig operating on all these properties. The acquisition expands our


net acreage position in the Arkoma Basin to over 21,000 net acres and adds approximately 250


drilling locations. We have already identified approximately 10 Bcf of probable and possible


reserves. Additionally, probable and possible reserves should be identified through a more


extensive analysis, additionally the transaction brings our pipeline ownership to approximately 108


miles, which were used to transport our own gas along with generating revenues for transporting


third party gas. And, we began work at Main Pass to lay the lateral pipeline, which connects the


interstate line. We still anticipate the field is back on production by late summer. At this time, I


would like to turn the call over to Mike Aldridge.


Michael O. Aldridge, Chief Financial Officer, Principal Accounting Officer, Senior Vice President,


Treasurer


Thank you Charles. Our direct capital expenditures budget for the year is approximately $90 million


to $100 million, which did not include any capital used to fund acquisition. We spent approximately


$25 million related to our drilling activities in the second quarter, the bulk of which related to the


drilling and completion operations, which Charles previously discussed.


Year-to-date, we have spent approximately $48 million related to our drilling activity. During the


quarter, we closed on a $150 million of senior notes of 10 and 38 percent, which is the first time in


our corporate history that we sold public debt. We have some of the proceeds to pay down all of


our existing outstanding debt and to fund the previously discussed acquisition. We had


approximately $79 million of cash remaining end of the June 30th but we have used approximately


27 million for acquisitions during the third quarter.


Our current plans call for producing between 49 and 53 million cubic feet equivalent per day net of


the company for the third quarter and between 50 and 55 million cubic feet per day net of the


company for the year ended December 31st, 2005. With that, I will turn it back over to Charles.