raw transcript


PFF Bancorp, Inc.
 
PFB
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 25, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning and welcome to the PFF Bancorp Third Quarter Earnings Conference


Call. At this time all participants have been placed on a listen-only mode and the floor will be open


for questions following the presentation. And it is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to your


host Larry Rinehart, President and CEO. Sir, you may begin.


Larry Rinehart, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Elisa. And welcome everybody to the PFF Bancorp third quarter earnings call. We


usually tease [ph] you at the start of the things about the forward-looking statement, but there’s


quite a few forward-looking statements in this press release. So, I do want to caution you to read


the disclosure on that.


Going directly into the earnings, the net earnings of 9.6 million for the third quarter or 56 cents per


diluted share compared very favorably compared to 11.1 million or 66 cents per diluted share for


the comparable period of 2003. And we are going to be discussing in this call exactly why that


happened. Plenty of opportunity for you at the end, do some question and answers on that too.


Some really good news with the earnings where that income taxes – the earnings before income


tax increased 7% to 18.9 million for the current quarter compared to 17.7 million. And again Greg


is going to get into this further, but the increased tax rate that we had for this quarter and actually


that we had in the previous quarter too has impacted our earnings, but there is bright light on the


horizon for that. Very significant fundamentals for PFF, they performed extremely well for the


quarter, where net interest income risen by 1.1 million to 38.7 for the current quarter and compared


to the same quarter prior fiscal year, net interest income for the current quarter is up about 5.2


million or 15 percent. So, very substantial increase in net interest income.


Also very pleasing to us were the total deposits increasing to about $118 million, up 14% from one


year ago. And I believe that in addition to the existing branches which is filed on some core


deposit, it shows the success of our de novo branching strategy, they far exceeded our


expectations. A particular importance in the deposit area are the acquisition of core deposits, they


increased $93 million and are up almost – although about 235 million or 15% from one year ago.


So with a 34% growth in core deposits over the past year and very strong growth in the non-interest


bearing deposit growth.


The Four-Cs is really the area that we focused on for the past several years and again they remain


very strong. Production increased 32.8 million during the quarter and from the same quarter and


from the same quarter prior fiscal, we are up in the Four-Cs categories, 363 million or 28 percent.


So, that shows that the Four-Cs, you know, are still very strongly in demand here at PFF and we


will speak about them in a minute as far as contrasted to our single-family residential portfolio. On


a sequential quarter basis, the net interest margin did contract 4 basis points, 4.02. However that


was really attributable to the issuance of the 30 million trust preferred that PFF Bancorp did back in


September. Greg is going to be elaborating in his comments a little further and also giving you


some big predictions for the coming quarter on what he sees that happening for the net interest


margin and spreads.


The growth in the Four-Cs brought the portfolio to a record of 1.66 billion that’s about 49% of loans


and leases receivable and contrast that to 1.30 billion or 44% of loans and leases received about


one year ago. So you can see that demand is strong, growth is strong in this area. I think, more


importantly the Four-C originations, the new originations that we are doing on a monthly basis were


582 million or 87% of total originations for the current quarter and again that’s compared to about


79% of total originations prior quarter. We are continuing to succeed in the most profitable area of
raw transcript


PFF Bancorp, Inc.
 
PFB
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 25, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


the business, which is our Four-Cs and again as I mentioned the opening of our Beaumont branch


in November; Mira Loma, Rancho Cucamonga, Riverside coming up in the spring in summer of


2005 will further expand our footprints in the Inland Empire. We have discussed the Inland Empire


with you many times that it is the hardest real estate and job growth market in the United States


and it is just a pleasure to do business is here. I was particularly pleased to see the growth that we


had in Trust in investment fee income, frankly that’s the language [ph] for quite some period of time,


but we are up $107,000 in fees, that’s an 18% increase of the same quarter prior fiscal. And of


course correspondingly, the fee income from this, you know, and the assets under management


both grew.


G&A expense increased about $3.5 million or 16% between 12th of 2003 and 12th of 2004 to $24.5


million. But, approximately 3.2 of this 3.5 million increase occurred during this latest quarter, third


quarter that we are reporting, the 3.2 million sequential quarter increase in G&A was attributable


primarily to an increase in comp benefits, the vast majority of that being moneys that we have to


pay out for the employees for the Executive or the ESOP program and SERP program. Again,


Greg is going to provide additional details on this, because this is a very significant part of the


financial picture for this last quarter. And we want to address any, you know, questions that remain


in our Q&A portion of the conference call.


It was really kind of a good news, bad news situation in so far as the ESOP expense and which


contributed most to the growth in G&A. The good news is that they cost us a lot more than we


anticipated, because the stock price appreciated dramatically. And we have some plans in place,


we are going to be discussing with you. Show you what’s going to happen at the ESOP just down


the road here as we begin fiscal 2005 with the opening of it on April 1st.


Also, our tax rates that we paid this year is in the vicinity of 47 percent. That should decrease


substantially to 43 percent, again I will let Greg get into the numbers on that. Asset quality for the


bank remains extremely strong. We’ve got 0.33% of gross loans and receivables on non-accrual


status and that’s a reduction. We continue to provision for a loan loss reserves and it’s not


because of asset quality, I think that’s a key point that I want to handle home here on. Asset quality


remains very very strong. It’s simply a matter of the growth that we’ve had in the portfolio,


particularly when you deal with the Four-Cs, you will hire allowances that you got to provide for and


the growth in that portfolio has that cost of the bank that we believe is a prudent way to do business


and our regulatory authority certainly agree with this.


We did not do any stock repurchases during the current quarter. But, for the nine months ended


12/31 of 2004, we have repurchased 319,000 shares, weighted average priced at $36 per share.


There is remaining allocation from the board for repurchases about 192,000. We will continue our


efforts to support a [indiscernible] stock value through additional authorizations and again Greg will


discus little more with you on that.


Before turning the phone conference over to Greg, I would like to make a few general comments


and observations that you may not have picked up in the news release that you suggest my


thoughts on what happened to this last quarter and where we are going from here. Although at first


glance, our earnings for the quarter might appear to be a little bit disappointing I believe truly that all


in all it was a generally good quarter that had some unforeseen surprises that should not reappear.


Most importantly and the parts I want to get across in this conference call, is the future of the PFF


Bancorp stock and our earnings looks very bright at this time. And let me give you some reasons


why I believe this. Our net interest income was up substantially on a linked quarter on prior year’s


quarter basis and there appears to be no reason why this trend should not continue. So that’s a


primary driver of the growth and earnings of the bank.


Our deposit growth particularly in core deposits is extremely strong and our de nova branches


again are performing above our highest expectations. The Four-Cs growth is extremely strong and


again this appears to be a continuing trend. The very minor shrinkage we had in net interest