raw transcript


PFF Bancorp, Inc.
 
PFB
 
Q4 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 22, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning, and welcome to the PFF Bancorp’s Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference


Call. At this time, all participants have been placed on a listen-only mode. And, the floor will be


opened for questions following the presentation.


And, it is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to your host, Kevin McCarthy, Senior Executive


Vice President. Sir, you may begin.


Kevin McCarthy, Senior Executive Vice President, Senior Executive Vice President, and COO


Good morning, and thanks for joining us this morning. I got to introduce, my name is Kevin


McCarthy and I am the Chief Operating Officer of PFF. And, I am joined this morning by Greg


Talbott, Executive Vice President and CFO; Jerry Browne [ph], Senior Vice President and Chief


Loan Officer; Larry Rinehart, CEO sends his regrets that he wasn't able to be here this morning.


As we go through the numbers today, you will see that we continue to operate in a very favorable


environment. The Inland Empire continues to enjoy strong new population growth, strong job


growth and resulting rapidly expanding infrastructure. As a result, housing demand continues to


exceed supply and both de novo and existing branches continue to experience rapid deposit growth


much of that being in the desirable low-cost and non-interest-bearing deposit. This type of growth


enabled us to report today a 15 basis point expansion on interest margin during this last quarter


ended March 31st driving net earnings to a record $45.8 million, or $1.81 per diluted share for the


year-end March 31st compared to $40.9 million or $1.63 per diluted share in the prior year. And,


this is adjusted for the 3-for-2 split as of March 3, 2005.


Earnings before-tax has increased to 18% to 85.9 million for fiscal 2005 compared to 73.1 million


for fiscal 2004. Our effective tax rate increased to 46.7% for 2005 compared to the prior year. And,


this is primarily due to the non-deductibility of a significant portion of our ESOP expense, and Greg


will discuss this a little further in a minute. It should lead into a continued earnings growth


momentum with a total deposit growth rate of 11% during the year. Included in that total was 14%


growth from a year ago in core deposits bringing the low-cost percentage of total deposits upto 65


percent. That’s up from 64% of total the deposits a year ago.


Non-interest-bearing deposits increased 31% during the fiscal year and now represent 10% of the


total deposits. This reflects the success that our business relationship officers are now enjoying, as


well as the brand success and cross-selling relationships. As a result, the average cost of total


deposit-to-core deposits was 1.54% and 0.97% for the year. That’s as compared to 1.55% and


0.93% in the prior year.


On our loan side in the 4Cs, construction and commercial business, commercial real estate and


consumer lending, that volume increased 24% during the year to 1.71 billion, a 50% of the loans


receivable net. And, that's compared to 1.38 billion or 44% of the loans lease receivables a year


ago. In fiscal 2005, these higher-yielding 4C originations were 84% of the total originations. That's


pretty consistent with the stage of originations in the prior year.


Net interest income increased 16% for fiscal 2005 compared to 2004 reflecting a 17% increase in


average interest-earning turning assets partially offset by a 3 basis point year-over-year contraction


in net interest margin to 4.08 for fiscal '05 on a sequential quarter basis. Total deposits and core


deposits increased 31.3 million and 4 million respectively and the 4Cs increased 15.1 million. This


growth contributed to the 15 basis points sequential quarter increase in net interest margin to 4.17


for the quarter ended March 31st.
raw transcript


PFF Bancorp, Inc.
 
PFB
 
Q4 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 22, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


In addition, non-interest income increased 10% during the year primarily due to gain on securities


and fees related to this strong deposit growth, as well as increased fees due to the growth in our


trust and wealth management areas.


G&A expense increased 13% total for the prior year. That's primarily in the compensation benefits


related to the branch expansion and performance-based competition, and Greg I think will expand a


little bit further on that number in a minute.


Asset quality remains very strong with non-accrual loans down 30 basis points from 37 basis points


of gross loans a year ago.


Our success and continued to increase the proportion of our balance sheet [indiscernible] are


yielding 4C-type of loans, as well as attracting and retaining the low-cost deposits resulted in our


strong net interest margin. We are confident that given the quantity that we are working and the


strong under the Inland Empire and a continued growth in population, jobs, as well as the excess of


demand, over supply hasn't stopped. We are going to be able to continue to identify these lending


opportunities, as well as the branch number opportunities that will support our ongoing business


strategies, as well as provide a momentum for continued earnings growth.


And, with that, I will turn it over to Greg.


Gregory C. Talbott, Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice President, Treasurer


Thank you, Kevin. As Kevin alluded to you, we closed out fiscal 2005 with a very strong fourth


quarter driven by our continued success in growing the higher margin segments of our balance


sheet, specifically the 4Cs and core deposits. He mentioned that on a year-over-year basis, margin


came in just 3 basis points. That is pretty good for an asset against the balance sheet with rates


having dropped to historical lows. With rates having come off those historical lows, we are seeing


the real value of our balance sheet come into light. That’s clearly evidenced by 15 basis points of


margin expansion that we saw last quarter.


Both our loan and deposit portfolios grew by about 10% last year. More importantly, that growth


was concentrated in the 4Cs and core deposits. We did have a slight decrease in earning assets


during the March quarter due entirely to a decrease in our 1-to-4 [ph] portfolio. We said it before


and it’s important enough that we should say again that we will not compromise the profitability of


our balance sheet by leveraging up with either securities or 1-to-4 [ph] mortgages on [indiscernible]


advances. We are getting a sufficient level of growth in the 4Cs and core deposits to meet our


earnings targets without sacrificing quality of our quantity of assets.


An important aspect of that disciplined approach to balance sheet is a commitment to sound capital


management. We repurchased 750,000 shares or about 3% of our stock last quarter. For the


year, we bought back approximately 1.2 million shares or roughly 5% of shares outstanding. That


brought our capital assets ratio to 8.6% at March 31st. That’s down from nearly 9% at December


31st of last year. Even at 8.6 percent, we are still slightly above our target range of 8.25 to 8.5. So,


we have the capacity to engage an additional repurchase activity based on about $10 million of


excess capital that we are sitting on right now.


Looking forward to the additional sources and uses of capital from earnings, about 60% of our


capital formation through earnings next year or this current fiscal year – fiscal ‘06 began April 1 will


go supporting growth in the balance sheet, another 30% of our capital formation will go to


maintaining our cash dividend. We have an expressed intention of maintaining that cash dividend


at in the vicinity of 2 percent. We are right around that like 2.1, 2.2% yield right now. We intent to


look at continuing to increase that dividend commensurate with the increase in price of our stock in


order to maintain that 2% yield. So, 60% of the capital going towards growth in the balance sheet,