raw transcript


PFF Bancorp, Inc.
 
PFB
 
Q2 2006 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 25, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning. My name is Vani [ph] and I will be your conference facilitator today. At


this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the PFF Bancorp Incorporated Conference Call. All


lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers’ remarks


there will be a question and answer period. [Operator Instructions]. Thank you. It is now my


pleasure to turn the floor over to your host, Larry Rinehart, President and CEO. Sir, you may begin


your conference.


Larry M. Rinehart, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, very much and thanks to all for joining us. We are going to report today on our second


fiscal quarter earnings, which takes us through 9:30 of ‘05 and it’s become our custom here, we


had another very good quarter, and we are very, very pleased with it. We hit 54 cents a share,


which is right on line with the consensus estimate. There is a few things in here pertaining to


earnings that are favorable for PFF and I will be getting into those and also having Greg Talbott,


our CFO, who is joining me today to expand on those. Additionally, I have got Kevin McCarthy, our


Chief Operations Officer and Jerry Groene, our Chief Loan Officer.


As mentioned, we did hit 54 cents on EPS and that was exactly what the forecast was. I think, very


importantly in that regard though, the net earnings were 13.4 million versus the same quarter of the


prior year of 13.2 million. But, even though, we are 200,000 bucks ahead, that’s not much. Most


importantly in that regard, however is that fact that we had thus and fairly substantial gains on the


securities transactions in the quarter of ‘04. So, excluding gains on sales of securities, the earnings


before income tax has actually increased 1.6 million or 7% between the linked quarters, very


pleased with that.


Even more importantly, I was extremely pleased to see our net interest margin continued to expand


and fairly substantially with another 11 basis points to 4.18% for the linked quarters. And, it was up


1 basis points sequential quarter basis, I think, that we are going to see a continuation of that,


hopefully that’s going to be the case. But, we are working very hard right now to maintain and if


possible to enhance the net interest margins and that is where our focus remain.


In that regard, net interest or net interest income did increase 2.2 million, 6% from the comparable


quarter of ’04. Just importantly, in our asset liability committee meetings, we pay a very close


attention to deposits, that’s 50% of your equation of your net interest margin expansion. And,


we’ve had a very substantial increase of 12% from one year ago and that was little over $120


million in new deposits. Greg will describe the components of that expansion a little bit later when


he speaks to you, but very significantly it’s primarily in our core deposit.


We continue to do some de novo expansion. We opened our 30th home service banking branch in


Miraluma, California in September and that brought to four number of branches opened during the


past year. The Inland Empire, which is where our Miraluma is located is still booming. And, we


have every expectation that we will continue to do some de novo expansion within the Inland


Empire area and perhaps venture to outside of the Inland Empire in areas that we see great


potential for a substantial growth.


On the 4Cs, which is those of who have listened to us over the years, you know, that is our focus,


the construction, commercial business, commercial real estate, and consumer loans very nice


increase of 31 million during the quarter. And it now comprises the 4Cs comprised about 52% of


loans and leases receivable. 4C origination or 636 million or 87% of the total originations for the


current quarter and that's about 170 million from the prior quarter. So, we are very, very pleased


with the progress we are making in that area.
raw transcript


PFF Bancorp, Inc.
 
PFB
 
Q2 2006 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 25, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


There is a little bit to discuss, as far as, our issuance of floating interest rates for securities and that


will have great bid into the rationale for it. Why we deem that to be an effective funding tool and


Greg will speak to you in just few minutes on that. Assets under management by Glencrest, which


is our Wealth Management Company in the Banks Trust Department rose very substantially to 577


millions that were – about a $0.5 billion and that compares to roughly 390 million the same quarter


prior year. So, very substantial increase there. We continue to focus on Glencrest. We look at this


the Glencrest operation and our trust operation has being very significant in increasing fee income


for the bank. So, we will continue to focus there, as well as, our wholly and subsidiary diversified


builder services. And, Greg again will take you a little bit through the DBS operations, which


continue to astound us in a very favorable manner obviously, and produce very substantial fee and


interest income for the bank.


Our efficiency ratio was about 48.8% for the quarter, right about where we want to keep it. With the


complexities we have been dealing with 4C originations and focusing on core deposits, anytime we


are below 50% in efficiency ratio, I am pleased. And, I think, 48% is pretty reasonable. We are


always again its – additional opportunities to reduce cost. But, at this point in time, I am afraid who


took that ratio down too much further that we would be hurting ourselves in the some of the


productions advertising type areas.


Asset quality remains exceedingly strong, non-accrual loans declined to about 11.9 million or


0.28% of gross loans and leases, as that is truly outstanding. We do continue to add to the


allowance for loan and lease losses. A lot of that has to deal just with the growth of the portfolio


items to any trends on the horizon that would suggest to us that asset quality will decrease or


deteriorate from where we are right now. It’s looking very, very strong.


We again repurchased about 328,000 shares for our common stock during the year. And, for those


of you who have been with us from the start, you know, that remains an extremely strong goal of


PFF to jump into the market and repurchased our shares, whenever we feel that is the best


utilizations of our capital and the price wants it. So, I think that you will able without going too far


out here, I think that you will see that trend continue periodically throughout the year. And, so far


as repurchases go, it depends upon a awful lot of factors, but we have very aggressively


repurchased shares in the past and it’s my opinion that we will continue to do so in the future.


That’s the overview of the highlights here. In order to give you some detail, I am going to turn it


over to our Executive Vice President, Greg Talbott, with our Chief Financial Office. And, at the end


of his comments, we will switch over to Jerry Groene, our Chief Loan Officer, who will talk to you a


little bit of what he sees an housing cost and growth opportunities for the Inland Empire, Southern


California. And, following Jerry’s comments, then we will open it up for questions from the


audience so, with that, Greg.


Gregory C Talbott, Chief Financial Officer, Principal Accounting Officer, Executive Vice


President and Treasurer


Thank you, Larry. While 4Cs increased $31 million last quarter with most of the growth coming in


September. The 4Cs are up almost $200 million or 12% from a year ago. As Larry mentioned, 4Cs


originations of almost $640 million were up 37% from the year ago and represented close to 90%


October originations for the quarter. That increase in originations is reflected in a $100 million


increased in undispersed construction funds over the past three months taking the balance of


undispersed construction funds to a little over $700 million. That $700 million is in addition to the


840 million in construction loan balances that are presently outstanding. One way to view that $700


million is, as an order backlog, meaning that those dollars committed to go out to fund projects that


are presently underway. You know, unlike a revolving line of credit, that may never get dispersed,


those construction funds that 700 million is virtually assured of going out to complete existing


projects. That will give us some insulation against pay downs on the construction portfolio and it