raw transcript


PFF Bancorp, Inc.
 
PFB
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 22, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning, and welcome to the PFF Bancorp Incorporated First Quarter Earnings


Conference Call. At this time, all participants have been placed on a listen-only mode. And, the


floor will be opened for questions following the presentation.


It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to your host Larry Rinehart; President and CEO. Sir,


you may begin.


Larry M. Rinehart, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, PFF Bank and Trust


and Director


Thank you very much Jay and welcome everybody to the first quarter earnings conference call of


PFF Bancorp. I am very proud to announce our earnings for the first quarter. We did 12.4 million;


49 cents per diluted share. The street estimate on share price for EPS was about 51, and actually


with the exception of one extraordinary item; non-recurring type item, we would have had 52 cents


a share. So, we had a – it was an outstanding quarter. Greg is going to go into the issue of why


we had to take a little bit of a hit on taxes again, but hopefully that problem is behind us. We feel


very confident, so it was a very strong quarter. The 12.4 million that we earned for this year,


compared to that 10.8 for the same period of the prior years. So, you can see that the growth is


exceptional.


Earnings before taxes increased 15% on this quarter versus the same quarter prior year. And


that’s just about our target. We like to shoot for mid-teens in growth and I guess, it’s where we


ended up. Perhaps of most significance, at least in our job here is the margin expansion, and that


was 8 basis points between June 2004 and June 2005. And, we are now at 4.17% for our net


interest margins and then, looking back at some of the [indiscernible] that puts us right in the


company with majority of National Bank and far above our thrift competitors here in the west region.


And, it’s exactly where we wanted to be. We have stated from the start that we are some what of a


hybrid between a thrift and a commercial bank and we are now proceeding again to become closer


to becoming bank like insofar as the net interest margin. So, we are extremely proud of that, Greg


will expand upon that a little bit also.


Another item of particular interest was the growth in total deposits and that’s $38 million and that


was with very stringent controls that Greg and I had put on obtaining new money. We didn’t go out


there and fight to competition everyday to get the highest rate, matter of fact we fought very hard to


keep it low at interest rate level, realizing it’s a liability side of the balance sheet. It’s just important


for the asset side. And even with the stringent controls and the strengths that we put on deposit


growth here, we did expand $38 million or 11% from a year ago. So, we are extremely proud of


that as well.


Core deposits increased about $13.5 million and that’s up 11% from the prior year. And more


importantly, core deposits now comprised about 65% of total deposits of PFF and to some of you


who have followed us for many years will remember when PFF first went public back in 1996, a


very long time ago. We really had virtually no core deposits, just about everything we had within


core CDs or in CDs and higher money market accounts.


So, we are very, very proud of the deposit growth and we are also extremely proud of the growth in


our Four-C’s; the construction, commercial business, commercial real estate, and consumer


lending and that increased 80 million bucks during the quarter and now it comprises 52% of our


total asset.
raw transcript


PFF Bancorp, Inc.
 
PFB
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 22, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Many years ago, when we were doing the road shows, we were often questioned about what is


your goal there, as far as a percentage of Four-C’s that’s comprising of the ultimate PFF asset


portfolio. You know, we said, if we could get to 50 percent, that’s our strategic plan and that’s


where we would like to be. Well, we have now exceeded that and frankly, the focus will remain on


the Four-C’s. I don’t believe there is a magic number any longer. You know, if we can get this up


to 60 percent, 70 percent, which is our objective, you know, the better it is for us and the better it is


for our investors.


So, we are very proud of the growth in the Four-C’s. We have Jim Millhyser [ph] with us today,


Vice President and Manager of our Major Loan Department and a little bit later in this conference


call, Jim is going to be speaking to you about the Inland Empire and the growth of new housing, the


demand for new housing and those types of things and give little bit of a forecast.


And, so far as branching goes, Greg and I have mentioned to you in the past that it is very much


organic, I guess, that’s the new buzz word rather than saying, you are going out building new de


novo branches, its organic growth, but that’s exactly what we are doing. We’ve just opened a new


office in Riverside. We have one coming this fall in Mariloma and again, those are both Inland


Empire cities. It's exactly the direction we want to go. We’ve had tremendous success with some


of our newer branches in Newtiva [ph], Beaumont, the Riverside branch, Montana branch,


[indiscernible] Inland Empire cities and most of those branches are foreign excess of $25 million of


deposits in less than 1 year.


So, we have had tremendous success in attracting new deposits in these high growth areas and


will continue to do so. And, so far as how many new branches we will put on the books or put into


the portfolio here. In the coming years, our goal is to do three to four a year. However, we are very


selective and so far as the locations go. So, I am not going to hold real firmly to that, that’s what we


would like to see; three to four new branches a year in the areas that people are going to and the


Inland Empire resident moving from. But, we will see.


Glencrest which is our Investment Advisory Department had a very good quarter and their assets


are now close to a little bit over $0.5 billion. They are 521 million as of June 30, 2005 and you can


see that, that compares to 382 million for the same period of the prior year. So, growth is


continuing in Glencrest we are excited about the potential for additional growth there and we think


we have this program rolling and operating extremely well.


Our efficiency ratio fell below 50% and that’s exactly where Greg and I like to keep it. So, even with


the growth that we put on, which has been very significant as far as far as Glencrest additions and


new branches and all that. We dropped from 51% to 49.3% efficiency ratio showing that we have


gained very strict attention to watching our cost. When we get into the financial accounting


standards and the taxes, I’m going to turn that over to Greg. It’s a very complex area, as I’m sure


all of you on the line are aware off. And Greg explained that recently, so we will come back to that.


I did want to address asset quality. It’s about as strong as I’ve seen in my 13 years as President


and CEO here at PFF Banking Trust and we are now down to non-accrual loans being 0.27 – 27


basis points of gross loans and leases. But that as an exceptional ratio to trend, we just had a


meeting yesterday on internal assets review, the trend continues to go down. So, it’s a very, very


strong market here. Delinquencies are virtually nil for the bank and the allowance we have also for


loan lease losses now comes to up almost 300% of non-accrual loans. So, again that’s looking


very, very strong.


Something that Greg will expand upon a little further, but I would like to touch upon is our active


repurchase program for owned shares. We continued to believe in the future of this company and


so far, as double-digit growth and we did repurchase 281,000 shares or 28.85 which is frankly a


real bargain by today’s price during the last quarter. And, we’ve almost 0.5 million shares


remaining, it is authorized by the board of directors for additional repurchases. Those that have