corrected transcript


Palm Harbor Homes, Inc.
 
PHHM
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 28, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day and welcome to this Palm Harbor Homes Incorporated Third Quarter Fiscal


2009 Conference Call. Today’s call is being recorded. At this time, for opening remarks and


introductions, I would now like to turn the call over to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mr.


Larry Keener. Please go ahead, sir.


Larry Keener, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President


Thank you, Anthony and good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today. Before we


begin today, I have a couple of things I need to cover with you. First, our attorney have required me


to remind you that all the comments made today are made within the context of the Safe Harbor


rules, that past performance is no guarantee of future results and that any comments about a much


brighter future may in fact not occur.


Secondly, there is a slight change in our protocol today. We had an ice storm go through Dallas last


night and I am in fact stuck at home and participating remotely just as you are. Joining me at the


office are Kelly Tacke, our Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President; Greg Aplin,


President of CountryPlace Mortgage; and Lyle Zeller, Executive Vice President of CountryPlace


Mortgage. That fact that we are separated shouldn’t affect the call other than when we get to the


question-and-answer session, and at that point, for, to avoid or facilitate the call I will be directing


questions to the most appropriate person on our team to respond.


Now on specifics of the quarter. Revenue for the third quarter was 89.6 million compared to 140.6


million prior year; a decline of 36.3%. Revenue decline was driven by a 36% decline in homes sold,


while overall average sales prices remain the same. Closed operations accounted for 25% of the


revenue decline. The company had 20 fewer retail locations and four fewer factories operating


versus prior year.


Revenue for the first nine months declined 22.9% from 428.6 million to 330.4 million. During the


first nine months, the company delivered 24.6% fewer homes at average sales prices 2% above


prior period. Year-to-date, 46.5% of the revenue decline was from closed operations.


Gross profit for the quarter was 21.3% compared to 22.8% prior year, a decline of 150 basis points.


The majority of this decline resulted from weaker manufacturing margins due to low capacity


utilization. Margins for the quarter were somewhat better than expected given the exceptionally low


manufacturing production rate. For the nine months, margins were 23.5% or almost flat versus the


prior year at 24%.


SG&A expense for the quarter totaled 29.3 million, a decline of 8.2 million or 21.9% versus prior


year. SG&A expense for the first nine months was 91.6 million versus a 112.1 million, a decline of


20.5 million or 18.3% year-to-date. SG&A expense reductions for the quarter and year-to-date are


the result of our major restructuring in the fourth quarter last year and our ongoing cost reduction


efforts. As a result, the amount and the rate of SG&A expense decline has accelerated through the


year. Additional decreases in SG&A expense will be discussed in detail in a moment.


The results for the third quarter were $12.9 million loss or $0.56 a share versus $0.41 per share


loss prior year. The third quarter results this year included a $0.02 per share pre-tax gain on the


repurchase of convertible senior notes. Net loss for the first nine months of this year totaled 17.7


million or $0.78 per share compared to a loss of 111 million – 111.6 million prior year or $4.88 per


share. Last year’s results included a $4.19 per share non-cash charge to write-off goodwill and


reserve for impaired deferred tax assets.
corrected transcript


Palm Harbor Homes, Inc.
 
PHHM
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 28, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


When non-operational gains and losses are netted from this year and last, the result is $1.05 per


share loss this year versus a $0.69 per share loss prior year. While we’re pleased with the inherent


margin strength of the company and with the result of our ongoing SG&A expense reductions, we


are clearly dissatisfied with our overall results.


The results in the environment we currently find ourselves in demand we do much more. To that


end, we’re taking the following actions to consolidate our business, reduce our ongoing cost and


strengthen our balance sheet in the fourth quarter. We’re closing our Siler City, North Carolina,


Nationwide Custom Homes Factory and consolidating their production into the Martinsville, Virginia


facilities. After this closing, the company will have nine operating factories, four idled factories and


three facilities available for sale. We will close between four and eight underperforming retail


locations leaving us with approximately 80 open locations.


Additionally in January, we further reduced corporate and CountryPlace Mortgage staffing and


restructured responsibilities to further flatten our organization. Since this time last year we have


reduced overall staffing by 40% and raised revenue productivity for associates despite declining


revenues.


We’re expanding our long-term flexible product introductions and time to completion efforts.


Flexible products, our recently introduced models that can be built from 12 to 2,400 square feet,


built to either HUD code or MOD specifications, all designed with variety of exterior elevations and


available by simply displaying one base model home. This long-term effort has helped us reduce


our inventories by over $8 million since September and reduced our floor plan payable by


[inaudible].


We are now routinely delivering and completing complex HUD code and modular multi-section


homes within 60 days of signed customer contract and loan closure. This increased speed has the


twin benefit of more satisfied customers and decreased receivables. Receivables have declined


13.3 million since September.


We have obtained a $10 million construction lending line for CountryPlace Mortgage to originate


conforming mortgages for homes sold by our retail locations. Since last March, when CountryPlace


Mortgage warehouse credit line lender exited the business, Palm Harbor has been funding the


construction lending needs of CountryPlace. This new construction credit facility will enable


CountryPlace to make more loans and will improve Palm Harbor’s liquidity.


We’ve engaged the National Investment Bank, an advisor, to help us determine the best strategy


for levering the over $100 million of unlevered assets in the company. We have done this for two


reasons. First, we believe the current downturn will last through most, if not, all of 2009. Second,


with Textron’s announced exit from manufactured housing floor plan lending, we’ll over time have to


replace them. Kelly, will have more to say in her comments about Textron.


The sum of the actions described above will have the net impact of reducing our operating costs,


reducing our SG&A expense, reducing our breakeven point even further and strengthening our


balance sheet. The restructuring cost for the items mentioned above will be approximately $1.3


million, which will be charged in the fourth quarter. The go-forward annual SG&A cost savings


resulting from the restructuring and the staffing reductions should be approximately $20 million


annually.


Our quarterly operational breakeven point this time last year was $154 million in revenue. We


reduced this to $130 million in quarterly revenues in the fourth quarter last year and made money


operating at that level before the credit crisis started in early September. Our new quarterly


operational breakeven point beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2010 should be approximately


105 million per quarter in revenues.