corrected transcript


Palm Harbor Homes, Inc.
 
PHHM
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
May 26, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day and welcome to this Palm Harbor Homes, Inc. Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2010


Conference Call. Today’s call is being recorded. At this time, for opening remarks and


introductions, I’d like to turn the call over to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Larry


Keener. Please go ahead, sir.


Larry Keener, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Tom. Good morning everyone, and thank you for joining us today. Joining me on our


end of the call are Kelly Tacke, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Greg


Aplin, President of CountryPlace Mortgage.


Before we begin, our attorneys have required me to inform you that all comments made today are


made within the context of the Safe Harbor rules, that past performance is no guarantee of future


results and that any comments about improving performance may not occur.


The story for the company in the fourth quarter was two-fold. First, our plant restructuring was done


on budget and ahead of schedule. Second, the company’s business improved steadily during the


quarter, starting in February and continuing on to this day. The company’s plant closing of 23 sales


centers and two manufacturing facilities was forecasted to occur primarily in the fourth quarter but


with significant costs rolling into the first quarter of fiscal year 2011. Substantially all cost and


closings actually occurred in the fourth quarter with very little trailing cost expected this quarter.


The company closed 23 retail locations exiting the manufactured housing retail operations in the


East and Arizona. We closed one manufacturing operation in North Carolina, but decided to keep


our last Arizona manufacturing facility opened. The decision to keep the Arizona factory open was


based on the committed level of commercial and multi-family modular business anticipated to be


built between now and the fall. Thus far, this has been a good decision. The factory was profitable


in April without any business coming from company-owned retail operations.


The decision to keep the Arizona factory open going forward is being reviewed quarterly. The total


cost to close all operations in the fourth quarter was $9.2 million. Approximately 4.8 million was cost


of goods sold and 4.4 million was SG&A expense. Going forward, these closures will save a


minimum of $20 million in SG&A expense annually.


The second part of the fourth quarter story was the improvement in business the company has


experienced since January. Revenues are currently annualizing at a 21% higher rate than in


January of this year.


First quarter revenues this year are running even with first quarter revenues last year, despite


operating 31 fewer retail locations and two fewer manufacturing operations. We will have further


details about current business improvements later in the call.


Now on to the specifics of the fourth quarter. Revenue decline for the fourth quarter was 12.1% to


$69.4 million. For the year, the revenue decline was 27.1% to $298.4 million. Revenue decline for


the quarter was driven by a 22.1% reduction in average selling prices and by discounts associated


with the retail sale of inventory at closed operations.


Revenue decline for the year was also impacted by the same factors above plus a 22.2% reduction


in homes sold. Gross margin declined 1,058 basis points for the quarter to 13.8% and 231 basis


points for the year to 21.4%. Restructuring accounted for 65% of the quarterly margin decline and


70% of the annual decline. The remaining decline resulted from products mix trending toward


lower-priced homes and from skyrocketing material cost in the fourth quarter.
corrected transcript


Palm Harbor Homes, Inc.
 
PHHM
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
May 26, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


SG&A expense declined 6.1% to 27.1 million for the quarter and declined $20.2 million to $100.2


million for the year. Restructuring accounted for 4.4 million of the SG&A cost for both the quarter


and the year.


Net loss for the quarter was 21.6 million and for the year 51.1 million. Loss per share was $0.94 per


share for the quarter and $2.23 per share for the year. Operationally, the comparison for the total


year, this year versus last year, excluding restructuring charges this year and gains from


convertible debt repurchases last year is at $1.83 per share loss this year versus $1.64 per share


loss last year. Despite the losses, the company took several positive steps toward improving our


financial health, positioning ourselves for turnaround and significantly improving our market share.


I’ll now turn the call over to Kelly Tacke to cover the financial highlights with you. And as mentioned


earlier, I’ll cover our improving business conditions with you later in the call. Kelly?


Kelly Tacke, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Larry. In light of the current economic environment and the ongoing challenges facing


factory-built housing industry, our top priority continued to be to manage our liquidity with a laser


focus on cash generation and cash preservation in every area of our operations.


With this in mind, during fiscal 2010 we accomplished the following: we reached an agreement with


Textron to amend the terms of our floor plan facility and extend the expiration date until April 2011


and in certain conditions further extend it through June 2011.


The agreement also provides for a gradual step down at the current total committed amount of 45


million to 25 million between March 2010 and March 2011. It favorably adjusts certain financial


covenants and allows for an increased percentage of eligible inventory to be borrowed subject to


the total credit line at the lender’s discretion.


Through CountryPlace Mortgage, we closed on a four-year 20 million secured term loan for entities


managed by Virgo. Net proceeds of 19 million after fees are currently being used for working capital


and general corporate purposes. We reduced inventories by 36.8 million and receivables by 4.9


million. We generated 15.6 million of positive cash flow from our operating activities and we have


continued to reduce our overhead expense. We ended the year with 26.7 million of cash, an


increase of 116% since the beginning of the fiscal year. We’ve also taken additional steps to reduce


our manufacturing capacity in distribution channels and realign our operational overhead to meet


current and expected demand.


During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, we closed one factory and 23 underperforming sales


centers and now have eight factories in operation and a total of 55 sales locations. As Larry


mentioned, we recorded restructuring charges of approximately 9.2 million in connection with these


actions. Of the 9.2 million about 4.8 million was recorded in cost of sales and primarily related to


the quick selling of retail inventories at reduced margins, while 4.4 million was recorded in SG&A


and primarily related to sales center and plant closing cost as well as expenses for legal and


financial consultants. No significant additional charges are expected to be incurred.


In summary, we believe the financing and restructuring transactions that we completed this fiscal


year put us in a strong position to compete in this tough environment. Larry?