corrected transcript


Palm Harbor Homes, Inc.
 
PHHM
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
May 28, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Hi, thanks for holding, everyone. Welcome to this Palm Harbor Homes Incorporated


Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2009 Conference Call. Today’s call is being recorded. And at this time, for


opening remarks and introductions, I’d like to turn the call over to the Chairman and Chief


Executive Officer, Larry Keener. Please go ahead, sir.


Larry Keener, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Kevin and good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today. I have with me


Kelly Tacke, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Mr. Greg Aplin, President of


CountryPlace Mortgage; and Lyle Zeller, Executive Vice President of CountryPlace Mortgage.


Before we begin today, our attorneys have reminded me to remind you that all comments made


today are made within the context of the Safe Harbor rules, that past performance is no guarantee


of future results and that any comments about improving performance may not occur.


Now on to the specifics of the quarter and the year; revenues in the fourth quarter were $78.9


million, a 37.7% reduction from prior year. Revenues were negatively impacted by a 47% drop in


factory-built homes shipped nationally and a 51% decrease in Palm Harbor’s top 10 states during


the January through March period. For the year, revenues declined 26.3% down from $555.1


million to $409.3 million.


Revenue decline for the year was driven by a 29% decline in homes sold, partially offset by an


average – by an increase of 3% in the average sales price. Average sales prices for the year and


for the quarter were helped by commercial and military modular sales of 16.7 million and $6 million


respectively. Commercial and military average sales prices are more than double the average sales


prices of homes sold.


For most of the prior year, the company had three factories and 22 more sales centers in operation


than in fiscal year 2009. Gross margins for the quarter were 24.4%, flat with prior year. Gross


margins in both years were positively impacted by commercial and military modular shipments.


Gross margins for the year were 23.7% compared to 24.1% prior year or a small decline of 40 basis


points.


SG&A expense for the quarter was $9.6 million or 25.1%, it declined -- excuse me, declined $9.6


million or 25.1%. SG&A expense prior year included a $5.4 million charge for restructuring.


Restructuring impairments charges this year were $2.3 million. When both quarters are netted of


their restructuring and impairment charges, SG&A expense declined this quarter by $6.5 million or


19.8%.


SG&A expense for the year was $120.4 million compared to $150.6 million prior year, a decrease


of 20%. When both years are netted of restructuring and impairment charges, the result is SG&A


expense of $118.1 million this year, compared to $145.2 million prior year, a decrease of 18.6%.


Prior year fourth quarter included $8.3 million or $0.36 a share in restructuring charges. This year


fourth quarter included $2.3 million in restructuring and impairment charges and a $4.2 million gain


from the repurchase of outstanding debentures at a discount. Kelly will have more detail for you on


our debenture repurchase activities during her comments.


Net loss for the quarter was $8.6 million or $0.37 a share, compared to $12.7 million or $0.55 a


share prior year. When the two quarters are netted of extraordinary charges, the comparison for the


two years would be $0.46 a share loss this year compared to a $0.19 a share loss prior year.
corrected transcript


Palm Harbor Homes, Inc.
 
PHHM
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
May 28, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


For the year, the net loss was $26.3 million or $1.15 per share, compared to a $124.3 million or


$5.44 a share prior year. Prior year included a $4.55 per share charge for write-down of impaired


goodwill, deferred tax assets, and restructuring charges. This year included a $2.3 million


impairment and restructuring charge and a $10.6 million gain on the repurchase of outstanding


debentures. When the two years are netted of all extraordinary charges, the result is $1.51 per


share loss this year, compared to an $0.89 per share loss prior year.


Perhaps, a brief summary of the information I just covered would be helpful in further explaining the


current status of the company. The revenue decline is significant, but not nearly at the pace of


national or core state shipments. Revenues are positively impacted by the addition of our


commercial and military modular business and the strength of company-owned retail sales centers


especially in Texas, Oklahoma and Louisiana.


Revenues are negatively impacted by the decline of sales to independent retailers, builders and


developers especially in the states of Florida, California and Arizona. Depressed housing markets


in these states and the rapidly shrinking availability of wholesale or floor plan financing are the main


causes. Despite declining revenues, gross margins remain flat at a healthy 24% plus level. Retail


margins remain good. Commercial and military margins are better than residential sales and


manufacturing margins are improving gradually due to lower operating costs.


The biggest change in the company that has occurred over the past five quarters has been the


reduction in SG&A expense. In January 2008, SG&A expense annualized at a $154 million per


year. By April last year, it had been reduced to $124 million per year. And as we start April this


year, SG&A expense should annualize at a $100 million per year.


The results of maintaining a solid gross margin and a continually declining SG&A expense is that


the company’s quarterly operation breakeven point has been reduced from $154 million in revenue


five quarters ago to a $100 million in revenue per quarter currently. Unfortunately, industry


shipments and company revenues have fallen at a quicker pace than declining SG&A expense.


However, we have not seized in our efforts to continue reducing cost to match these extraordinary


times.


We began fiscal year 2009 restructure to operate profitably and did so for the first quarter and


continued to do so through the first five months of last year. At that point, September 2008, the full


impact of the credit crisis here severely limiting the availability of retail credit and essentially


eliminating wholesale financing. The effect on shipments was devastating. The company has


responded by reducing cost and improving operating efficiencies. Since November last year, the


company has improved monthly results every month for five consecutive months.


I’ll have more to add about our go-forward plans later in the call, but will now turn the call over to


Kelly Tacke to cover the balance sheet and the key financial activities of the company. Kelly?


Kelly Tacke, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Larry. The financial story this fiscal year is really one about cash management. In light


of the current economic crisis and with no near-term signs of recovery for the factory-built housing


industry, our top priorities continue to be cash generation and cash preservation in every area of


our business. With this in mind, we accomplished the following during fiscal 2009.


We sold 51.3 million of CountryPlace’s warehouse portfolio of chattel and mortgage loan for a gain


of 1.3 million. We used a portion of the proceeds to repay in full and terminate the warehouse


borrowing facility scheduled to expire on April 30, 2008. We retired 21.2 million of our convertible


senior notes for 10.6 million of cash resulting in a gain of 10.6 million. We reduced inventories by


26.2 million and receivables by 8.2 million.