corrected transcript


Palm Harbor Homes, Inc.
 
PHHM
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 19, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day everyone and welcome to the Palm Harbor Homes, Inc. Conference Call.


Today’s call is being recorded. And now at this time for opening remarks and introduction, I would


like to turn the conference over to the President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Larry Keener.


Please go ahead, sir.


Larry Keener, President and Chief Executive Office


Thank you April. I have with me here this morning, Ms. Kelly Tacke, our Chief Financial Officer and


Mr. Greg Applins, President of CountryPlace Mortgage.


Before I launch into our discussion, our lawyers compel me to remind you that all the comments


made herein are made against the backdrop of the Safe Harbor rules and, of course, past


performance is no guarantee of future results and our predictions of a rosy future may not


materialize.


Every quarter, we take the opportunity to share with you some information that better explains who


we are, what type homes we build and what type of customers we serve. Last quarterly call – last


quarterly conference call occurred just after four powerful hurricanes had impacted Florida. On that


call we played an unsolicited audiotape by one of our customers whose home had survived two of


these hurricanes, undamaged. Since then, we have received dozens more unsolicited testimonials


from our customers. Their individual stories are amazing, as is the fact that not a single Palm


Harbor home built since the revised 1994 Wind Standards sustained significant damage. In fact, no


Palm Harbor home built since 1994 was damaged to the point that the home had to be replaced


and most were undamaged. As you can imagine, we are extremely proud of this performance. We


have recently produced a brochure and a 10-minute DVD that tells this story as told by the


customers themselves. If you would like a copy, please e-mail Colleen Rogers at


crogers@palmharbor.com. Colleen will mail you a copy immediately. I think you will find it worth 10


minutes of your time to review.


The December quarter was a period of adjustment for Palm Harbor. We streamlined company-


owned retail operations, adjusted Texas factory capacity and adjusted company SG&A consistent


with our announced plans for the quarter, consistent with the current level of industry sales and


consistent with the current level of Palm Harbor sales. We closed 12 underperforming retail stores;


5 in Texas, 2 in Ohio, 1 each in Alabama, Arizona, and Tennessee and idled one production line in


Austin, Texas for an after-tax charge of 2.8 million or $0.12 a share. Excluding these charges, the


net loss for the third fiscal quarter was 1.8 million or $0.08 per diluted share compared to a net loss


of $0.18 per diluted share last year. We estimate the annual savings of this move to be $5 million


after-tax or $0.22 per share on an annual basis. We now have 126 company-owned retail outlets


and 18 factories nationwide.


Additionally, by quarter end, we had reduced SG&A expenses for our ongoing operations by


approximately 1.5 million per quarter that were not reflected in last quarter’s results. The net result


of our third quarter charges and the SG&A reductions through ongoing operations is that at the


beginning of the fourth quarter, the company was at an approximate break-even level. The current


quarter will be one of consolidating the savings from the actions taken last quarter. By quarter end


– this quarter end, we should have the right size and the right cost structure to begin rebuilding


solid profitability starting with the new fiscal year. This assumes no improvement or deterioration of


the current annual level of factory-built housing sales.


I will cover the specifics of how we plan to do what we say we are going to do in a few moments,


but first I’ll turn the call over to Kelly Tacke to review the numbers.
corrected transcript


Palm Harbor Homes, Inc.
 
PHHM
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jan. 19, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Kelly Tacke, Chief Financial Officer


Thanks Larry. As Larry will cover in greater detail, we believe the steps we’ve taken this quarter


coupled with our strong financial condition, position us to return to profitability regardless of the


timing of the industry recovery.


We ended the quarter with cash and cash equivalents of 24.6 million. Accounts receivable and new


home inventory for company-owned superstore and builder location increased 322,000 compared


to a year ago. Approximately 269,000 of the increase is the result of the rollout of our modular


products as well as higher average selling prices. The remainder of the increase is the result of the


consolidation of products from our closed locations. As you know, during the first quarter, we issued


75 million of 3.25% convertible senior notes, due 2024. We’ve used a portion of the proceeds to


pay down our floor plan payable, which now totaled 23.9 million at the end of the quarter.


During the quarter, we sold 1,998 factory-built homes. This is basically flat compared to 2,020


homes a year ago. New factory-built homes sold through company-owned superstores and builder


locations declined 18% during the quarter. Homes sold to independent dealers and builders


increased 38% during the quarter to 853 homes compared to 618 last year. Modular homes


represented 20% of all homes sold this quarter compared to 11% last year.


Our gross margin for the quarter was 23.6% compared to 25.4% last year. Clearly, the charges


related to closing the sales centers as well as streamlining our retail operations adversely affected


our gross margin. Record high raw material prices, the availability of discounted repos as well as


the decline in our internalization rate continue to impact our gross margin.


For the quarter, SG&A increased 1.4 million or 3.4% to 41.5 million from 40.2 million last year. This


increase is due entirely to expenses associated with closing the sales centers. For the first nine


months, SG&A totaled 119 million, a decrease of 0.6 million compared to the first nine months of


last year. It has been 26 months since we expanded CountryPlace Mortgage into a full service


chattel lender with originating, servicing, and securitization capabilities. At the end of this quarter,


CountryPlace was servicing almost 128 million or 2,243 consumer chattel loans. We originated 241


high FICO score loans this quarter. Once we securitize, we will follow the portfolio method of


accounting, which means we will recognize profit as earned and the loans will continue to be


included as assets on our balance sheet even after we securitize them in the ABS market.


At our insurance company, Standard Casualty, we wrote 2,261 policies this quarter, an increase of


4% as compared to 2,169 policies last year. This quarter, BankSource originated 2,327 loans


compared to 2,223 last year. Our share of BankSource Mortgage’s loss was 726,000 for the quarter


compared to $2.1 million loss last year. This quarter’s results reflect the continued competitive


conditions of the mortgage banking industry.


And for the quarter, 36% of our retail customers were financed by either CountryPlace or


BankSource.


Larry Keener, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you Kelly. Aside from the adjustments made to our company-owned distribution, Texas


factory capacity, and our operating costs, there were positive signs that the actions we took in


earlier quarters were paying dividends.


Sales were up 7% on essentially flat unit sales. This was caused by higher priced home sales due


to higher material costs, an increase in larger home sales, and an increase in modular home sales.