corrected transcript


Palm Harbor Homes, Inc.
 
PHHM
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 2, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day and welcome to the Palm Harbor Homes Incorporated Third Quarter Fiscal


2010 Conference Call. Today’s call is being recorded. At this time, for opening remarks and


introductions, I would like to turn the call over to the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Larry


Keener. Please go ahead, sir.


Larry Keener, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Lisa and good morning everyone, and thank you for joining us today. I have with me on


the call today Kelly Tacke, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Greg Aplin,


President of CountryPlace Mortgage, and Lyle Zeller, Executive Vice President of CountryPlace


Mortgage.


Before we begin, our attorneys have required me to remind you that all the comments made today


are made within the context of the Safe Harbor rules, that past performance is no guarantee of


future results and that any comments about improving performance may not occur.


Now, on to the specifics of the quarter. Revenue for the quarter was $71.8 million compared to


$89.6 million prior year, a decrease of 19.9%. The decline in revenue was driven by a 12.9% drop


in total homes sold and an 8% decline in average selling prices for factory-built homes. The nine


month revenue decline was 30.7%, $229 million in revenue this year compared to $330.4 million


prior year. The year-to-date revenue decline resulted from a 29.7% decrease in homes sold and a


1.4% drop in average selling prices. The decline in average selling prices reflects changing


consumer preference for smaller, less expensive homes, plus the impact of declining appraisals for


customer financed purchases.


Despite the decline in revenues and the shift to less expensive homes, gross margins continue to


improve year-over-year. For the quarter, gross margins were 23.4% versus 21.2% prior year, a


220 basis point improvement. Year-to-date margins were 23.6% slightly above last year’s 23.5%.


Quarterly margin improvement was driven by significantly improved manufacturing efficiencies, an


increased internalization rate and continued strong operating margins contributed by our finance


and insurance operations.


SG&A expense for the quarter was $24.1 million, a decline of $5.2 million or 17.8%. Year-to-date,


SG&A expense has declined $18.4 million from 91.7 – excuse me, $91.6 million prior year to $73.2


million this year, a 20.1% decline. The company is operating eight fewer retail locations than prior


year and one less factory. Additionally, company total personal account is down substantially from


prior year.


Net loss for the quarter was $9.2 million or $0.40 per share, down from $13.7 or $0.60 per share


prior year. A $1.85 million gain was booked this quarter for the sale of insurance renewal rates for


policies sold for third-party insurers. Year-to-date the net loss is $29.6 million or $1.29 per share


versus $22.1 million or $0.97 per share prior year.


In light of the continued weak regional housing markets for some of our operations, the company


has decided to close the following operations, two factories, one in Albemarle, North Carolina, the


other in Tempe, Arizona. 21 retail sales centers, four in Florida, four in Arizona, 11 in North


Carolina, South Carolina and Virginia, one in Georgia and one in Mississippi. The closing of the


North Carolina factory and the North Carolina, South Carolina and Virginia sales centers represents


our departure from the HUD-code business in these markets. The close of the Arizona factory and


the Arizona retail sales centers represent our departure from the HUD-code and residential modular


business in this market as well.
corrected transcript


Palm Harbor Homes, Inc.
 
PHHM
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 2, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Modular homes that were provided to independent distribution by the to-be-closed North Carolina


factory will be shifted to nationwide custom home production in Virginia and Georgia. The cost to


close these operations will be approximately $6 million, which will result in annual savings of


approximately $8 million. After closing the company will have seven factories, 57 company-owned


retail locations, Standard Casualty insurance and CountryPlace mortgage as continuing operations.


This restruction was planned as a parallel operational move with our announced amended and


extended Textron floor plan financing agreement and our new $20 million term financing facility.


I will now turn the call over to Kelly Tacke, to cover the amended floor plan financing and a new


term financing facility, plus highlights from the balance sheet. Kelly.


Kelly Tacke, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Secretary


Thank you, Larry. The financial story this quarter continues to be one about cash management. In


light of the current economic conditions and with no near-term signs of a quick recovery for the


factory-built housing industry, our top priorities remain cash generation and cash preservation in


every area of our business.


To that end, we are pleased to report that we have amended and extended our floor plan


agreement with Textron, who announced during the third quarter of fiscal 2009 that they are in the


process of an orderly liquidation of their housing inventory finance business. This agreement


includes a committed amount of 45 million which steps down an increment over time to 25 million


by March 2011, has an interest rate of LIBOR plus 7% and new financial covenants. The


agreement expires April 2011, but under certain circumstances it may be further extended to June


2012.


Additionally, we’re pleased to report that we through CountryPlace Mortgage have obtained a 20


million floating rate LIBOR based four-year term loan from Virgo. The loan is secured by all the


assets of CountryPlace Mortgage. We believe completing the Textron and Virgo transactions


represent a significant milestone at this critical time in these challenging economic conditions.


With respect to other balance sheet items, cash totaled 7.7 million at the end of the quarter, a


decrease of 4.7 million since the beginning of the fiscal year. For the first nine months of fiscal


2010, net cash provided by operating activities totaled 11.5 million.


We continue to manage our inventories down. Total inventories declined 18.6 million or 19% since


the beginning of the fiscal year. Accounts receivable and new home inventory for company-owned


retail and builder location was approximately 1 million, a decrease of 19% compared to the third


quarter of last year. Consumer loans receivable totaled 178.5 million, a decline of 13 million, since


the beginning of the fiscal year, which is due solely to customer payments. CountryPlace is


currently servicing approximately 2,900 loans, with an average FICO score of 709 an average down


payment of over 16% and an average balance of approximately 62,600.


Accounts payable and accrued liabilities decreased approximately 7 million compared to the


beginning of the fiscal year, due to declines in compensation-related accruals, deferred revenue,


customer deposits and warranty. The convertible debt bears interest at 3.25 and is due May 2024.


However, the debenture holders may require us to repurchase a debt on certain dates, the earliest


of which is May 15, 2011.


In summary, we believe the financing and restructuring transactions that we completed last week


put us in a strong position to compete in this ever-challenging business environment. Larry?