raw transcript


Palm Harbor Homes, Inc.
 
PHHM
 
Q2 2006 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 19, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, everyone, and welcome to this Palm Harbor Homes Incorporated Conference


Call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, for opening remarks and introductions, I would


like to turn the call over to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Larry Keener. Please go


ahead, sir.


Larry H. Keener, Chairman of the Board, President & Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Dustin, and thank you everyone for joining us this morning. I have here, with me, Kelly


Tacke, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Greg Aplin, President of


CountryPlace Mortgage; and Lyle Zeller, Executive Vice President of CountryPlace Mortgage.


Before we launch into the discussion of this quarter, legally, I'm compelled to remind you that all


comments made today are made against the backdrop of the Safe Harbor rules. And, of course,


past performance is no guarantee of future results, and our predictions of a rosy future may not


materialize.


As most of you are aware, we start our conference calls each quarter with a success story. It helps


us communicate the idea that we're building a unique integrated factory-built housing company.


This quarter's success story concerns Hurricane Rita and Standard Casualty.


Standard Casualty is our company-owned physical damage insurance company. Standard


underwrites policies for homes sold in Texas, Arizona, Georgia and New Mexico. Standard has


been underwriting policies in Texas for over 30 years and today has over 10,000 policies in force,


predominantly in Texas.


Standard had an excess of 1,700 homes insured within the path of hurricane-force winds generated


by Hurricane Rita. A very large percentage of these homes were built by Palm Harbor. To-date,


Standard has incurred 252 Hurricane Rita-related claims, including 7 total loss claims.


We consider this to be excellent performance by Standard, demonstrating years of experience in


carefully underwriting factory-built housing. Additionally, none of the seven total losses were built


by Palm Harbor, despite Palm Harbor being the predominant brand of home in Rita's path insured


by Standard.


In fact, we've received five unsolicited testimonials from Palm Harbor customers, whose homes


survived Hurricane Rita with little or no damage. Each of these testimonials was essentially the


same message – "Our Palm Harbor home survived Hurricane Rita with little or no damage; our


neighbors homes of other brands were heavily damaged or destroyed."


We believe we build solid, durable and beautiful factory-built homes. We believe we build our


homes better than our competitors. That's why we back them with a five-year warranty, and that's


why our motto is "More Home for Your Money."


Hurricane Rita, the fifth Category 3 or higher hurricane in the past year to strike an area heavily


populated by Palm Harbor homes, proves the value and durability built into each of our homes in a


powerful and indisputable manner.


Now, for some of the specifics of the quarter. Net sales were up to 171 million compared to last


year's 151 million, an increase of 14%. The increase in sales was generated by an increase in total


homes sold of 3% and increase in average selling price of 9%.
raw transcript


Palm Harbor Homes, Inc.
 
PHHM
 
Q2 2006 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 19, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


The increases in average selling prices were generated by an increase in modular homes sold and


higher priced manufactured housing sold – plus by rising home prices due to higher material costs.


The 14% revenue increase produced a 342% increase in operating income over prior year. After-


tax income for the quarter was $1 million, or 4 cents a share, versus a loss in prior year of $2.2


million, or 10 cents a share.


Despite these improvements, both revenue and income were impacted negatively by the timing of


Hurricane Rita hitting Texas the last week of the quarter. After-tax results were decreased by 6


cents a share as a result of lost retail and wholesale deliveries and as a result of allowing for full


reserve in the second quarter for all of Standard Casualty's hurricane-related claims, incurred but


not paid in the September quarter.


Without the impact of Hurricane Rita, income per share would have been 10 cents a share in the


quarter compared to a loss of 10 cents a share in the prior year. Even with the hurricane impacts,


our revenue in the second quarter at 170 million was the highest reported revenue for the Company


in four years.


More importantly, we remained profitable, despite absorbing the affects of a powerful hurricane that


hit at the worst possible time and place for us and despite fully reserving for the worst single-loss


event for our insurance company in its history.


I will now turn the call over for Kelly Tacke for a review of this quarter's financials. Kelly?


Kelly Tacke, Executive Vice President, Secretary, Principal Accounting Officer & Chief Financial


Officer


Thanks, Larry. We ended the quarter in excellent financial condition. Cash and cash equivalents


totaled 71.8 million, more than double that of a year ago and an increase of 25.7 million or 56%


since the beginning of the fiscal year.


At the end of the quarter, our pipeline of customers sold, but undelivered homes, exceeded 9.7


million. As a result of the increase in this pipeline, coupled with the increase in our average selling


prices, accounts receivable and new home inventory for Company-owned superstore and builder


locations increased to 169,000 or 17% compared to a year ago.


The increase in accounts payable on accrued liabilities of 24 million is due primarily to the increase


in the sales pipeline, an increase of 6.6 million or 35% in customer deposits, plus increases in


income taxes payable and volume incentive and payments to our independent builders.


Net sales increased 20.6 million or 14% compared to the second quarter of last year. We sold


2,003 factory-built homes compared to 1,943 in the second quarter of last year. Sales of modular


homes increased 21% during the quarter and totaled 372 homes.


For the quarter, modular sales represented over 21% of our total revenues. With 13% fewer


Company-owned superstores and builder locations than a year ago, factory-built homes sold


through Company-owned locations declined 7% during the quarter.


Same-store sales increased 35% in dollars and increased 7% in units. This is the first quarterly


increase in same-store sales in both dollars and units, since March of 1998. Homes sold to


independent dealers and builders increased 19% during the quarter, to 911 homes, compared to


765 homes last year.


Our second-quarter gross margin of 25.3% was down slightly compared to 25.6% in the second


quarter of last year, principally due to decline in our internalization rate from 60 to 54%, raw