raw transcript


Palm Harbor Homes, Inc.
 
PHHM
 
Q1 2006 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 20, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day everyone and welcome to Palm Harbor Homes Incorporated Conference Call.


As a reminder, today's conference is being recorded. At this time for opening remarks and


introduction, I would like to turn the call over to the President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Larry


Keener. Please, go ahead, sir.


Larry H. Keener, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you Alisa and good morning everyone. I have with me this morning, Kelly Tacke, our Chief


Financial Officer; Mr. Greg Aplin, President of CountryPlace Mortgage; and Lyle Zeller, Executive


Vice President of CountryPlace Mortgage.


Before we launch into our discussion today, our lawyers compel me to remind you that all the


comments made herein are made against the backdrop of the Safe Harbor rules and, of course,


past performance is no guarantee of future results and our predictions of a rosy future may not


materialize. For those of you who follow our Company, you are familiar with the fact that we start


our conference call with the success story that helps us to communicate what we believe to be an


important idea. The idea that we are building a unique factory-built housing company. Unique in the


level of quality, we have committed delivering to customers and investors.


This quarter success story actually occurred after quarter-end on July 12th. CountryPlace Mortgage


our integrated chattel mortgage bank successfully issued $141 million worth of asset-backed


securities. These assets are chattel mortgages originated by company-owned retail locations. The


collateral for these loans is Palm Harbor manufactured homes built in company-owned factories.


We are very pleased to announce the completion of this transaction, which represents the first


manufactured housing asset-backed securities offering by a new issuer in this decade. We believe


the positive market reception validates the strength of our business model, the quality of our


products and the credit quality of our buyers. This is a significant event for Palm Harbor, since it


completes another step and our long-term process of building a fully integrated factory-built housing


company. It is also a significant advance for the industry and that it demonstrates the capital market


acceptance of high quality manufactured housing loans, originated and serviced by company strong


enough to handle the over collateralization requirements. We made the decision three years ago to


methodically expand CountryPlace into a full service chattel lender in order to be independent of


outside lenders and their decisions about whether or not participate in this market. More importantly


we believe our ability to offer chattel financing to qualify buyers, strengthens our value proposition


to customers and builts long-term shareholder value. The transaction was a rated private


transaction was sold out in less then two days. The demand was more than two times the supply.


We believe this to be a good sign for the strength of the Palm Harbor and CountryPlace business


model. Kelly will have specific details about the transaction later in the call.


Now on some of the other report information for the quarter. The company was solidly profitable in


the first quarter earning $0.12 a share versus $0.05 a share last year. Real estate transaction


accounting for $0.04 a share was low during the quarter and represents the last significant return


on various real estate investments made by the company several years ago. Operating income was


4.5 million, an increase of 47% versus the prior year and up 51% sequentially over quarter ’04. This


is the highest level of operational income for the company in ten quarters. Margins were essentially


flat with last year, margins have been impacted by material cost increases. They cannot be fully


passed on to consumers, and by an internalization rate of only 55%. Revenue improved by 5%


year-over-year and 12% sequentially. Revenue would have been in excess of 10% had we been


able to deliver as many retail sold homes as we built. This expanding sales pipeline is the natural


result of a positive trend in expanding retail sales. We ended the quarter at a 121 company owned
raw transcript


Palm Harbor Homes, Inc.
 
PHHM
 
Q1 2006 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 20, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


retail locations, down from a 140 prior year and down one from the prior quarter. We expect to start


gradually growing REIT company owned retail locations later this fiscal year.


Manufactured housing shipments through May are up only 4%. Shipments to Florida and Arizona


continue to grow quickly, while California growth has slowed somewhat although shipments to


California remain at historically higher levels. Interestingly, Texas shipments continue to sag down


16% year-to-date along with North Carolina and Georgia. Combined manufactured housing and


modular shipments now look like they will reach approximately 180,000 units this year, up from a


174,000 units last year an increase of 4%. I will now turn the call over to Kelly Tacke to review our


financials and some of the details of CountryPlace Mortgage ABS transaction.


Kelly Tacke, Vice President – Finance and Chief Financial Officer


Thanks Larry. While I start by highlighting the volumes on the balance sheet and income statement,


and then follow with the specifics of the CountryPlace transaction. We ended the quarter with cash


and cash equivalent of more than 63 million. This March our pipeline of customers sold, with


undelivered homes had increased 4.7 million. As a result of the increase in its pipeline coupled with


the increase in our average selling prices, accounts receivable and new home inventory for


company-owned superstores and builder locations increased 211,000 or 21% compared to year


ago. The increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities, reflect the increase in the sales


pipeline plus an increase of 4.3 million in customer deposits. The increase in other accrued


liabilities reflects the increase in CountryPlace’s warehouse line prior to the July ABS transaction.


Net sales increased 8.4 million or 5.3% compared to the first quarter of last year. We sold 2,115


factory-built homes compared to 2,150 in first quarter of last year. Sales of modular homes


increased 7.2% during the quarter and totaled 341 homes. For the quarter modular sales


represented over 20% of our total revenues, compared to 13% last year.


Factory-built homes sold through company-owned superstores and builder locations declined 17%


during the quarter. Same-store sales increased 10% in dollars and decreased 4% in units. Homes


sold to independent details – dealers and builders increased 27% during the quarter to 940


compared to 739 last year.


Our first quarter gross margin of 25.6% was basically flat with the first quarter of last year. Despite


a decline in our internalization rate from 66% to 55%. Although, the situation is gradually improving


there is still some margin pressure from raw material price increase as well as the availability of


discounted repo. As a percentage of sales, SG&A decreased to 22.9% from 23.8% last year, in


dollars SG&A was up slightly 540,000. We continue to be diligent in controlling these costs. And for


the quarter, income from operations was 4.5 million and improvement of 1.4 million or 47%


compared to the first quarter of last year.


Now onto the details of the CountryPlace transactions. The pool consisted of 2,360 channel


mortgages tolled with 140 million with an initial over collateralization of 16% or 22.5 million. The


weighted average coupon of the mortgages is 9.2%. There are four classes of AAA rated insured


certificate. The classes and the respected investor coupon rate are as follows. Class A1, 36.3


million with an investor rate of 4.23%. Class A2, 27.4 million, investor rate of 4.42%. Class A3, 27.3


million with a rate of 4.8% and Class A4, 27.44 million with a rate of 5.2%. CountryPlace would


receive at the top of the waterfall, a servicing fee of 125 basis points. The Channel mortgages were


minus assets on our balance sheet. The Class A certificates will be liabilities on our balance sheet


under the heading, Secured Type Financing. With respect to our insurance company Standard


Casualty, we wrote 2,792 policies this year basically even as compared to 2,700 policies last year.


This quarter, BankSource originated 3,320 loans an increase of 8% compared to 3,074 last year.


Our share of BankSource mortgages income was 554,000 for the quarter compared to 445,000 in