Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Murray Arenson — Vice President, Investor Relations & Corporate Development, KIT digital, Inc.
Barak Bar-Cohen — Interim CEO & Chief Administrative Officer, KIT digital, Inc.
Alexander Blum — Chief Operating Officer, KIT digital, Inc.
Robin Smyth — Chief Financial Officer, Secretary & Treasurer, KIT digital, Inc.
Rich Ingrassia — Analyst, ROTH Capital Partners LLC
Todd Van Fleet — Analyst, First Analysis Securities Corp.
Steve Frankel — Analyst, Dougherty & Co. LLC
Robert Coolbrith — Analyst, ThinkEquity LLC
Jeff Rath — Analyst, Canaccord Genuity, Inc.
Darren Aftahi — Analyst, Northland Securities, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Hello ladies and gentlemen. My name is Douglas and I'll be your conference operator today. At this time, I'd like to welcome everyone to KIT digital's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks there will be a question and answer session.

At this time, it is now my pleasure to turn the call to your host Murray Arenson, Senior Vice President of Corporate Initiatives and Investors Relations. Sir, you may begin.

Thank you, Douglas. Thank you everyone for joining us for our first quarter 2012 financial results outlook conference call. Please note that we've elected to return to using traditional conference call for this forum. We may however continue to provide video updates about the company from time to time separate to our earnings call. With me today on the call are Barak Bar-Cohen, our Chief Executive Officer and Alex Blum, our Global Chief Operating Officer.

Before I turn over the call to Barak for some introductory remarks, I just want to note that there was an incorrect link on our website but you should be able to click through to the webcast at this point of time. So, we apologize for any confusion that may have caused.

Also I want to review the following Safe Harbor statement. During this call management may make certain forward-looking statements related to the business of KIT digital, Inc. which can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as believes, expects, plans, intends, anticipates and variations of such words or similar expressions but their absence does not mean that the statement is not forward looking.

Statements made during this call that are forward looking include, but are not limited to, statements made by management concerning the company's shift in its growth strategy, the financial results for the remainder of its fiscal year ended December 31, 2012 and the contribution to those results by acquired companies.

Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties, including uncertainties related to the product development and commercialization, integration of acquired businesses and the ability to obtain or maintain patent and other proprietary intellectual property protection, market acceptance, future capital requirements, regulatory actions or delays, competition in general and other factors that may cause actual results to be materially different from those described herein.

Certain of these risks and uncertainties are/or will be described in greater detail in the company's public filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Except as required by U.S. Federal Securities Law, KIT digital is under no obligation to and expressly disclaims any such obligation to update or alter its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.

So, with that, I'm pleased to introduce Barak.

Thank you, Murray. Good afternoon everyone. My name is Barak Bar-Cohen, recently named CEO and board member of KIT digital and it is a pleasure to be speaking with you today. While today's call is focused on our Q1 results, I think it is appropriate to open our comments by talking to the progress we have made over the last 45 days and our operational plan to build a growing and cash generative business. Following that Murray will take us through the Q1 numbers and financial outlook.

As you can imagine, the past two weeks have been challenging for the company. My colleagues and I take very seriously the strategic and fiduciary responsibility our board has asked us to assume. Our mission in the simplest terms is three fold. Number one, address issues and opportunities in our business models, strategic operational and financial wherever they need addressing. Number two, restore and build the company's credibility with investors, employees, business partners and all of our other constituents and number three, create solid long-term value for the company. I am confident that we're taking the right steps to address issues and opportunities in our business and to restore and build the company's credibility. Every single decision that we have taken over the last six weeks and will continue to take in the months ahead is in the best interest of our customers, employees, and shareholders.

So what have we done so far? We've spent much of this time undertaking a strategic and operational review of the businesses and our announcement today represent in large part the fruits of that exercise. The starting point of our review was a renewed focus and what I would describe as our core business, which is providing video management software and services to Tier 1 customers around the world. We're seeing very strong macro trends.

Number one we're seeing tremendous customer demand across the globe for IP video viewing on multiple devices. Number two, we're seeing a major CapEx cycle for network operators, broadcasters and media companies as they transition from analog to digital to IP video. And number three, we are seeing government and regulatory initiatives around the world for driving broadband network builds across regions and across developing markets. These trends are creating a white hot market, which I believe we are well positioned to take advantage of. I am convinced that the path to cash generation and overall revenue growth lies in doubling down on our core capabilities, which is a mixture of software, services and deep experience in the space.

To that end, the initiatives that I will talk you through are directly supportive of a greater focus on this core business. We are actively recruiting commercial and deployment resources in Latin America and Southeast Asia which are proving to be high-growth emerging markets for us. We are also spending ROI-driven marketing funds in markets such as and on events such as the Communication Conference in Singapore coming up later this June.

In addition to growing our core business in the above markets, we are currently undergoing a strategic evaluation of all of our businesses lines. While we are still working through the details of this plan, I am able to report that we are looking at a strategic option for our digital marketing services business in Australia and our content services business based largely in Central Europe. While good businesses, these do not meet our margin and our ROI criteria and are not accretive to cash flow generation. Plus, they are non-core to our focus on providing video software and services to Tier 1 customers. We will be providing an update to our progress in these initiatives during our Q2 earnings call later in July.

Additionally, we are proactively disengaging from low-margin broadcast system integration work going forward which I believe will positively impact our future EBITDA results. These deals frequently involve a significant amount of hardware and thus tie up cash in the delivery process. We also view that these businesses were becoming increasingly commoditized, particularly as software continues to replace broadcast specific hardware in TV stations and broadcast systems around the world.

We are also in the process of reviewing all of our real estate across the company, including the location of our corporate and operational headquarters. The goal is to improve the decision making with our employees across the regions and to reduce our travel costs across the company.

We have made some important changes to the executive team as well which I believe in best interest of our company. Over these critical few weeks, Alex Blum, our COO, Scott Sahadi, our Chief Strategy Officer, along with Frances Jarvis, Nicole Dixon, Laura Kaatz have all continued in their leadership roles across the world. Lou Schwartz has transitioned into a General Counsel role with the company, leveraging his years as a securities lawyer and his knowledge of the IP video space as the founder and CEO of Multicast. I expect to announce a new Head of the Americas shortly to replace Lou in that capacity.

Both Gavin Campion and Chris Williams are transitioning out of the business. We have elected not to have a President role in the structure at this time, and Chris' responsibility as a CTO will be rolled into Alex Blum's group. I would like to take the opportunity to really thank Gavin and Chris for their work over the past several years and wish them all the best in their future endeavors.

And finally, we are in the processes is searching for a new CFO, with Robin Smyth transitioning to a Corporate Development role at the company. Robin had retired in 2009 and was asked to come back later that year for a period of one to two years. Given the changes in management and the refocusing of the business, this is the right time to transition to a CFO that has the experience with companies of our size and growth trajectory. I want to thank Robin for his contributions and support over the years and I look forward to working with him in his new role.

I'd now like to spend a moment commenting on steps we are taking to remediate the material weakness that we disclosed in our 10-K. We recently hired a Corporate Controller with deep GAAP experience who will be based in New York. We also recently hired a new Head of Internal Audit, also based in New York, and we will be issuing press releases later on this week with additional details around these two appointments.

We have appointed one of the Big Four accounting firms to provide advice to management on best practices related to monthly close procedures, as well as a review of our Phase 2 rollout out of NetSuite across the globe. And HSBC, who we are already using in our U.S. and UK operations has been appointed as our Global Financial Services Provider, supporting the rollout of our global cash pooling and cash management program across the different regions in which we operate. I am confident that we are taking the right steps to remediate our material weakness.

Earlier today we announced that we had raised $29.2 million in gross proceeds in the sale of common stock led by major institutional investors. I believe that this capital is necessary for allowing us to grow the business and providing a fortified balance sheet that enables us to compete for Tier 1 contracts around the world. I realize that this is a significant amount of information, but I hope it gives you a sense that they are very real actions underway all aimed at setting the company up for growth and cash generation in future quarters and years.

With that, I'd like to now invite Murray to lead us through the financial results for Q1.

Thank you, Barak. Clearly, our first quarter results which we announced on a preliminary basis on May 3 were disappointing. What I'd like to do this afternoon is provide a brief review of the results, some insight into what the key moving pieces were during the quarter and finish with a view of the company's financial outlook going forward.

As I begin, I'll remind everyone that more detailed financial information is disclosed in the press release which we filed after close today and the 10-Q which we filed today as well.

Revenue for the quarter was $59 million, down sequentially from $70 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 and below our guidance of $72 million. If we look at the delta between fourth quarter and first quarter results, there were several major components. They included a delay of low margin BSI or Broadcast Systems Integration business in the Asia Pacific region, a shortfall related to the signing of the Cosmos deal that occurred later in the quarter and two Cosmos opportunities that we did not close during the quarter, but that we still expect to close later this year. In an effort to provide some context as to how these results tie to a view of the future, we'll walk through the component line items of our business momentarily.

Turning to the remaining core financial results metrics, our non-GAAP operating loss was $8 million, down from positive non-GAAP operating income of $16.5 million in the previous quarter. Free cash flow from operations was negative $12.9 million compared to positive $1.3 million in the previous quarter and negative $10.2 million in the first quarter of 2011.

Looking at the balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents as of March 31, 2012 were approximately $26.1 million, down from $45.7 million at the end of the fourth quarter. Cash usage during the quarter included approximately $6.3 million in assumed liabilities that were paid in relation to the Sezmi transaction.

The decrease also included higher than usual legal, accounting and audit cost associated with corporate development activity, post consolidation integration costs and other cash requirements for the business during the quarter which were in line with previous quarters. We would note that our DSOs were higher than in previous quarters. However, that was due to the decrease in revenue during the quarter as opposed to an increase in receivables.

Since the end of the quarter, the company has been actively improving its collections activities and we expect our DSOs to decline going forward. Also as Barak mentioned previously, we raised an additional $29.2 million through a transaction with several leading institutions today. We issued investors 7 million share of common stock priced at $4.17 per share. Investors also received warrants to acquire 5.25 million shares of common stock at an exercise price of $5 per share. This infusion provides us with sufficient capital to address our cash needs which includes personnel costs associated with future deployments, anticipated spending on post consolidation realignment and investments in our Cosmos software platform.

We continue to carry approximately $22 million of debt through our facility with WTI. At this point, we have more than 75% of our cash domicile in the United States, which is the covenant associated with this facility that we were not in compliance with previously. We also continue to work with the lender and to look at alternative financing arrangements. We expect to have additional news on this topic over the coming weeks. Once fully addressed, we believe our company will not only be focused on execution, but will also be well positioned from a capital perspective to run the business for growth for cash flow.

Now let me talk a little bit about the financial framework for our operations. With respect to revenue streams, our strategic and operational review has led us to categorize our revenue segment as follows. As we discussed our currently targeted levels of contribution, we would note that our analysis and strategic review of our business, also includes an effort to optimize our contractual relationships with our customers and to best manage their associated cash flows. So adjustments made along those lines could have an effect on the relative contribution of the individual revenue segments.

Software licenses are the highest margin portion of our business and those revenues are derived from contracted fees from customers for the right to utilize our Cosmos or cloud solutions. For 2012, we're targeting 25% to 30% of our revenue for software licenses.

Second component is managed services, managed services are the revenues associated with the operating deployed systems on behalf of our customers. These are run time environment situations. These revenues tend to be tied to ongoing deployment and carry margins that are higher than our other service revenues. For 2012, we're targeting approximately 12% to 14% of revenues from managed services.

Professional services encompass revenues related to specific statements of work from our customers generally utilizing our highly qualified personnel like senior technical architects and project managers some of this work is finite in scope while other service revenues are tied to long-term and/or recurring engagements. On the blended basis, the gross margin for our services, were generally in the mid 30s. But it can vary depending on the mix of engagement types. We expect service revenues to comprise approximately 30% of our revenues this year.

Finally, Broadcast Systems Integration or BSI relates to work specific to outfitting or managing broadcast infrastructure systems. Margins in this field can vary as well over straying away from the lowest margin hardware centric revenues and suggest that you think this business is a 25% to 30% gross margin business on a going forward basis.

For the year, we anticipate BSI and other revenues which comprise the remaining revenue contribution and that should include approximately $10 million of actual revenue contributions from non-core businesses prior to their planned divestitures during the course of the year.

Please note that we incorporate deployable personnel when discussing the various gross margin profiles at these revenue segments for reporting purposes those personnel are currently included in our overall SG&A cost today.

In 2012, we intend to reduce our operating expenses by approximately $6 million to $8 million per quarter and doing so, we expect to incur one-time restructuring and integration charges of approximately $10 million to $12 million. And so that brings me to guidance for 2012. At this time, given the depth of our analysis and strategic review of our business which we should note also includes an effort to optimize our contractual relationships with our customers and to best manage their associated cash flows, we're prepared to provide what we would consider broad general guidance with respect to our outlook going forward.

For 2012, we're setting our base line revenue expectations at $250 million with non-GAAP operating income margins trending towards previous levels at the second half of the year. We expect to begin generating positive free cash flow from operations again no later than the fourth quarter of this year. We intend to provide further guidance for you when our comprehensive analysis are complete likely in 90 days or roughly at the time of our second quarter earnings call.

With that, I'll turn it back over to Barak.

Thank you, Murray. I'd now like to turn to the road ahead and why I believe we are very well positioned to deliver on our mission of being the video, software and service provider of choice to the world's biggest media companies, broadcasters and network operators. We now work in some way with a large number of Fortune 500 companies around the world. And we continue to be invited to participate in many of the large RFPs where we request for proposals from companies looking to buy major IP video software solutions.

So to expand on this, I've asked Alex Blum to speak in some more detail on our product stat and positioning in the market. Alex.

Thank you, Barak. The first quarter this year has been a very productive period for our product team with new product innovations being placed on display at this year's National Association of Broadcasters Show in Las Vegas, just a few weeks ago. Our booth at the show was well attended throughout the week with demos of our next generation Social TV Solution, our Social Program Guide or SPG and our combined solution with IBM that displayed multi-camera angle, multi-device support, unified production workflows and social e-commerce were the main attractions.

Before I provide more detail on our new product initiatives, I'd like to begin by summarizing the company's primary product solutions. We design and deliver the new technology solutions that power the transformation of traditional broadcast infrastructure to IP-based software system. At the heart of our product offerings are two video platforms Cloud and Cosmos. Cloud is our mid-tier cloud-based, what I mean by that is, it's a truly multi-tenant solution for video publishing and monetization, designed for enterprise and media entertainment organizations seeking an intuitive turnkey system to manage their videos. Cloud customers can simply upload and transcode their videos for delivery to the web and mobile devices and turn on social syndication tools to increase viewer traffic and engagement. Customers include: Airbus, Delta AL, FedEx, [ph] La Quite (19:52), NBC Universal and Volkswagen are all using cloud today.

Cosmos is our broadcast grade customizable platform for the most advanced IPTV video deployment. It is designed for Tier 1 multi-channel service providers and broadcasters seeking to build over-the-top video and TV Everywhere solutions allowing them to increase distribution points, monetization opportunities, and value for end users. With a flexible and modular architecture, Cosmos can be integrated with existing broadcast infrastructure in a straightforward way lowering deployment cost and quickening customer's time to market. Customers include: Mediaset, Sky Germany, Sky Italia, all using KIT Cosmos.

Both Cloud and Cosmos are supported by the Platform Operations Manager, our proprietary operational support system that delivers broadcast grade quality of service and reduces the cost, risk and complexity of deploying advanced IP video solutions. Operations Manager combines integrated ITIL service management, security and quality assurance and is designed to increase functionality and scalability while minimizing operational maintenance costs.

The Connected Device Framework, a comprehensive Software Developer Kit extends the reach of both Cloud and Cosmos and enables video providers to deliver content from any source to any connected device. A key element to the Connected Device Framework is our App Studio, which enables non-technical users to author, manage and distribute highly custom native flash, HTML5 media players, Facebook apps, native iOS apps for iPhone and iPads and native Android apps for Android smartphones and tablets.

Now more on the select highlights of our Q1 product advancements. The SPG, Social Program Guide integrates users' social networks with their service provider's electronic program guide, allowing viewers to access to a full range of Social TV function, as well as changing the channel through a single interface. The solution also supports cloud-based DVR functionality, seamless VOD Store integration and multiple e-commerce models and ad serving for advanced content monetization.

The SPG is designed to ultimately replace the traditional on-screen electronic program guide plus TV remote control experience, while also integrating social and second screen functionality. A fully functioning prototype of the SPG was on display at NAB via iPad application and Smart TV and was very well received by customers and the media. Served through the Cosmos backend, this prototype is a white-label application can be easily customized to clients' design and programming needs and then quickly rolled out to a range of additional first and second screen devices.

The convergence of social media with non-linear, multiscreen viewing habits is driving the future of social TV and of television viewing more broadly. Viewers want to find, watch and share TV shows without having to resort to a hodgepodge of disjointed apps and devices. The SPG offers network operators and broadcasters the first complete, provider-based social TV solution.

The SPG enables a variety of popular user behaviors including choosing shows based on social networking recommendations, interacting with friends via Twitter, Facebook or proprietary social networks provided by us, and viewing additional information about content from sources like IMDB, Rotten Tomatoes, and Wikipedia. For those who are interested in learning more, a video walk through the social program guide and video interview with Mediaset, Italy's largest commercial broadcaster and our launch customer for social TV is available on our IR section of the company's website.

In Q1, we also released a combined solution with IBM. Here we displayed multi-camera angle, multi-device, user experience with integrated e-commerce functionality supported by unified production workflow. The solution marries workflow and rights management tools from IBM with video management and front end technology from KIT digital by integrating IBM's smart commerce product set and business process solution with Cosmos and the Connected Device Framework.

The solution is answering an important market need, which is the need to marry robust business process software with IP video delivery software and the new solution created by IBM and KIT digital answers that need.

Finally, the Connected Device Framework, which I mentioned earlier, has now been expanded to support delivery of video to the Microsoft Xbox and allow users to navigate and watch content through voice and gesture control. We have deployed Xbox LIVE applications for UK based broadcasters, Channel IV and Channel V and will soon do the same for Foxtel in Australia and Prisa TV in Spain.

These demonstrable innovations are indicative of our overall focus on the needs of Tier 1 customers. I look forward to sharing future product releases from our comprehensive product roadmap with you in future calls. Barak?

Thanks, Alex. I wanted to take a minute to explain how we are unique in our space. We often get asked who our competitors are and truthfully I don't believe there are many companies with our size that we compete against head-on. When we are invited to bid on major RFPs around the world, we typically come up against three types of businesses. First, there are pure SaaS software companies. These companies typically lack the software flexibility and professional services capability to deliver what we call Tier 1 deployments for custom video solutions that combine broadcast grade reliability with the flexibility provided by delivering video over the internet. Major broadcasters, media companies and network operators most often seek these Tier 1 deployments.

Second are major system integrators. These companies understand how to manage large scale deployment, but rarely have an IP video pedigree. Therefore they frequently engage us as a partner in provisioning our tried and tested video asset management solution. Finally, there are the broadcast system manufacturers, who understand the idea of broadcast grade reliability, but are really hardware companies who are in the process of repositioning their businesses around software products.

The problem here is that almost always their software R&D lags a long way behind their strategic direction and so they also frequently engage us in successful partnerships. As Alex explained, this is not true for us. Our strength is the combination of software, professional services, and ongoing managed services. And while Murray spoke to our focus on recurring software license fees as a larger part of our revenue mix going forward, we will always offer these in value multiplying services demanded and increasingly expected by our most successful customers.

My point is that we are in fact uniquely positioned for success in a rapidly growing market. I believe that in the past we have not communicated our value proposition well. This has been compounded by an overly diverse even on focused mix of products and services. In addition, we have not provided enough transparency into our company's finances and are focused on cash flow generation. We are addressing these challenges head on.

As I mentioned, this is a period of transition and transformation for the company, but I'm confident, we are taking the right steps to ensure our future success. The core of our business, our video management software and services offering for Tier 1 customers is profitable, is growing and is positioned in a rapidly expanding market. We are focused on growing the business, we are focused on cash flow generation, and we are focused on the road ahead in what is a very exciting global marketplace.

I'd now like to turn the call over to questions.

Thank you, sir. [Operator Instructions] Our first question is from the line of Richard Ingrassia with ROTH Capital Partners. Please go ahead.

Thanks. Afternoon, everybody.

Hey, Rich.

Barak, can you identify the prior acquisitions that are related to the three categories of operations now slated for divestiture or discontinuation?

I think as I said in the earlier remarks, Rich, we're in a process of finalizing our decisions around divestiture. We identified content solutions, we identified digital marketing services and we identified some low margin broadcast system integration deals and the pipeline and the areas we'd be moving away from because we don't believe that they have the right margin profile and are not cash generative to us. And at this point that we're prepared to share the categories that we're moving away from not in any addition detail.

But, so you can't say which acquisitions brought these operations into the company?

Well, the issue is that these business lines are not specific to any one acquisition, right? So, these are categories that we've done business in and sold into and, therefore, it would be inaccurate to do that.

Fair enough. The COGS was pretty dramatically higher than it's been in the past and, obviously, lower gross margin as a result. Can you give us a little detail on that?

Yeah, Rich, it's Murray. There were a few different items to take into account there. We had, as Barak talked about, we had BSI revenues, some of the Broadcast Systems Integration revenues that actually hit in the fourth quarter and we ended up with associated expenses on a contractual basis that ended up flowing into the first quarter for us. So that kind of hit us both on the top line as well as at the margin level.

And we had a couple of situations like that. We also had a licensing contract similarly where we had kind of a mismatch of revenues and expenses from fourth quarter to first quarter. In addition, we have been ramping up in advance of some of that major tier one deployments. So we've definitely been adding resources along the way. And we have started the implementation in terms of our Structuring for Success program, so all those things kind of weighed on us at the margin level.

Okay. Just two more and then I'll get back in the queue if I have others. But to say a little bit about acquisition liability, if you will? By my quick count you're down about $9.5 million sequentially, was that a cash earn-out that was paid or a settlement? And obviously, many I'm sure are noticing that $18 million of those liabilities moved into current status to total $33 million. Can you speak to that perhaps, to what extent capital raise was intended to settle there?

Hey, Rich, so if you're looking at the cash movements, we did have about $6.3 million worth of assumed liabilities from Sezmi, and so that was a major component if you're trying to kind of follow the overall shifts in the cash burn. And I think if you follow the remaining components, you can kind of follow it from our overall EBITDA loss as well as those things that kind of fell below the line, including working capital, capital expenditures and payments on notes, principal and interest and some increase in inventory. And those were kind of the major components overall if we're adding up the total cash we used.

What I was really asking is to detail the status of near-term earn-outs.

Yeah, there's nothing really new there, Rich. I mean, I think we talked about kind of a 3 million share sort of number, it's all payable in terms of cash or payable at our option, I should say, in terms of cash or stock. So those numbers really haven't changed.

Rich, we have Robin with us as well and maybe, Robin, I'll turn to you for additional color.

How are you Rich?

Good. Thanks, Robin.

Yeah, the acquisition liability you're talking about mainly came from the – reduction mainly came from the Sezmi acquisition. The assumed liabilities were part of that acquisition liability, so that $6.3 million that Murray is talking about in the cash flow were obviously came off that acquisition liability. We also had paid some of the Sezmi acquisition liability and stock.

So there was a reduction both in terms of stock perspective and also from a cash perspective in the reduction of those acquisition liabilities. I think they would all be part of the working of the Sezmi acquisition. So underlying that, none of the real earn-out – that's why we didn't offer any – there wasn't really earn-out component, but actually liabilities we incurred at the time of acquisition. So the actual earn-out portions of the acquisitions really didn't change between Q4 and Q1.

Okay, thanks. And, well, I'll jump out and come back in. Thanks.

Our next question is from the line of Todd Van Fleet with First Analysis. Please go ahead.

Hi, good afternoon, guys. Barak, I guess I'll say congratulations, I mean, assuming the CEO role, there wasn't too much fanfare surrounding it. I guess I just wanted to kind of get some understanding as to kind of the decision making process at the board behind, I guess, either not looking externally or what – just a better understanding what the process was there? Thanks.

Sure, as we mentioned in previous releases and calls, Todd, I was asked by the board to step in to the CEO role, and there is an ongoing CEO search for a permanent CEO, so that process is ongoing. I'm here now and driving our strategic and operational business model and making those decisions along the lines of everything that you heard in the previous segment. But the board is evaluating internal, external candidates for a permanent CEO role down the road.

Okay. All right, I just want to clarify that. Usually I guess what we see is kind of a phrase interim or something else accompanying that, but it's helpful to have that clarification.

Sure.

Let me move to the operations. So we appreciate the breakdown, I guess, with respect to the components of the business from a revenue perspective software licenses versus the services and so forth. I guess on a blended basis right now, the gross margin would appear to be, I guess, Murray, you can help me out here and Robin, on a blended basis, I'd say may be kind of 40% is kind of what the margin looks like on a blended basis here from my perspective based on the detail that you've given, is that fair?

I'm sorry, Todd, so you're trying to find the overall blended margin across....

Yeah, the blended gross margin based on what you've given us with respect to the revenue break out of the business that you expect this year.

Yeah, it's really – I wouldn't take that next step to arrive at those sorts of numbers. I mean, for right now, we're trying to give you an overall construct of what the various components might be. Obviously, there's some variability in the margins themselves and there is some variability in exactly what the mix ends up being. I think you've got to be careful as well to make sure that all the personnel costs are captured in the gross margin, which is a little bit different from the way it's reported in the financials. So, frankly, I'd just kind of lead you to look at the way we've reported things historically and kind of take a look at where we're going overall in terms of the direction of the business, which as we increasingly emphasize the software component, you'll be able to migrate those margins upward.

Okay.

I think we'll just leave it at that until we put some more color on it in the next quarter.

Okay. Well, just – I'm just trying to synthesize then what was said here this afternoon, so the 25% to 30% of the revenue stream that is software licenses, is that a target for this year or is that where the business is at today or is that what's embedded in guidance?

Well, the numbers that we laid out today in terms of the revenue mix are targeted numbers for all of 2012.

Okay.

That's the way I'd look at things right now.

Okay, and then the margin references then you're saying historically the managed services, professional services and so forth, the gross margins have been in the range of kind of the mid 30s, is that right?

A little bit higher than that, I would say.

Okay. But the mid 30s reference today refers to – does it refer to 2012, the 2012 outlook, or does it refer to just kind of the target or where the business is going to perform over the next couple of years? I'm just trying to understand how the process what you've set today.

Well, I think the way to look at it is right now, we're obviously coming off of the quarter with a lower revenue number. The mix has shifted a little bit. And we're providing guidance, albeit on a pretty limited basis at this point in time, that we view as reasonably conservative and that we're comfortable with going forward. So when you triangulate all that and try to come out with exactly what the margin profile is going to look like at the end of the year, it's a little bit premature. And so that's why we're not providing that level of detail. But I'll just reiterate what I said in terms of – I think the numbers that you've put out there before probably skew a little bit lower than we're capable of.

Okay. And I guess where the business is at at this point with a lot of the programs just kind of ramping up or with the integration work being done, it's probably fair to say that the services elements of the business or the revenue for the services elements is ramping more dramatically than perhaps the software at this point or is that not accurate?

No, I would say actually it's the contrary. And I might ask Alex to jump in here for a second, but we've been very focused on driving, returning revenue software business and it's the Cosmos opportunity where we're selling into these tier one operators that we have the ability to get significant dollar revenues just off the licensing fees that are the huge opportunity for us from a margin perspective. And we combine that with the managed services aspect and with the professional services aspect and that overall is the value proposition we talked about, but movement is really towards higher margin software revenue.

Yeah, I would add that a major thrust for the Cosmos product roadmap is further productization of the solution. What I mean by that is we take tasks that are currently requiring the writing of software code and we turn them into configurations. That takes the implementation lead time down significantly and today that's already a key differentiator for us in the marketplace. But over time, the types of services that we'll be providing are going to be the same sort of business consulting and design services, but implementation services will go down and our software licensing margins will increase.

And, Todd, this is Barak. As a final thought, if you look at the lifecycle of a customer, the goal from a core business perspective is to have tier one network operators, broadcasters, enterprisers, media companies take as many of those services as possible, right. So they'll take the software license and then they'll take a maintenance contracts for future development work and roadmap work on top of that. Then they may take a managed services contract in addition to that, so we actually run the service for them. And then we might layer on some professional services work for specific integrations of various devices or other channels. So again, the goal is to really sort of drive to that core business with tier one customers taking a multiple of those services, as Alex and Murray were describing.

Okay. And then let me just ask one more on the corporate development and then I'll jump off. I'll assume then that Robin's efforts will be focused on, given what's been said, more divestitures on the corporate development side as opposed to additional acquisitions. And I know there's one additional acquisition that might be out there looming at some point. But is that the focus of the corporate development role at this stage?

That is accurate. So Robin will be focused on those types of activities that you're describing around divestitures and sort of helping us drive cash flow generation through his efforts there, And with respect to M&A, we're really not focused on that at the moment. That's not to say that we'll never do another acquisition, but right now it's about execution and really driving our business model forward.

Okay. Thanks, guys.

Our next question is from the line of Steven Frankel with Dougherty & Company. Please go ahead.

Good afternoon. Could we start by sizing those business that you're going to get out of? What percentage of revenue were they either in the first quarter or, if you're not comfortable giving us that number, in 2011?

Yeah, Steve, it's Murray. I think the best way to look at that is on an aggregate basis probably contributing $7 million to $10 million, maybe a little bit north of that on a quarterly basis, but the numbers can fluctuate to some degree. But that's – I think that puts some brackets around it.

Okay. And when you look at Cosmos, how many Cosmos tier one customers do you have today and how many of those are live?

So, Cosmos is – at the heart of Cosmos is video CMS, Steve, that was acquired with the Polymedia acquisition. We've since extended that capability significantly and we've added additional capabilities, like the Connected Device Framework, to build out a more robust solution. And right now there is a handful of major tier one companies that are under implementation about to go live. On that core VCMS through Polymedia acquisition, that's a field-tested piece of technology that's been in the market for many years with several customers north of $20 million.

Okay. And you used to disclose the number of customers that you have. Can you give us that number and how many were added in the quarter?

I think we've been out there publicly as approaching 2,500 customers. So, I'm not sure the exact number that we added during the course of the quarter, but it was more or less ratable with what you've seen previously.

Okay, and what's the status of the "strategic process"?

This is Barak. As you know, the Strategic Transaction Committee and the Board of Directors are in charge of that process. And at this point, there's no update. If there's an update, we'll provide one in the future, but the go-forward management team at this point is focused on executing and wakes up every morning looking to drive value in a cash generative fashion in an independent, publicly-traded company.

Okay. And you know you did one services acquisition in the current quarter, but in that, you've also talked about a couple of others that we're in the hopper. Can we now – do we now understand that those others services acquisitions have been cancelled and it's just this one acquisition in the near term?

Yeah, I mean, as I mentioned previously, Steve, at this point we're focused on the types of corporate development activities that we're describing as Robin spoke. It's not to say, we won't do any M&A in the future, but right now that's not at the core of our activities.

And how much cash do you expect to burn through the restructuring process in the next couple of quarters?

Yeah, Steve, it's Murray. So, we're looking at spending roughly $10 million or more on kind of ongoing integration and restructuring charges throughout the remainder, probably as we are going through this process of implementing some of these programs and changes, we're looking at on the order of a couple of million dollars or so a month, until we're able to turn this thing around, which I'd look for third quarter timeframe as being that point of time where we think we'll be able to start to turn this thing in positive in terms free cash flow generation again.

Okay, thank you.

Our next question is from the line Robert Coolbrith with ThinkEquity. Please go ahead.

Thank you, good afternoon. I apologize in advance, I missed some of the call earlier. Excluding some of the one-time issues and higher COGS in the quarter, can you try to give us maybe an adjusted pro forma op income number or some perspective on that, if you were to sort of maintain the current revenue run rate without some of the one-time issues in the future quarters, what should we as sort of a rough expectation would be for an EBITDA pro forma op income number? I have a number of follow-ups. Thank you.

Yeah, Rob, it's Murray. I appreciate the question. Obviously, we thought long and hard and we've been working over the last six weeks doing a lot of pretty intense work and analysis. We haven't provided additional guidance beyond what we said on the call today in terms of top line and trends overall in terms of non-GAAP operating income margins. And I think we're going to leave it at that for this point in time. We do intend to continue with this process in terms of the ongoing analysis and we expect certainly within the next 90 days by the time we get to the second quarter call, we will be able to go into additional detail and put additional color on it and maybe before that. But for right now, I think we're going to leave it at – the guidance at what we put out there already.

Right, a few others. So in the past, the company has talked about a percentage of recurring revenue out of total. I'm just wondering if you could – at the new run rate sort of give us an updated perspective on that Cosmos managed services and the software category, how much of that revenue do you expect to recur or the licenses one-time in nature or [inaudible] (47:42)? Thank you.

So this too has been obviously part of our analysis that's ongoing. I would tell you that as we look at it today, I'd put it in the neighborhood of kind of 50/50 proposition in terms of, what is recurring and what is non-recurring or what is at least, long-term and highly visible source of revenues. Frankly I'd like to reserve the right to complete the analysis and try to put a finer point on that. But I think that's the way I'd look at it today. And I'd also point out that I think there is a great opportunity ahead of us, based on the types of sales that were due into the market and in terms of the mix that we have in place, that we're trying to – we can move that upward over time.

Great. More if I could. Just wondering if there is any plan in place to utilize the core VCMS that you've spoken about to productize some of your current managed services engagements, so is it really just a question of stabilizing those and maintaining those and then just driving growth in the software line going forward? And then one last one. Hello.

Yeah, I'm sorry. I was trying to follow the question. This is Alex. Would you mind repeating?

Well I'm just wondering the Cosmos product, obviously you have managed service engagements here from say ioko in the past that I suppose are set off from those where you've developed custom product or you're utilizing product modules from other vendors. Is there an opportunity to drive market improvement within some of managed services engagements by telling in or spotting in some of your products or do you sort of just maintain that managed services side of engagements?

Yeah, I understand the question now. So, two parts, first of all, the solution support service-oriented architecture. So, even in the instance where we have some of those bespoke VCMS solutions that came with the ioko acquisition, we're able to layer on top of that new feature functionality that is part of the supported software platform. The Connected Device Framework is a great example of that. So to the extent that those customers are looking to deliver their video service experience to end devices, we can leverage the Connected Device Framework to do that. Now, there are also customers in that category that are looking to do more advanced catch-up TV, live linear to VoD capabilities. And with those kind of customers, we do have an opportunity to swap out the video CMS that's currently operating and replace that with Cosmos and have them be a pure Cosmos customer going forward. So, there is no question we're looking at that with every single one of those existing customers.

And would that then presumably drive some level of margin improvement if you were to sort [indiscernible] (50:45) replace?

Absolutely. And in fact there is, as Murray pointed out, these recurring elements on top of operations managing our managed services approach. But with these long standing customers, they're always looking to come to us for new enhancements, new customer touch points, new ways in which to monetize and with each and every one of those needs we're able to drive additional sales and higher margins as we apply a productized approach going forward.

Great. One last question. I know you sort of deferred discussion of Strategic Transaction Committee. But just wondering if they ask more pointed question on that. Have you received any firm bids for the company at this point?

As I mentioned, that's the role of the Strategic Transaction Committee and the board of directors and at this point we don't have an update to provide you on that and if we do in the future we'll share. But as I mentioned, we're focused on execution and executing on our business model.

Great. Thank you again. Bye, bye.

Thank you. Our next question is from the line of Jeff Rath with Canaccord Genuity. Please go ahead.

Hey guys. Can you hear me, Barak?

We can, Jeff.

Great. So a lot of my questions have been answered. Just cycling through Murray, maybe just, I think I missed this. You talked about gross margins, but I don't think I heard the gross margin commentary associated with your software revenue bucket. What is that? How should we think about that?

Yeah. The software revenues as I walked through the product categories are pretty straightforward, that's straight licensing revenue. So that component of it you can think as, it's ultra high kind of software margin. So, in the neighborhood of 90% plus or minus.

Okay. I needed that clarity because there's some in the market that pass through [ph] CD&Ps (52:40) or not, so that helps. And then on the managed services gross margin, just the same question?

Yes. So, Jeff first on the pass through of bandwidth kind of storage revenues, that's I think an important distinction for us. I mean we're definitely driving value in the overall solution that we're bringing from a software perspective and from the mix across the board as far as supporting run time environment and everything like that. So I think that's a distinction that we think makes us a different sort of player on the market.

So I am frankly glad you drew attention to that portion of the equation. Managed services business, overall, it varies. But, yes, it depends on exactly what's deployed in any given situation, so it's mid double-digits, but it could be down towards 40%, it could be 50% plus. It all depends on the nature of the installation.

And then we're looking for some more transparency and I appreciate the fluidity here. But, if we're just thinking about your software revenue as a category in itself, is that a growing business or is that business going to – how would you describe the trajectory of that business? We haven't had that segmentation before. Thanks.

Yeah. I think the answer is it's growing and to really understand the essence of the strategy of the business is the point that both Barak and I made earlier that there's a global transformation from traditional broadcast infrastructure to IP based systems. This is no longer being debated in the marketplace as to whether video and television consumption will be via the Internet. And we're seeing this all across the globe. And we sit at the heart of all that with a software solution that speaks specifically to that. We are laser focused on that particular problem or market opportunity with a software productized solution. And that's growing. That's a very large opportunity that seems to accelerate.

Okay.

Yeah, it's Barak. We're seeing just a tremendous number of RFPs coming through. We're being short listed on RFPs at a much higher rate than in the past. I think it's the expertise that we bring to the head-end. For example, with cable companies, network operators, the understanding of the old analog digital RF system, the old video-on-demand systems and the need to transform them into more software based, multi-formatted, multi-device system, I mean that's really at the heart of where we're seeing a lot of the demand and a lot of our success and we really continue to see that and we expect that to really grow in the future.

So, just one follow-up question with regards to the software business at a segmented level. How much of that is build or contracted on a traditional SaaS or monthly basis versus say a perpetual license model?

Jeff, that's – it varies is the answer. And I think that is more opportunity for us than anything else in terms of being able to grow with this business and as to manage the business model going forward. So it depends on the installation for right now, but that's part of what we're looking at in terms of trying to optimize our contractual relationships going forward. We think that's a great opportunity for us.

Okay. So just a few more questions if I may. Barak, you've obviously got a lot on your plate here. How would you characterize the level of integration of the business today? Just as it seems like the business might have been knitted together, you're now going to probably or you are reviewing different pieces of it. But, how – give us your assessment of the level of integration left to do of the pieces that you're going to keep?

It's a good question. Over the last six weeks, we've really gone through a bottoms up review. There are a lot of things that we implemented that are working well. I think the implementation of NetSuite has provided the business and the managers in the business with a tremendous amount of transparency with respect to financials, with respect to the profitability of specific projects and having the entire business transacting and looking at management dashboards that essentially provide that level of transparency has been really, really helpful for the global executive team in the decision making. So I think that is one element as an example of the integration that has gone well.

I think a lot of the training initiatives around the products that Alex has been describing and the ability to take the team in Milan and sort of cross pollinate those skills with the team of the Americas is working very, very well. So, some of the big wins that we've had in Latin America and a recent large win that is yet unannounced in Southeast Asia were as a result of a cross pollinated and a collaborative effort after some cross training to work together and to win big deals.

So, two proof points that we've done. We've done a lot to integrate the business and the things are working well on that front. But we still have some work ahead. There is some duplication of functions and some duplication of roles across various businesses that we're evaluating right now. Clearly, as I mentioned, we're looking at some of the office consolidation opportunities to reduce costs and really sort of drive efficiency when it comes to decision making that's close to the customer and close to employees. So, I can't give you an exact percentage, but I can say that as I review the business with the team over the last several weeks, I'm pretty proud of the work that's happened to date and obviously there is a lot left to do on the road ahead. But I think we're well positioned to do that.

So just two more questions and then I'll get back in the queue. One, sort of trying to drive at cash consumption needs here, trying to get a sense of where your cash levels are today? You've given us some commentary and correct me if I'm wrong, that your SG&A or OpEx will probably run $2 million a month heavier during this process of realignment and then on top of that you're expecting sort of $10 million of cash related restructuring charges. So, first is, are those two numbers correct? And then the follow on is, where do you see your cash balances troughing as we go through the year?

I think all I'd say there Jeff is, yes, your general numbers there to start with are correct. I think you can do the math as well as anybody. Clearly we think the financing that we did was an important step for us today. We are also looking at follow on adjustments to the balance sheet as I alluded to in some of my prepared comments. And I would just indicate that, again, I said third quarter timeframe that we'd probably see the corner turning. So, I'd encourage you to just [inaudible] (1:00:04) numbers through and I am happy to talk to you about it offline. We shall probably move on, Jeff. I appreciate all the questions and I'd happy to follow up with you after this call.

All right. Then one follow-up for Barak. Barak, can you speak to the level of customer losses or employee turnover at a higher level? Are you seeing any turnover as a result of this review both on the customer and employee side? Thanks. And that's it from me.

Sure. To-date we haven't lost any major customers. We're not seeing an increase in churn or attrition. While there has been some challenges that we've managed over the last six weeks, we're pretty excited about putting our head down and spending time with our customers and explaining our focus to them. So, at this point, we haven't seen any major losses or an increase in churn with customers or really with employees.

Thank you.

Okay. Operator, I think we'll take one more question, please.

Thank you. Our final question is from the line of Darren Aftahi with Northland Securities. Please go ahead.

Hey, guys. Thanks for taking my questions. Just a couple. First, did I hear you right on the WTI loan with the cash balance maybe in the U.S. you're currently in compliance?

We are currently in compliance, that's correct.

Okay. And then on some of these larger RFPs, it's my understanding that you guys have a cash commitment either a standalone or with a partner, is that the case? And then I have one last follow-up.

Yeah. It's Barak. We are seeing that. Some of these larger deals and operators around the world require letters of credit and performance bonds. And one of the reasons why we went ahead and raised the capital in support of this transformation is to give us the fortitude – the balance sheet fortitude and sort of the ability to go into these types of situations and cross from these larger enterprises and speak confidently about our ability to support their deployment.

And, again, our focus on cash flow generation is not just from a free cash flow perspective, but also our managers around the world need to be able to manage to the requirements of these large deployments that sometimes have upfront investment in resources and a deployment schedule and a payment schedule associated with them with these letters of credit and potential performance bond. So we're seeing that. Again, we see that as an opportunity and certainly now as a point of differentiation and we see this as an important part of our go-forward execution plan.

Okay. And then one last final one. If I kind of walk through the numbers you've given in kind of prior guidance, I understand it was a different point in time. If you back out the roughly $40 million you said in discontinued, you said $10 million on the high end, that kind of gets me to like a $285 million number and you're using $250 million as the baseline. I'm just wondering if you can kind of help me understand where that delta of $40 million is? Is that just something that's conservatism or give me a little granularity in terms of what that delta is because it seems rather large?

Yeah, really – it's Murray. I really think the best way to look at that honestly is on a going forward basis. So, I mean, when we provide the view, we're providing today, we're doing it just as Barak said, building it from the ground up. So, we're looking at individual contracts, individual deals that we have in the pipeline and we're building from that point forward. To look back and try to arrive at the delta, I think it's a trickier exercise. I think we feel really good about the way we've been able to arrive at the numbers now, and I would just kind of leave it at that, plus the emphasis that we view these as kind of baseline threshold numbers on a going forward basis.

Operator, I think we're done with questions. I wanted to thank everybody for joining us. Barak, do you have any closing comments?

Just wanted to close with the fact that we're focused on growing our core business in video software management and services. We're focused on cash flow generation and making the right decisions for the business when it comes to cash flow. And we're focused on operational execution and delivering on the things that we communicate that we say we're going to deliver on. I wanted to thank everyone for joining the call. We look forward to speaking with you next quarter and taking you through some of the early results of these very deliberate steps that we're taking and we look forward to speaking with you in the future. Thank you.

Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude our conference for today. We like to thank you for your participation and you may now disconnect.