Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Daniel Goodfellow — VP-Communications, Sales & Marketing, KIT digital, Inc.
Kaleil D. Isaza Tuzman — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, KIT digital, Inc.
Robin Smyth — CFO, Secretary, Treasurer & Director, KIT digital, Inc.
Gavin Campion — President & Director, KIT digital, Inc.
Rich Ingrassia — Senior Research Analyst, ROTH Capital Partners LLC
Richard Fetyko — Director, Janney Montgomery Scott LLC
David Delleo — Senior Research Associate, Canaccord Genuity, Inc.
Darren Aftahi — Senior Analyst, Northland Securities, Inc.
Phil Anderson — Principal, Pinnacle Fund Management LLC
Robert Coolbrith — Vice President, ThinkEquity LLC
Murray Arenson — Research Analyst, BGB Securities, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, everyone. My name is Daniel Goodfellow, KIT digital's Senior Vice President of Corporate Communications. Thank you for joining us today to discuss KIT digital's Second Quarter Results for the period ended June 30, 2011.

First, a technical note. If you're watching the video webcast and have also dialed in to participate in our Q&A session following management's presentation, please place your phone headsets down now and until the Q&A session begins, and listen to the call through your computer speakers. This will help to avoid audio confusion from the necessary lag between the online stream and your phone lines.

I should also add that today's Q&A session will not be webcasted, so if you would like to listen to the Q&A or ask a question, please call the number on the screen before the beginning of the Q&A session.

At the end of our presentation, we'll pause momentarily to allow callers to dial in. In case you miss any portion of today's presentation, a complete video and audio replay will be available via the Investor Relations section of our website later today or you may listen to a replay over the phone by following the instructions in today's press release.

And now to our presentation, joining us today is our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Kaleil Isaza Tuzman; our President, Gavin Campion; and our Chief Financial Officer, Robin Smyth. Following their remarks, we will open up the call for your questions.

Then before the conclusion of today's call, the operator will provide the necessary precautions regarding any forward-looking statements made by management during this call.

I would now like to turn the broadcast over to our Chairman and CEO, Kaleil Isaza Tuzman. Kaleil is joining our broadcast from our Boston office. Kaleil?

Thank you, Daniel, and good morning everyone, for those of you here in U.S., good afternoon, if you are in Europe. As Daniel mentioned, I was unfortunately unable to join the rest of the team in the Prague headquarters today as I am here in Boston, presenting at the Canaccord Genuity and Oppenheimer & Co. Investor Conferences over the next couple of days. Please refer to the MD&A section of our 10-Q, to be filed later today for more detail.

We are pleased to report that revenue in the second quarter of 2011 reached a record $48.2 million, up over 100% from the same quarter a year ago, and record operating EBITDA was $9.6 million, up 34% from the same year-ago quarter.

These results include partial quarterly impact from our acquisitions of ioko and Polymedia, which closed during May. We estimate that had we closed the ioko and Polymedia acquisitions at the beginning of the second quarter or as of April 1, we would have reported approximately $56 million in revenues for the second quarter.

These record results reflect annualized organic revenue growth within the range of our 30% to 35% annual organic revenue growth targets and reflect our ability to; number one, preserve and grow our existing client bases through software and services usage growth, as well as through divisional cross-selling and up-selling; and number two, continue to win new clients by harnessing increased demand for IP video solutions across all major global markets and verticals.

This second quarter also marked the substantial completion of Project Delta, what we call our major internal reorganization and cost reduction process that was the last phase of the integration activities following the acquisitions at the end of the 2010 and those acquisitions completed over the first five months of this year, 2011. In total, Project Delta resulted in more than $35 million in annualized saving for our business.

Okay. Before we go much further, I would like to invite our CFO, Robin Smyth, to take us through the financial details of the quarter. Afterwards, our President, Gavin Campion will discuss current operational highlights. Our Chief Operating Officer, Alex Blum who typically joins us on these broadcasts has a pass as it's late at night. He is currently in Shenzhen, China. He is personally overseeing there, the exciting next phase of our major OTT video deployment with China United Television, kind of the Hulu of China.

All right. After I return, we will be talking about what we're seeing in the industry and present our current outlook and objectives for the remainder of 2011, as well as give some guidance for 2012. Then finally, as usual, we'll welcome your questions in the broadcast.

Now, I'd like to hand the presentation over to Robin, who is in our Prague headquarters to discuss our Q2 financials. Robin?

Thank you, Kaleil. It's a pleasure to have the opportunity to address you today. As Kaleil mentioned, revenue in the second quarter of 2011 was a record $48.2 million, increasing approximately 40% over the previous quarter, and more than doubling versus the same quarter a year ago. The increase in revenue was attributed to both organic growth and the contribution of newly acquired companies.

Our revenues for both periods were comprised of software-as-a-service or SaaS license and usage fees, software maintenance fees, software set-up fees, and professional services charges. Today, we estimate that approximately 65% to 70% of our revenues continue to be derived from software fees related to our KIT Video Platform and the remainder from our professional services charges.

Looking at the regional breakdown of revenues for the quarter, in excess of 50% came from EMEA, with the remainder being roughly split between the Americas and Asia-Pacific regions. Q2 was the last quarter of our substantial restructuring process with significant acquisition related integration charges. After direct M&A costs of $10.9 million during the quarter, the integration charges of $9.7 million, GAAP net loss for the quarter was $19.8 million or negative $0.49 per basic and diluted share. This compares with a net loss in the previous quarter of $12.5 million or negative $0.34 per basic and diluted share and a net loss from the second quarter of 2010 of $342,000 or negative $0.02 per basic and diluted share.

The M&A charges in the quarter included $2.3 million in payments to the financial advisors, lawyers and taxes related to acquisitions and $5.4 million of non-cash charges related to the adjustment in accrual for earnouts related to our acquisition of Benchmark Broadcast Systems in 2010, an earnout obligation, which we have largely settled since the close of the second quarter.

We're very pleased that, as of today's date say, we have either paid out or eliminated nearly all outstanding earnouts in our business and have a maximum probable exposure of 2 million shares, totaling performance earnouts over the next several years, primarily related to our recent acquisitions of ioko and Polymedia. And this exposure is only in a scenario of positive forward financial performance.

Q2 2011 GAAP net loss also included $7.1 million of net non-cash charges comprised of $4.4 million in stock-based compensation, $3.1 million of depreciation and amortization and a non-cash derivative gain of $432,000.

As you can see, without the direct M&A costs and M&A related integration expenses during the quarter by illustration we have – we would have shown positive net income of approximately $800,000 during the quarter and generated approximately $7.9 million of adjusted net income, excluding non-cash items.

We intend to move to this adjusted cash-based net income measure going forward in our financial guidance and reporting.

Now in terms of our operating EBITDA, which is a non-GAAP metric, we had been using as a proxy – which we have been using as a proxy for operating cash flow, in the second quarter, it was up 35% sequentially to a record $9.6 million, or $0.24 per basic and diluted share and was up 128% versus the same year-ago quarter.

In Q3 2011, we expect to book approximately $2 million of our anticipated remaining restructuring and integration charges related to the finalization of the Project Delta, which we took – which took place in July during – which was during the current quarter. This will allow us to be completely clear of such charges in Q4, to report substantial cash earnings in the back half of this year, and take advantage of our strong prospective free cash flow generation, which we expect to be more than $2.5 million per month by the end of Q4 of this year.

Again, in the second half of this year, we plan to begin reporting a new non-GAAP metric adjusted or cash based earnings per share. We will define it as EPS after adding back direct acquisition and financing costs and non-cash charges. We will not subtract future acquisition-related restructuring and integration expenses from this adjusted EPS metric. We believe that cash EPS metric will be more appropriate to our current stage of organically focused development and will provide a more transparent measure of our performance entering 2012 and beyond.

I would remind you that we do not capitalize R&D expenses. Historically, our financial reporting has tended to report on capitalized R&D levels from acquired entities. While we've continue to expense as oppose to capitalize R&D as an accounting policy, we intend to break out R&D expenses as an illustrative purpose towards Q4. We estimate we currently spend approximately 8% of revenues on R&D activity although this is not formally broken out in the P&L.

Now we would like to reiterate our guidance of $210 million of reported revenue for all of 2011. We would also like to reiterate our operating EBITDA margin target of 23% for the full year. While our operating EBITDA margin for Q2 2011 was around 20%, we are confident we will have quite significant EBITDA margin expansion in the second half of the year due to the completion of the Project Delta and the substantial reorganization of our business.

We would also like to present guidance for our upcoming third-quarter results. We expect to report revenue for Q3 2011 of at least $61 million. This expected revenue growth for the third quarter, which is typically a seasonal slow period, would imply an organic rate of approximately 40% annually relative to Q2 2011, adjusted revenues of approximately $56 million when backdating for acquisitions completed in Q2.

Now turning to the balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents at June 30, 2011 totaled $37.8 million as compared to $109.7 million at the end of the previous quarter. The decrease was due to acquisitions completed during the quarter as well as restructuring and integration expenses and M&A related financial advisor and legal fees.

As a matter of timing, we were an additional $2 million of cash payments made shortly after the quarter and related to the completion of certain M&A consideration components and payments to financial and legal advisors.

At the end of Q2, our day sales outstanding or DSOs adjusted for the acquisitions occurring at the beginning of the quarter were in the mid 90s of days outstanding. This is slightly above our usual DSO level between 75 and 90 days, and net of our SaaS companies providing software and service to large enterprises.

This DSO movement in the quarter was expected as it was the result of slight delays in transitioning invoicing entities and associated bank accounts related to the ioko and Polymedia acquisitions. This has worked itself through in recent weeks and, as of the date of this broadcast, our current DSOs are already running at in the mid 80s and decreasing further.

As a reminder, we do not have significant working capital consumption in our business given our bill-as-you-go monthly invoicing model, and we have never had any material collection problems over the years.

I'm also pleased to convey that we are successfully effective now with our expiry shelf registration and related 10-K A filling, as of yesterday afternoon, as a matter of fact, which was the means to register shares from previous acquisitions, including Polymedia, and was a legal requisite pursuant to the Polymedia acquisition agreement.

This shelf registration was purely related secondary shares and did not involve any shares owned by management, Directors or any other outside – insiders. This completes the financial portion of our presentation. I am happy to answer any questions you would have during Q&A session.

Now I'd like to hand the presentation over to Gavin to discuss Q2 operational highlights. Gavin?

Well, thanks, Robin, and good morning and good afternoon, everyone. I would like to provide some insight into the operational highlights for the second quarter, the completion of Project Delta, and our operational priorities going forward.

With the major M&A activity of the first half of 2011 now behind us, we were very focused during the quarter on the consolidation and optimization of our business, the upcoming new release of our KIT Video Platform, the development of a more robust channel sales program, and tactical expansion of our activities in high-growth BRIC markets.

During our last Q1 earnings broadcast, we announced our transition to a more regionalized management and client delivery structure, with centralized corporate functions that support our global operations, or as we like to call it, our hub-and-spoke structure. The transition included decentralizing authority to three Regional Managing Directors who assumed broader leadership roles encompassing commercial and business operations with their own regional client deployment and support resources.

We now have strong regional hubs for our Americas, EMEA, and Asia-Pacific groups in New York, London, and Beijing, respectively. Prague continues to be the company's global center for product development, quality assurance, network management and monitoring marketing and communication, sales engineering, strategic account management, technology and channel sales partnerships, finance and indeed, our corporate development functions.

Due to our growth over the last couple of years, we outgrew our facility in Slezska Street in Prague and have temporarily split into two buildings in the Prague 3 part of town. We are excited to be moving later this month into a brand new headquarters location in Prague 4, an area overlooking the city which is the base for a number of local and international technology companies.

Our new Prague headquarters will also be the location of one of our new vision of the future innovation centers, where we demonstrate for Tier 1 clients our multiscreen VOD, linear and catch-up OTT solutions in live, multi-device environments. We currently have an innovation center in San Diego, California, and indeed in London in the U.K. and plan to be adding others in New York and Beijing in addition to our Prague headquarters later this year.

Now As Kaleil mentioned earlier, in July we marked the completion of Project Delta. I am pleased to report that through this optimization process, which occupied all of the first half of the year, we have eliminated approximately US$35 million of total costs, including personnel cost reductions of approximately $23 million on an annualized basis. I mean, I should point out that through this process we have reduced our per capita compensation and associated costs globally by approximately 25%. And we believe we have significant advantage in this area versus competitors located in higher cost labor centers.

We also took out around 22% savings for storage, bandwidth, and content costs, calculated on a run rate basis for July 2011 compared to Q4 2010. This includes data center and infrastructure consolidation which in itself has resulted in over $3 million in annual savings despite, I might say, a dramatically expanded client base.

We also took advantage of post-merger office space reductions, indeed reducing offices from 32 to 18 locations worldwide, and a consolidation initiative that resulted in migration of most remaining client revenues still on legacy systems to our common platform architecture, and I am pleased to say that it was achieved with almost no customer revenue attrition.

In the context of Project Delta, we also implemented stricter global expense and HR policies via NetSuite, our global ERP system, to drive increased budgetary and expenditure accountability across each of the three regions as well as our central administrative operations.

We created a dedicated integration team led by former ioko North American CEO, Scott Sahadi, to focus on ensuring greater post merger efficiencies and better utilizing the company's talents and expertise. The team identified and integrated a number of game changing best practices from acquired companies. These included the way we scale on infrastructure, our client delivery and engagement, and the strengthening of the link between customer requirement and our product development efforts. We are now more capable than ever of achieving rapid customer-centric innovation in areas like connected device delivery and social TV.

Our integrated product development team has leveraged best of breed technology from companies we have acquired along with numerous internal innovations developed over the past [ph] year (00:19:32) the new KIT Video Platform being released in phases over the next five months.

We have achieved our latest product development milestones ahead of schedule due to our application of the service-oriented architecture that employs a modular extensible sub-component and exposes functionality by a standards-based APIs.

This core methodology provides a flexible deployment model that includes what we call traditional cloud, private cloud, which means remotely managed but hosted on the client side and hybrid cloud hosting options. It also allows our platform functionality to be easily expanded through the addition of new components as well as integration with third-party solutions.

Now, turning to the sales front, well, our pace of internal growth strengthened during the second quarter. We added 35 net new client contracts during the second quarter with estimated average monthly revenue per client well in excess of $30,000.

Our focus continues to be on higher-end opportunities in the market and large multi-year contracts in emerging sectors and indeed geographies. Our client base now totals more than 2,300 customers across more than 50 countries. We have a balanced and diversified global client base where no single client accounts for more than 5% of total revenues.

I think on the screen is a sampling of some of our client wins in the quarter. Maybe I'll take a minute and point a few out. The Walt Disney Company selected us to design and build a multi-screen OTT system. China United Television, which is a nationwide consortium of 19 leading television stations in China, engaged us to set up a full scale IP video network that will allow the consortium to distribute live TV programs and catch-up TV to the computers, connected TVs, Apple i-devices, and Android handsets to millions of users across China.

Channel 4 in the UK, which is one of the world's leading television broadcasters, selected KIT Digital for build out its video-on-demand service for Microsoft Xbox consoles. The leading Italian broadcaster RAI selected KIT Digital and Wave TV to deliver a new user generated video content and the social media TV channel.

And UPC, a subsidiary of Liberty Global, chose us to design, build and manage an over-the-top video platform. You can find a much more extensive list in our Q2 earnings release.

These wins reflect the strength and effectiveness of our talented sales team. Given the supporting vectors of more connected mobile and tethered devices, better broadband connectivity and changing behaviors around online media consumption, our sales pipeline has been steadily growing over the last several years.

And as we advance through the second half of the year, we continue to see great opportunity for growth in client verticals undergoing major transmission to multi-screen IP video like telco operators, MSOs extended into OTT offerings and device manufacturers who are acting as virtual network operators.

The point is this, we have been experiencing an accelerating pace of new client sales opportunities, despite in fact the general macroeconomic turbulent and anxiety in the financial markets.

With that I would like to hand over the presentation to Kaleil. Kaleil?

Thank you, Robin and Gavin. As I've done in previous quarterly presentations, I'd now like to conclude by providing some comments about the opportunities for our company, our industry as a whole and our outlook and objectives for the current fiscal year. I'm also going to give a bit of guidance for 2012, next year.

First of all, I would like to start by echoing Gavin's comment around the tailwinds we are experiencing in our business. We experienced strong growth during the death of the 2008, 2009 recession. New management came in, as you recall, beginning of 2008. And that in fact ended up being an opportunity, first, to take market share from our competitors, many of whom struggled and had balance sheet issues and to also recruit senior talent in the sales area and other areas in our business from others in the industry. Look, we don't know what the macroeconomic environment has in store, but we are confident in the strong trends and the uptake of IP video globally. And we benefit from a balanced client portfolio, both geographically and by industry vertical, including expose to emerging markets that seem to be growing more quickly over the next couple of years. Bottom line is, we are heads down at this point, growing our business.

As Gavin also mentioned, we are ahead of schedule and have made substantial progress in transitioning a large majority of our clients on legacy platforms to the core data layer of our advanced KIT Platform. And the remainder of legacy clients, we've scheduled to complete the transition by the end of this year.

Our next generation KIT Video Platform is becoming available in two editions, each of which address KIT's three major customer verticals, our three verticals being media and entertainment, which comprises about 50% of our client and revenue base, network operators and non-media enterprises. The higher-end edition of the KIT Video Platform addresses the need of more complex, customized, multi-screen and multi-platform broadband TV implementations, while the other, easier-to-enter edition provides a turnkey, more self-service but highly advanced solution to address the broader video management market at a lower initial cost hurdle.

We plan to unveil our upgraded platform edition as well as an important new branding initiative in early September, September 9 to 11 to be precise, which will coincide with the International Broadcasting Convention, or IBC, a trade show in Amsterdam, Holland, which is one of the largest trade shows globally in the video technology industry.

According to Cisco's June 2011 Visual Networking Index report, Internet video is now 40% of consumer Internet traffic and will reach over 60% by the end of 2015 and that excludes video that's exchanged through peer-to-peer file sharing.

KIT Digital continues to operate in this sweet spot in the industry, leading the global transformation of traditional broadcast television dominated by dedicated firmware and hardware to a multi-screen but over the top, OTT, and multi-platform solutions. And this is validated by the number of broadcaster and MSO client wins we had in this last quarter.

Today software systems like ours powering IP video make up only around 5%, in fact, of the global video management market with most of the market, as I said, served by dedicated hardware and firmware solutions whereas IP and software-based systems like ours are projected to constitute a large majority of the video management market, which is sized between $10 billion and $15 billion today, by as early as 2020.

Okay. So here is what we're setting out for KIT Digital for the remainder of 2011 and a bit about 2012. As Robin said, we continue to project reported GAAP revenue guidance of $210 million for the full fiscal year that we're in, which should represent an increase over 2010 of nearly 100% and more than 30% organically year-over-year.

Growing top line at the same pace in 2012 would put us over $300 million in revenue for next year. We continue to project an overall operating EBITDA margin of approximately 23% in 2011 or more than a 500 basis point improvement in EBITDA margin over 2010.

We expect ongoing EBITDA margin expansion to occur in 2012 and beyond with the goal of achieving in the vicinity of a 30% EBITDA margin on a monthly basis by the end of 2012.

As Robin mentioned, by booking the vast majority of remaining restructuring and integration charges related to M&A in Q2, we expect to have a Q3 largely absent of these charges and a completely clean Q4. We expect to generate free cash flow even after accounting for any M&A activity at the margin from here on out.

As Gavin said, we are seeing strong growth in our business going into the back half of this year, despite the recent necessary distractions of M&A integration, our business being a larger shift than before and the turbulence in the stock markets. Our cloud-based software as a service or as we increasingly are calling it platform as a service business model and that's because certain clients associate the word the SaaS with lightweight solutions, so our platform as a service business model involved 70%-plus recurring revenue under long-term client contracts. We have extremely low client attrition. And that offers us with very good medium and long-term visibility. In fact, increased usage from our existing client base generates 20%-plus overall corporate growth per year. That's just internal growth. Today KIT is the largest player in the software-based video asset management industry from both a revenue perspective, a geographical reach perspective, and a client reach perspective, and we believe we have the best overall IP video enabled platform that exists in the marketplace.

Increasingly, we are also being looked to for market leadership from adjacent market players like global device manufacturers in Asia and systems integrators in North America and Western Europe. And we're quietly been evolving our sales channel relationships over the last couple of quarters. More news to come soon on this front.

In a connected device arena, for example, in Asia you are about to hear about the launch off the Asia Video Convergence Alliance, a consortium of next-generation video technology leaders being driven out of Steve Chung's leadership in our Asia-Pacific group and co-chaired by KIT digital.

The Asia Video Convergence Alliance is dedicated to creating trusted best standards in the industry, particularly around connected devices, connected TVs, for example. We are confident that we will achieve the financial target and new product release schedule that we have set out for ourselves this fiscal year. And additionally, we believe we are poised for a strong 2012 in which we can expand our market share organically.

Finally, before we open the call for Q&A, I'd like to show you now a sneak peek into our new three-minute introductory corporate video, which is still under construction, I'm told, by our marketing department.

[Advertisement] (00:30:37)

All right. I hope you enjoyed that. We welcome your feedback. As I said, it's still under construction. We get a lot of questions, particularly in the investment communities, about what we do. Video asset management software is not intuitive. And we thought a video like this might be able to give you a little bit of a flavor of how the industry is transforming and the types of clients that we work with and the multi-device challenge and multi-screen challenge that sits in front of our clients today.

Anyway, with that I'd now like to open the broadcast to address your questions. Thank you.

Thank you. We will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Now, your first question comes from Richard Ingrassia of ROTH Capital Partners. Please go ahead.

Thanks. Good morning, good evening, everybody.

Hi, Rich.

Kaleil, on the Disney assignment, if you can't say yet what property or properties are involved, can you maybe give us a little more on the nature of the assignment or perhaps an order of magnitude on ARPU or annual fees? And then in addition to direct sales to content companies like Disney, maybe say a little bit more about how a partnership might be structured between KIT and a large systems integrator. I assume you mean companies like Accenture and/or legacy broadcast firmware companies.

Sure, I'll take the first part of the question and hand it to Gav back in Prague for the second part. This is our fourth part of the Disney family that we're working with. We don't yet have the permission to name the division, but you know that we already worked with groups like ABC News and [ph] BonaVista (00:36:10). It's a large deployment. I mean, it's not un-coincidental that Disney a couple of months ago announced that they were taking a lot of their video management in the IP arena, new media arena to outsourcing that. We think that's going to be the overall trend in the industry over the next five or 10 years, and especially if one of the largest media companies in the world like Disney is kind of – is deciding that it makes sense to work with outside providers from a best practices perspective, we think that the others that continue to do things largely in-house like Viacom will take the same route now that Disney and News Corp. and NBC and others have taken that move.

From an ARPU perspective, it's an important client relationship. You're talking about something that would be – this new contract in the kind of $4 million to $6 million type of range per annum would probably be the right way to think about it. And that's probably the level of detail of it that I would feel comfortable with at this time.

Gav, do you want to pick up the question on how we're partnering with systems integrators and some of these large-scale deployments?

Your next question comes from the line of Richard Fetyko of Janney Montgomery Scott. Please go ahead.

I think we had a bit of technical difficulty there. Just to answer the second part of the question, Gav are you in line? I'm getting a message that they're on mute. I'll pick it up, Richard. Effectively, what we're doing with the systems integrator world is what I would call coopetition, to be open with you. So, we've got a couple of different ways that we end up bumping against the world of the Accentures and the [indiscernible] (00:38:10) and the Alcatel-Lucents and the Booz & Companies, et cetera. And one, which is often our preference ,is to be a subcontractor where deploying the KIT Platform and all of the integration specifically around the KIT Platform and the understanding of the reference architecture involved, the integration with legacy hardware and other internal systems in the software side, like ERP systems and billing and customer identity, is within our purview. But as a subcontractor to an Accenture, for example, we're happy to do that. What we're not happy to do is to be a subcontractor where we lose the privity with the clients. So, we have to make sure that when it comes to the video management software that there is a direct relationship with the client. So, it's not a strict kind of reseller relationship; it's more of a classic subcontracting relationship.

In other cases we're a direct competitor. We do have over 600 people in our Professional Services group, and even though we're talking about 30% of revenues, we're talking about in excess of 50% of staff. And we're very proud of our professional services capability, which encompasses the systems integration, marketing and design, and interface work, consulting and strategy around monetizing IP video. And this keeps us in the roadmap meetings, in the strategy meetings with clients and so forth. So we are capable in some of the – some of these RFPs in actually providing both the systems integration and the software deployment. I think that keeps us dangerous enough to really keep the attention of the SIs as well. Clearly, our core business is selling the platform and we are happy to be a subcontractor. But I think if you look at most enterprise software companies, whether it's delivered to the cloud or on an on-site basis, you end up migrating to this type of reality where you have a coopetition relationship with the SIs.

Now I understand Gav is off of mute. Hopefully, I did an okay job there, Gav, I don't know if you want to course-correct or flesh that out at all?

Yeah, apologies for that, Kaleil and Richard, the operator did have me on mute. But I think you answered the question perfectly, and thank you.

All right, guys. Can I ask a question now?

Yes, go ahead, Richard.

Okay. I just wasn't sure if I was now muted perhaps. Hi, guys. With respect to the $35 million in annualized cost savings, just curious, how should we think through that? That's off of what base perhaps or is it off of the second quarter base of sort of a cost or expense run rate? Or perhaps on a pro forma basis with the ioko and Polymedia acquisitions? Just trying to think off of what base should we sort of take the cost savings from?

And then secondly, curious around the channel sales. Kaleil, you kind of hinted that there's more to come on that front. I was wondering what percentage of new deals came from channels and what targets you still have? I think you had 50% or so targets for that -

Sure. I'll take the first part of the question and then pass it to Gav on the channel sales development, which is a very important initiative for us, both this year and next. It's a little bit difficult to see the base in the financials that you're talking about in terms of the Project Delta cuts, because it's a moving target, right. So, Project Delta began in Q1, so we're cutting through that period.

I think the right way to think about is, you want to take the Q2 base and then you'll probably gross it up by something in the vicinity of about $20 million per annum, which would account for the back-dating of the acquisitions the beginning in Q2, and also some of the cuts that – adjusting for some of the cuts from Q1. That's rough math, but if you want, you kind of say, okay, Project Delta overall against what G&A or what total cost structure are we talking about cutting out the $35 million. That would probably be the right way to think about it. You take kind of Q2 and annualize that in the cost structure and then kind of gross up by about $20 million.

So, hopefully that helps, and – I did that math in my head. So, Robin, if you think I got that wrong, definitely course-correct. I'll hand it back to you guys, Gavin or Rob, and I know you are together in Prague.

Yeah, thanks, Kaleil. As far as new revenues coming through channel, yes you're right, we set ourselves a target of 50% of new revenues coming through channels moving forward in fact for the year. I'm pretty comfortable that we're on track to achieve that. I'd say we're well in excess of 35% of new revenues coming through channel at this time, and historically, we've been more around the 15%, 20%. Certainly, over the last – the last couple of years, it's an area we're investing in greatly, both in terms of the acquisition of new partners whether they be resellers or referral partners. We have a team dedicated to doing this on a global basis, and we also have regional representation and coordination on the – reporting through the regional managing directors.

I think also it's fair to say that our technology platform is becoming more amenable to partnership relationships as we've introduced a swath of standard-based APIs into the platform making it easier for partners to integrate with perhaps their clients on a go-forward basis. Our documentation is fantastic, our implementation processes are robust, so we are becoming a lot more partner-ready as part of this strategy.

So I'm pretty comfortable that we are on track to hit the target that we stated.

All right, thanks.

Your next question comes from the line of David Delleo of Canaccord. Please go ahead.

Hi, guys. Just a couple of questions here focusing on OpEx. So, understand the restructuring charges in the quarter and those are kind of diminished into Q3 and then be free in Q4. I guess trying to better understand how we should think about the M&A related line item there, $11 million in the quarter. It sounds like maybe $6 million of that was unique to acquisitions in the quarter. Do we think about that line item kind of trailing off in Q3 and not being existent in Q4? Is there something else in that that maybe holds a number throughout the rest of the year?

Yeah, hi David. It's Kaleil. I'll start and then pass to Robin for a greater detail. The total M&A charges for the quarter were about $10.7 million. About half of that is non-cash, which is an accrual, a change in the fair value around earnouts that are residual at the end of the quarter, which is really a kind of a non-event. I mean first of all, it's because of better-than-expected performance in acquired assets. But then as you saw in the further disclosure in the press release and in the 10-Q that will be filed later today, you will see that we settled out a majority of those earnouts right around the end of the quarter and right after the end of the quarter. We wanted to seize the opportunity before what we saw was going to be, a very strong back half of the year.

So, our residual earnout exposure is now down in a maximum probable case, meaning the most that we would see possible, around 2 million shares and earnouts over the next few years. And that would again be against quite good performance. So that's a significant part of that M&A charge for the quarter. The remaining part is really related to the actual deals. We paid bankers and lawyers, and we had some tax components that get booked under GAAP in that line item. So you would see that dramatically drop. I mean there may be some very small residual in Q3 related to legal fees or something like that, but you can effectively think about that as zeroing out going forward, unless of course, we were to do another deal down the road, and during our lifetime as a company, we would. But to be clear, if and when we were to do other acquisitions in our future as a business, you would only be looking at the direct charges. So you'd be looking at bankers and lawyers fees, taxes – transfer taxes and other direct charges.

Our guidance around cash EPS in the future is not going to exclude out or add back M&A-related restructuring and integration. So, again, effectively kind of a bit of a long-winded answer, but you can think about that zeroing out going forward on a standard basis. Robin, did I capture that appropriately?

Yes, there is only one – I think you covered that pretty well. It's – there is only one. Obviously, the benchmark, the earnout that was included within that M&A charge under current SEC rules of course, if they are – in the past you used to be able to put that straight against the good – acquisition and the goodwill. But going forward, we have to estimate the actual amount of earnout and any excess or a better performance against our estimate of the – and if there's an earnout component to it, it has to go through the P&L now. So, you would see that continuing on if there was a better than our estimate from this point of an earnout still going through there. But on the whole, yes, Kaleil is correct, there's – there might still be some residual charges that's – and the figure is fairly large for Q2 obviously because we had some very significant acquisitions in that quarter.

Yeah, thanks Robin for the clarification. Actually Robin, sorry we're during this real-time, just so we are totally clear with the investment community. The settlement of the benchmark earnout or the significant settlement of what was residual that we did after the quarter that's disclosed, talked about in the press release and in the 10-Q, does that hit the M&A charge for Q3 or is that going into – against the accrual? Does that generate an additional charge or no?

No, that won't – that doesn't generate an additional charge. What we've done is taken the charge and re-estimated that charge going forward with the balance of our – balance of the earnout for that company. So the payout of that early in Q3 goes against that acquisition liability on the balance sheet.

Right, right. It gets struck against the accrual basically.

That's correct.

Okay.

So David, the answer to your question – so my answer was correct. I am glad because our CFO just signed off. So anything else would just be a change – non-cash change in fair value of earnouts.

Okay, that's very helpful. Just one more quick one, if I may. So sticking with kind of OpEx here, compensation line item jumped a bit in the quarter. Is that something we should think about kind of unique to the quarter with the acquisitions in the quarter and kind of coming down going forward or how do we think about a run rate for that?

Well, obviously you've got addition of some very significant staff in the quarter on a net basis, because you're talking about over 500 employees that joined the company in the quarter as a result of the two acquisitions. But then obviously, you've got the – also the bulk of the Project Delta related reductions, which in total over the first half of the year was in the vicinity of 200 reduction in head count. So again, where we are right now, is we're reiterating the guidance for the back half of the year, which would obviously imply a significant EBITDA margin jump in Q3 and Q4, which we're comfortable with given the completion of Project Delta and where we were as a run rate on comp by the end of the year, by the end of the quarter rather.

Great, guys. Thanks for the color.

You're welcome.

Your next question comes from the line of Darren Aftahi of Northland Securities. Please go ahead.

Hi, guys thanks for taking my question. If we could talk a little bit about 2012 given the revenue guidance, if you could talk to the degree what your visibility as it stands today is kind of into that number, your cash low point? And then as it relates to 2012, what kind of a tax rate and CapEx spend do you see with the business?

Yeah, sure. I'll probably do the first half and give that to Robin for the tax point. As we said in the broadcast, we have a very good medium and long-term or rather a very good medium-term visibility in our business, which we would define certainly in the form of multiple quarters, given the nature of our contract base. So, we feel comfortable having that guidance out there for 2012 given where we are highly confident, we'll finish the year from a run rate perspective and the implied internal growth that it would take us to get to that target. As I said during the broadcast, we estimate that we generate about 20% internal growth from our existing client base based on the contractual structures and usage behavioral patterns of our existing clients.

So, that's an achievable point and we wouldn't have put it out there if we didn't feel that way over the last 3.5 years, we have a history of putting out guidance and achieving. We don't sandbag it either. We tend to try to be as accurate as we can be on the guidance.

Cash low point, we had some M&A. In terms of trends of cash, there were some of the consideration stuff and fees to lawyers and so forth went out after the quarter-end. I think you're probably talking about a cash low point that worst be kind of in the low $30 million. And then we – we are already, as I said, going forward, free cash flow positive. So, Robin will certainly correct that if I am wrong. And then in terms of taxes, I believe that our normalized – in our model, kind of long-term normalized rate would be around 15%. We are or obviously below that now, but I know Robin. We've recently brought on a tax expert internally on staff, so you probably have a better beat on that right now.

Yeah, look it's probably about that. We – obviously, we are carrying some NOLs that are not obviously carrying on the balance sheet right now. So, the tax position and a lot depends on the jurisdiction we earn the earned revenue and property in. But going forward, I would say that through the majority of – the part of 2012, we're pretty well covered in a lot of the jurisdictions. So, it will sort of normalize out I would have thought in the second half of 2012.

Great and then just one quick follow-up, after all the integration, what's your employee head count?

We are around 1,200.

Okay, great. Thanks.

Your next question comes from the line of Philip Anderson of Pinnacle. Please go ahead.

Just wanted to follow-up on the previous analyst questions regarding the tax rate. So if I heard you correctly, with the NOLs here, you'll consume the majority of those sometime over the next three or four, five quarters and toward the end of next year will approach the normalized ongoing tax rate of 15%, is that right?

Yeah, that's about right. I think the – it depends – a lot depends on jurisdictions where we earn the revenue and that – I would suggest that it's somewhere in the latter half of 2012.

Okay. So the actual – absolute tax rate for next year on an annual basis will be less than [indiscernible] (54:01) 10%

Yeah.

But four or five quarters out from now, it will be close to 15% going forward as to perpetuity?

Yeah, I would have thought that's right. Yes.

So just doing some back of the napkin figuring here, so if the company does $300 million of revenue next year at a 25% EBITDA margin, that would be about $75 million of EBITDA. Given the nature of the reported quarter, the income statement, Robin, it looks like the company had about $5.6 million of D&A from the ongoing business. Would it be fair to assume that D&A next year ex any other acquisition activity would be somewhere in the order of 2 times that or $11 million to $12 million?

Stunned silence. Robin, what is the – how do you look at D&A for next year, which is Phil's question?

Yeah, look – I'm sorry, I was on mute here. I put myself on mute. The D&A for – we would expect the D&A to obviously slow down. One of their biggest problems with D&A mix – with D&A is we pick up a lot of amortization from the acquisitions. Now having booked a lot of that acquisition amortization now and there's still some valuation work obviously to do with the current acquisitions. But once that is set, our CapEx is going to probably run next year, we would estimate right now to about 2% to 3%. So if you look at an extrapolation of the D&A increase based on this basis right now at a CapEx increase of 2% to 3%, I think you get to the figure

Okay.

That would just add – just to be slightly conservative on the point given that we obviously, we are not prepared to give EBITDA guidance quite yet for next year. So, is that – the average in enterprise SaaS that we are finding on the CapEx side is around 3% to 3.5% of revenues. Our CapEx has run a little lower than that, but I think over the longer term, that's kind of the probably the right modeling assumption.

Okay. Let's just say 3%, so that will be about $9 million in CapEx next year, right? So maybe D&A next year would be somewhere in the order of I guess conservatively $15 million, as these additional acquisitions are brought on and the goodwill amortization schedule is fixed? Robin, not to put you on the spot, but looking at last quarter's 10-Q, there are 5.3 million stock options outstanding and the 1.2 million are exercisable at the end of the March quarter. Do you recall off the top of your head, given the vesting schedule how many of those may be exercisable maybe to the nearest million by the end of next year?

Off the top of my head – look – I would have to – I'd be able to give you the calculation if you'd drop me a line I'm more than happy to sort of work through the figure, but I don't have a figure in front of me.

Okay. Phil, as you know from our filings, I think the average strike price of our warrants outstanding is above $30 bucks per share. On the employee option side would be right around, it's actually slightly above on average where we are currently traded in the market. So just to put the question into context from a dilution perspective, when we do – when we run treasury method dilution against our options and warrants, it doesn't add much at all to the capital base.

To the share count. So, and I appreciate that, Kaleil. So if we have 42.5 million shares out today and there's 2 million contingent shares which can come due over the next three years, let's say 1 million become due next year because of businesses that we've acquired [indiscernible] (58:03) 43.5 million shares against which should be well north of that and net income assuming a 10% to 15% net income rate next year, $15 million of dilution. So I was just trying to get at a cash EPS number for next year, which should be well north of $1. So and I realize you don't [indiscernible] (58:21)

We are not giving guidance on that for next year but we understand the analysis you are doing.

Got it. Thanks very much, guys.

You're welcome.

Your next question comes from the line of Robert Coolbrith of ThinkEquity. Please go ahead.

Thank you. Couple of quick questions. Just wondering, first of all maybe if you could give us an update or refresher on mobile maybe for those who are newer to the story, if you could talk a little bit about some of your historical leadership in that space in Europe. Are you successfully porting that leadership at the markets? Is this an incremental demand driver for new or existing clients, etc.? Then also I think maybe this week especially people are looking for ideas which are both offensive and defensive. Could you talk a little bit about your proportional EBITDA contribution from the sort of recurring pass type business versus professional services and what kind of visibility you have into EBITDA versus revenue going forward? And also maybe how much of your growth assumption for the remainder of 2011 and 2012 relies more upon growth in existing customers either from new projects or just from usage growth versus growth from new customer wins? Thank you very much.

Hi, Rob it's Kaleil. I'm going to kind of partially repeat your question, because you were pretty difficult to hear, and I want to make sure we got it right. I think part of your question had to do with the recurring component of revenue kind of the visibility of that, if I heard correctly. And as we said on the broadcast 70% plus of our revenues are long-term contract recurring. And then within those contracts there's a spilt between the basic fees that we charge per month or per quarter. And then the usage fees that are generated by usage on the KIT video platform, and also the consumption of additional professional services off of standard rate cards and our natural escalators in the usage calculations as well.

So when we do that math around the usage patterns that we see on the platform over the last few years, we have a lot of data now, it's across 2,300 clients. There's not any material client SKU or concentration. We have a very good read on the, I would call, the internal growth before you do any material new client wins or divisional up sales and so forth. And that's what got us to articulation on the broadcast of the 20% per annum internal growth number that just built on existing client base and structure.

Yeah. Maybe in terms also the EBITDA contributions from or do you have superior visibility in EBITDA versus revenue just because the margin in SaaS versus margin in professional services?

Yeah, that's fairly straightforward for us, Rob, because we have obviously incremental margin contribution in new revenues as in any software company particularly a cloud-based SaaS type of model. You've got – you don't have to consequent addition of G&A and account management when you add a new client. And remember in our variable costs in the majority, the vast majority of case is the bandwidth. And the storage costs are directly purchase ordered by the CDNs and by the distributed storage companies directly to the client.

And you can see from our P&L, you are talking about a couple percent of revenue max we're in terms of COGS in those areas and quite a bit of that's kind of our internal infrastructure need. So basically you've got fairly straightforward map. When you add clients, it's just a matter of the split between the software and the services. On the software side, you probably got 80% percent gross margins and on the services side we have 15% or 20% gross margins.

But then of course – you have the cost of the dedicated personnel and – the time sheeting and the hours that go against the project. So you have very good contribution off of the margin into the services side. So that blends out to about 60% gross margin line. It can bump around up or down based on the amount of services in a given quarter and set up of new clients. But really we manage to the operating line and if you look at the operating line, it's quite straightforward, because when you add clients, you've got the linear addition of services staff when they are ordering services. But on the software side, we don't have to add almost any resources. So you've got incremental margin contribution and that leads us to the – to kind of a relatively linear – not terribly aggressive or at a very high pace, but linear EBITDA expansion over the course of the next couple of years. And that's what led to our guidance.

So I hope that that – we're just conscious of the time here. I know we're after the scheduled time. I think you had asked the third question about our leadership in the mobile area if I heard correctly. And maybe I'll allow Gav to address that, because we're doing quite a bit of work now with telcos and others that are active in experimenting with new ways to get IP video both on-deck and off-deck into the mobile consumption. So, Gav, do you want to take that part?

Yeah, sure I'm very happy to. Our mobile capability goes from strength and strength and its core to our offer and core to our client demand right now. There's a number of things I can say we're actually working on a number of partnerships with device manufactures to actually get embedded in devices to continue the proliferation and usage of video-over-IP in our portable devices.

Our new platform, the KIT Video Platform and I think Kaleil talked to the higher end addition addresses the more complex customized and kind of multi-screen broadband TV implementations earlier, but it has mobile absoluted at its core. And some of this technology came through an acceleration of our roadmap and some acquisitions we made earlier in year, most notably Kyte and Kewego that are allowing us to really leapfrog the market in terms of our mobile capability.

So it's central to our platform and it's central to our pitch and that's really on a multi-vertical basis. It's not just the network operators, the MNOs here, I mean, really across two of our key three verticals media, entertainment and the network operators, there's a mobile portable device or connected device, a component of our solutions pretty much in every case. I'm looking down the list of Q2 client wins that we put in the press release and struggling to see one that doesn't have significant mobile componentry of it.

And it's obviously becoming very main stream. Kaleil had a slide up in his presentation about the penetration of video being distributed over IP showing that 30% by 2014, video would be distributed over IP networks. We are actually at the point now wherein good portion of television on a global basis can only be viewed on these portable and connected devices. So obviously it's front and center in our strategy. And we have longstanding clients here as well, such as Vodafone, that we're still running in excess of 100 mobile TV channels in greater than 10 countries throughout Europe, so obviously very central. I would estimate, Kaleil, around 25% to 30% of our revenues kind of originate around a mobile portable device, somewhere of that order.

Yes, that would be our estimate.

Your next question comes from the line of Murray Arenson of BGB Securities. Please go ahead.

Thanks. Hello, everybody. Two quick questions if I can please. One more general, and then I wanted to ask you a little bit about the movement to the new KIT platforms. I was just curious to hear your thoughts in this economic environment, how you see your exposure in a recessionary environment in terms of the timing or to what extent you have your revenues cemented down and that sort of thing.

We have the benefit as a management team of being together through the 2008-2009 period. And we said then that we didn't see slowdown in particularly clients buying IP video solutions, because of the vectors of smartphones' proliferation of connectivity and connected TVs and emerging markets leapfrogging and young people not wanting kind of linear broadcast programmatic content and consumer behavior changes and – the tailwinds are so strong across those categories that we didn't – and we said that and we had a lot of skepticism from investors. But obviously we grew, at that point, 40% to 45% through that period.

We would say the same thing now. We don't ignore the macroeconomic anxiety, I would say in the markets in which we operate we perhaps don't see – feel it as much, because our revenues are quite spread around the world and we have a lot of activities in emerging markets that, from our perspective, feel a little bit more solid, particularly when it comes to IP video, because we are making massively broad CapEx decisions around kind of next generation networks.

And there's massive consumption changes as middle classes emerge in a lot of these countries and so I think – we sit here probably saying the same thing that we would have said then, which is we understand that there's a storm out there, but our approach is heads down. When a salesperson comes into my office and talks about the macroeconomic environment, my reaction is: what does that have to do with your daily task?

Until there's nobody else to call on your call sheet, until you're not actually getting interest in the solutions that you are selling, ignore the noise. And I think that's going to be our approach going forward. And I think it's going to represent an opportunity for us, because there are number of companies, there's still a relatively long tail in our space. There's probably a good 10 to 15 companies that are, I would say. under $10 million or $12 million in revenue. And I suspect we're going to see what we saw happen in late '08 and first half of '09, which is a little bit of flushing out of some of those companies or maybe consolidation, or maybe some that go out of business or maybe some that transition their business model. And I think that's probably helpful to us as well as I think the industry starts to shake out and mature and the top three or four players begin to emerge more clearly.

Okay, great. And then regarding the movement to the new platforms, I think you talked about like a several months transitionary period. I wonder if you could talk about what happens over those months as opposed to just introducing things new? And secondly, is the transition an opportunity to do additional upgrade work kind of above and beyond what we typically see from your organic growth path?

Yeah. Why don't – I'll play tag team with Gavin on this. We don't call our transitions team transitions. We call it upgrades, and our upgrade team, led by Nick Athanassiadis, has been doing a terrific job over the last few quarters, really focusing in on clients where – when we roll from a legacy platform to our unified architecture, we can actually get more revenues out of them. So our goal is not to preserve revenues in the transition, it is to enhance revenues in the transition. And we do that also by not taking a forced approach.

We learned the hard way couple of years ago, particularly, I'd say with the FeedRoom acquisition, and yes, certainly we've done other things imperfectly since as well. But particularly with the FeedRoom acquisition, the risk of going in with too blunt an object around the communication with the customers and kind of forcing through on a spreadsheet transition over a fixed period of time, and our approach now as we kind of let the legacy platform live for a while in the background as we really talk to customers. Some don't care, by the way, a number of customers you can just transition over to our data layer, and because they – it's relatively identical functionality, or we look at their usage patterns, it's not a big deal. But there may be 20% we really think there's an opportunity to transition and enhance the revenue and improve the contract structure. So that's the goal.

So the upgrades team is really part and parcel to our commercial team and has their own quotas and own objectives in those transitions. And we have been on the whole phenomenally successful in that process the last few years, much more than we thought. I mean when we went about this kind of consolidation phase, the industry started three and a half years ago and right now come to the end of certainly that type of really aggressive constant M&A, we thought that we would be looking at attrition rates in the transitions of 10%, 15% of the clients. And it's been much lower than that. In fact, if you adjust for the clients that we have not wanted to keep, because there are some – that was too small and, if you look at the return on investment, they don't make sense, and use the opportunity of an acquisition to actually very politely let them go or find them a new platform will be more appropriate, our attrition has been under 1% per annum.

So it's really been something that we have been – we're always paranoid about; we're very keen to focus on, but our experience has been, contrary to what some of our competitors kind of try to create whisper campaigns behind the scenes, is that we have actually had a very good success in rolling over customers and transitioning customers in such a way that they are upgrading and enhancing their revenues. Sorry, I was somewhat long-winded, Gavin, I don't know if you want to flesh that out all or course-correct me?

I think you got it right, not only are we – we're upgrading clients right away to our platform. And I would like to point out that we are well ahead of schedule. We've been doing this through the year well ahead of schedule in terms of the proportion of revenue that we have actually upgraded into the consolidated platform. But we're also in doing so getting these clients onto our roadmap for future upgrades and then publishing other services from our platform to our clients immediately.

So really kind of strengthening the relationship; in a lot of cases, re-signing contracts and giving future upgrade pats for them, which had been one of the key successes this year. Because not only have been able to upgrade, satisfy clients and we've had less than 1% attrition. As we have done that we've re-signed clients and we've been able to obviously it's a big part of Delta. Project Delta was to be able to rapidly retire costs of the back-end from legacy platforms, datacenters and the alike, as you would expect as we've done it.

Okay, thanks very much.

Thank you.

Ladies and gentlemen, at this time, this concludes our question-and-answer session. We apologize to anyone in queue with questions. And Mr. Tuzman I'll turn it back to you.

Yeah. Thanks, operator. I appreciate it. We had originally scheduled half past the hour, went over a little bit. To be respectful, I know, there's some in queue, we're always available. We have made a tradition of ending these calls by giving out our direct contact information. Mine is kaleil@kitd.com, Gavin is on gavin@kitd.com and Robin is robin@kitd.com. We are available to you given our client spread and travel patterns nearly 24/7 and we enjoy hearing from you. So thanks for your ongoing support and interest in our company.

Before we conclude today's call, I would like to take a moment to read the company's Safe Harbor statement. During this call, management made certain forward-looking statements related to the business of KIT digital, Inc., which can be identified as the use of forward-looking terminologies such as believes, expects, plans, intends, anticipates, and variations of such words or similar expressions, but their absence does not mean that the statement is not forward-looking.

Statements in this presentation that are forward-looking include, but are not limited to, statements made by management regarding the forthcoming KIT Platform product release schedule, the completion of transitioning clients from legacy technology to the KIT Platform, the attainment of estimated levels of revenues in Q3, and in the full year of 2011, the attainment of estimated EBITDA margin levels in the full year 2011 and by the end of 2012 and the attainment of monthly free cash-flow levels by the end of Q4 2011.

Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties, including uncertainties relating to product development and commercialization, integration of acquired businesses, the ability to obtain or maintain patents and other proprietary intellectual property protection, market acceptance, future capital requirements, regulatory actions or delays completion in general, and other factors that may cause actual results to different materially different from those described herein.

Certain of these risks and uncertainties are or will be described in greater detail in our public filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Except as required by US Federal Securities Law, KIT digital is not under obligation to and expressly disclaims any such obligation to update or alter its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.

The company would like to remind it listeners of the GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation table in today's earning release for further information about operating EBITDA and non-GAAP measure and reconciliation of operating EBITDA to net loss for the periods indicated.

For the first quarter of 2011, reconciliation of operating EBITDA, please refer to the table issued in the first quarter 2011 press release on May 9, 2011, which is available online at the company's Investor Relations section, under Quarterly Results at www.kitd.com.

I would like to remind everyone this presentation will be available for replay via telephone through September 9, 2011 starting this afternoon at 2.00 p.m. Eastern Time. Please follow the instructions in today's earnings release. The video webcast of this presentation will be available for replay via the company's Investor Relations section at www.kitd.com, starting at 2.00 p.m. Eastern Time later today.

This concludes today's call. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for joining us today and for the presentation. You may now disconnect.