corrected transcript


KIT digital, Inc.
 
KITD
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 16, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Adam Davis, Global Communications Manager


Good morning, everyone. My name is Adam Davis, KIT digital’s Global Communications Manager.


I’m filling in for Daniel Goodfellow today, as we are broadcasting out of our Atlanta office. Thank


you for joining us today to discuss KIT digital’s Second Quarter 2010 Results for the period ended


June 30, 2010. First, a technical note.


If you are watching the video webcast and have also dialed in to participate in our Q&A session,


following management’s presentation, please place your phone handsets down now until the Q&A


session begins, and listen to the call through your computer speakers. This will help avoid


confusion from the necessary audio lag between the online streaming and your phone line.


Now to our presentation. Joining us today, is our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Kaleil


Isaza Tuzman, our President, Gavin Campion, and our Chief Financial Officer, Robin Smyth.


Following their remarks, we will open up the call for your question.


I would like to now turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO, Kaleil Isaza Tuzman. Kaleil?


Kaleil Isaza Tuzman, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Adam, and good morning, everyone. Another exciting day for KIT digital. We’re here in


our Atlanta monitoring center, which is one of our two major monitoring centers globally. We


usually, as Adam said, do these broadcasts from Prague and delighted to be here. We might have


a couple of customer calls interrupt us as we go, clients first, so understand if you hear the phone


ringing in the background.


We’re pleased to present our second quarter 2010 results today, which were issued in a press


release this morning. Our 10-Q was filed as well with the SEC this morning, which provides more


detail in the MD&A section.


Our record second quarter results continue to demonstrate the strong global demand for our end-


to-end IP-based video asset management technology and the significant leverage in our business


model.


Our second quarter results superseded the macroeconomic instability in Europe, places like


Greece and Portugal, and the devaluation of European currency, which we estimate had


somewhere in the vicinity of a 4% negative impact on our topline during the quarter, since we report


obviously in U.S. dollars. We estimate that this currency devaluation actually had a very small less


than 1% positive impact on overall cash flow since we have slightly higher proportion of costs than


revenues in European currency.


Before I comment further about the quarter, I’d now like to turn the call or the broadcast over to our


CFO, Robin Smyth, to take you through the financial details of the second quarter. Afterwards, my


partner, our President, Gavin Campion will discuss the quarter’s key client wins and other


operational highlights.


Following Gavin’s comment, I will return to talk about some of the key elements of our corporate


development strategy and then discuss our outlook for the remainder of 2010. Finally, we’ll open


this call to your questions. Robin?
corrected transcript


KIT digital, Inc.
 
KITD
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 16, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


Robin Smyth, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Kaleil. It’s a pleasure to have the opportunity to address you today. As Kaleil


mentioned, it was another strong quarter for KIT digital. Revenue in the second quarter was a


record $23.1 million, which increased 33% over the previous quarter and 120% over Q2 2009.


These revenues, as usual primarily comprised of software license and maintenance fees, software


set-up fees and professional service charges related to technical integration and creative services.


The Q2 2010 net loss was $342,000 or a loss of $0.02 per basic and diluted share, this was a


substantial improvement from the net loss reported in the previous quarter of $18.4 million or $1.33


per basic and diluted share and a net loss in the second quarter of 2009 of $1.6 million or $0.37 per


basic and diluted share.


Net loss for Q2 included $3.1 million in non-cash charges, including $1.1 million in stock-based


compensation and $2 million of depreciation and amortization. A derivative gain of $2.4 million


resulting from the application of ASC 815-40 accounting standard, $3.3 million in integration


expenses related to the reorganization and integration of companies acquired during Q1 and Q2 of


2010 and $886,000 in direct merger and acquisition-related expenses, which primarily includes fees


to investment banking advisors and intermediaries and legal fees for mergers and acquisitions.


It is important to note that we chose to frontload the restructuring charges for the balance of 2010


into the first half of the year. This combined with the cancellation of most of our warrants has


moved us closer to a more traditional accounting approach to our results.


Operating EBITDA increased 42% to a record $4.2 million or $0.20 per basic share in the second


quarter of 2010, from $3 million or $0.21 per basic share in the previous quarter and increased


526% from $671,000 or $0.16 per basic share in the same quarter a year-ago.


Now turning to the balance sheet. Cash and cash equivalents at June 30, 2010 totaled $67.1


million, as compared to $37.8 million at March 31, 2010. During the quarter, we also experienced a


significant reduction in our DSOs or day sales outstanding, which decreased to 89 days from 128


days at the end of the prior quarter, reverting to our historical average.


This completes the financial portion of our presentation. We’re happy to answer any questions you


have during our Q&A session. I would now like to turn the call over to our President, Gavin


Campion to discuss operational highlights for the quarter.


Gavin Campion, President


Thank you for the financial overview, Robin, and thank you everyone for joining us today. I’d like to


spend the next few minutes discussing our major operational objectives and our current progress.


These objectives fall into three main categories, comprised firstly of our sales, secondly internal


operation and integration efforts, and then third, the ongoing developments around our VX-one


suite of end-to-end platform software solutions.


Our [inaudible] financial performance in Q2 was the result of our ongoing and aggressive focus on


revenue growth, coupled with operating margin expansion, centralization and consolidation of major


corporate functions into our Prague headquarters has resulted in overall cost savings and a more


effective central sales organization.


Our second quarter performance also reflects our ability to capitalize on upselling and cross-selling


opportunities to the client bases of previously acquired companies. Some of our wins in the quarter


included a top 10 global pharmaceutical company chose KIT digital to provide a video-based digital


communication and digital display strategy to 10 of its major brand.