corrected transcript


KIT digital, Inc.
 
KITD
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 22, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Daniel Goodfellow, Vice President, Corporate Sales, Marketing and Communications


Good morning, everyone. My name is Daniel Goodfellow, KIT digital’s Senior Vice President of


Marketing and Communications. Thank you for joining us today to discuss KIT digital’s third quarter


2010 results for the period ended September 30, 2010.


Firstly, a technical note. If you’re watching the video webcast and have also dialed in to participate


in our Q&A session that follows management’s presentation, please place your phone handsets


down now until the Q&A session begins and listen to the call through your computer speakers. This


will help avoid confusion from the necessary audio lag between the online stream and your phone


line.


I should also add that today’s Q&A session will not be webcast, so if you would like to listen to the


Q&A or ask a question at the end of the call, please call the number on the screen before the


beginning of the Q&A session. At the end of our presentation, we’ll pause momentarily to allow


callers to dial in.


In case you miss any portion of today’s call, a complete video and audio replay of the call will be


available via the Investor Relations section of our website later on today. Now to our presentation.


Joining us today is our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Kaleil Isaza Tuzman; our President,


Gavin Campion; and our Chief Financial Officer, Robin Smyth. Following their remarks, we will


open up the call for your questions.


I’d now like to turn the call over to our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Kaleil Isaza Tuzman.


Kaleil?


Kaleil Isaza Tuzman, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Daniel, and good morning to everyone in the United States; good afternoon to those in


Europe. We’re pleased to present our third quarter 2010 results, which were issued in a press


release this morning. We suggest you refer to the MD&A section of our 10-Q for more financial


detail.


These record third quarter results reflect our continued focus on expanding our existing client base


while taking advantage of cross-selling opportunities and harnessing the tremendous potential


growth of IP video across all major global markets. It is also a particularly good indication, in our


view, that Q3 grew at such a healthy pace over the prior quarter, 15% plus organically, despite the


historical negative seasonality of Q3 due to lower end customer usage levels and lower business


levels across the digital media industry in general during the Northern Hemisphere summer


months.


But before I comment further about the quarter, I’d now like to turn the call over to our CFO, Robin


Smyth, to take you through the financial details of our results. Afterwards, our President, Gavin


Campion, will discuss the quarter’s key client wins and other operational highlights and priorities.


Following Gavin’s comments, I will return to talk about some of the key elements of our corporate


development strategy going forward and discuss our specific outlook for the remainder of 2010 and


2011.


Finally, as Daniel mentioned, we’ll open the broadcast to your questions. Robin?
corrected transcript


KIT digital, Inc.
 
KITD
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 22, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


Robin Smyth, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Kaleil. It’s a pleasure to have the opportunity to address you today. As Kaleil


mentioned, it was a record quarter for KIT digital. Revenue in the third quarter was a record $27.7


million, which represented an increase of 20% over the previous quarter and 151% over Q3, 2009.


These revenues, as usual, were primarily comprised of software license and usage fees with a


smaller portion coming from software and hardware setup fees and professional service charges


related to technical integration and creative services.


Looking at regional breakdown of revenues during the quarter, approximately 44% came from


EMEA region; 36% from the Asia-Pacific region; and 20% from the Americas. We estimate organic


quarter-on-quarter revenue growth was 16% while an additional 4% growth was derived from small


accretive acquisitions completed at the end of the quarterly period.


For Q3, 2010, GAAP net loss was $8 million or $0.34 per basic and diluted share. This compares to


a net loss reported in the previous quarter of $342,000 or a loss of $0.02 per basic and diluted


share and a net loss in the third quarter of 2009 of 11.1 million or $1.65 per basic and diluted share.


GAAP net loss for Q3 included $5.1 million in non-cash charges, including 1.3 million in stock-


based compensation, $2.4 million of depreciation and amortization, and a non-cash derivative loss


of $1.4 million resulting from the application of the ASC 815-40 Accounting Standard. GAAP net


loss for the quarter also included $4.5 million in integration expenses related to the reorganization


and integration of recently acquired companies and $1.3 million in direct merger and acquisitions


related expenses including investment banking, advisory and legal fees.


All remaining restructuring charges from the Benchmark and Multicast acquisitions earlier in the


year as well as some charges from the Megahertz and Accela acquisitions were booked in Q3,


2010. We anticipate reporting the Brickbox-related integration expenses in Q4 as well as any


remaining charges from the small acquisitions in Q3. This will allow us to begin fiscal 2011 with a


little to no residual restructuring or integration charges. Beginning in 2011, we also plan to include


the reporting of a new non-GAAP metric adjusted EPS, which we define as cash EPS after adding


back M&A and financing costs.


Operating EBITDA increased 5% to a record $4.4 million or $0.19 per basic share in the third


quarter of 2010 from $4.2 million or $0.20 per basic share in the previous quarter, and increased


376% from $927,000 or $0.14 per basic and diluted share in the same year ago quarter. It’s


important to note that our EBITDA margin was compressed somewhat in the third quarter versus


Q2 primarily due to a higher-than-expected services related to new client implementations and


investment in the future through additional hiring of sales and deployment personnel.


Now turning to the balance sheet. Cash and cash equivalents at September 30, 2010 totaled $50.1


million, as compared to $67.1 million in June 30, 2010. The decrease in our cash position is related


to the consideration paid for these small acquisitions we made at the end of the quarter and related


cash integration charges. At the end of Q3, 2010, our days sales outstanding, or DSOs were 116


days, which was skewed by the inclusion of the accounts receivable from acquisitions completed at


the end of the quarter, while excluding over 90% of the revenues during the quarter. Normalized


DSOs for Q3 were 94 days and the DSOs as at November are approximately 78 days.


We’ve never had any material client collections issues, and most of our clients are large


multinational corporations that reliably pay their bills, but as with many SaaS vendor relationships,


they typically take advantage of our order period related to usage-based billing and pay on a


Fortune 500 company time table. We believe our usual DSO level of between 75 and 90 days is


consistent with SaaS companies providing software and services to large enterprises.