Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Shelby Johnson-Sapp — Executive Assistant, KIT digital, Inc.
Kaleil D. Isaza Tuzman — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, KIT digital, Inc.
Robin Smyth — CFO, Secretary, Treasurer & Director, KIT digital, Inc.
Gavin Campion — President & Director, KIT digital, Inc.
Richard Ingrassia — Analyst, ROTH Capital Partners LLC
Jeff Rath — Analyst, Canaccord Genuity, Inc.
Darren Aftahi — Analyst, Northland Securities, Inc.
Richard Fetyko — Analyst, Janney Montgomery Scott LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning to those of you in the Americas. Good afternoon and good evening to those of you abroad. My name is Shelby Johnson-Sapp with KIT digital. Thank you for joining us today to discuss our company's third quarter results for the period ended September 30, 2011.

First, on a technical note, if you are watching the video webcast and have also dialed into participate in our Q&A session following management's presentation, please place your phone handset down now and until the Q&A session begins and listen to the call through your computer speakers. This will help avoid confusion between the necessary audio lags between the online streaming and your phone lines.

I should also add that today's Q&A session will not be webcasted, so if you would like to listen to the Q&A or ask a question, please call the number on the screen before the beginning of the Q&A. At the end of our presentation, we'll pause momentarily to allow callers to dial in. In case you miss any portion of today's presentation, a complete audio and video replay will be available via the Investor Relations section of our website or you can listen to the replay over the phone by following the instructions in today's press release.

Now to our presentation. Joining us today is our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Kaleil Isaza Tuzman; our President, Gavin Campion; and our Chief Financial Officer, Robin Smyth. Following their remarks, we will open up the call for your questions. Then before the conclusion of today's call, the operator will provide the necessary precautions regarding any forward-looking statements made by management during the call.

I would now like to turn the broadcast over to our Chairman and CEO, Kaleil Isaza Tuzman. Kaleil?

Thank you, Shelby. And good morning or good afternoon to you depending on where you are. As you saw, we issued a press release this morning with our third quarter 2011 results. For more detail, please refer to the MD&A section of our 10-Q, also filed today.

The revenue in the third quarter of 2011 reached a record $62.3 million. This represented a 29% sequential increase over the second quarter and an increase of almost 125% over the same quarter a year-ago. We also generated record operating EBITDA of $14.3 million, up 49% sequentially and over 200% from the same year-ago quarter.

On an organic basis, our third quarter revenue was up 11% sequentially during the quarter from a pro forma Q2 revenue level of approximately $56 million when you backdate the closure of the Polymedia and ioko acquisitions to April 1. Thus, in the third quarter, we were on an annualized organic growth pace of over 40%. These record results, particularly in what is usually a seasonally weak quarter for our industry, reflects our ability to drive strong top line growth while increasing the operating leverage and margin profile of our business.

Q3 marks a major milestone for the company. We launched our next generation KIT Video Platform in both our tier-1 KIT Cosmos edition and our mid-tier KIT Cloud edition, and we crossed over the GAAP net profitability.

In the quarter, we also recognized the last remaining integration charges related to the acquisitions completed in the first half of the year, which came in line with our expectations of around $2.5 million for the quarter. And we do not expect any such charges in Q4. We can now take advantage of free cash flow generation going forward in our business, which we expect to be more than $2.5 million per month by the end of Q4.

I'd now like to invite our CFO, Robin Smyth, to take us through the financial details of the quarter. Afterwards, our President, Gavin Campion will discuss some operational highlights. Then I'll return to present our current outlook and objectives for the balance of 2011 and 2012 and address more detailed questions that you may have.

Now, I would like to hand the presentation over to Robin to discuss our Q3 financials in more detail. Robin?

Thank you, Kaleil. Good morning, everyone. As Kaleil mentioned, revenue in the third quarter of 2011 was a record $62.3 million, and then operating EBITDA was a record $14.3 million. We estimate that about 71% of our revenues during the quarter were related to Video platform fees and about 29% were related to professional services fees from solutions and interface design, broadcast systems integration and strategic consulting.

As Kaleil mentioned, we crossed over the GAAP net profitability in Q3, generating $4.8 million in net income or $0.11 per basic and diluted share. This compares to a net loss in all previous comparable periods. Going forward, we will be reporting an adjusted earnings per share metric, which we have defined as cash EPS after adding back direct M&A advisory fees.

We will not add back M&A-related restructuring or integration charges. We believe this adjusted or cash EPS metric will provide a more transparent measure of our performance entering 2012 and beyond. It's important to note that, as Kaleil mentioned, in the third quarter, we recognized the last remaining restructuring and integration charges related to the acquisitions completed in the first half of the year and we do not expect any integration charges in Q4.

Although we did not capitalize or formally break out R&D expenses, we estimate, in Q3, we spent approximately 7% of revenues on R&D activity. Starting in 2012, we will formally break out R&D in the G&A portion of our income statements.

Now turning to the balance sheet. Cash and cash equivalents at September 30, 2011 totaled $60 million, as compared to $37.8 million in June 30, 2011. The increase during the quarter was due to the $32 million net proceeds from public offering completed on September 20, 2011 and was partially offset by cash outlays related to components or consideration for acquisitions formally completed in Q2, as well as integration of those acquisitions.

Common shares outstanding at the quarter end were $46.2 million. Over the next several years, we estimate a total of an additional $3.5 million shares may be issued related to non-cash employee incentive compensation structured as part of former acquisitions, as well as earnout provisions from previous acquisitions. Issuance of these extra shares would, of course, only occur in the event of excellent financial and operating results coming from those acquired assets and people.

Our days sales outstanding or DSOs at the end of the quarter were approximately 97 days, which is slightly higher than our historical average of around 85 days. This was due to standard accounting reconciliation with the acquisitions completed in Q2 and the final onboarding of all our global billing onto our unified net suite ERP.

As of today, our DSOs are sitting in the mid-80s back in line with our historical averages and that are comparable of enterprise solution SaaS companies. As a reminder, we do not have significant working capital consumption in our business. We have never had any material collection problems given our large client profile. This completes the financial reporting section of our presentation. I'm happy to answer any question you have during Q&A.

Now, I would like to hand over the presentation to Gavin to discuss Q3 operational highlights. Gavin?

Thanks, Robin and Kaleil, and good day, everyone. I'd like to provide some insight into the highlights for the third quarter and our operational priorities going forward. As Robin mentioned, our record third quarter results demonstrate very strong annualized organic growth reflecting our ability to grow our existing client base through software and services usage growth, while executing on divisional cross-selling and up-selling within existing client organizations.

We have also continued to win new and larger clients at a strong pace by harnessing the increasing demand for large scale multi-device IP video solutions across our global markets. We added more than 30 net new client contracts during the third quarter with an estimated average monthly revenue per client in excess of $35,000. Today, our client base totals approximately 2,400 customers across more than 40 countries. We have a balanced and diversified global client base where no single client accounts more than 5% of our total revenues annually.

On the screen now is a sampling of some of our commercial wins in the quarter. Our focus continues to be on higher-end opportunities in the market and large multi-year contracts across various sectors and indeed geographies. A few I might take a minute to point out. They include Liberty Global, a leading international cable operator selected us to support and manage their new IT-based video-on-demand and live-streaming OTT service.

LG Electronics partnered with us to provide our platform technology and professional services for their smart TV platform. British Sky Broadcasting selected us to support and manage its new multi-platform TV service called Sky Go. Airbus chose the KIT Video Platform to facilitate communications with its employees and other corporate stakeholders.

Maasranga, a part of Bangladesh-based communications, IT, and healthcare conglomerate called Square Group selected KIT to launch the first fully IP-based digital, HD and 3G-enabled rich media network in Bangladesh. Celvision Technologies and imcube labs chose KIT to co-develop an end-to-end solution that joins content services and platform technologies to 3D video over IP across multiple screens.

A major European broadcaster chose KIT to deliver a full OTT solution for linear and on-demand TV-to-PC and hybrid set top box environments. And finally, a major media group and cable operator in the Americas chose KIT to support one of the world's most complete and ambitious OTT premium content deployments to be launched early next year. You can find a more extensive list of new client additions in our Q3 earnings release.

It's important to note that the $32 million equity funding we completed in September and the resulting stronger balance sheet has been instrumental in facilitating the establishment or expansion of these large-scale deployments. We estimate that this has already translated into more than $25 million in annualized contract extensions and new client wins for 2012.

We also continue to invest in our partnership network, focusing on referral and deployment partners to more rapidly and efficiently scale our business. By way of example, we recently expanded our relationship with Harmonic to focus on transforming tier-1 global broadcasters and network operators to cloud-based multi-screen next generation video providers.

From a technology perspective, we have delivered a defining quarter for KIT digital. At the International Broadcasting Convention or IBC in Amsterdam in September, we released our next generation cloud-base video asset management system called the KIT Video Platform. It marked the culmination of more than a year of internal development and innovation, as well as the integration of the best-of-breed elements from recently acquired companies. We launched two editions of the KIT Video platform, KIT Cloud and KIT Cosmos.

KIT Cloud is a cloud-based turnkey solution from multi-screen social video experiences, while KIT Cosmos is a hybrid or managed private cloud solution for advanced broadcast grade multi-screen broadband TV deployments.

The new KIT video platform clearly positions KIT digital as the driving force in global transformation of traditional broadcasting to multi-screen broadband TV for tier-1 customers. In fact, the KIT Video Platform is becoming a core vendor solution set supporting large MSOs, telcos, major broadcasters, and major systems integrators on a global basis.

Our rapid technology release cycle has seen us launch three further components of the KIT Video Platform in Q3. These are the KIT Connected Device Framework, KIT Social TV and the KIT Operations Manager. I'll take a minute just to talk about those three.

The Connected Device Framework enables video providers to deliver content from any source to any screen. IP connected devices are expected to outnumber people two to one by 2015 and there is a lack of common industry standards in video delivery across device platforms. The KIT Connected Device Framework provides a unified consumer experience and a single editorial workflow to ensure high-quality content delivery across today's devices and much faster adaption of new devices entering the marketplace, an important point.

The second new component of KIT's platform is our market leading Social TV solution based on technologies that we acquired from the KickApps acquisition and the Kyte acquisition at the beginning of this year. KIT Social TV solution provides multichannel video service providers with new opportunities to offer socially enabled experiences that transform the TV viewing experience with second-hand companion content and interactivity.

We believe social TV is the future of TV. Enabled by IP technology, it reflects consumers' increasing desire to engage with content and with other viewers in a virtual living room environment. As service providers look to engage audiences and monetize content, a key to success is developing a second-screen strategy that provides control while enhancing the viewing experience. Our Social TV solution provides the canvas to content producers, advertisers and merchandisers to create impactful social TV experiences.

And thirdly, we launched the KIT Operations Manager. This is a crucial differentiator of KIT digital in the marketplace. It is the underlying operational support system for the KIT Video Platform's broadband head-end deployments and ensures broadcast-grade levels of reliability whilst reducing risk, cost, and indeed time to market. The KIT Operations Manager monitors and manages systems and signal uptime, content delivering network and storage calls and adaptors with clients' billing, identity management and CRM Systems. No other IP video technology provider in the space has an undergirding operations platform that guarantees tier-1 clients 5-9 service levels.

We are ahead of schedule in transitioning the large majority of clients on our previous legacy platforms to the new KIT Video Platform and we will be 100% completed before the end of this year. Our sector's growth is driven by the ongoing proliferation of connected devices, enhanced broadband connectivity and changing consumer behavior. The industry-wide evolution from traditional broadcast television to muilti-screen OTT and multi-platform premium video-on-demand solutions is the wind beneath our wings.

As we advance into Q4 and plan for 2012, we have a strong new client and partner pipeline. This includes telcos, cable, and satellite pay-TV operators looking to deliver competitive TV-anywhere initiative. It also includes device manufacturers acting as virtual network operators and non-media enterprises shifting to IP video for internal communications and training and product merchandising.

I look forward to addressing your questions, any questions you may have on the operations of the business during our Q&A session shortly, during which I'll be joined by our Chief Operating Officer, Alex Blum. Alex and his team have been responsible for the significant advancements in our product offerings throughout this year culminating in the Q3 product release that I have just described.

Now, I'd like to hand the presentation back to Kaleil. Kaleil?

Thank you, Robin and Gavin. As you can tell, we are very excited about both our financial and operational progress in Q3. I'd now like to turn to our financial outlook.

Here's what we're setting out for KIT digital for the remainder of 2011 and for 2012. We expect to report revenues in Q4 2011 of at least $67 million. This will represent an 8% sequential and organic increase over Q3 and imply a revenue expectation for the overall fiscal year of 2011 of approximately $212 million, a little bit above our annual guidance and 100% top line and over 35% organic growth increase over fiscal year 2010.

For Q4 of this year, we expect EBITDA of approximately $17.5 million, in line or slightly above annual guidance previously provided and representing an increase of 20% plus sequentially and up more than 150% over Q4 of last year. As Robin mentioned, we plan to start reporting a new cash or adjusted EPS metric, which we expect to be at least $0.33 per share in this Q4.

Now for 2012. Although we've expressed an upward revision bias to our previously stated 2012 revenue guidance, for the time being, we are reaffirming our expectation of at least $300 million of revenues next year, representing an organic growth rate for 2012 of between 25% and 30%. And that's based on an expected pro forma revenue of approximately $238 million for 2011 when you backdate the acquisitions that we completed during the course of the year back to January 1. We expect to report cash or adjusted EPS of at least $1.45 per share for the full year of 2012, that's after tax and so forth.

In terms of our M&A outlook, as a normal course of business, we continue to evaluate regional competitors or small complementary product-focused acquisition with a bias towards funding such acquisitions if they occur at a future cash flows from operations.

Now, as Gavin mentioned, we're seeing a strong growth characteristic in our business both in the current Q4 and going into 2012 from a pipeline perspective. Our platform as a service business model involves approximately 70% platform revenues under long-term client contracts with extremely low client attrition and this offers us very good medium and long-term visibility.

In fact, as much as 20% overall top line growth in our business is derived solely from increased platform and services usage from our existing client base, which is driven by general industry trends like more connected devices that are broadband connectivity around the world, changing consumer behavior toward viewership of premium content on mobile, tablet and connected devices.

So, we are confident we'll achieve the financial target to new product release schedule that we set out for ourselves for the remainder of this year and for next year. We believe we're poised for a strong 2012 in which we can expand our market share organically. Now, I think the way we're going to do this is, we're going to open up to audio questions shortly, but what we're going to do is start by having some questions appear on the teleprompter in front of me that have come through the online interface that by the way uses our own KIT Video Platform that you've been watching during this broadcast.

So I'm going to read these questions as they come from the teleprompter.

The first one is, is the economic turmoil in Europe affecting KIT digital's business? Are you experiencing a related slowdown?

The short answer is, no, we're not. Our sector is endemically strong due to their proliferation of devices, increased broadband connectivity, stuff that we are talking about here and Gavin has as well, changed consumer behavior, also leapfrogging in emerging markets to premium OTT and IPTV systems.

So, also, I think it's important to point out that most of our clients are making long-term CapEx decisions instead of making decisions on purchasing our platform based on short-term market movement. So, I guess, I'd say, in some, we're of course aware of the macroeconomic environment. And as a company that has operational headquarters in Europe, we obviously feel the anxiety that's going on around the EU right now. But we've not experienced slowdowns either in the past orders or our current pipeline for IP Video platform solutions.

I think the other thing I'd point out is that Europe is actually a very advanced IP video market given broadband speeds in the market, 4G and LTE penetration being higher than most places impact anywhere else in the world, in the mobile side and also consumer behavior characteristics and wealth characteristics.

The other thing that's interesting about our EMEA region, our EMEA region is about – it's over 50% of our P&L, as you know. But it's got emerging growth characteristics within it as well in places like Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa, which are part of that EMEA, Europe, Middle East, Africa P&L. And so actually, I would say for a while, we've actually felt more budgetary constraints frankly in our U.S. region, given some of the macroeconomic dynamics there than we have in Europe. So that answers that question.

Next question we've received is, are any shareholders from former acquisitions liquidating. If so, how much stock are we talking about?

All right. So, let's say, over the course of this year, we've had about 5 million shares that have been held by shareholders of companies that we've acquired over time that had become unlocked for sale, i.e. freely tradable. And that's included about 2 million shares from the Polymedia and Kewego acquisition from the beginning of the year that were unlocked very recently actually in a matter of the last several weeks.

So, while none of those shareholders are required to tell us when and at what price they're selling, we do have a pretty good bead on these things and pretty good relationships with those shareholders. And I would estimate, of the original 5 million shares that came unlocked this year, probably only about 1 million that are left in the original shareholders' hands. And frankly I don't know whether they're sellers or not at this point. So there isn't a big overhang out there at all at this point. But some of the selling from the recent unlocking could have impacted trading over the last several weeks, at least that's my sense.

In terms of future shares being unlocked, if I have the number right, it's about 4 million shares out there from previous acquisitions that are still left to become freely tradable over the next couple of years. I think the first unlocking piece comes in late January or February of 2012, it's about a couple of million shares. But the large portion of those shares are actually held by Spark Capital, which is the former major shareholder of KickApps, an acquisition we did at the beginning of this year. And Spark is actually represented by Santo Politi. He's a very well-respected venture capitalist. He is on our board of directors and we do not believe Spark is a seller. You'd have to ask them of course to be certain.

All right. The next question we're getting, coming through here. What is the price at which management's restricted stock vests? Well, that one I know off the top of my head.

The performance-based restricted stock unit program that was approved by our board of directors quite recently vests over the next four years. But additional to the time-based restriction, it's also subject to KIT digital stock reaching prices between $12.50 per share and $25 per share. There's actually an additional restriction if it reaches that price level that it stay there for a 90-day trailing weighted average period. So, in other words, I think it's safe to say, the management is fully aligned with you as shareholders in enhancing shareholder value over time. Our stock units have no value unless it's on a slope between $12.50 up to about $25 per share.

All right. Another questions we have here. When can management buy stock in the open market?

All right. Another straightforward one. So, pursuant to SEC rules, all KIT digital employees, which includes managements are subject to a blackout period for a couple of weeks prior to each earnings release. So, we've just been in a blackout period. You also have to keep in mind that management is restricted when there's a corporate opportunity out there or some material non-public information that we know the market doesn't know and that's obviously in these times when our stock is traded, we think it as quite a little value.

We haven't gotten a lot of inbound increase, strategic increase type of thing, unsolicited and that does generate restrictions for us as management. So we have been pretty restricted lately. Hopefully, in the future we'll be unrestricted, but I would also add that compared to a lot of other companies, we bought a lot of stock over time. Bear in mind, management has bought over 20 million, well over 20 million of stock in the open market and in public equity offerings. And we haven't sold any stock. So, hopefully, it gives you a sense of our feeling of the business.

I do want to use this opportunity, though, to clarify something. On the Form 4s that we file, I personally show of as a controlling holder for around 2.8 million shares of KIT digital. It's important to point out, though, some of these shares, if you read the filings carefully, are held through a special purpose investment entity called KIT Media. And I control and I'm the major investor in KIT Media, but I don't own KIT Media completely.

There are other shareholders that are in KIT Media with me. And I am working to simplify this vehicle by the end of the year, which really include possibly distributing some of the KIT digital shares held at KIT Media directly to KIT Media holders that are not me or even selling on their behalf a small number of KIT digital shares that are held by shareholders that might want to liquidate. Some of these folks have been in for literally four years.

So, to be clear, it's very important, if you do see a Form 4, whether it's a distribution or sale out of KIT Media that would be modest. It would in no case be me and that would be disclosed in the document, so I am not nor will I be a seller.

Next question is coming through. Q3 results were higher than analyst consensus, which is great, but Q4 guidance is slightly below analyst consensus. Why is this?

All right. So, first of all, if I'm not mistaken, it's actually a wash. Q3 EBITDA is coming in a bit over $500,000 more than consensus, analyst consensus, if I understand the analyst consensus correctly. Our Q4 EBITDA guidance is coming in around $500,000 below analyst consensus. It actually washes out for the back half of the year. We're still very much on course to meet or exceed our overall 2011 guidance and we've achieved everything we promised in terms of wrapping up integration expenses in Q3 below that levels that we guided to having clean numbers, et cetera.

I think the point is, a smoother ramp actually is a good thing in terms of revenues and EBITDA in the back half of the year. It's a positive thing. It shows less seasonality in the business, which we've been experiencing over time less seasonality. And that's definitely a positive from a business and financial planning perspective. So that $500,000 swing one way Q3 and the other way Q4 to us is not meaningful financially, it's also actually a sign of good things.

I think I'm getting – okay, there's another question. It seems like KIT digital is finally turning the corner to be an easier to understand high-growth company. I agree with that. But what is management and the board's plan to maximize shareholder value, should the market not recognize this shift and what you probably perceive as KIT's intrinsic value?

All right. That's a tough question to answer in this forum. This is what I'd say. We've our heads down, we've been focused on achieving the results back half of 2011 and we're very intensively focused on always hitting the targets that we set out in the public market. We take a lot of pride in having hit our targets every quarter since we came in as new management almost four years ago.

I'd say, we're very pleased with where we are right now. It's a business we're never satisfied, that's our nature. But we've got a unified next generation platform, the large recurring revenue base, top-tier clients globally that Gavin is referring to no client concentration to speak of, strong undergirding sectoral growth. So when you add headwinds and client orders to the question on Europe before. So we feel good about where we are.

But at the same time, I would say, the board just met a few days ago. We typically meet before our earnings calls and I think our attitude right now is, let's get Q3 and Q4 out there. Let's show what KIT digital is all about right now, market leadership, great SaaS business model, organic growth, great cash flow profile in 2012, clean numbers, et cetera and let's see if the market finally kind of gets us. And if we're right, then that's great.

You were clearly not happy about our valuation right now. I think like a lot of companies, we get inbound calls I was talking about before. Some of these calls are opportunistic. They shouldn't really be taken that seriously; others do need to be taken seriously. Our strategic advisors at Allen and Company were brought in in large to help us handle these types of inquiries in an appropriate fashion. So, I'd say, our approach right now is that this would be a very inopportune time to entertain a sell side angle for our business.

But if the market continues to consistently undervalue us, in our view, on a sustained basis, then of course, the board has a duty to look at other ways to create value for shareholders. And I'd stand here in front of you first and foremost as a shareholder, so we will look at things like that.

Okay. I am being informed here on the teleprompter that that's the last question that's come through our online interface that's available during the broadcast. We're now going to open it up to the audio segment. Now, I will tell you, you're going to be identified by name in the audio segment. That's how that works.

I'm also going to be joined now, helped out, I'm kind of losing my voice here, by Gavin, Robin and Alex Blum, our COO. So I think Shelby is now going to tell us how the audio segment works. Thanks.

Thanks, Kaleil. We've actually had a few more questions come through on the online interface. So, I will pass it back over to you.

Thanks, Shelby. All right, I am just quickly looking at the additional questions. So the first one is, I'll probably pass to you, Robin. It's a request for additional clarification if any on the adjusted EPS metric.

Thanks, Kaleil. In the past, as things were being – there has been a bit of confusion, I was mentioned, with our operating EBITDA measurement and that would come through the period in the company where the integration has been now complete and the restructuring of the company is complete. We had flagged for quite a while that we would move to a much simpler measurement to actually replace the operations of the company. The adjusted EPS and I think we [indirections] (33:59) on previous calls is a cash measurement of our earnings. And the only thing we will be taking out of that is the M&A charges, which relate to primarily legal, bankers and advisor fees. And so it's a fairly straightforward cash measurement of our earnings with that. And this is after any tax that will be paid in the company as well. So, I believe that's a fairly – to us it's a fairly straightforward measurement of the company going forward. Kaleil?

Thanks, Robin. And actually the metric that we applied, we worked with the investment community over a period of a number of months kind of determine what was the best metric and most transparent to allow for our future analysis. And so – but obviously the EBITDA will continue to be visible and referred to in our income statements.

Okay. The next question is, whether we can discuss Telecom Argentina and other activities in Latin America, lots of speculation, the names being thrown around. So, Gavin, maybe I'll pass that one to you.

Thanks, Kaleil. We're going from strength to strength in Latin America at the moment. I think we put a release out on Telecom Argentina perhaps three weeks ago. Now, Telecom Argentina is obviously a part of the Telecom Italia group. We have a strong relationship with Telecom Italia through our operations in Milan obviously.

I think Telecom Argentina are using KIT Video Platform for an OTT platform across Argentina. It's a real aggressive and impressive investment by Telecom Argentina, and is already generating and answering very strong market demand. I think it's about 1.5 million subscribers currently. I think it's about 250,000 VoD titles in the platform already and we expect that to continue to grow. We expect usage to continue to grow and we expect to populate the platform with more technology from the KIT Video Platform as we go.

You'll also see in the release that we have won a major media group and cable operator in the Americas. In fact, it's one of the larger media groups in the world and has chosen KIT digital for – I think it's one of the most ambitious complete forward-looking pointy end of the market, OTT premium content deployments and it's going to launch early next year.

Unfortunately, I'm not able to give you the name and unfortunately, again, I think this is going to happen more and more often with these tier-1 deployments who are in a competitive dynamic, seeking for first-to-market, has excess in pent up demand for these type solutions on a consumer level in their local marketplaces. And I think until such a point where it's deployed in a similar way to Telecom Argentina, we're not going to be able to provide the names unfortunately, but that is a major win for us. And it's going to make quite a statement in the Americas marketplace when we launch early next year. Thank you.

Well, they keep on coming in here. There's one more and then I think after this we move to audio. Question asking us to be more specific in addressing free cash flow. We've talked about a $2.5 million per month free cash flow target by the end of Q4 and could we be more specific as to the definition of free cash flow. The question has another part which I'll get to in a second, but maybe, Robin, I'll pass to you for that.

Thanks, Kaleil. Again, this is a fairly straightforward measurement and it's no different than the, I believe, the measurement that any other company would use. It really is the net cash increase on a monthly basis that we are looking at. And so, we would be deducting from the cash increase on the capital expenditure we've got in the company and any debt principal repayments that we make out of the company. And so it is net cash increase in the company. Kaleil?

Thanks, Robin. So it's a very classic definition of FCF after everything. By the way, I apologize for my voice here, but bit of a cold, as you can probably hear. The last question – last part of that question and others – one other in queue and then, we are going to cut it off after that. I apologize I see a few others in queue, so we're just going to cut it off after these two minor questions.

The second part of the one that I just mentioned is whether we can define further or clarify what count an acquisition. I don't think there's much to clarify. It's consistent with the message given in the last couple of calls. It's not our focus as a business. At this time, we are very focused on consolidation of market share through M&A particularly going after regional and segment competitors for a few years.

As you can tell, it's certainly not the number one priority for us now, but that doesn't mean that we're disallowed from looking at good opportunities for the company over time and we continue to evaluate opportunities. I think the bias has changed in the way that things had played out to looking at operating cash flow as a mechanism for funding. But we always keep everything on the table and are looking, as we said, in the broadcasters now at regional competitors and small product fill-ins and so forth.

The last question here in queue is, how the situation with the euro affecting our balance sheet.

We are looking here across the table at Robin, as I say this, but we really had – we've lived through some pretty extraordinary volatile times in terms of the currency markets over the last few years or four years. In fact, a lot more volatility than we see today and we've never had any issues, because we use a natural hedging approach that we balance our costs against our revenue currencies. So, we really are oriented towards preserving consistency in cash flow from a currency management perspective.

And, as we've said in our Q, the one that was just filed as well, our primary functional currency is being the U.S. dollar, the British pound, sterling, the euro, Singapore dollar, et cetera and again we balance revenues against cost, which is the best way to hedge.

Okay. Operator, maybe you could open it up to the audio segment now, please.

Thank you, sir. [Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from the line of Rich Ingrassia with ROTH Capital Partners. Please go ahead.

Thanks. Good day, everybody. So, judging by the comments in the press releases and the research that we've done since on some of the most recently announced agreements, there's obviously a significant transition underway in the nature of the work that you're doing from, I guess, for a lack of a better description, a modularized VAMS to complete over-the-top TV assignment.

I know you've given high-level guidance, but maybe you can give us a look ahead to more specific economics of your business next year and beyond. For example, should we expect to see a higher percentage of service revenues, because of that kind of new assignment? And does it still make sense to even think about those kinds of projects on an ARPU basis, that sort of thing?

Hi, Rich. I'll maybe take the first sentence or two and then pass it to Gavin. If you look at the overall mix and I think Gavin can address client-by-client, but really we've had a tremendous consistency across different economic environments and different types of client, client size, different territories around the mix of the software piece versus the professional services. So I don't think we anticipate change there in the overall mix. It's bounced around between 25% and 35% of revenues. I think this quarter it's around 29% being the services component and that's been – that's a consistent zone for now four years.

You're right that our business is changing. It's kind of growing up in the sense that you have a lot of these deployments moving from experimental projects that come out of an R&D group to core elements of revenue generation for network operators and broadcasters. Sky Go, which Gavin was talking about, is a great example where it's actually it's a – we're talking about multi-billion dollar type of revenue stream in their model over time and really no longer a distant second, but actually a strong second core revenue stream from the subscriber base.

I'll pass to Gavin to just speak specifically about kind of how the tier-1 projects mature and evolve in terms of the kind of the revenue per month characteristics and mix.

Sure. Thanks, Kaleil. Well, I think, as you say, with our scale of services mix is relatively consistent over time. But you are right, we are skewing the business more and more to these large scale tier-1 clients, which doesn't change the service profile on a client-by-client basis to some degree. So you'll see a higher level of services upfront in discovery phase, maybe configuration of modules at [indiscernible] (44:54) and certainly back end integration into that O&M PSS Solution to existing – solution that the client has in place. I think in you'll find you might go a little bit of lump upfront and services will continue on an ongoing basis as we upsell through the modules of the technology or increased usage of tiers from a managed service point of view.

I think Alex and the team have done a fantastic job in offsetting a lot of these through the increased productization through the launch of KIT Video Platform. And I'll just talked through some of the configurations and products on the call. KIT Cloud and KIT Cosmos are key additions to the connected device frameworks such as PC et cetera, et cetera. That kind of productization really breeds efficiency. We have a clear advantage in the marketplace, where we can deploy at a great cost base. We can deploy faster than our competitors. And I think that's really helping us to kind of smooth on an ongoing basis the level of services.

We do have great visibility into the services side of the business as well. As you would expect, from the software perspective with high reoccurring revenues, we're able to map up sells quite accurately when they are able to map increased usage quite accurately, but that's true in the services as well. We have a clear engagement model, a clear client delivery model and we're able to predict it an ongoing basis. So that hopefully gives you a little bit of color on a client-by-client basis. But I think on a macro scale we're going to continue in the range that you've seen. There's no real change in that into 2012.

Okay, that's helpful. And my second question, if I can or last question. If I back out the one-time expenses and the non-cash expenses, you were at about $34 million in cash operating expense in the quarter, if I'm not mistaken. Is this – would you say this is close to a fixed level now that can support the revenue growth you expect for 2012? And if not, where would you expect operating expense to increase in sales, staffing, account management, product development, or somewhere else?

Sure. Rich, it's Kaleil. We're pretty much at a steady state from the G&A items you'd expect. We obviously grow the comp line with our client servicing staff and solution design architect, sales people. So there is obviously growth in the G&A, but we clearly cross the threshold where you are seeing greater operating leverage and I think you'll see that during the course of 2012 as well.

Okay. Thank you.

You're welcome.

Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Jeff Rath with Canaccord Genuity. Please go ahead.

Hi guys. Just a couple, a lot of questions have been answered here. Robin, maybe for you to start, can you talk about, there was a lot of detailed 2012 guidance given, what would be your expectation for CapEx in 2012? And more specifically, what do you see comprising CapEx?

Our CapEx going forward would be – so we're not a great user of CapEx expenditure within the company as you see. We would expect just our standard equipment purchases within the company and going forward. And we would put that at about 2% to 3%, and then possibly higher with the growth. But right now it's running at about 2% to 3%, a bit higher with the growth and the type of revenue we're looking at, but it's fairly stable growth. And there's no real major items that we would see coming into the CapEx going forward.

Okay. Thanks.

Sorry, Jeff, this is Kaleil. The only additional point I would make is that maybe it might be prudent to think about 3% to 4%, because we do have a couple of office outfittings that we've got to do in 2012. We did the Prague HQ in 2011. I think in 2012 we've got Milan we're moving into a new space and maybe in New York as well. So I would say 3%, 4% but it's very standard. As Robin said, the servers and basic equipment for employees and office expenditures.

Great. Just another for a modeling-related question, if I may. As we get a picture now of the tighter financial model for KIT digital, one of the clear areas of leverage in your model is sort of the COGS line. Can you share with me where do you think that goes through 2012? How should we think about that on a run rate basis as it relates to – I don't know if you have a long term target there or any color there would be helpful? Thanks, Robin.

We don't see a lot of leverage – this is Robin, leverage and that COG fund is fairly stable right now and through Project Delta where we've taken a lot of the cost out to get to where we are and the integration is finishing. We see a fairly stable state going forward rather than having that leverage.

Okay. Then I guess one last question for Kaleil and then I'll jump off. Kaleil, you've given us a lot of detail. You're delivering against a lot of what you've set out to do. Can you share with us maybe just out of humor, areas or one or two areas in your businesses that are not performing to your expectation? And I'm not talking about stock price and investor sentiment and things like that, but just more at an operating level. Are there areas of the business that are underperforming or things that aren't working out the way you planned, because this all seems pretty good here? Thanks.

Sure, Jeff. I mean, it's not hard for this management team to talk about things going wrong. That's where we focus. Gavin yesterday in a different audience was talking about some of the challenges that we have finding expertise particularly around technical presales and solution design architects right post-sale or during sale. I think the way he put it in this meeting was that it feels sometimes like we have half of the global talent when it comes to the solution design around tier-1 OTT deployments. And whether it's half or 20% or whatever on a global basis, it's hard to find qualified staff and then there's a training ramp that needs to take place as well. So I would say, recruitment particularly in those areas is a challenge.

And I'd also say, there's the public company challenge that I'm sure you hear from many companies that you cover, where we have a high degree of confidence around pipeline clients, pipeline prospects, but we're obviously committed to sticking to our margin profile and margin expansion. So we're very recalcitrant to hire ahead of those revenues even if it's a very high degree of surety. So we take a quite conservative approach which when you couple with the recruitment challenge does mean you have a scaling issue.

Now, the way that we've been addressing that is also building out our partnership program. And that entails comprise a lot of effort, but I think you'll see unlike some – there are companies that are in our space, [indiscernible] (53:03) space, if you go to their website, they have like 60 partners, which I can't even really figure out how you interface with that many companies. We have a different approach. We talk about a partnership if it's one that is generating either now or very immediate prospect of generating multimillion dollar returns for our company. It has to be at the right margin profile, which we have to sort out the partnership revenue sharing and so forth.

And you saw our announcement with Harmonic during the quarter. We really think that's a transformative type of opportunity to co-develop solutions and co-implement as clients move over to next generation systems. And we saw a couple of clients that are in the release, we haven't even really spoken about. Gavin didn't even mention in his commentary, but in the press release you see those types of deployments happening.

So I think that's, I would say, I'm kind of looking at my colleagues that are here with me and Alex is over the phone, feel free as well to introduce other areas of strain or stress, but I would say that's probably the largest one at this juncture.

Great. Thank you very much.

You're welcome.

Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Darren Aftahi with Northland Securities. Please go ahead.

Hi, guys. Thanks for taking my question. Just a couple. In the release, I think, Gavin was kind of quoted saying, the financing that you did recently has already amounted to kind of a $25 million kind of annual run rate in sales for new business for 2012. If you kind of hold everything equal, it seems like that that run rate would already be net accretive to the financing. I guess, one, would you agree with that all things equal kind of to how your revenue streams work out? And then two, it seems like your implied 4Q guidance is an EBITDA margin of slightly over 26%. I guess my question is, what would cause that to sort of tick down on a quarterly run rate going into the beginning of 2012? And then third would be, ARPU trends have kind of ticked up from $30,000 to $35,000 on a monthly basis. What kind of trends are you seeing going into the fourth quarter and going forward? Thanks.

I'll probably take a crack at maybe the first and the second and then hand it to Gavin for the third. And sorry we were furiously taking notes as you were speaking, Darren, so if we didn't get it exactly, of course, correct us.

On the first one, I would be tempted to agree with the caveat that some of the revenues there were already in the 2012 plans. So some of it was preserving and some of it was giving ourselves access to door ways you wouldn't have otherwise been able to walk through. I think even if you kind of subtract out whose is already on plan, I would agree that that the financing is probably already accretive. I would say within an extremely high degree of certainty that it will have proven to be accretive and just as we stand today in November 9, we've been already been able to, from our perspective, leverage that into opportunities that we wouldn't have otherwise had.

On your second question around the EBITDA margin, I think, first of all, it is important to mention, Q4 is historically our strongest quarter in this business and I think across the digital media category and certainty around IP video consumption and obviously usage fees in the platform that's part of our revenue. Q4 is also when you see some budget flushing on the professional services side. So that's been true for the last four years. So it's normal to see Q1 slightly down or flat on Q4. That's a pattern that we've seen in our company and a lot of other companies.

That being said, we have been able to buck seasonality trends the last couple of times we thought they'd be there. So we're not giving any kind of Q1 guidance right now, but I would say that's kind of tends to be the trend in our business. But from kind of what would cause it to tick down perspective on a margin basis, we have an interesting dynamic in our business where if you do have a slightly compressed margin during a given quarter, obviously if it's real dislocation and we have a concern

But if it's a slight movement, it's sometimes the sign of good things to come, because what you have is the implementation work that sometimes will be pushed for a client that wants to get ahead of their own another competitor, get ahead of Netflix in the territory or whatever. And that can generate more services in the particular quarter when you are implementing, which have lower margin characteristics, but obviously it's good for the business to get that platform out there as quickly as possible just when you have the highest margin part of, as Gavin referred to, of the client lifecycle which is the ongoing usage.

So I don't think we're concerned along that front, Darren and – but I wanted to answer that at least in hypothetical. In terms of like trends of client size and revenue per month, Gavin, I'll pass it to you.

Thanks, Kaleil. We've used this ARPU metric for quite some time and we put it in place to measure ourselves against our mission to get up into the larger scale deeper deployment. I think we've been using it back to 2008 and we've consistently grown from that time. I think in 2008 we would have been single-digit thousands ARPU for net new wins at that time. And it's grown again, this quarter I think we are approximately or maybe greater than $30,000 in Q2, to $35,000 this time. Obviously our figure is continuing to grow as we continue to be successful in the tier-1 marketplace. It's important to remember that there's a slight time lag to a normalized ARPU as we grow through a deployment or discovering deployment phase, but the numbers are normalized for you. And into 2012 I hope and I expect that ARPU will continue to grow.

Great. Thank you.

Welcome.

Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Richard Fetyko with Janney Capital. Please go ahead.

Hey, guys. With the activity in Latin America that you've experienced, what are your investment plans or needs in that region? And then secondly, you mentioned that – I want to make sure I heard it correctly that you are experiencing about a 20% growth from sort of same-store or same customer base annually. And I was just curious, how does that take place from just mechanical standpoint within the contracts. Are the contracts is upped within – even in the midterm of the multi-year contracts or there's overages or how that sort of mechanics plays out?

Rich, we had a little bit of difficulty hearing you towards the tail end of that question or maybe from our side, but, yes, we confirm the internal growth characteristics that you referred to. Would you mind repeating the end of your question?

I'm just curious, if you're experiencing 20% type of growth, how does that mechanically work with the contracts? The contracts, if you have multi-year contracts three-year contracts, how does that customers contract increase 20%? Does it increase at the end of this three-year contract or in the middle of the three-year contract?

Okay, I hear the question. He was talking about the characteristics of internal growth or same-store sales. It's new – there's no variability really vis-à-vis the underlying contract when it's signed, Rich. So you would have – the usage would go up based on additional customer – end customers of that client, more devices, more bandwidth usage, more video streams, more seats if it's a customer, a corporate customer.

And other than what Gavin described, which is the initial implementation period after that, you have a steady and increasing number based on their end customer usage. And then when they have larger platform clients or more end customer usage that tends to statistically generate more professional services, statements of work that can be related to integrating with a legacy platform or a legacy system or a rollover of their own ERP or a new CRM system, maybe deploy maybe a new UI.

Typically our clients change their user experience at least every year or sometimes more frequently, to some degree in every couple of years. Usually there's a major overhaul or that generates professional services revenue. So it's pretty predictable across the large client base. Client-by-client, those professional services orders that tend and are on top of the underlying growth in the platform fees are variable, but at the $10,000 level across the client base, they're pretty easy to model.

And the question regarding the Latin America investments that's necessary to support the sales activity?

Yeah, I mean it's really panned out. I assume you're talking about our Latin stock relationship announced about a year ago. It's been a success. So it has the small acquisition of WWB, which has taken $800,000, half the revenue company or something. So it's really focused the time on the people and their client relationships and Latin America is turning out to be a strong growth area for our company certainly on a relative basis. And I think even when you start look at the numbers that we have in our model for 2012 and beyond then it becomes on an absolute basis an important P&L for us.

Just curious, what other investments will you need to commit to this region to support the growth that you're seeing there?

I think the territories where we're focused on investment, last year it was China and you saw that we did the JV in China and that we've ramped in Beijing and then Steve Chung has moved out to manage our Asia-Pac division earlier this year. So that was kind of the focus in 2011, I would say it was investment into our Asia-Pac region.

I'd say, in 2012, you'll see focus on Brazil in that regard. We're not talking large numbers by the way, but just that is an area we're looking to ramp up. We see a lot of opportunities in Brazil and Brazil behaves, as many of you in the call know, differently than the rest of Latin America. You can't staff properly Brazil out of Argentina or Mexico and there a lot of growth characteristics in that country.

Northeast Asia, Korea, Japan, Taiwan that areas – area where historically we've been less active, it's an area we look at as well, very high broadband penetration. We've had some strong relationships and wins there recently with our LG announcement. I think you'll see other announcements in that zone as well. Those are couple of territories we're focused on ramping up activity and staff.

All right. Thanks. That's all I had.

Welcome.

At this time, this concludes our question-and-answer session.

Okay. Well, thank you, operator. Thank you, everyone for joining. Sorry to be ending here about five minutes over time and we are always available. We've made a tradition of ending these calls by giving our email addresses. Before doing that I would just say that -- reiterate despite my crackly voice here, we really feel like this business has moved to a new phase in our development. We've done what we said we would do in terms of putting these companies together that have been acquired. It really feels like one family now.

I'm very happy and proud to be surrounded by the great team that we have and now with a great product set, the large recurring base of revenues and low client attrition; a lot of excitement around the world, around OTT deployments and so forth now we're heads down and hoping to deliver good results for our shareholders and feeling, as we said, thinking towards the end of the broadcast segment. I'm very pleased, although, never satisfied with where we are.

So thank you very much for your ongoing support. As usual of our email addresses, you've got robin@kitd.com, gavin@kitd.com, alex@kitd.com and Kaleil, the toughest one to spell, kaleil@kitd.com and we're at your disposal anytime. Thank you. Bye-bye.

Before we conclude today's call. I'd like to take a moment to read the company's Safe Harbor statement. During this call, management made certain forward-looking statements related to the business of KIT digital, Incorporated, which can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminologies such as believes, expects, plans, intends, anticipates, and variations of such words or similar expressions, but their absence does not mean that the statement is not forward-looking.

Statements in this announcement that are forward-looking include, but are not limited to, statements made by the management regarding the completion of transitioning clients to its more advanced KIT Platform, the success of its regionalized operations, approach on future sales and innovation and the attainment of estimated levels of revenue in Q4 and the full year 2011 and EBITDA margin from Q4 and full year 2011 and industry's health as well.

Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties, including uncertainties relating to product development and commercialization, integration of acquired businesses, the ability to obtain or maintain patent and other proprietary intellectual property protection , market acceptance, future capital requirements, regulatory actions or delays, competition in general, and other factors that may cause actual results to be materially different from those described herein.

Certain of these risks and uncertainties are/or will be described in greater detail in our public filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Except as required by U.S. Federal Securities Laws, KIT digital is not under obligation to – and expressly disclaims any such obligation to update or alter its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.

I would like to remind everyone this presentation will be available for replay via telephone through December 9, 2011 starting this afternoon at 1:30 PM Eastern Time. Please follow the instructions in the today's earnings release. The video webcast of this presentation will be available for replay via the company's Investor Relations section at www.kitd.com starting today at 1:30 PM Eastern Time.

This concludes today's call. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for joining us for our presentation. You may now disconnect.