corrected transcript


KIT digital, Inc.
 
KITD
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 19, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning and thank you for participating in today’s conference call to discuss KIT


digital’s Second Quarter Financial Results for the period ended June 30, 2009. With us today are


Kaleil Isaza Tuzman, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of KIT digital; Gavin Campion, the


company’s President; and Jonathan Hirst, the company’s Chief Financial Officer. Following their


remarks we will open up the call for questions.


Before I continue I would like to take a moment to read the company’s Safe Harbor statement.


Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include risks and the uncertainties such


as the inability to finance the company’s operation or expansion and the ability to hire and retain


qualified personnel, changes in the general economic climate including rising interest rates and


unanticipated events such as terrorism activities.


Although the company believes that the expectations reflected in these forward-looking statements


are reasonable, such statements should not be regarded as representation by the company or any


other person that such forward-looking statements will be achieved. The company undertakes no


duty to update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events


or otherwise. For further risk factors, see the risk factors associated with the company’s review in


today’s SEC filings.


I would like to remind everyone this call will be available for replay through September 9th, 2009,


starting this afternoon at 2:00 PM Eastern time. A webcast replay will be available via the link


provided in today’s press release. Now I would like to turn the call over to the Chairman and CEO


of KIT digital, Mr. Kaleil Isaza Tuzman. Sir, please proceed.


Kaleil Isaza Tuzman, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you. Good morning. I always get a kick out of those Safe Harbor statements. Sounds like it


hasn’t been updated probably in a while. I’m not sure if rising interest rates are at the top of our


global risk profile at the moment. Anyway, good morning, everyone and good morning, good


afternoon and evening to those of you calling in eastern parts of the world. My name is Kaleil Isaza


Tuzman and Gavin and Jonathan and I are pleased to present our second quarter results, which


we’re quite excited about and which were issued in a press release this morning. Our 10-Q will be


filed with the SEC this afternoon, which will give more detail in MD&A.


KIT digital is in an exciting point in its development. Our accelerating revenue and operating


EBITDA growth this quarter demonstrates the significant leverage in our business model. Since


January 2008, which marked a change in management and the go-to-market strategy of the


business, we’ve posted six consecutive strong quarters of client growth and operating margin


expansion. Today, approximately 80% of our revenues are generated from our VX platform for


asset management of IP-based video, and our revenues – much of our revenues, as you know, are


recurring in nature and therefore provide us, as management, a high visibility into future financial


performance.


Subsequent to the quarter’s end, we want to point out that, as you may know, we completed an


equity offering, which we considered to be quite well structured. Common stock, no warrants,


which provided, on a net-cash-proceeds basis, $18.2 million after deal-related expenses and the


conversion of 3.7 million of interim promissory notes into common shares. There was also a


secondary sale component of unaffiliated selling stockholders of 550,000 shares in that offering.


This offering facilitates our growth through strategic acquisitions. We will also use a limited portion


of the proceeds from this offering for debt repayment and general corporate purposes including, but


not limited to, potential restructuring of earn-out liabilities related to prior acquisitions.
corrected transcript


KIT digital, Inc.
 
KITD
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 19, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


On last Thursday, August 13, our shares began trading on the NASDAQ Global Market Exchange


as opposed to the OTC bulletin board. As you know, our ticker is now KITD as opposed to KDGL.


The offering and the NASDAQ listing are important milestones that further advance our leadership


in the IP video management industry. Over the next couple quarters, we expect to expand our


market share and geographical reach organically, as well as through acquisition, while building on


our strong positive cash flow development. We now operate on a free cash flow positive basis,


covering our debt expenses and CapEx-related expenses.


Before we comment further, I’d like to turn over the call to our CFO, Jonathan Hirst, to review our


financial highlights for the quarter. Afterwards, my partner, our President, Gavin Campion, will


discuss second quarter operational highlights and the current state of the business. Following


Gavin’s presentation, I will discuss some of the important events and achievements of the quarter,


as well as our outlook for the balance of 2009. Finally, of course, we’ll open the call to your


questions. Jonathan?


Jonathan Hirst, Chief Financial Officer


Hello. Thank you. Revenue in the second quarter of 2009 totaled a record 10.5 million, which is an


increase of 9% from 9.6 million the previous quarter, and a 91% increase from 5.5 million in the


same quarter a year ago. The company’s revenues are primarily comprised of software license


and maintenance fees, software set-up fees and technical and creative service charges.


Net loss for the second quarter of 2009 was $490,000 or $0.11 per basic and diluted share,


compared to a net income the previous quarter of 158,000 or $0.04 per share. Net loss in the


second quarter of 2008 of 3.3 million or $1.40 per basic and diluted share.


In the second quarter of 2009 operating EBITDA, a non-GAAP term, totaled a record 671,000 or


$0.16 per basic and diluted share, an increase of 239% from 198,000 or $0.05 per basic and


diluted share in the previous quarter, and an improvement from the operating EBITDA loss of 2.2


million or $0.95 per basic and diluted share in the second quarter of 2008.


Turning now to the balance sheet, as of the end of the second quarter 2009 the company had cash


and cash equivalents of 2.7 million as compared to 5.9 million at December 31. This difference


was, in part, due to earn-out payments related to prior acquisitions. And of course, as our


Chairman has mentioned, we received net proceeds of 18.2 million primarily to finance acquisitions


of competitive businesses.


This completes my prepared comments. I am happy to answer any questions you may have during


the Q&A session. I would now like to turn this call over to our President, Gavin Campion, to


discuss operational highlights for the quarter.


Gavin Campion, President


Well thank you, Jonathan, and thank you, Kaleil. Good morning, everybody. I think our


performance in Q2 demonstrates our ongoing commitment to growth, and I think this coupled with


the disciplined management decisions we’re making is resulting in the increased margin expansion.


There are a number of operational highlights in the quarter that really helped deliver these results,


and I think importantly continue to strengthen our business and position it for the future. I’m going


to pick up on a few of these, just to give you a little flavor of some of the operational highlights in


the areas of our core VX technology platform and in our business development.