corrected transcript


KIT digital, Inc.
 
KITD
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
May 17, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Daniel Goodfellow, Vice President of Corporate Sales and Marketing


Good morning, everyone. My name is Daniel Goodfellow, KIT digital’s Vice President of Corporate


Sales and Marketing. Thank you for joining us today to discuss KIT digital’s First Quarter 2010


Results for the period ended March 31 2010. After much positive feedback from our last earnings


video webcast, we have decided to continue with the broadcast. So first, a technical nudge. If you


are watching the video webcast and have also dialed in from a regular telephone to participate in


our Q&A session, which follows management’s presentation, please place your phone handset


down now and until the Q&A session begins, and listen to the call only through your computer


speakers. This will help to avoid the confusion from the very necessary audio lag that exists


between the online streaming and your phone line. We were very pleased to get a high number of


responses from the online survey we conducted during our last earnings call broadcast. So again,


during this morning’s presentation, you’ll be presented with some survey questions, via the video


player window. Thank you in advance for participating.


Now to our presentation. Joining us today, is our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Kaleil


Isaza Tuzman, our President, Gavin Campion, our Chief Financial Officer, Robin Smyth, and also


our Head of Americas, and the Former CEO of Multicast at Media Technologies, Lou Schwartz.


Following their remarks, we will open up the presentation for your question.


Now, I’d like the turn call over to our Chairman and CEO, Kaleil Isaza Tuzman. Thanks Kaleil.


Kaleil Isaza Tuzman, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Daniel and good morning everyone. This is another exciting day for KIT digital. We’re


pleased to present our first quarter 2010 results which were issued in the press release this


morning. Our 10-Q will be filed with the SEC by this evening, in which we’ll provide more detail in


the Management Discussion and Analysis or MD&A section.


Our financial and operational accomplishments during the first quarter of this year. A quarter which


usually would have had sequential negative cyclicality vis-à-vis the fourth quarter, representing


better than anticipated start toward achieving and indeed, superseding our 2010 operating plan


objective.


Q1 marked our sixth quarter of sequential revenue growth on a U.S. dollar basis, and our 12th


straight quarter of sequential revenue growth on a nominal currency basis. Our results continue to


demonstrate the significant operating leverage in our business model.


We saw strong new contract growth in Q1 and are continuing to see this in our current quarter. We


have been taking advantage of cross-selling opportunities provided by recent acquisitions and will


now focus the same efforts on Singapore-based Benchmark Video Technologies, the acquisition


we announced earlier this morning.


In sum, as we sit here in mid-May, nearly halfway through the year, we are on track to exceed our


organic financial targets for fiscal 2010 on both, in revenue and operating margin basis.


Results through acquisitions are obviously additive to these figures. We’re also making important


strides in rationalizing our operations and consolidating our technology platform. Before I make


further comments on our business outlook, I’d now like to turn the call over to our CFO, Robin


Smyth to take you through the financial details of Q1.
corrected transcript


KIT digital, Inc.
 
KITD
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
May 17, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Be patient with Robin because he did a terrific job leading the Benchmark negotiation and


documentation this week, so he hasn’t been on a lot asleep lately. Afterwards my partner, our


President, Gavin Campion will discuss our quarter’s operational highlights and our current business


priorities.


Then Lou Schwartz, Head of our Americas Group and a new member of the senior management


team will provide a snapshot on how we see our business shaping up in the Americas region and


update on the integration of Multicast Media.


Following Lou’s comments, I will talk a little more about our acquisition of Benchmark, as well as


our corporate development strategy as a whole, and our outlook for the remainder of 2010. Finally,


we’ll open this up to your question. Robin?


Robin Smyth, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Kaleil. It’s a pleasure to have this opportunity to address you today. As Kaleil


mentioned, it was another strong first quarter for KIT digital. Revenue in the quarter was a record


$17.4 million, increasing 8% over the previous quarter and 80% over Q1 2009. These revenues


were primarily comprised with software license and maintenance fees, software set-up fees and


professional service charges related to technical integration and creative services.


For Q1 2010, after recognizing the accounting impact of accounting standard ASC 815-40, net loss


was $18.4 million, or negative $1.33 per basic and diluted share. This compares to a net loss in the


previous quarter of $15.6 million, or $1.50 negative per basic and diluted share. And net income in


the first quarter of 2009 of $8.4 million, or $1.96 per basic and $1.88 per diluted share.


As everyone should know by now, GAAP requires us to book the increased Black-Scholes-Merton


value of our outstanding warrants, which has resulted from our stock price increases quarter-on-


quarter. This increase in the value of the warrants gets booked as an accounting loss even if there


is no cash impact to the company.


For more information on this accounting standard, please reference the supplemental portion of


today’s earnings press release. It is important to note that the application of this standard has the


diverse effect having us show widening accounting losses as the company performs and our stock


appreciates. This is a major reason behind us recently repurchasing and canceling most of our


outstanding warrants. Something I would address in more detail shortly.


This will allow us to eliminate most of this accounting effect going forward, starting with the current


second quarter. Now back to the numbers. Net loss for Q1 included a derivative expense of $11.4


million resulting from the application of the ASC 815-40 accounting standard. 2.2 million in non-


cash charges including 552,000 in stock-based compensation, and $1.7 million of depreciation and


amortization.


1.2 million in direct merger and acquisitions expenses including IR, legal, auditing fees and fees to


investment bankers, banking advisors and intermediaries. And $6.6 million in restructuring and


integration expenses primarily related to employee termination, acquisition related facility closing


cost and other costs related to the reorganization and integration of our companies, acquired during


the end of 2009 and the first quarter of 2010.


It is important to note that we chose to front load the restructuring charges for the balance of 2010,


as much as possible into the first quarter, which we mentioned on our last investor call.


This combined with the cancellation of most of their warrants, moves us towards a more traditional


accounting approach to our results. As we said on our Q4 earnings presentation, the impact of non-