corrected transcript


KIT digital, Inc.
 
KITD
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 16, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Daniel Goodfellow, Senior Vice President, Marketing and Communications


Good morning, everyone. My name is Daniel Goodfellow, KIT digital’s Senior Vice President of


Marketing and Communications. Thank you for joining us today to discuss KIT digital’s fourth


quarter and year-end 2010 results for the period ended December 31, 2010.


First, a technical note, if you’re watching the video webcast and have also dialed in to participate in


our Q&A session following management’s presentation, please place your phone handsets down


now and until the Q&A session begins, and listen to the call through your computer speakers. This


will help to avoid confusion from the necessary audio lag between the online stream and your


phone lines.


I should also add that today’s Q&A session will not be webcasted, so if you would like to listen to


the Q&A or ask a question, please call the number on the screen before the beginning of the Q&A


session. At the end of our presentation, we’ll pause momentarily to allow callers to dial-in.


In case you miss any portion of today’s presentation, a complete video and audio replay of the call


will be available via the Investor Relations section of our website later today or you may listen to a


replay over the phone by following the instructions in today’s press release. Now to our


presentation.


Joining us today is our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Kaleil Isaza Tuzman; our President,


Gavin Campion; and our Chief Financial Officer, Robin Smyth. Our Global Chief Operating Officer,


Alex Blum will also be joining us for the Q&A portion of the call. Following their remarks, we will


open up the call for your questions.


I would now like to turn over to call to our Chairman and CEO, Kaleil Isaza Tuzman. Kaleil?


Kaleil Isaza Tuzman, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Daniel, and good morning everyone from here in Southern California, where our


management team is in a local conference. Today is a very exciting day for KIT digital. As you saw


this morning, we issued a press release announcing our fourth quarter and year-end 2010 results.


Please refer to the MD&A section of our 10-K which will be filed today March 16th, for more detail.


Our record fourth quarter and full-year 2010 results reflect our continued focus on new sales while


taking advantage of up-selling and cross-selling opportunities in our existing client base. As we


harness the high-growth in IP video across all major global markets, emerging markets in particular.


We also simultaneously announced this morning the acquisition of Polymedia, a leading IP video


asset management company with the strong emphasis on network operator and major broadcaster


clients in the European zone. We will address this acquisition later in the presentation.


But before we go much further, I’d like to invite our CFO, Robin Smyth, to take us through the


financial details of the quarter and year-end. Afterwards, our president, Gavin Campion will discuss


current operational highlights and provide more detail of our acquisition of Polymedia. Lastly, I’ll


return to talk about some of the key elements of our overall corporate development strategy and


then present our current outlook and operational and financial objectives for 2011. Finally, as usual,


we will open the broadcast to your questions. Robin?
corrected transcript


KIT digital, Inc.
 
KITD
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 16, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


Robin Smyth, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Kaleil. It’s a pleasure to have this opportunity to address you today. As Kaleil


mentioned, it was another record quarter and year for KIT digital. Revenue in the fourth quarter


totaled $38.4 million, an increase of 138% over the same year ago while revenue for the full-year


2010 reached a record $106.6 million up 125% over 2009.


It is important to note, however, that we estimate that approximately $5.6 million of revenues from


the fourth quarter pertain to elements of our service businesses that we sold on December 24th,


2010, in order to focus more concertedly on our KIT platform software-as-a-service business.


These systems integration, encoding and hardware setup revenues are historically particularly


strong during the fourth quarter. Therefore, pro forma of the sale of this business, adjusted Q4


results were approximately $32.8 million on a top line basis.


Our revenues for the quarter and for the year were primarily comprised of software license and


usage fees, with a smaller portion coming from set up fees and professional service charges


related to our system integration and creative services. We estimate that today approximately 70%


to 75% of our revenues are related to KIT platform software fees and approximately 25% to 30%


are related to professional service charges, strictly speaking.


Looking at regional breakdown of revenues for the quarter, approximately 45% came from EMEA,


35% from Asia-Pacific and 20% from the Americas, while for the full-year 2010, approximately 54%


came from EMEA, 25% from Asia-Pacific, and 21% from the Americas. We would note, that as of


today after accounting for a revenue split of our Q1 acquisition activity, approximately 35% of our


revenues are generated in the Americas, 40% in EMEA, and 25% in Asia-Pacific.


While Q4 2010 GAAP net loss was $8.5 million or negative $0.31 per basic and diluted share, this


compares to a net loss in the fourth quarter of 2009 of $15.6 million or $1.50 per basic and diluted


share. GAAP net loss for Q4 included $6.4 million in non-cash charges, including $1.8 million in


stock based compensation, $2.2 million of depreciation and amortization, and a non-cash derivative


loss of $2.4 million relating from the application of the ASC 815-40 Accounting Standard. And


$632,000 loss on disposal, which arises from the reduction of goodwill based on the fair market


value of the assets disposed.


GAAP net loss for Q4 also included $5.7 million in integrated expenses related to reorganization


and integration of recently acquired companies and $2 million in direct merger and acquisition


related expenses, including investment banking advisory, legal fees, and deal related accounting


expenses.


For the full-year 2010, GAAP net loss was $35.3 million or $1.63 negative per basic and diluted


share. This compares to a net loss reported in 2009 of $19.9 million or a loss of $3.03 per basic


and diluted share. 2010 GAAP net loss included $26 million in non-cash charges, including $4.7


million in stock-based compensation, $8.4 million of depreciation and amortization and a non-cash


derivative loss of $12.9 million resulting from the application of ASC 815-40 Accounting Standard.


GAAP net loss for the year also included $16.5 million in integration expenses related to the


reorganization and integration of recently acquired companies, $3.4 million in restructuring charges


related to employee termination and acquisition related facility cost and $5.4 million in direct merger


and acquisition related expenses, including investment banking advisory and legal fees and deal


related accounting expenses.


Operating EBITDA, a non-GAAP term that management uses as a proxy for operating cash flow


totaled a record $6.7 million or $0.25 per basic share in the fourth quarter of 2010, which was up


53% from the previous quarter and up 114% from the same year ago quarter. For the full-year