corrected transcript


KIT digital, Inc.
 
KITD
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
May 10, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Daniel Goodfellow, Senior Vice President, Corporate Communications


Good morning, everyone. My name is Daniel Goodfellow, KIT digital’s Senior Vice President of


Corporate Communications. Thank you for joining us today to discuss KIT digital’s first quarter


results for the period ended March 31, 2011. First, a technical note.


If you are watching the video webcast and have also dialed in to participate in our Q&A session


following management’s presentation, please place your phone handset down now and until the


Q&A session begins and listen to the call through your computer speakers. This will help avoid


confusion from necessary audio lag between the online stream and your phone line. I should also


add that today’s Q&A session will not be webcasted. So if you would like to listen to the Q&A or ask


a question, please call the number on the screen before the beginning of the Q&A session. At the


end of our presentation, we’ll pause momentarily to allow callers to dial-in. In case you miss any


portion of today’s presentation, a complete video and audio replay will be available via the Investor


Relations section of our website later today or you may listen to a replay over the phone by


following the instructions listed in today’s press release.


Now to our presentation. Joining us today is our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Kaleil Isaza


Tuzman; our President, Gavin Campion; and our Chief Financial Officer, Robin Smyth. We’ll also


be joined by our Chief Operating Officer, Alex Blum. Following their remarks, we will open up the


call for your questions.


I would now like to turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO, Kaleil Isaza Tuzman. Kaleil?


Kaleil Isaza Tuzman, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Daniel. And good morning everyone from our global network operations center here in


Prague in the Czech Republic. As you saw yesterday evening, we issued a press release


announcing our first quarter 2011 results. We reported revenue of $34.5 million, which was up 98%


overall, and up 38% organically year-over-year as compared to last year’s first quarter. This drove


our operating EBITDA up 139% to a record level of $7.1 million. On an adjusted basis, revenue was


up 5% sequentially over the last quarter, the fourth quarter of 2010, which we are very pleased


with, especially when you consider the lower digital media usage levels and consequent negative


seasonality of Q1 over Q4 that occurs throughout our industry.


We’re also excited to have successfully completed the three year aggressive consolidation phase


of our corporate development plan here at KIT digital. A plan which was focused on extending our


global scope and market leadership to a 45% to 50% share in the IP video asset management


segment, through a combination of organic growth and accretive acquisitions.


Going forward, we expect the pace of our M&A activity to slow dramatically as we optimize what


we’ve acquired over time and focus on organic growth. We have also completed the bulk of the


restructuring work related to our acquisitions to date and expect below the line restructuring and


integration charges to approach zero by the beginning of the third quarter, which is two to three


months earlier than we originally anticipated. This should allow us to report a clean back half of


2011 without adjustments to EBITDA allowing for a harmonization of EBITDA and more traditional


GAAP and cash flow metrics.


The completion of the consolidation phase of our development represents the culmination of a


process dedicated to achieving global scope and market share in the IP video platform software


sector for both a geographical and a client vertical perspective, and also to securing best-in-class


product and management depth.
corrected transcript


KIT digital, Inc.
 
KITD
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
May 10, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


Now with the acquisition of ioko and Polymedia, we have reached an important milestone in our


development, having attained the number one market share position in each of the major regions


and customer verticals in which we operate. Though we realize our active past of M&A has resulted


in restructuring and integration charges that have made it more difficult a time to analyze and


understand the growth of our business from an external perspective, we believe it has been


essential to put in place the building block of a long-term strategic value in our video asset


management or VAM sector.


Given the stickiness of VAMs deployment and the very low client attrition rates in our business, it


has been key in our view to scale up rapidly in this early evolutionary stage of the industry. So for


us, the Greenfield nature of the industry means $1 spent on acquisitions at this stage of our


development may indeed prove to be worth $10 to $20 spent later trying to dislodge entrenched


competitors.


Now, with these recent major acquisitions under our wing, we anticipate M&A activity going


forward, as I said, to slow down, really to normalize and follow a more traditional approach that


many top companies take, taking advantage of opportunities if and when they arise for product or


market share in – share fill ins at the margin.


As a result of the elimination of restructuring related charges going forward, we expect our reported


results during the second half of this year to provide much greater visibility into the growth of our


core business and its strong free cash flow.


Now before we go much further, I’d like to invite our President, my partner Gavin Campion to


discuss current operational highlights and update on the progress of our regionalization initiative.


Afterward our CFO, Robin Smyth will take us through more of the financial details of the quarter.


Then Alex Blum, our Chief Operating Officer, will provide an update on our product development


roadmap and the technology integration of our most recent acquisitions. Lastly, I’ll return to the


broadcast to talk about what we are seeing in the industry, discuss the elements of our overall


corporate development strategy going forward, and then present our current outlook and objectives


for 2011. Finally as usual, we’ll open this broadcast to your questions. Gavin?


Gavin Campion, President


Thanks, Kaleil. And good morning, everyone. I’d like to provide some insight into our next phase of


optimization and focus on customer-centric organic growth, as well as review our operational


highlights for the first quarter. As Kaleil mentioned, with this primary period of major M&A activity


behind us, we are now focused on the consolidation and optimization of our business. We plan to


spend the balance of 2011 and 2012 advancing internal product development, channel sales and


on-the-ground development of our activities in the BRIC markets. We expect to eliminate the


distraction of major integration activities both in terms of internal corporate actions and financial


reporting as we foresee completing on major internal restructuring and integration initiatives by the


end of Q2.


Near the beginning of this year, we realigned our business into three client vertical markets to


complement our geographical sales divisions. These vertical markets are media and entertainment


companies, network operators and non-media enterprises. With ioko and Polymedia reinforcing our


network operator and media and entertainment verticals, we now have a relatively balanced


portfolio across all three vertical markets and regions, and we have no material client revenue


concentration.


This balanced framework supports the ongoing development of our KIT platform to address the


workflow needs of particular industries. It’s allowed us to confidently move towards larger, more