corrected transcript


KIT digital, Inc.
 
RGRP
 
Q1 2008 Earnings Call
 
May 14, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning, my name is Melissa and I’ll be your conference operator today. At this


time, I would like to welcome everyone to the KIT Digital First Quarter 2008 Earnings Conference


Call. [Operator Instructions] Thank you.


And it is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to your host Garth Russell of KCSA Strategic


Communications. Sir, you may begin your conference.


Garth Russell, KCSA Strategic Communications


Thank you. Before turning the call over to management I must read the Safe Harbor statement


under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. With the exception of historical


confirmation the matters discussed in this conference call are forward-looking statements that


involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The actual future results of the company could differ


significantly from those statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially


include risks and uncertainties such as the inability to finance the company’s operations or


expansion, inability to hire and retain qualified personnel, changes in the general economic climate


including rising interest rates and unanticipated events such as terrorist activities.


In some cases you can identify forward-looking statements by terminologies such as may, will,


should, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, potential or continue, the negative of


such terms or comparable terminology. These statements are not only predictions. Although we


believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, such


statements should not be regarded as the representation by the company or any other person that


such forward-looking statements will be achieved. We undertake no duty to update any of the


forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. In


light of the foregoing, listeners are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking


statements. For further risk factors see the risk factors associated with our company review in our


SEC filings.


It is now my pleasure to turn the call over to Mr. Kaleil Isaza Tuzman, Chairman and CEO of KIT


Digital. Kaleil, the floor is yours.


Kaleil Isaza Tuzman, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer


Thanks, Garth. Welcome, everybody. We are excited to be presenting to you the completion of our


restructuring quarter that we had talked about on the first call that I participated back in early


January of this year.


We, over the first quarter, had completed the vast majority of the restructuring that we had planned


to put the company on the right footing from a capital structure perspective, a balance sheet


perspective and an operating perspective.


Let me start in the reverse order with the most important, which is from the operational side of


things. We have reduced costs dramatically across the business over the last three and a half, four


months while increasing revenues on the core business by about 60%, and including the Kamera


acquisition, which would add today about 350 to 400,000 of revenue per month. That revenue


increased on a month-to-month basis would be closer to 100%.


This actually disguises a higher underlying growth since we jettisoned certain relationships that we


felt were structurally loss-making for the company. So since coming on in January we were about


$1 million of month in revenue on a pro forma consolidated basis. Today we’re closer to about 2
corrected transcript


KIT digital, Inc.
 
RGRP
 
Q1 2008 Earnings Call
 
May 14, 2008


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 8 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


million a month, and have moved the cash loss position to well in excess of $2 million per month,


down to an EBITDA loss level today, or April rather. It’s lower today at closer to 700,000 per


month, which is rapidly decreasing. And management is here today to reiterate our confidence that


we will be cash flow positive by the timeframe that we had originally telegraphed to the market of


fourth quarter of this year.


The first quarter also had significant changes with respect to capital structure and balance sheet all


for the positive. When I say first quarter, really to be fair, I’m bleeding into the most recent monthly


periods, so the first four months of the year. We were able to eliminate the preferred class of


shares, which was done through a mechanism relating to the separation agreements with Messrs.


Petty and Smyth, which were basically providing a proxy to the company to vote the preferred


shares into elimination. That I will defer to my colleague, Robin, to discuss whether the timing –


whether that’s actually been not formerly approved, but it’s pro forma at this point and is waiting


approval with in days I think, with respect to the preferred elimination. We now have strictly


common shares, those common shares as we articulated in a press release last week after our


most recent financing announcement, total on a pro forma basis about 145 million. And we do


have, of course, some warrants outstanding that referenced to the most recent financing that took


place.


The company has no debt. We are in what we believe is now the strongest financial position in the


sector both from an absolute basis in terms of dollars and the balance sheet and also from a


relative basis in terms of the coverage of our monthly burn, which as we’ve said before on this call


and in the past, we hope to get down to zero by the fourth quarter.


Lastly we have engaged in a general review and improvement of our corporate structure. Broadly


speaking we’re in the process of incorporating a wholly owned subsidiary in the Emirates where, as


I think everyone knows now, from an operating executive team based in Dubai. We believe that will


introduce additional tax efficiencies with respect to the corporate structure. We have also reduced


overhead expenses with respect to our global offices significantly, and restructured a number of


both office and equipment leases in that process.


I’m going to pass off to Robin Smyth, our CFO, and then we’ll go over to Gavin Campion, our


President to talk about operations. I would just leave the group with the message that the first


quarter was, as everyone knows, a restructuring-focused quarter as imposing very significant fiscal


discipline and strategic discipline on the company. And the excitement level is very high in the


company with reference to what’s going on in the field. And the fruit of this discipline has been


significant additional sales in the time period where we actually were not anticipating them. And the


cohesion – and a coherence of our go-to-market plan in our team that’s really come into release


much more quickly than any of us could have hoped for. Robin?


Robin Smyth, Chief Financial Officer


Good morning. I’d like to just give a brief summary of the highlights of the quarter. Kaleil has


mentioned it, and then we’ve said previously, this was a restructuring quarter and I think some of


the results reflect that.


Our revenue of 3.5 million was up by 16.7% from the previous first quarter of 2007. But more


importantly, if we look at our net loss, our net loss less any cash – non-cash items, restructuring


charges or non-recurring charges, amount to a reduction of about 46.2%. We’ve been able to


maintain revenue during this period, even though we were restructuring so many of our activities.


And I think we’ve also indicated in previous calls that 85% of our revenue still continues to be


internationally based outside America. The net loss, the topline net loss for the quarter was 10.6


million. However, this is included a number of non-cash costs, restructuring costs and non-


recurring expenses.