corrected transcript


KIT digital, Inc.
 
KDGL
 
Q1 2009 Earnings Call
 
May 19, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning and thank you for participating in today’s conference call to discuss KIT


Digital’s first quarter financial results for the period ending March 31, 2009.


With us today are Kaleil Isaza Tuzman, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of KIT digital; Gavin


Campion, the company’s President and Jonathan Hirst the company’s Chief Financial Officer.


Following their remarks we will open up the call for questions.


Before I continue I would like to take a moment to read the company’s Safe Harbor statement.


Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include risks and uncertainties such as


the inability to finance the company’s operations or expansion, inability to hire and retain qualified


personnel, changes in the general economic climate including rising interest rates and


unanticipated events, such as terrorism activities.


Although the company believes that the expectations reflected in this forward-looking statements


are reasonable, such statements should not be regarded as a representations by the company or


any other person that such forward-looking statements will be achieved. The company undertakes


no duty to update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future


events or otherwise. For further risk factors, see the risk factors associated with the company’s


review and today’s SEC filings.


I would like to remind everyone that this call will be available for replay through June 19, 2009,


starting at--this afternoon at 1:30 PM Eastern time. A webcast replay will be available via the link


provided in today’s press release.


Now I would like to turn the call over to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of KIT digital, Mr.


Kaleil Isaza Tuzman. Please proceed, sir.


Kaleil Isaza Tuzman, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, operator. How’s my sound quality?


Operator: You sound great, sir.


Kaleil Isaza Tuzman, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


All right. Good morning, everyone. Good afternoon and evening to those of you calling in eastern


parts of the world. My name is Kaleil Isaza Tuzman, and we’re pleased to present to you our


quarter-end results for March 31, 2009. Yesterday evening we issued a press release announcing


these results, and will be filing our 10-Q within the next 24 hours.


Our first quarter was strong across the board. It represents a solid start towards achieving our 2009


objective that we set out at the beginning of this year. In fact, for the first time in many years, the


first quarter in this company exceeded the previous fourth-quarter results at the revenue line


despite the difficult seasonality of our business where Q1 typically dips down around 15% on


average relative to Q4 as a result of stronger relative corporate spending and customer usage


levels in November and December.


We bucked that trend this year. Our revenues increased 7% sequentially quarter-over-quarter, and


over 170% in the period a year prior. We believe this bodes well for our 2009 results, and reflects


ongoing strength in the IP Video segment, particularly in fast-growing markets abroad.
corrected transcript


KIT digital, Inc.
 
KDGL
 
Q1 2009 Earnings Call
 
May 19, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Before I comment further, I’d like to turn the call over to our CFO, Jonathan Hirst, to review some of


our financial highlights for the first quarter. Afterwards, our President, Gavin Campion, will discuss


the first-quarter operational highlights and our current state of the business. Following Gavin’s


presentation, we’ll discuss some of the important events and achievements of the quarter, as well


as how we see the rest of the year shaping out. Finally, of course, we’ll be opening the call to your


questions. Jonathan?


Jonathan Hirst, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you, Kaleil. Good morning, everybody, or good evening. This is my first appearance here as


the -- your Chief Financial Officer, and I’m very happy to be here. I’m also very happy to be able to


announce good results.


As our Chairman pointed out, our revenues in the first quarter are up 7% over the prior quarter,


which is unusual because of the seasonality of our business. And as compared to the comparative


quarter in the prior year, up 174%.


Our revenues are primarily software license and maintenance fees, software setup and technical


and credit service charges. The year-on-year improvement is principally due to the increase in


number of customers, increased spending by existing customers and of course, includes our


revenue for acquisitions which we made in the – towards the second half of 2008.


There’s a special accounting issue. We have to recognize the impact of the application of the new


accounting standard EITF 07-05 net income for the first quarter 2009 was $158,000 or $0.04 per


weighted average share outstanding, compared to a loss in the previous quarter of 2.5 million per


weighted average share outstanding. The net income for first quarter of 2009 included derivative


income resulting from the application of EITF 07-05 of 1.9 million, 953,000 in noncash charges and


363,000 in restructuring non-recurring charges.


A little bit more about EITF 07-05. This requires a company to calculate the fair value of warrants


containing reset provisions and classify them as derivative liabilities. This liability was recorded at


March 31 at 3.7 million. A reduction of this liability is recorded in the first quarter of 2009 ,and this


reduction was classified as derivative income and it was equal to $1.9 million.


The following underlines the importance that we attach to look at our business through operating


EBITDA which we admit is a non-GAAP term. And for the second quarter in a row this was positive


198,000 or $0.05 per weighted average share as compared with previous quarter’s 32,000. So we


believe we are moving in the right direction in terms of the operating results of our business. We’ve


talked about this before the company defines operating EBITDA as earnings before derivative


income, non cash, stock based compensation, acquisition related restructuring costs and other non


recurring charges, impairment of property and equipment, merger and acquisitions expenses and


the depreciation and amortization.


As of the end of March the company had cash and cash equivalence of $2.5 million as compared to


nine million at that end of prior year, and this 3.4 million decrease in cash was largely due to 1.9


million in investment activities including 1.5 million acquisition of property which was primarily


software and 800,000 in deferred consideration of loan repayments related to a prior year


acquisition. In the quarter we issued 453,000 shares as of the [inaudible] based consideration and


earn out payouts related to the 2008 acquisition of Visual Connection and Kamera and as of May


15, 2008 the company has 4.8 million shares outstanding. Importantly, as of May 18, there are no


additional required cash payments or cash earn outs related to any acquisitions the company has


made in the past. Gavin, I think this is now time for you.