raw transcript


Pinnacle Airlines Corp.
 
PNCL
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 1, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Pinnacle Airlines Corporation Third


Quarter 2005 Earnings Conference Call. My name is Anne Marie [ph] and I'll be your coordinator


for today. [Operator Instructions] I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Phil Trenary, Chief


Executive Officer. You may proceed.


Philip H. Trenary, President and CEO


Thank you, Anne [ph]. Good afternoon. I'd like to welcome you to the Third Quarter 2005 Earnings


Call of Pinnacle Airlines Corp. On behalf of all our people at Pinnacle [audio gap] interest in our


company. This call is being presented live over the Internet via webcast from our corporate web


site [audio gap] www.nwairlink.com. It will also be available on our site for 30 days after this call.


This presentation contains various forward-looking statements that are based on management's


beliefs, as well as assumptions made by and information currently available to management.


Although the company believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements


are reasonable, we give no assurances that such expectations will prove to have been correct.


Such statements are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including those set


forth in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission which are available to investors at


our web site or online from the Commission. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties


materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove erroneous, actual results may vary materially


from results that were anticipated or projected. The company does not intend to update these


forward-looking statements before its next filing to the Securities and Exchange Commission.


And again, welcome to everybody who's online. We do appreciate you talking the time to join us


this afternoon. As you know, November 1, today, is the first day that we're operating with our


reduced fleet. We are operating 124 CRJ aircraft today. We've also made the required reductions


our headcount to accommodate for that. We're fortunate that all of that was done through attrition,


voluntary furloughs, and a small number of involuntary. Looking forward, we're very confident in


our long-term relationship with Northwest. We've long maintained that the best survival strategy for


Pinnacle was to maintain costs at among the lowest, if not the lowest, and high quality operation.


And one of the things that's emerged from this is the affirmation that we are indeed among the


lowest cost, when we looked at our cost relative to other CRJ operator – CRJ200 operators. It


became evident that on a block-hour basis, we believe we are the low-cost leader.


So this has not been a pleasant topic for Pinnacle, and going through the difficulties with the


bankruptcy filings of Northwest and Mesaba, there was one very significant positive to emerge and


that is the – our belief that scope [ph] relief is on the way. In the 11-13C [ph] filing that Northwest


made with trustees have outlined their plans for scope [ph], effectively giving Pinnacle free rein to


fly whatever craft – any aircraft we need to for our operations outside of the Northwest. And it


would also allow us to fly the 70-seat aircraft for Northwest. So against a very difficult drop-back,


that's a tremendous positive. I'm not sure, in fact, that I am confident that we'll have pay over $50


million for that privilege, but nonetheless it is something that we have wanted for a long time.


We are well on the way to the ATOS certification. You may remember that ATOS ph is the


acronym for the new standard for FAA certificate certification. Our strategy for our new certificate


has been to overlay the ATOS format on our current certificate and then take that and translate it


over to the new certificate. The groundwork for that is nearly complete. It will be – all the manuals


and the ground work will be completed this month. Actually in November. The FAA has agreed to


come in in January to start the formal FAA process and, again, as I've mentioned before, that's a


full 4 to 5 years ahead of schedule.
raw transcript


Pinnacle Airlines Corp.
 
PNCL
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 1, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


So with that, I'll turn it over to Peter Hunt, our Chief Financial Officer, and come in just a moment for


questions.


Peter Hunt, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Thanks, Phil. This morning Pinnacle did report a net loss of 21.4 million for the third quarter. On a


per share basis, it was a loss per share of 98 cents. The primary driver behind our loss in the third


quarter was a charge related to the bankruptcies of Northwest and Mesaba, which I'll elaborate on


in a minute. If you exclude that charge, we would have reported earnings per share in the third


quarter of 60 cents. That compares to 58 cents in the third quarter 2004 and last year's results


were impacted by a one-time true-up on our effective tax rate that increased earnings per share last


year by about 8 cents.


Year-to-date we've reported net income of 15.7 million. Looking at operating statistics for the


quarter, we flew 1.6 billion available seat miles, which was up 34% year-over-year. We flew


115,358 block hours, which was an increase of 32% versus the third quarter of '04. And we've


completed 66,094 cycles, which was up 20% year-over-year. Now we did end the quarter with 139


CRJs, we took delivery of 2 during the quarter. That's the full extent of the commitment to


Northwest. As Phil mentioned, we are putting 15 of those into storage today.


Turning towards the charges that we recorded, as of September 14, 2005, when Northwest filed


bankruptcy, the net amount that Northwest owed us was approximately $51.6 million. That's net of


items that we normally owe them and purchase from them. We have recorded a reserve against


that amount and we've recorded this reserved based on our estimate of – it essentially covers


almost the entire amount. We recorded reserve of $49 million.


In addition, we sub-leased 11 SAAB aircraft and two spare engines to Mesaba. And as a result of


Mesaba's bankruptcy, under the lease accounting rules, we've taken a look at what we think current


market rates for those SAAB Aircraft might be. The total remaining winter the sublease is 13.4


million and we have recorded a charge of 4.9 million which reflects, based on the information today,


the difference between what we think fair market lease rates might be on those aircraft for the


remainder of their terms, discounted back on a discounted cash flow basis. So the sum total of the


two charges was 53.9 million or 34.5 million after tax.


Turning to the rest of our results, our total revenue was 221 million in the quarter, that's up 31%


year-over-year. Looking at operating income, we did have a loss of 32.4 million with the charge,


but excluding the charge we reported operating income of 21.6 million, which was a 16% increase


over last year. Our margin during the quarter was 9.8%, lower than last year's 11% and a little


lower than where we'd like to be. There were a couple of factors impacting our margin during the


quarter, one is we did have some slight impacts on our revenue performance because of weather,


because of the two hurricanes. Also we had some crew difficulties in July and August, some crew


shortages. Those together had a minor impact on the revenue because we had a slightly lower


completion factor than we would have liked to have had.


And another big impact on the quarter was higher administrative costs. A big part of that was the


ATOS efforts that Phil mentioned earlier, also this year we've gotten a head start on our Sarbanes-


Oxley compliance efforts and so we have some costs related to our external consultants as well.


And some other strategic initiatives that we're exploring that contributed to higher administrative


costs during the quarter. On a net basis our loss again for the quarter was 21.4 million. Excluding


the charges our net income was 13.1 million, which was 4% higher than a year ago.


Turning to cash flow, we did end the quarter with 58.6 million in cash. If you include in 4 million of


liquid short-term investments we have 62.6 million of cash and short-term investments available to


us. We did draw down on our revolving credit facility during the quarter, $17 million. That facility