corrected transcript


Pinnacle Airlines Corp.
 
PNCL
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
May 5, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


PARTICIPANTS


Corporate Participants


Brian T. Hunt
 
– Secretary, Chief Compliance Officer & VP


Donald J. Breeding
 
– Chairman & Interim Chief Executive Officer


Peter D. Hunt
 
– CFO, CAO, VP & Director-Investor Relations


Other Participants


Duane Pfennigwerth
 
– Analyst, Evercore Partners (Securities)


Mike J. Linenberg
 
– Managing Director, Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc.


Ray Neidl
 
– Director, Credit Agricole Securities (USA), Inc.


Helane R. Becker
 
– Senior Vice President, Dahlman Rose & Co. LLC


Bob McAdoo
 
– Director & Senior Research Analyst, Avondale Partners LLC


Glenn D. Engel
 
– Analyst, Bank of America Merrill Lynch


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the First Quarter 2011 Pinnacle


Airlines Corp. Earnings Conference Call. My name is Brian, and I’ll be your operator for today’s call.


At this time, all attendee lines are muted and in listen-only mode. We will be facilitating a question-


and-answer session after today’s prepared remarks. [Operator Instructions]


I would like to now turn the call over to Mr. Brian Hunt, Vice President and General Counsel. Please


proceed, sir.


Brian T. Hunt, Secretary, Chief Compliance Officer & VP


Thank you, Brian. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to the first quarter 2011 earnings


conference call of Pinnacle Airlines Corp. On behalf of the more than 7,500 employees of Pinnacle,


I would like to thank you for your interest in our company. This call is being presented live over the


Internet via webcast from our Web site www.pncl.com. It will also be available on our site for 30


days after this call.


Our presentation today will contain various forward-looking statements that are based on


management’s beliefs, as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to,


management. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in such statements are


reasonable, we can give no assurance that such expectations will prove to have been correct.


Such statements are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including those set


forth in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These filings are available to


investors at our Web site or online from the Commission. Should one or more of these risks or


uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove erroneous, actual results may


vary materially from results that were anticipated or projected. The company does not intend to


update these forward-looking statements before its next required filing with the SEC.


I will now turn the call over to Don Breeding, our Interim Chief Executive Officer.
corrected transcript


Pinnacle Airlines Corp.
 
PNCL
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
May 5, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


Donald J. Breeding, Chairman & Interim Chief Executive Officer


Welcome, everyone. Thank you for joining us this morning. I’ll just start off by mentioning that we


had a rather tough quarter, the first quarter, due to some extremely unusual weather patterns that


existed across most of our system. This resulted in a number of cancellation and delays, which


impacted us both financially and operationally. I do want to thank our employees, however, for


taking care of our passengers during this very difficult time. They did an outstanding job in doing


the best they could to assure that we handled them in a professional way.


The integration process also put an extra strain on our people and they’re dealing with that in a very


professional way. Mentioning the integration process, I’ll just say that we are on timeline and we’re


within our budget at this point in bringing together the operations of Colgan, Mesaba, and Pinnacle.


This integration should result in a great benefit to our shareholders, our customers, and our


employees. We did add six additional Q400 aircraft in the quarter, and this strengthens our


relationship with United. We now operate 28 of the Q400s for United Express.


As you all know, we are searching for a new CEO who will move in, and I can go back home once


he’s here. This process is going well. We have some excellent candidates and we should have our


CEO in place in June.


So I will now turn the call over to our Chief Financial Officer, Peter Hunt, who will lead us through


the review of our first quarter financial results. Peter?


Peter D. Hunt, CFO, CAO, VP & Director-Investor Relations


Thanks, Don, and good morning, everyone. Thanks again for joining us today. This morning, we did


report first quarter diluted EPS, excluding special items, of $0.01, and this was down $0.08 year-


over-year. Our results were negatively affected, as Don mentioned, by weather. Not only did we


lose revenue in all three airlines related to increased canceled flights because of weather, but we


also had higher operating performance penalties than we did in the first quarter of 2010. Our


performance penalties were $2.1 million in the quarter, and that’s an increase of over $1 million


year-over-year.


Additionally, we were affected this quarter by the implementation of our new pilot contract with


ALPA. It brings our pilot wages up to the industry average. So we have a competitive contract, but it


also represents an increase in cost, primarily at Pinnacle, but also at Colgan and slightly at


Mesaba. For the quarter, we incurred an additional $2 million, or $2.1 million, of costs related to this


ALPA contract, and that’s essentially for about half a quarter, because the terms of the new


contract went into effect in the middle of February.


On top of those items that affected our results, we also recorded several special items that reduced


our GAAP income, and in fact turned our GAAP income into a loss. A total of $5.8 million of special


items; $2 million of that total relates to the implementation of our new contract with ALPA. We


recorded $1.4 million of non-cash accruals to adjust accrued vacation balances to the new rates


that will be paid under the contract. And in addition, we paid $600,000 to ALPA for their share of


costs associated with the implementation plan that we have and the combination of our pilot groups


into an integrated seniority list.


Secondly, as part of that $5.8 million, we recorded $800,000 under our integration plan, primarily


related to severance [ph] and stay bonuses (6:20). We’re really just at the beginning of the


implementation program and we do expect additional integration costs as the year progresses, and


I’ll go over that later.