corrected transcript


Pinnacle Airlines Corp.
 
PNCL
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 5, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Pinnacle Airlines Corp. Fourth


Quarter Earnings Conference Call. My name is Mary, and I will be your coordinator for today. At


this time all participants are in listen-only mode. We will be facilitating a question and answer


session towards the end of this conference. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference


is being recorded for replay purposes.


I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today’s call, Mr. Phil Trenary,


President and CEO of Pinnacle Airlines Corp. Please proceed.


Philip H. Trenary, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Mary. We typically start these with the boiler-plate stuff I have to read that the lawyers


make us read, but like a little change today. I think it’s important that we acknowledge the tragedy


of Flight 3407 on February 12. Several of you on this call actually sent letters or calls and I want to


let you know how much we appreciate it. And know that our hearts and our prayers continue to be


with the families and crew members as well as those affected on the ground. We’d also like to


publicly thank all those who helped us out, especially Continental Airlines, they had nothing but


steadfast and strong support through this difficult time, so we really appreciate this.


Also as far as the accident, I can tell you at this time we do not have any definitive cause for the


accident. The only thing we know is we don’t know what caused it, and we continue to cooperate as


a party to the investigation with the NTSB.


Now we’ll kick it off. Welcome to the fourth quarter 2008 earnings conference call of Pinnacle


Airlines Corp. On behalf of the more than 5,000 employees of Pinnacle, I would like to thank you for


your interest in our company. This call is being presented live over the Internet via webcast from


our website www.pncl.com. It will also be available on our site for 30 days after this call.


This presentation contains various forward-looking statements that are based on management’s


beliefs as well as assumptions made by and information currently available to management.


Although the company believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements


are reasonable, it can give no assurance that such expectations will prove to have been correct.


Such statements are subject to certain risk, uncertainties and assumptions including those set forth


in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission which are available to investors at our


website or online from the Commission. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties


materialize or should underlying assumptions prove erroneous, actual results may vary materially


from results that were anticipated or projected. The company does not intend to update these


forward-looking statements before its next required filing with the Securities and Exchange


Commission.


We have a lot of important accomplishments in the fourth quarter to discuss. I’ll turn it over to Peter


here in just a moment and he’ll brief you on negotiations of the IRS. Also something that’s been a


priority and a focus for us now as the status of our convertible note due in 2010, what we’ve done


to repurchase some of those notes, and what we’re trying to do or what we’re doing with Citi to try


to get them to do the right thing relative to our auction rate securities.


In the fourth quarter Pinnacle took delivery of three more permanent CRJ-900s for Delta, the one –


aircraft that we own. In the fourth quarter and also continuing into the first quarter, we have


maintained very strong winter weather performance. You may remember we had some issues with


flights last winter, the flight upgrade program. While it’s been very expensive, it has made a


difference as far as the improved liability on the fleet and winter weather operations.
corrected transcript


Pinnacle Airlines Corp.
 
PNCL
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Mar. 5, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


One of the questions that we’ve had several times over the past few months especially in the fourth


quarter is the impact of the eroding economy on our utilization. On the 50-seat jet aircraft, we have


not seen any erosion in our utilization on the 200s. It’s flat to perhaps slightly up a little bit. Continue


to have very high levels of utilization on the CRJ-900 fleet.


At Colgan, back at the end of 2007 we laid a plan out to turn around the Colgan pro-rate business.


That is largely improved. Peter will discuss the improvement in RASM. We did vacate the markets.


It didn’t work it all for us. We did successfully restructure the United business and have a profitable


contract with them.


The Essential Air Service markets, we’ve either rebid and are actually at least breaking even if not


profitable in those markets, and exited the unprofitable markets. We’ve continued to pull down the


Beech 1900 fleet and the last of those aircraft now have been pulled out the fleet. Reliability at


Colgan continues to improve and it’ll take delivery of all 15 of Q400 aircraft for Continental.


Peter will speak more to the financial challenges of the fourth quarter and what we’re looking at


going into 2009. One of the things we talked about on the last call that continues to be an issue is


the excess pilots that we have. As you know we ramped up last year and between the change in


our Delta deliveries and attrition coming down, we have had a burden of carrying the extra pilots.


We do have – you’re always going to have maintenance costs come up in any fleet, but the


maintenance costs we’re incurring for the flap upgrades, modifying our aircraft with upgraded flap


actuators, and the engine fan – the GE engine fan blades are unusual and will continue to be – it


affected us in the fourth quarter and will continue to impact us in 2009. The offset to that is we do


expect improved reliability and lower cost for 2010 and beyond.


We did have the ownership of some of the CRJ-900 aircraft not in service. And one of the things


again that Peter will talk about more in a movement is the impact or what’s going to happen relative


to our not receiving an increase in PPI for 2009 going forward.


We’ve had some questions on the Q400. I can tell you that the – we are very confident in the


airplane. It’s a not only highly capable aircraft; it’s a very safe aircraft. As you look at the future, it’s


the kind of airplane that I like to say it looks a lot more like the future than the past as far as the low


carbon footprint, performance and efficiency that’s just unavailable in a traditional jet aircraft. It’s a


very capable aircraft in all weather conditions including ice. And we do expect to replace the aircraft


that was lost in Buffalo. You know we are talking to Continental about that, and the timing really


depends on what we can work out with Bombardier for the next generation interior.


Our focus going forward is to ensure that both of our airlines are operating in the safest manner


possible. We are confident that we continue to provide services to our customers at very


competitive cost. We are also very focused on ensuring that we meet our 2010 bond obligations.


It’s very important that we recover shareholder value that has been eroded in recent months. We’re


confident we’ll resume growth and improved profitability in 2010. And it’s very important that we’re


in a position to take advantage of the bidding for fleet replacements and growth for the fleets will


come. The actual negotiations we expect will take place in 2010 for fleet replacements in 2011


through 2013.


So at this time I’ll turn it over to our Chief Financial Officer, Peter Hunt, who will review our financial


results.