raw transcript


Pinnacle Airlines Corp.
 
PNCL
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 2, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Pinnacle Airlines Corporation


Second Quarter 2005 Earnings Conference Call. My name is Anne Marie and I'll be your


coordinator for today. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the presentation over to Mr.


Philip Trenary, President and Chief Executive Officer. Sir, you may proceed.


Philip Trenary, President and CEO


Thanks, Anne Marie, and welcome, everyone, to the Second Quarter 2005 Earnings Conference


Call for Pinnacle Airlines. If you would bear with me just a moment as we get through the legal stuff


here and then we'll turn it over to Peter for the meat of the presentation. On behalf of more than the


3,500 employees at Pinnacle, I'd like to thank you for your interest in our company. This call is


being presented live over the Internet via webcast from our corporate website, www.nwairlink.com.


It will also be available on our site for 30 days after this call.


This presentation contains various forward-looking statements that are based on management's


beliefs, as well as assumptions made by and information currently available to management.


Although the company believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements


are reasonable, it can give no assurances that such expectations would prove to have been


correct. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties and assumptions, including


those set forth in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which are available to


investors on our website or online from the Commission. Should one or more of this risks or


uncertainties materialize or should underlying assumptions prove erroneous, actual results may


vary materially from results that were anticipated or projected. The company does not intend to


update these forward-looking statements before its next filing required with the Securities and


Exchange Commission. Now that we have that behind us, I'll turn it over to our Chief Financial


Officer, Peter Hunt.


Peter Hunt, CFO


Thanks, Phil. Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you very much for joining us today. Late


yesterday Pinnacle reported second quarter 2005 fully diluted earnings per share of 63 cents,


which was an increase of 43% over the 44 cents that we achieved in the second quarter of 2004.


The increase in earnings was primarily driven by increased capacity. We ended the quarter with


137 CRJ aircraft and took delivery of 14 aircraft during the quarter. We were actually up 36 aircraft


year over year from where we ended at June 30, 2004, and the increase in aircraft and slightly


utilization, we were about a half hour ahead of utilization over the second quarter of '04, those


things drove a big increase in capacity. We flew 110,301 block hours in the second quarter of


2005, which was up 46% year over year, and we also had 63,998 cycles in the second quarter of


2005, which was 32% higher than last year.


Looking at revenue, we achieved total revenue of just under 213 million for the quarter and our


operating income was 22.8 million, which was an increase of 35%. Our operating margin was


10.7%, which was down slightly from the second quarter of '04, and our net income was 13.8


million in the second quarter. I'd also like to point out that our operational performance during the


quarter ended up better than we actually expected April, May and June. We had a very good


operation. Back on the fourth quarter conference call, we indicated that we expected to hit some of


the performance penalties under our ASA for the six months ended June 30 and because of our


very good performance during the second quarter, we actually only ended up incurring a penalty
raw transcript


Pinnacle Airlines Corp.
 
PNCL
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 2, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


under one metric, which was completion factor. As a result, we had no net penalties that we


recorded during the second quarter this year.


Looking at the balance sheet, we ended the quarter with $66.5 million of cash. Year-to-date cash


flow from operations was just under $32 million. That's primarily driven the earnings that we had


during the period. Investing activities, we used $9.6 million. That includes $4.5 million per CapEx


year-to-date and in addition, we paid the remaining $5.1 million to Northwest for the additional


contractual rights associated with flying 10 more aircrafts that we signed up for in December of '04.


On the financing activity side, our year-to-date cash flow provided was $9.5 million. That's primarily


from the impact of the financing that we completed in the first quarter.


Looking ahead at capacity, on July 18, we did take the last aircraft currently scheduled for delivery


under our ASA with Northwest. We now have 139 CRJs operating in our fleet. And we do expect


block hours in the third quarter of '05 to increase between 30 and 35% as compared to the third


quarter 2004. One more point I'd like to highlight, we did complete during the quarter a bank credit


facility with First Tennessee Bank [ph]. It's a $17 million facility. It includes a sub-facility of up to $2


million for letters of credit. The rate on the line is the First Tennessee Bank [ph] base rate, which is


currently 6.25, or our option, we can switch to a LIBOR based rate of LIBOR plus 2 50. The


facilities secured by our spare parts inventory are GSE equipment and our furniture and fixtures,


and it does include a negative pledge on our cash and accounts receivable.


And with that, I'd like to hand it back over to Phil for some additional comments.


Philip Trenary, President and CEO


Thanks Peter. Before we open it up for questions, I'd like to address a couple of issues that a lot of


people seem to be interested in these days. The first relates to the NNB [ph] release of Northwest


and its mechanics. As you know, that happened on July 20 and we expect the end of that period


will be at 12:01 am, August 20. And that would be the first opportunity that the Northwest


mechanics would have to legally strike. Northwest has publicly indicated that it has created


contingency plans and plans to fly a full schedule in the event of a strike. We have been formally


instructed by Northwest to operate a full schedule in the event of a strike.


It's also, I think, important to point out that the mechanics at Pinnacle Airlines are not affiliated with


any union, so that will not be an issue. And we've been assured by all our groups that are


represented by units, specifically our pilots and flight attendants, that they will have no problem at


all flying in the event of a strike.


The other thing that seems to be top of the mind for the moment is the potential for a Northwest


Chapter 11 filing. The July 1 filing, they indicated that it was not able to achieve the labor cost


restructuring and some of the legislative release on the pension obligations, that they would be


forced to consider that. We're very interested in this obviously and we're watching it very closely. It


goes back to the very first road show we had in taking the company public over two years ago, and


we've addressed many times the potential impact of a Chapter 11 filing by Northwest on Pinnacle.


As we pointed out, we are exceedingly integral to the Northwest Airlines network. The flying that


we do for Northwest is profitable according to Northwest, and is it – a reorganization will expect to


be an important part of that. Certainly it's something people will look forward to, but we do not


seeing it having any material impact on operations.


So with that, I'll open it to any questions that any of you might have.