raw transcript


Pinnacle Airlines Corp.
 
PNCL
 
Q1 2006 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 27, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day ladies and gentlemen we thank you for your patience and welcome to the First


Quarter 2006 Pinnacle Airlines Corporation Earnings Call. My name is Bill and I will your


conference coordinator for today. At this time all participants are in a listen only mode. However


we will be facilitating a question and answer session towards the end of today’s conference.


[Operator Instructions]. As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes. I


would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today’s presentation Mr. Phil Trenary,


President and Chief Executive Officer. Please proceed sir.


Philip Trenary, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you and good afternoon. Welcome to the first quarter 2006 earnings conference call of


Pinnacle Airlines Corp. On behalf of more than 3500 people of Pinnacle Airlines, I would like to


thank you for your interest in our company. This call is been presented live over the internet via


webcast in our corporate website at www.nwairlink.com. It will also be available on website for 30


days after this call. This presentation contains various forward-looking statements that are based


on management’s beliefs as well as assumptions made by and information currently available to


management. Although the company believes that the expectations reflected in such forward


looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance as such expectations will approved to


have been correct. Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties and assumptions


including those set forth in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission which are


available to investors on our website or online from the commission. Should one or more of these


risks or uncertainties materialized or should underlined assumptions prove or run is actual results


may very materially from results that were anticipated or projected. The company does not intend


to update these forward looking statements before its next required filing with Securities and


Exchange Commission. Again welcome to our conference call. Before we get started with Peter’s


presentation or results, I want to address a few before people ask questions we’ve been getting a


lot of lately and perhaps save sometime towards the end.


One of the things we know is of interest of everyone is when are we going to complete negotiations


with Northwest on the ASA. There was really no change from our last call. When we spoke last


time we believe that Northwest is very close to addressing the ASA with Pinnacle Airlines, however


they have got around to it. We believe they are addressing issues that are more pressing at the


moment, primarily labor issues and aircraft issues. However once again we do think the economy


is fairly closed. And as you know the ratification dates for the Northwest deal, except for May 3rd


when they will offer there over to the pilots and we would assume and I express to assume that


they are getting close on their aircraft negotiations. So we don’t need to remove the uncertainty


and we stand ready. I believe they mentioned last time as well in the third week of the bankruptcy


to push Northwest allowing to negotiate a deal to remove the uncertainty and they just haven’t not


been able to get around to it.


Another thing that surprises a bit, that we had a very strong reaction to the announcement that


Northwest had acquired the fly high certificate and renamed it Compass. Then the reason I say we


were surprised in the very first meeting of the unsecured creditors was made cleared by I believe is


Neil Cohen who is making the presentation that they would be creating this other certificate for the


purpose of flying larger regional aircraft. So the only thing that changed is rather than build it from


scratch, they purchased the fly certificate, and we do not believe this changes our ability to


compete for 760 aircraft in anyway, any benefits or disadvantage will may effect going into, have


not changed due to the Compass acquisition. And one thing I will say that it has been on a very


strong positive.
raw transcript


Pinnacle Airlines Corp.
 
PNCL
 
Q1 2006 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 27, 2006


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


One of the main things that we ask our people to do first and foremost fly safe operation, but also


fly a very reliable low cost operation. And again as in the last quarter we have not recovered off the


ball, and by that I mean relative to most of our competitors based on performance, their departure


performance is 88.6%, arrival performance 85.3% in a period that is typically noted for bad weather


in the first quarter. We had an all link completion factor of 98.5%. So our people are just doing an


outstanding job, running a great airline. We do continue to look at other opportunities, it will be


difficult to secure anything until we have the Northwest deal little down. One of the things that we


hope will come out this is in the negotiation with Northwest where we will certainly be asked to


make concessions to Northwest. We would hope to receive some flexibility from Northwest


regarding use of our current certificate. So we still have, excuse me, still have our second


certificate queued up in terms of our the manuals and set ups [ph] process. We would like to know


how to use it much actually we have to. So until we see the Northwest agreement, I am talking


about our agreement with them, and the Northwest agreement with the pilots, it’s going to be


difficult to tell exactly where we would go. So with that I am going to turn it over to our Chief


Financial Officer Peter Hunt to overview our financial results.


Peter Hunt, Chief Financial Officer and Vice President


Thanks Philip [ph], and thanks to everyone for joining us today. This morning Pinnacle recorded


first quarter 2006 fully diluted earnings-per-share of $0.51, which was an increase of a 11%,


compared to our first quarter 2005 pro forma EPS at $0.55. And the first quarter of last year we did


repurchase our notes from Northwest notes last and we had a one-time gain which equated to


$0.51 per share. So on a GAAP basis last year its results were $6, but excluding that gain, the


comparison is $0.55 versus the 61 we had this year.


During the first quarter, Pinnacle flew 1.34 billion available seat miles which was an increase of 4%


over 2005. We flew 102,597 block hours, which were up 2% year-over-year. And we completed


51,265 cycles, which was an increase of 7% over the first quarter of 2005. Our average stage link


during the period was 473 miles which was down 4% year-over-year, and we ended the quarter


with the same stable 124 CRJ aircraft that we have had since last December.


During the quarter we reported 207.1 million of revenue, which was up 6.6% versus the first quarter


of 2005, and our operating income during the quarter was 21.5 million which was up 7% year-over-


year. Our margin during the quarter was 10.4%, which exceeds the stated goal in our ASA of 10%,


it was up 0.1 points from the year before result of 10.3%. And excluding the gain that we had on


the note again last year, our net income was up at 11% versus the results that we had last year.


Total net income was 13.3 million in the first quarter of this year. Our results in the first quarter of


’06 do include some adjustments related to our provisions for the Northwest and Mesaba


bankruptcy related losses. We reduced the net receivables that for Northwest and we increased


some of the expected some of the expected sublease losses on the sub. Together that net impact


was not material on our quarterly results. The net impact was 17,000, it’s included in our other


expenses.


We ended the quarter with 90.7 million in cash which was up 15 million versus the end of ’05. And


we did disclose this morning as we have talked about previously that we were not in compliance


with the bank credit facility with the covenants on a rolling fourth quarter basis to that net income of


25 million. And that the primary reason for that are the charges that we have had to take last fall


related to the Northwest and Mesaba Chapter 11. We did receive this morning communication


from the bank played on to take action with respect to this covenant violation prior to the facilities


maturity in June and we do expect to repay the facility in June when it does expire on June 16th.


And we think that we have the adequate resources to do so. First Tennessee was a great partner


and the – having the facility was very instrumental last fall in maintaining the liquidity that we


needed. Our liquidity has improved quite a bit since then and we feel very comfortable with where