raw transcript


Pinnacle Airlines Corp
 
PNCL
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 3, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the First Quarter 2005 Pinnacle


Airlines Corporation Earnings Conference Call. My name is Rieka [ph], and I will be your


coordinator for today. [Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the presentation over to your


host for today's conference, Philip Trenary, President and CEO. Please proceed sir.


Philip Trenary, Chief Financial Officer


Thank you. Good afternoon, and welcome to the first quarter 2005 earnings conference call for


Pinnacle Airlines Corp. On behalf of our more than 3400 people at Pinnacle, I would like to thank


you for you interest in our company. This call is being presented live over the Internet, via webcast


from our corporate website, www.nwairlink.com. It will also be available on our site for 30 days


after this call.


This presentation contains various forward-looking statements that are based on management's


beliefs, as well as assumptions made by, and information available to management. Although, the


company believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are


reasonable, it can get no assurances that such expectations will provide to have been correct –


have proved to have been correct. Such statements are subject to certain risks, uncertainties, and


assumptions, including those set forth in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission,


which are available to our investors at our website, or online from the Commission.


Should 1 or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should the underlying assumptions


prove erroneous, actual results may vary materially from the results are anticipated or projected.


The company does not intend to update these forward looking statements before its next required


filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. And so, with that, we'll get on with it.


During the past quarter, our people performed very well in getting our operations back to near ends


relating standards as targeted here. Our system has had a significant shift to Northeast, and during


January and February, we experienced challenges with winter storms, and 56% of all of our cities


served were impacted by the weather. We did implement some new procedures in the systems


and upgrade some of our systems necessary to manage weather disruptions and our ability is


much better – we are much more capable of reacting to severe weather operations.


Some examples of how we've recovered, starting with our completion factor. Between January and


April we were up 7.2 points, we're now at 98.8% and when we talk about our completion factor, that


is an all in number, it's not a recap liability of only weather; it is all in. Our DOT departures are up


14 points to 87.7% and arrivals are up to 85.9% and that's up from 64.5% in January. So, while the


operation has recovered dramatically we did have an impact by the weather and it may cause us to


fall below some of the performance of our targets contained in our ASA with Northwest, for the 6-


month period ended June 30, 2005.


Although our agreement with Northwest does provide to absorb some weather related risk when


there are abnormally large number of weather events, we do not expect this trend will continue with


further weather events. Our operation is on solid ground today and we are again performing near


the top of the regional airline industry.


I would also like to take a moment to congratulate Mesaba Airlines on its letter of intent with


Northwest Airlines to operate 15 CRJs. We do have a longstanding relationship with both Mesaba


and Northwest and we share a common goal of providing excellent service to Northwest and


Northwest customers. At this time I would like to turn the call over to our CFO, Peter Hunt who will


review our financial results.
raw transcript


Pinnacle Airlines Corp
 
PNCL
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 3, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Peter Hunt, Chief Financial Officer


Thanks Bill, good afternoon everyone and thanks for joining us today. This morning we did report


first quarter 2005 fully diluted earnings per share of $1.06 as compared to 37 cents in the first


quarter of '04. The first quarter of '05 does include a non-recurring pre tax gain of $18 million


related to the repurchase of our debt from Northwest Airlines during the period. If you exclude that


$18 million gain, which is $11.3 million net of taxes, our pro forma EPS for the first quarter was 55


cents which is an increase of 49% over the first quarter of 2004.


Looking at our operating statistics we flew 100,143 block hours during the first quarter which is an


increase of 55% year-over-year and our cycles during the period were 57,096, which was an


increase of 35% over the first quarter of '04. Our save link was up 18% to 492 miles and we did


take delivery of 6 Canadair Regional Jet aircraft during the period to end the quarter with 123


aircraft in our fleet. That's up 50% from the 87 aircraft we had at March 31, 2004.


During the first quarter we earned total revenue of $195 million and that's an increase of 45% over


the $134 million of total operating revenue we reported in Q1,'04 and our operating income was


$20.1 million which is up 40% year-over-year. Operating margin during the first quarter was 10.3%


slightly down from the period in 2004 and our net income of $23.3 million was about $15 million


higher, but again that includes a non-recurring gain related to the repurchase of our debt. If you


exclude that our first quarter 2005 pro forma net income would have been $12 million which is an


increase of 49% over the $8.1 million we reported in the first quarter of '04.


As Phil mentioned previously we did have an unusually high number of severe weather events


affecting our operation early in the quarter and as a result we do expect that we will fall below some


of the performance targets in the ASA for the 6-month period ended June 30, 2005 and we've


recorded a reduction to our Regional Airlines services revenue to account for that in the amount of


$1 million. That calculation is based on the number of passenger employments that we had during


the quarter and we would expect to record a similar reduction in our Regional Airline Services


revenue in the second quarter, again based on the number of passenger employments during the


second quarter.


Looking at cash flow, we ended the quarter with $49.6 million in cash and cash equivalents. Our


increase was made up of $7.2 million of cash flow from operations, as well as we used $2.2 million


of cash for capital expenditures and investing activities and then total cash flow from financing


activities was an increase of $9.7 million. That $9.7 million is made up of issuing 121 million of our


3.25% convertible notes due 20/25, and then netting out the payments to repurchase our debt and


repay our revolver with Northwest during the period. And I would again like to mention this very


important transaction for our company, because instead of having to make required debt


prepayments over the next year or 2 we now have the ability to manage our balance sheet and our


cash flow. And we did this in a way that minimizes EPS dilution. For example in the first quarter of


2005 our fully diluted share count did not increase at all as a result of this transaction because our


average cost price during the period was less than the conversion price on the notes of 1322.


As of today we have 130 CRJs in our fleet, we've taken 7 during the month of April, and we're


scheduled to take 9 additional deliveries by the third quarter of 2005. And we also expect our block


hours during the second quarter of '05 to be up roughly 48 to 52% this compares to the second


quarter of 2004. With that, I'd like to turn it back to the operator for the question and answer


session.