Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
Haig S. Bagerdjian — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Point.360
Alan R. Steel — CFO, Secretary & EVP-Administration & Finance, Point.360

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, everyone, and welcome to today's Quarterly Shareholder Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, you will have the opportunity to ask questions during the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Please note this call is being recorded.

It is now my pleasure to turn today's program over to Haig Bagerdjian. Please go ahead, sir.

Thank you. Good morning, and thank you for joining us today. With me is Alan Steel, our Chief Financial Officer. Before we answer any questions you may have regarding the press release, I will ask Alan to discuss forward-looking statements and to briefly review the numbers that were released this morning. Then, I will make a few comments and will open the line for your questions. Alan?

Thanks, Haig. Certain statements in this conference call may contain forward-looking statements concerning the company's projected revenues, earnings and cash flow, the planned focused on internal and external growth, new markets, sales initiatives, steps to reduce costs, improving customer service and new business.

Such statements are inherently subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to be materially different from those expected or anticipated in the forward-looking statements. In addition to the factors described in the company's SEC filings, the following, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in this conference: lower than expected new sales, operating income and earnings; less than expected growth; actions of competitors including business combinations, technological breakthroughs, new product offerings and promotional successes; the risk that anticipated new business may not occur or will be delayed; and general economic conditions that may adversely impact our business.

Hopefully, all of you have had a chance to see the press release, so I'll only cover a few items. Sales for the second quarter were $9.7 million and for the first half of the fiscal 2016 were $20.5 million. Each of those numbers is about double that of the prior year due to the July 2015 acquisition of Modern VideoFilm. The quarter and six-month variations in gross margins were due to continuing improvement in Point.360, offset by lower margins associated with Modern. Modern margins were affected by some costs, which have since been eliminated, and Haig will talk more about these in a minute.

From a financial reporting perspective, the acquisition of Modern's assets were treated as a bargain purchase. This is the result of the appraised value of the purchased assets being greater than the appraised fair value of the stock and warrants paid for those assets. Bottom line, we reported net income for the six-month period of $3.1 million. Haig?

Thank you, Alan. As Alan mentioned, our quarterly revenues were $9.7 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2016 compared to $5.5 million in the same period last year. $4.2 million of the increase was due to addition of Modern VideoFilm operations, which were acquired in early July. For the six months' period, Modern accounted for $9.4 million of the total increase of $10 million over the same period last year.

Since the Modern purchase, we have concentrated on the integration of Point.360 in Modern facilities – personnel, administration and customer relations. We continue to evaluate work processes and deployment of acquired assets. So far, on annualized basis, we have eliminated $3.2 million of rent and about $5 million of personnel-related costs. Modern's footprint has been reduced from 138,000 square foot to 38,000 square foot and are currently consolidating some like operations in Point.360 to other facilities. The latter is expected to be completed this summer.

Operating losses in our three and six months' period relating to those efforts. The statement of operations also includes $6.8 million of income, which represents the positive difference between the fair market value of the purchase of Modern assets and the stock and warrants given up for the assets. Including the gain, net income for the first half of fiscal 2016 was $3.1 million.

Operator, you can open the line for a question-and-answer session.

Certainly. [Operator Instructions] And it appears we have no questions at this time.

Thank you, everyone, that is online. And those of you that are going to listen later, the recording will be on our website, Alan, for how long?

90 days.

So we will have it for 90 days and those of you who want to make comments and call Alan or I, please feel free. Thank you very much and have a good day.

This does conclude today's program. Thank you for your participation. You may disconnect at any time.