Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
Haig S. Bagerdjian — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Point.360
Alan R. Steel — CFO, Secretary & EVP-Administration & Finance, Point.360

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, everyone and welcome to today's program. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later you will have the opportunity to ask questions during the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] I'll be standing by if you need any assistance.

It is now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Mr. Haig Bagerdjian. Please go ahead.

Good morning, and thank you for joining us today. With me is Alan Steel, our Chief Financial Officer. Before we answer any questions you may have regarding the press release, I will ask Alan to discuss forward-looking statements and to briefly review the numbers that were released this morning. Then, after a few comments, we will open the line for questions. Alan?

Okay. Thanks, Haig. Certain statements in this conference call may contain forward-looking statements concerning the company's projected revenues, earnings and cash flow, the planned focused on internal and external growth, new markets, sales initiatives, steps to reduce costs, improving customer service, and new business.

Such statements are inherently subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause actual results to be materially different from those expected or anticipated in the forward-looking statements. And in addition to the factors described in the company's SEC filings, the following, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in this conference.

Those would be lower than expected new sales, operating income and earnings; less than expected growth; actions of competitors including business combinations, technological breakthroughs, new product offerings, and promotional successes; the risks that anticipated new business may not occur or will be delayed; and general economic conditions that may adversely impact our business.

Hopefully, you've all seen the press release. So, I'll cover just a few items. Sales for the fourth quarter were $8.2 million; and for the full year, $37.6 million. The quarter and full year variations in the costs reflect the transition activities associated with bringing together Point.360 and Modern, and Haig will talk a little bit more about this in a minute.

And from a financial reporting perspective, the acquisition of Modern's assets were treated as a bargain purchase. And this was the result of the appraised value of the purchased assets being greater than the appraised fair value of the stock and warrants given up for the assets. Bottom line, we reported a net loss of $1.8 million for the full fiscal year.

Haig?

Thank you, Alan. As in the past, I will keep my comments brief to allow more time to answer your questions.

As Alan mentioned, our quarterly revenues were $8.2 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016, compared to $5.8 million in the last year's fourth quarter.

12-month revenues increased $16 million over the same period last year. The increase was due to the addition of Modern and other elements that we'll talk in a minute. At the time of Modern asset purchase, we expected that it would take in about a year to complete the physical portion of the integration with Point.360. And our expectations have materialized.

However, we have experienced aggressive behavior from competitors during transition, including competitors targeting our human assets. As it's common with the construction projects, our Hollywood Way building renovation was delayed several months to complete the permitted process. However, we have now effectively retooled our capability in TV post, attracted new talents are receiving and working on the new TV shows, and expect to gain additional momentum in coming months.

Our localization revenues including closed captioning, subtitling and foreign-language dubbing increased 42% in the fiscal 2016 compared to prior year. We have also attracted new senior management personnel to lead an international expansion of this business segment.

To support expected cash requirements during the fiscal 2017, we are looking to free up the equity in owned Hollywood Way building through a sale/leaseback or refinancing transaction.

The Burbank real estate market is active, and it presents an opportunity to fund our ongoing growth goals.

Operator, will you please open the line for questions that may be from our participants.

Certainly. [Operator Instructions] Currently, there are no questions in queue.

Okay. I'll make a few comments in addition to what we presented. I will be expecting to hear these questions in a question-and-answer session.

As any small business as we are, the challenges are in an ebb and flow of cash flow. We talked about – we are looking ways to unlock some hidden equity in a building that we own. And we have potential acquisitions that we are looking into and hoping that the additional funding will enable us to do some of these acquisitions. So, I think combination of growth in television and reassuring other segment of our business, retooling it, and obviously acquiring new businesses, that's where the additional funding will go. So, we are hoping the next 30 days to 90 days, we will be in a – either in escrow with financing process, and then, whatever that process takes, we'll see to its completion.

Any questions that might be now, operator? [Operator Instructions]

If not, thank you all the participants. And, obviously, this is recorded and it will be online for those that want to hear it. Again, if you are online, if you have not had a chance, we welcome – you always can contact us, either Alan or I, if you need any clarifications on any of the statements. Thank you very much.

Thank you, everyone. This does conclude your teleconference for today. You may disconnect at any time.