Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
Haig S. Bagerdjian — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, Point.360
Alan R. Steel — Executive Vice President, Finance and Administration & Chief Financial Officer, Point.360

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to today's program. Today's program may be recorded. At this time, all lines are in a listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] It is now my pleasure to turn today's conference over to Mr. Haig Bagerdjian, Chairman, President and CEO of Point.360. Please go ahead, sir.

Good morning and thank you for joining us today. With me is Alan Steel, our Chief Financial Officer. Before we answer any questions you may have regarding the press release, I will ask Alan to discuss forward-looking statements and to briefly review the numbers that were released this morning. Then after I make a few comments, we'll open the line for your questions. Alan?

Thanks, Haig. So certain statements in this conference call may contain forward-looking statements concerning the company's projected revenues, earnings, cash flow, and the planned focus on internal and external growth, new markets, sales initiatives, steps to reduce costs, improving customer service and new business. Now such statements are inherently subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to be materially different from those expected or anticipated in the forward-looking statements.

In addition to these factors described in the company's SEC filings, the following, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in this conference: lower than expected new (sic) [net] (01:42) sales, operating income and earnings; less than expected growth; actions of competitors including business combinations, technological breakthroughs, new product offerings and promotional successes; the risk that anticipated new business may not occur or will be delayed; and general economic conditions that may adversely impact our business.

Hopefully, you've all seen the press release, so I'll cover only a few items. Sales for the first quarter were $10.8 million compared to $5.1 million in last year's quarter. The increase was primarily due to the addition of Modern VideoFilm. The quarter-to-quarter variation in gross margin was due to continuing improvement in Point.360's margins, offset by a lower margin associated with Modern, which was affected by some costs, which have since been eliminated, and Haig will talk a little bit more about these in a minute.

From a financial reporting perspective, the acquisition of Modern's assets was treated as a bargain purchase. This means that this really resulted from the appraised value of the purchased assets being greater than the appraised fair value of the stock and warrants that were given up for the assets. Bottom line, we reported net income for the quarter of $5.4 million, and this will be explained in greater detail in the Form 10-Q that will be filed later today. Haig?

Thank you, Alan. As in the past, I will keep my comments brief to allow more time to answer your questions. As Alan mentioned, our quarterly revenues were $10.8 million in the first quarter fiscal 2016 compared to [ph] $5.1 million (03:24) in the same period last year. $5.2 million of the increase was due to additional Modern VideoFilm operations in early – acquisition of early July.

While we reported an operating loss, there were a number of transaction-related expenses and non-recurring costs in the quarter. The statement of operations also recognized as an income $6.8 million positive difference between the fair market value of the purchase of Modern assets and the stock and the warrants given up for the assets. Including the gain, net income was $5.4 million for the three months.

Since the acquisition date, we have exited two of the Modern leased facilities and renegotiated a lease on the third location. By the end of the quarter, total space occupied by Modern has been reduced by approximately 100,000-square-foot to a 40,000-square-foot footprint. And annualized lease costs have been reduced by $3.2 million.

However, we do intend to rent additional 10,000 to 15,000-square-foot space in the West Los Angeles area to service the customers who want their work to be performed locally. We have combined Modern operations as Modern's remaining Burbank location. We are also in the process of integrating like services among all Point.360 facilities to most efficiently use the entire company's footprint. This will involve some investments in the facilities and personnel. And at the same time, we expect the transaction to take several more quarters to optimize the total operational efficiencies of the entire organization.

In the meantime, we're concentrating on strengthening relationships with Modern's customers who [ph] took (05:28) several years of uncertainties with respect to Modern's vulnerability before the transaction. Current indications are that there are many opportunities to expand our business with those and other TV Post and Feature Post customers. Feature Post and our full range of content management services will be additional opportunities for us.

Operator, will you please open the line for participants to ask questions?

Absolutely. [Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from [ph] Bob Jones (06:37). Your line is open.

Thank you, operator. Good afternoon or good morning, I guess, Haig, Alan. Thanks for the time and good to hear your voices. My question's really a simple one. Haig, you mentioned that the next couple quarters will be required to sort of fully integrate the two businesses, cut down the footprint, open new facilities that are needed in particular locations. But I guess flesh out a little bit more for me if you could, how you have done with actual contracts or sales with the Modern customers in some of the legacy Point.360 businesses? Are you actually closing any business yet between the two sets of customers?

Yes, [ph] Bob (07:35). Thank you very much and nice to hear your voice and your support through the years. Let me break down what are we doing and what we plan to do. But I'll discuss the customer issue first. We have grown Point.360's traditional customer base business from [ph] 5.1% (08:01) of last year, meaning fiscal year 2014 comparing to fiscal year 2015, from [ph] 5.1% to 5.6% (08:12). So, we have seen a nice growth in that area.

And with Modern's revenue, as you heard last time, I talked about the revenues that Modern was experiencing, sharp decline going a run rate of over $50 million to around $25 million. We have stabilized that and we have regained the workflows from the customer base that Modern was enjoying through the years.

We have not, obviously, gotten all of that back and it's going to take some time to do that, but we see lots of positive trends in feeling the confidence gaining in a customer's eyes and most of my visits with the major customers is really reassuring the financial viability of the enterprise. And I think that has regained their confidence, but as you know, this is a business that requires long-term retention of the comfort, their workflows and so forth.

So, as Modern was going through its downfall, a lot of the customer service and key personnel [ph] lefted (09:58) before we acquired. So, it is retooling that human resources and reassuring customers that we are here to stay, we are here to serve their needs. And that has stabilized the business. We are doing traditional services. Obviously, there are ebb and flows in businesses, customers that we touch. So, yes, we have seen some progress, but to say that we have tremendous amount of homeruns, that would be mischaracterization. Customers are doing, again, a good business.

We have seen, however, a growth in the area of Feature Post, including a lot of good titles that we are doing, end-to-end [ph] DI (11:09). That's basically preparing a film for a theatrical release. And we're doing quite a good amount of work doing restoration, some really good, famous titles utilizing latest technologies right now. There's a great movement towards HDR, and I think we're making a big inroad in that. So, I think it is a mixed blessing. In some areas, we're going faster than we anticipated. In others, not as fast as we hoped for. But overall, I would say the grade I will give that effort is B+ to A-, and we are hoping for better results.

As far as other elements of integration, some of the operational efficiencies have not been realized because we're still operating in two separate operating systems. And until we sort out how to start the work in one facility and finishing in the other facility in a cost-effective and a time-effective fashion. In some areas, we still have islands that we have capabilities on [indiscernible] (12:44) all facilities and facilities that we acquired.

And it's not as smooth as [ph] we all hope (12:52) to be, but we are tirelessly working towards that end. And I think in a couple of quarters, we'll be able to get all these kinks out. And that's when we expect to have a better articulation of the strength of the whole organization to service the customer, not only more effectively but be able to have added capacity to handle whatever requirements they may have.

Thank you.

Thank you, [ph] Bob (13:31). [Operator Instructions]

And I'm showing no further questions at this time.

Okay. With that, I thank all of you that are online and those of you that will be listening after. The recording will be available for three months. So, hopefully, those that were not able to attend at this particular time will be able to listen and feel free to call. So, looking forward in giving you better news next time. So long.

And thank you for joining us today. Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today's presentation. We certainly do appreciate everyone's participation. You may disconnect at anytime.