Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
Haig S. Bagerdjian — Chairman, President, Chief Executive Officer & CFO, Point.360
Alan Steel — Executive Vice President, Finance and Administration and Chief Financial Officer, Point.360

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, everyone, and welcome to today's program. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, you will have the opportunity to ask questions during our Q&A session. [Operator Instructions] Please note, today's call is being recorded.

It is now my pleasure to turn the program over to Haig Bagerdjian, President, Chairman and CEO. Please go ahead.

Thank you. Good morning, and thank you for joining us today. With me is Alan Steel, our Chief Financial Officer. Before we answer any questions you may have regarding the press release, I will ask Alan to discuss forward-looking statements and to briefly review the numbers that were released this morning. Then, a few comments, we'll open the line for your questions. Alan?

Thanks, Haig. Certain statements in this conference call may contain forward-looking statements concerning the company's projected revenues, earnings and cash flows, the plan focused on internal and external growth, new markets, sales initiatives, steps to reduce costs, improving customer service and new business. Such statements are inherently subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause the actual results to be materially different from those expected or anticipated in the forward-looking statements.

Now, in addition to the factors described in the company's SEC filings, the following, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in this conference.

Lower than expected new sales, operating income and earnings; less than expected growth; actions of competitors including business combinations, technological breakthroughs, new product offerings, and promotional successes; the risks that anticipated new business may not occur or will be delayed; and general economic conditions that may adversely impact our business.

Now hopefully, you've all seen the press release, so I'll only cover a few items. Sales for the fourth quarter were $6.5 million compared to $7.2 million in last year's quarter.

For the full fiscal year, revenues were $25.7 million compared to $30.1 million last year. The decline is due to few orders from one large customer and our decision to exit the inconsistent computer graphics business. Gross margins were 36% of sales in the fourth quarter and 33% for the full year. This compares to 31% and 34% in the same period last year.

SG&A expenses declined 13% in the fourth quarter when compared to last year and 5% for the year as a whole. Subsequent to June 30, Bank of the West, who is our primary bank, waved prior covenant defaults and – but we are continuing to classify the debt as current on our balance sheet as described in the Form 10-K that will be filed within the next few business days. Haig?

Thank you, Alan. As in the past, I will keep my comments brief to allow more time to answer your questions. As Alan mentioned, our revenues were down in the fiscal 2014 due to a large customer bringing some projects in-house. We also exited the inconsistent computer graphics business. Both of those account for almost all the decline in sales from prior fiscal year. As our customer requirements have changed, we have kept pace with our July completion of our 10-gig Ethernet, 8-gig fiber channel high definition and standard definition customized private network.

This gives Point.360 the advantage of the state-of-the-art rapid internal and external communication and response, content distribution and [indiscernible] (03:48) abilities for our customers. In this file based environment, deliveries of both future and television content to a digital potential platform such as Google, Netflix, are increasing. Content localization for international deliveries on behalf of our studio clients is growing. Additionally, the network allows us to more fully utilize our facility investments. As the industry changes, we believe there may be consolidation opportunities for Point.360. And we will evaluate opportunities to increase revenues and increase shareholder value.

With respect to our balance sheet, you may have also noticed our two recent 8-K filings. In late June, we sold the existing building in Hollywood, which reduced our debt by $3 million and netted $1.6 million in cash. On September 5, our line of credit facility was extended for additional 13 months. We are pleased to have the continued support of our major banking institution.

Operator, now, you can open the line for questions and answer. [Operator Instructions]

And it appears we have no questions at this time.

Okay. Thank you, everybody. Before I say goodbye to this broadcast, I want to reiterate two fundamental numbers that Alan went over. First and foremost, our improvement in gross margin in the fourth quarter and also reduction in SG&A in the fourth quarter, and again, overall year-to-year comparison. Those trends will continue. We have started, as I stated in my formal comments, utilization of our new connectivity, and that should enhance our margins because we will able to better allocate resources among three facilities and utilize the most cost effective way of receiving, working on a project, and distributing it. By doing so, we'll have savings both on our COGS line and on SG&A. And that should enhance our margins.

And with the new line in place, we have adjusted some of the covenants, which will give us a better situation with the banks. And I think even though it is listed short-term debt, it is just a revolver. And as indicated in the balance sheet, we have not used any of the allowed amounts on the line, and the only outstanding debt is mortgaged on one of the buildings that we still own. So, Alan, you want to add anything else?

No. I think that covers it pretty well.

Okay. So thank you very much and hope to talk to you soon.

And that does conclude today's program. You may disconnect at this time. Thank you, and have a great day.