Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
Alan R. Steel — CFO, Secretary & EVP-Administration & Finance, Point.360

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, everyone, and welcome to today's program. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, you will have the opportunity to ask questions during a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]

It's now my pleasure to turn the conference over to Mr. Alan Steel. Please go ahead, sir.

Hi. Thank you, operator. Good morning, everybody, and thanks for joining us today. I have not – unfortunately, Haig is travelling and the connections are pretty bad between here and China where he is, so just want to – I'll be covering for him. So, before I begin any comments, I'll just go through some of the forward-looking statements as I normally do.

Certain statements in this conference call may contain forward-looking statements concerning the company's projected revenues, earnings and cash flow, the plan to focus on an internal and external growth, new markets, sales initiatives, steps to reduce costs, improving customer service, and new business. Now such statements are inherently subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to be materially different from those expected or anticipated in the forward-looking statements.

In addition to the factors described on the company's SEC filings, the following, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in this conference: lower-than-expected new sales, operating income and earnings; less-than-expected growth; actions of competitors including business combinations, technological breakthroughs, new product offerings, and promotional successes; the risks that anticipated new business may not occur or will be delayed; and general economic conditions that may adversely impact our business.

Hopefully, you've all seen the press release, so I'm just going to cover a few of those items. Sales for the third quarter were $8.9 million and sales for the first nine months were $29.3 million; increases of 67% and 86%, respectively. Now, the quarter and nine-month variations in costs reflect the transition activities associated with bringing together Point.360 and Modern, and from a financial reporting perspective the acquisition of Modern's assets were treated as a bargain purchase. Now, this is the result of the appraised value of the purchased assets being greater than the appraised value of the stock and warrants paid for the assets.

Bottom line, we've recorded an $800,000 profit in the nine months period. As I mentioned, the quarterly sales were $8.9 million compared to $5.3 million in last year's third quarter, the nine-month revenues increased about $13.5 million over the same period last year, and that was due to the addition of new customers and services.

At the time of the Modern purchase, we expected that it would take about eight years to complete the physical portion of the integration with Point.360, and we're on schedule with that. In the first nine months of the fiscal year, we have concentrated on servicing the broader base of business, and this has included changes to our facilities and workflows to increase operational efficiency, a 100,000-square foot reduction in production space and the elimination of approximately $11 million in real estate and other costs on an annualized basis.

The transformation at our Hollywood Way facility, which is one of our two Burbank locations, is scheduled for completion in the fourth fiscal quarter; it will house our television post activities for the upcoming TV season. Operating losses in the three and nine-month periods relate to these efforts just because I mentioned a statement of operations also includes a gain of $6.8 million which, as I mentioned before is the bargain of purchase gain.

Operator, would you now please open the floor for questions?

Certainly. [Operator Instructions] Currently, there are no questions in queue.

Okay. Well, thank you, everybody for listening and we look forward to talking to you again in the quarter. Thanks, operator.

Thank you, Mr. Steel. This does conclude your teleconference for today. Thank you for your participation. You may disconnect at anytime.