raw transcript


Point.360
 
PTSX
 
Q4 2006 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 22, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day everyone and welcome to today’s Point.360 Fourth Quarter Conference Call.


As a reminder this call is being recorded. Now for opening remarks and introductions I’d like to turn


the call over to today’s host Mr. Haig Bagerdjian. Please go ahead sir.


Haig S. Bagerdjian, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Good morning, thank you. And we welcome everybody for joining us today in our conference. With


me is Alan Steel, our Chief Financial Officer. Before we answer any questions you may have


regarding the press release, I will ask Alan to discuss forward-looking statements and to briefly


review the numbers that were released this morning. Then, I will make few comments and we will


open the line for question and answer. Alan.


Alan R. Steel, Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice President of Finance & Administration and


Secretary


Thanks Haig. Certain statements in this conference call may contain forward-looking statements


within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 these will include


statements concerning the company’s projected revenues, earnings, and cash flow, the plan focus


on internal and external growth, new markets, sales initiatives, steps to improve costs, or to reduce


cost, improve customer service and new business. Such statements are inherently subject to


known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to be


materially different from those expected or anticipated in the forward-looking statements. In addition


to the factors described in the company’s SEC filings, the following factors among others could


cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in this conference.


Lower than expected net sales, operating income and earnings, less than expected growth, actions


of competitors including business combinations, technological breakthroughs, new product


offerings, and market and promotional success, the risks that anticipated new business may not


occur or will be delayed, and general economic conditions that may adversely impact our business.


In my brief analysis of the financial statements I will comment on earnings before interest, taxes,


depreciation, and amortization or EBITDA. And, although this measure is not considered to be in


accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, we believe this information is useful to


investors. So, please refer to the News Release for a full reconciliation of non-GAAP amounts to


those presented in accordance with GAAP. Now, hopefully you have all seen the press release so


I’ll only cover a few highlight.


Sales for the fourth quarter were 16.6 million compared to 16.4 million in last year’s quarter. For the


year, sales were 64.2 million down about 3% from last year. For all periods presented, gross


margins ranged from 33 to 37% of sales and SG&A expenses were 31 to 33% of sales. Interest


expense in the current year periods was down significantly because of the March 2006 sale lease


back of our Media Center real estate. The effects of the Media Center transaction are shown


separately in the News Release. The transaction resulted in a $13.9 million reduction in debt, and


at the beginning of 2006 our net debt was about 19.6 million and at the end of the year it was


reduced to 7.7 million.


Now while the 2006 fourth quarter net results were about break-even, we earned about a penny a


share for all of 2006. EBITDA for the fourth quarter was 1.7 million compared to 2.2 million even in


the 2005 fourth quarter. For all of 2006, EBITDA was 6.7 million compared to 7.7 million last year


with the decline resulting primarily from the Media Center transaction. Haig?
raw transcript


Point.360
 
PTSX
 
Q4 2006 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 22, 2007


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
64 6. 4 42 . 02 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 7 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Haig S. Bagerdjian, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President


Thank you, Alan. During 2006 Point.360 achieved a number of operational and international


milestones. I would like to review some of those with you. We signed an agreement CBS


Worldwide Distribution enabling us to use their extensive system for delivery of audio and video


content. We closed $10 million term loan financing with General Electric Capital, establishing a


relationship with this major partner and expanding our capabilities in the marketplace. We closed a


new 10 million two year revolving credit line with Banc of America, another significant financial


partner. We sold and leased back our Media Center facility enabling us to reduce our total


outstanding net debt from 19.6 million at December 31, 2005, to less than 8 million end of 2006.


We continue to expand our position in the distribution of high definition Primetime television


programming for international markets. We currently deliver 8 to 10 hours of Prime Television


programming to Canadian market that includes Loss, Criminal Minds, Ghost, Whispers, Grye’s


Anatomy, American Idol and shows like that. We are increasing the number of high definition spot


distribution. For example, we delivered 6 sports for recent Super Bowl and managed extensive


campaigning for Dream Girls. We’ve broadened the scope of our audio restoration capabilities. We


completed redesign of our West Los Angeles first production facility and we are enhancing similar


capabilities in other facilities. We continue to invest and expand our digital infrastructure technology


dealing with digital intermediary and a new area of IPTV. We added Wetgate scanning and 2 and 4


K color correction capabilities in our facilities. We are expanding to further capitalize on the


achievements in 2007. You probably have learnt that one of our competitors DG FastChannel is


investing or invested so far in our company obtaining roughly 16.5% of our stock. We have


welcomed DG as a shareholder and we will explore ways to work with them to see what we can do


for our common customers.


At this point if you have any questions, operator please open the line for our participants to ask


questions. Operator?