Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Dhru Desai — Executive Chairman, Quadrant4 Systems Corp.
John Nobile — Analyst, Taglich Brothers, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good afternoon and welcome to the Quadrant 4 System Corporation First Quarter Conference Call. All participants will be in a listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] After today's presentation, there will be an opportunity to ask questions. [Operator Instructions] Please also note today's event is being recorded.

This time I like to turn the conference call over to Mr. Dhru Desai, Executive Chairman. Sir please go ahead.

Thank you. Good afternoon, everybody, and thank you for joining with us on this call today. Let me start by saying that we had a very busy quarter, first quarter. We continue make progress on our transformation from consulting and technology services, outsourcing centric business to software service platform provider with specific industry focus in software, in healthcare and education.

With both our platforms, QHIX and QEDX, gaining majority as well as continuing to receive validation via lots of opportunities we're seeing in the market as well as strategic opportunities that is coming our way extending offers to do partners with. Now more than ever we see a big need of building platform-centric organization within our company and moving more and more resources that can be applied to implementation and deployment of these technology platform and support them that has become very, very clear and very essential to our growth.

We promised that this shift – we didn't promise that this shift in tactic is going to be easy nor it will happen overnight, but it's a process and our progress is on track. Our focus has shifted and we need to develop new internal expertise at all levels within the organization necessary to be a successful SaaS player. We are starting to feel the financial implications of this transition as we shift that which includes training and repurposing our employees who are currently responsible for billable client work and now we are committing these resources to our SaaS business. We see the impact of this transformation in our first quarter revenue and gross margin numbers that we have reported.

As our business model transitions, so will the underlying financial metrics by which we think we should be measured. Quarter one, I mean, the first quarter is not representative trend by any means. Variance is asymptomatic to the progression and the evolution we are seeing that is being carried out by trading off the revenues and resources from our current base business in exchange for a better positioning in a more desirable businesses vis-à-vis SaaS platform provider. I'm confident that as the progression moves forward, we will provide gross margins and the growth metrics that are more in line with the SaaS [indiscernible] (00:03:49) expectations.

The markets we have chosen to focus are very large with significant revenue opportunities. Our SaaS business model represents an annuity-based monthly revenue streams. This earnings stream comes at a significantly higher gross margin contribution than our traditional IT Service businesses. And it is evident in fact that over time our [ph] branded (00:04:24) gross margins are going to move in the right directions. As we continue to move to SaaS-dominant business models, there is an opportunity for shareholders to capture a substantially higher earnings multiples.

I'm going to – with that being said and describing the pivot and the transition that is underway, now I'm going to turn over the discussion to the actual first quarter results and put it in perspective for you. First quarter was reported – the revenue was a little over – just under $12 million, compared to $13.5 million a year ago the same period. Our EBITDA for the quarter came around $664,000 compared to $1.9 million for the first quarter of 2015.

Looking at our gross margin in the first quarter of 2016 versus similar period 2015, we did a 34% gross margin compared to 39% a year ago. I'd like to emphasize that we made a conscious decision that the most effective use of our resources and utilization of personnel was to deploy them on supporting the SaaS businesses that are up and coming as opposed to continuing to service some of the non-strategic project-based work that resulted in these variances.

On a positive note, however, [indiscernible] (00:06:10) first quarter 2016, March 25th, straight quarter of a positive EBITDA for the company. In addition, I would like to point out that, as you all know, most recently we announced a fairly strategic partnership agreement. In the first quarter, we signed it and supported a lot of work and that channel partnership has been installed. Lot of technical work have been completed and some of the deliveries were made, but due to some technical formalities, $3.1 million worth of upfront portion of the software license revenue fees was not booked as a period revenue for the first quarter and it was treated as a deferred revenue on our balance sheet.

We also booked the corresponding one-time expenses from various departments, towards this contract had prepaid expenses of $1.5 million. So if you were to back these items towards our first quarter, actually our first quarter revenue would have been over $15 million, EBITDA over $2 million, and our gross margin contribution for the first quarter would have been significantly higher. Not only that but first quarter would have been net income positive as well. So we expect the deferred revenues to be recognized in second quarter.

So the point I'm trying to make is as we move towards the SaaS revenue and balance of our activities and the resources, I think we're going to see some sort of variances and lumpiness until the pipeline is fully transitioned into the new business model.

Now let me draw attention to our balance sheet discussion; our transition along with our continued execution has had a very positive effect on the way we are being pursued by the financial communities. This quarter we paid out pretty close to about $700,000 of the longer term debt, mid-term to longer term debt from the current cash flows then the continued growth is showing a significant uptick in the [indiscernible] (00:08:55) from the [indiscernible] (00:08:58) commercial financial institutions offering a much more patient, much more longer term capital and management is carefully reviewing these opportunities and try to hook up with the longer term, more patient capital to enable us to continue to grow our business.

In a way of divisional updates and what is going on in various activities, let me just take a few minutes. First, describing what is happening with our Education division and then we will talk about the Healthcare division. We continue to add new school districts to our early adopter empowered pilots. To-date, we have five schools in the pilot program and all five pilots are going very successfully moving ahead with lots of great feedback and the data gathering is going as per the plan. In January quarter four, Education division released a very innovative science and technology STEM curriculum partnership with a company called [indiscernible] (00:10:16). The program is available through our [indiscernible] (00:10:21), featuring introductory content on programming and mobile application development as well as advanced social robotics.

The release of such curriculum is aligned with President Obama's new computer science for all K-12 initiatives, giving students an opportunity to learn computer science at an early age. We had a very positive feedback from two school districts from our early adopter programs, who are actually using this curriculum. Additionally, other instructional content providers are starting to approach us because they are still seeing the power and the capability of our platform for them to rely on and distribute additional content to our platform to these school districts.

So in May, when the current academic year will come to an end, so will our pilot programs will come to an end and we are in discussions with these schools to convert the pilot relationships into a longer term paying contracted relationships. So everything is going per the plan. Our research and development activities are moving ahead with additional features like in analytics and additional system integration work. We will have more to report in the next quarter on this initiative.

Let me switch my discussion to Healthcare division now. We had a – clearly, we had a very busy and very dominating quarter in the first quarter. Let me first talk about HealthSmart, because I'm sure there are lot of questions and lot of anxiety about that. We are continuing to work very closely with HealthSmart team. And we are finalizing definitive plans to stand up a branded private exchange for HealthSmart. And currently, the HealthSmart management and Quadrant 4 management thinks that the target departments and targeted line of businesses would aggregate to about 600,000 lives that would roll on to the QHIX for the financial year.

The Denver operation is fully implemented and up to in the complete operations now with a couple of billing cycles behind. So it's been a success. We have gotten [indiscernible] (00:13:21) reviews and the appraisals both from their end client as well as the HealthSmart management.

In addition to that, I think now that the power of the QHIX platform [indiscernible] (00:13:36) has been understood by the sales and marketing team within HealthSmart. Clearly, this technology platform is enabling them to offer new and innovative solutions to their markets vis-à-vis work side products as well as being able to market volatility products like disability, critical illnesses and cancers and so forth. We have been involved with them in several of their additional pipeline projects that equalized; enhance consolidated billing features that QBLITZ offers.

So all-in-all, this is going to be a winning combination for both Q4 as well as HealthSmart in bringing new and innovative offering to the market seeing growth for them as well as seeing growth for us, while retrofit and move their current book of business on the QBLITZ platform.

The second big story for the Healthcare division this quarter obviously was the completion of the strategic channel partnership that we've announced earlier, few weeks ago. It's a softer licensing arrangement with a major healthcare technology. I'm sure you guys will have more questions about it. We will get into the details in the Q&A session, but this is a very significant player that got about 400 health plans and the payers in their currently deployed footprint. And this company is developing a complete [indiscernible] (00:15:25) digital ecosystem to offer more digital transformation to the stakeholders and introduce a new set of technologies to bring the cost and conveniences to the suppliers. And quarter four is really happy and proud to be part of that ecosystem as a key building block. I'm sure I will deal with a lot of Q&A on this because this is a single most largest contract in the recent history of the company that we've signed.

A lot of detail has been disclosed in our 8-K, so people can go and check that out. I think in addition to continuing to furthering our HealthSmart relationship and supporting this new channel partnership that we announced, our R&D team is now focusing on a up and coming set of features that includes not only enhanced performances and capacity of the [indiscernible] (00:16:37) layer of our QHIX platform, but we are now turning our attention to some of the new features such as consumer marketing, education and retention-related features that could be deployed to our DialedIn, which is our acquired technology as well as rolling out some wellness related features that could be very, very critical for some of the new programs and features that the payer community is going after.

So since establishing this channel relationship and closing our HealthSmart relationship, our collective pipeline has seen an uptick. I would like to say that we have added pretty close to about 7 million to 10 million target lives that we are currently pursuing for the application of the QHIX technology at this point in addition to what we reported in our last conference call.

So all-in-all, I would say that despite the numbers in a sort of sense of black and white as we have reported, they should look it a little bit deeper and allow for the timing of this [indiscernible] (00:17:57) and the ground realities on how we, as a company, are juggling the transition and the deployment of resources, I think it's been a really satisfying quarter. We have a solid momentum moving forward on both our segments that we are focusing on and I think the best thing that is happening for us is now we are opening ourselves to align with some established channel partner relationships that will not only accelerate the deployment of our core technology, but it will free up the company to add much needed additional product offerings.

So I would say that 2016, we are on track for doing what we said we're going to do; 2016 will prove to be a very pivotal, very critical year that will establish the position of Q4 in the exchange market for both health and education, with lots of deployment underway.

That's all I had in terms of the prepared remarks and I'd like to open the lineup for the Q&A now.

Ladies and gentlemen, at this time, we'll begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from John Nobile from Taglich Brothers. Please go ahead with your question.

Hi. Good afternoon. Dhru, I just wanted to ask you a couple of questions before I get into the QHIX license, the new channel partner. Just on the first quarter results, I know, it was mentioned that there were subscription based revenues in that aside from the IT Services revenues. I was just hoping that I could get a percentage breakdown of what that – what was it – $11.9 million number consisted of? What percentage was IT Services, what percentage subscription based?

I don't think the contribution from each of the three lines of the businesses that we have now started to bring in to our nomenclature [indiscernible] (00:20:50) business, managed Services business and batch one business, I think the relative distribution hasn't changed since last call that we talked about, first quarter did not deliver any different percentages, is still same.

Okay. And on a different note here, just thumbing through the 10-Q, I noticed under a software development cost there was a new platform QWEX which I have...

That's our wellness platform. And just to give you a quick recap on that, last year and the year before, we were developing a platform called QBLITZ which was mostly the delivery content media-centric platform.

Right.

So a lot of that development and lot of technologies that have been carried forward now since we have exited pretty much the Platform business from the Media side. We have taken the appropriate pieces of the QBLITZ and actually they passed it then into a new program which is much more aligned with the healthcare industry called [ph] wellness exchange (00:22:09).

Okay. Now getting into the new one license agreement, when I read through the 8-K it says it provides exclusivity for certain segments of the market. I was just curious what are those segments and how will that impact your ability to offer this technology to other clients.

Sure. That's an excellent question. The channel partner that we're talking about has got a Tier 1 [indiscernible] (00:22:43) have plans [indiscernible] (00:22:45) community as their footprint. So the initial notion is they are better suited. They are better suited to accelerate the deployment in the health plan about certain size of the members in the plan, so for instance like I believe 75,000 members or higher is what we have given them exclusivity to market our – bundle our product into and there are certain performance required to maintain that exclusivity over the first 30 month of this relationship.

Okay. So...

And to the second part of your question relative to what we do to our ability to sell direct and so forth. You know that our market so far where we have been more successful is the TPAs, marketing organizations and so forth regardless of the size of those players. It doesn't change a bit. But it doesn't intervene to our ability to go and directly sell into areas where we know how to best excel, succeed into. And for whatever reason if we have and – plus it also doesn't preclude us selling into the actual health plans and the payers that are below 75,000 lives.

Okay. I would take it that as a pretty large market, I mean, I don't know off the top of my head but...

It's a fairly large market. I mean if you look at any surveys or any yellow book or white book and so forth, you would think that they're about 500 or more than 500 health plans across the country. And when we draw a line as far as you know what percentage of these 500 plans, 600 plans that are listed [indiscernible] (00:25:05) fall into this exclusivity. I'd say probably about 100 plans, 125 plans, which are about the size of 75,000 members. And it's such a big market that I don't think we can – with our limited region and limited sales resources, we can crisscross the country much more effectively than these people can.

Okay. And this is exclusivity to top Tier 1 with 75 team members or more. I'm just curious how is this going to play into the existing agreements you have with HealthSmart, Grady, and HCare?

Well, that's what I'm saying that the exclusivity has been granted for the health plans. Now, Grady is not a health plan. HealthSmart is not a health plan. The TPAs and marketing organizations, aggregators, they are all independent. They do not fall under this exclusivity business.

Okay.

We're talking about only the health plans.

Okay. All right. So that doesn't affect...

So just to refresh everybody's memory, the overall sphere of the QHIX target market includes health plans, the payers, the third party administrators, the aggregators, the marketing organizations; then we have affinity groups; we have larger employer groups by themselves. So there's a wide range of constituencies that is being targeted for the QHIX to accept from. What we have as a part of this collaboration agreement is the, we are in the best position to pursue the Tier 1 health plans. And...

Okay.

... instead of confusing the channels that we have agreed to an exclusivity for the Tier 1 health plans...

Okay.

...with certain performance requirement tied to that.

Okay. So obviously, the new contract is in regard to a health plan not with your existing clients, a third party agreement [indiscernible] (00:27:31).

Yes, yes.

And you mentioned HealthSmart and Grady. Is that also HCare?

No, HCare is a different organization. It's a marketing organization that is trying to put together a network that is I guess on the backbones of the Cigna.

Okay, great. So I'll....

That's a different thing, yeah.

They should only continue and obviously...

Yeah, yeah, sure. Again, nothing in our pipeline today nor in our customer base that creates conflict with the exclusivity that we have given, number one. Number two, if we are talking about some of the very, very large health plans. Obviously, given our balance sheet size and other things, despite the superiority of our technology, there is always a pause people get at that level. So this is the best relationship. It is the best handshake that one can get. And [indiscernible] (00:28:35) I think together with them and us, we are in the best position to pursue these larger players.

Okay. And if I could just ask you the – reading via the 8-K on the agreement, it says that that agreement will be effective upon completion of due diligence by the licensee. So I was hoping to see if you have any insight into how that's going. And – and obviously I guess you believe, you're going to generate revenue from this. In the current quarter, you mentioned previously prepared remarks. We expect the $3.1 million of deferred revenues in the second quarter?

Yes. Exactly. We have received $2 million of payment already. But I think because of some technicality and some paperwork, we're still lagging. I think in conjunction with our auditors, we decided not to book that as a sort of period revenue. So there is nothing here that gives anybody any pause. The relationship is moving forward. And there're lots and lots of people working together on a daily basis, hourly basis, holding each other's hand both in engineering as well as in market facing activities.

Okay. And actually I don't want to take up the whole call here, just have a couple more questions, I'll get through these quickly, if I could just ask in a general sense how long do you think it's going to take and I know it's not guaranteed the full $90 million from this agreement, but how long do you think it would take maybe to recognize that if you could give a range to the best of your knowledge?

I think that I don't have knowledge about it, but I think this is a $2 billion, $3 billion, $4 billion comp. They generate $2 billion, $3 billion, $4 billion worth of revenue from some of the very, very best top tier clients and if their market intelligence I think they have signed up for this agreement that means they have done a reasonably good sense for being able to achieve that. So my expectation would be I think sooner than later, maybe next three or four years probably, I don't know. I cannot promise. I don't – because...

No, I'm not looking for a promise.

Obviously...

I just wanted to get a feel...

Obviously, we've got a lot of work ahead of us. But just to give you an idea that we just since the signing of this agreement we are at least I would say about half a dozen to 10 new opportunities that has put as a qualified opportunities in both our pipelines and that can add up to about 7 million, 8 million, 9 million lives. And if you apply the licensing and royalty tranche to that, that translates into tens and millions of dollars of business.

Yes. All right.

Also, we have to collectively win these things, but what I'm saying to you that your market is going to receive this combination extremely favorably.

And if I could throw one more question, last question here. I want to pick up the whole ...

Okay. This is the last one because you [indiscernible] (00:31:59)

On the balance sheet you had $1.5 million of expenses related to that license agreement, and I'm just curious if you anticipate there's going to be more of this in the future as this plays out and you generate more revenue or does this amount, the $1.55 million, cover the full $90 million potential in your opinion?

I wouldn't say if it covers the full $90 million, but I think there's a very large bulk is deeply loaded because we have to deploy all sorts of resources that are so exclusive [ph] and extremely (00:32:37) focused for setting this channel up, setting the environment up, knowledge transfers of all sorts, so I mean the entire department you see was just commissioned to just support these activities for better than three, four months. So once that is smoothened out, then I think the specific expenses that we may have get charges against this $90 million revenue would be some enhancements that are not paid for enhancement perhaps or things that we just generally have to do to the platform, which is not lined item into the sales. So I would say that $1.05 million that you see here is probably the bulk of it in getting a relationship like this up and running.

Okay. And [indiscernible] (00:33:34) the $3.1 million is going to be recognized in Q2, I assume that this $41.55 million will be expensed in that quarter?

Yes.

Okay. I just wanted to make sure. All right, Dhru, well, it sounds like you're heading in the right direction. It's exciting and I can't wait to hear – to see in the quarter if this does indeed shake out and show up there and we just hear further progress in this regard. Thank you.

All right, John. Thank you so much. [Operator Instructions]

Our next question comes from [ph] Chris Tom from Elmbridge (00:34:12). Please go ahead with your question.

Hey, Dhru. How are you?

Good, good. How are you, [ph] Chris (00:34:20)?

Good. Congrats on that deal.

Thank you so much.

In general, I'm curious, how do you see – how investors should look at capital allocation moving forward as you guys are transitioning to the SaaS model. And I see you pay down some debt the last quarter. Can you talk to us a little bit about strategically what you're thinking as far as managing dilution the growth of this SaaS business and paying off the debt?

Yeah I think – I mean we are very concerned and we are going to be very mindful about any potential dilution coming out as far as the transition and the needs of the transition is concerned. I think, the company is getting to a point where I think it is maturing from the standpoint of its Platform business and if somebody in the financial institution would then be able to put their arms around it and as far as project the cash flows and so forth and so on, and offer us a more patient permanent cheaper capital from the debt standpoint.

So I think at this point, our concentration if anything is to really project the SaaS and Platform business accurately and solicit and entertain more patient and permanent capital on the debt side. So debt refinancing would be – because we are putting ourselves in a better position to predict the cash flows and hence convince the debt guys that this company has an ability to service the debt. So we will probably be addressing the debt side first because there is no dire need of equity capital to continue to invest into business at a click that is faster than our own cash flow can support.

Okay. Okay, thanks. And as far as with this contract, have you guys talked about a point where you're going to break out the revenues and show the IT consulting in one spot and then the SaaS model in another or like how do you guys see that?

I think, [indiscernible] (00:36:49) plan that is this year 2016, I think we're internally committed to redo our books re-organize our internal measurements and practices such that ultimately we can describe our business with three [indiscernible] (00:37:05) lines of revenue: one is our time and material business; second would be our managed Services business; and the third would be our exchange Platform business. So I think we're making significant progress towards that. And this year you will see that.

Okay. Okay, great. And getting back to that contract you guys got, is there any other insight maybe of how you look at that and the conversion of how much of that $90 million could ever happen, is it something that really higher hurdle rates and some would have the low buyers to step over? Is there any insight you could give us to that true on that $90 million?

Well, I have every expectation that the [indiscernible] (00:37:47) period of time I think this partner of ours will perform to an extent that we will achieve that target because I think it's a very fair arrangement and it gives them a lot of flexibility on how they can go to market and win more. So that's all I can say at this point that I think – I have every expectations that this will be a win-win for everybody and it will meet the expectations of capping out the royalty. And...

Okay.

And they will be happy to have written that royalty check first because in total debt, it would have made I guess four times more money for themselves.

And I noticed you said it also spurred some phone calls maybe from some competitors and things. I'm curious. It sounds like the pipeline has increased a bit just with this alone and has it helped at all the...

I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I didn't get the question.

Has this – yes, has this contract helped escalate maybe other contracts with people you are talking to because you have some validation now? I know the company hasn't been announced yet. [indiscernible] (00:39:08) that will help.

Yeah, yeah, yeah, absolutely. I mean we are still under the non-disclosure and we are respecting their internal needs of [indiscernible] (00:39:17) marketing facilities and so forth. So we're not able to openly talk about them in some of our other strategic opportunities that we are furthering. But with their clearance – on occasions, we are able to mention the name [indiscernible] (00:39:36) partner and so forth and that helps to bring the credibility because this company has had an ability to develop a platform on their own. They've got several hundreds of thousands of engineers at their disposal and pretty decent domain expertise, so they could [indiscernible] (00:39:55) anything that they wanted to do, but despite the fact that [indiscernible] (00:39:58) through the proper vetting process, they chose this technology to further their digital ecosystem and I think that speaks pretty loudly. And I think once the market [ph] investment (00:40:14) is out, I think it will have full benefit to all of our sales and marketing folks that we can make investments in this thing and get the respect that this technology deserves.

Great. Thanks, Dhru. That's all I had.

Yeah.

Our next question comes from [ph] Daryl Zonnets (00:40:37) who is a private investor. Please go ahead with your question.

Hi, Dhru.

Hey, [ph] Daryl (00:40:43).

Congratulations on the strategic partnership. We seem to be dancing around this on the [indiscernible] (00:40:48). I'm just going to ask you, can you either tell us who say you're doing business with, the strategic partner or can you tell us at least one lead, would expect to hear about?

Okay. You know what, I'm going to – the partner that we are working with is TriZetto. I don't know people are aware of who they are, they will immediately recognize them for who they are. They are owned by a company called Cognizant, which is about $48 billion [ph] market care (00:41:25) company and one of the most prominent healthcare IT companies that exist here. So that's who our partners are.

Now, I'm not going to say anything more as far as their motivations and what they want to do and how they want to go to market and none of that, because it is not really relevant for this call. And I think hopefully before too long, we would have a joint press release coming out that will lay out the plans and the plans as well as the motivation. Is it fair?

That's fair enough. I really appreciate finding out who it is. I'm looking at it right now actually. This is quite impressive. Very impressive.

Thank you, thank you.

Okay. Thank you very much. [Operator Instructions]

And our next question comes from [ph] Perry Sue (00:42:35) private investor. Please go ahead with your question.

Congratulations, Dhru.

Thank you so much, sir.

On the California order that we did not received, is this relationship help us if the California contract was not awarded for us to go back in there and try to get it?

I'm not sure if I understand which California order are we referring to.

It was the big contract that was alluded to in the last conference call that we were number two in trying to secure it. But I think the speaker said it wasn't really awarded as yet. Is that large contract?

Yeah. It's not. I mean, I think there are two things. I mean, in fact, our channel partners are involved as the teaming arrangement on this one. So we're doing everything we can to influence the decision. But there are good chances that there may be [ph] a no court, no (00:43:32) decision because we haven't heard much because I think they may [indiscernible] (00:43:42) deferring it or they may continue to press their current supplier. That's [indiscernible] (00:43:49) would go. But to your question directly, I think our channel partner is actually also dealing partner on that deal.

I see. Thank you very much.

And ladies and gentlemen, at this time, I'm showing no additional questions. I'd like to turn the conference call back over for any closing remarks.

All right, guys. Thank you so much for your continued support. Obviously this is a business in transition so maybe a little frustrating to some of the analysts and folks who wants to do a nice steady trend. A quarter-after-quarter, I wish I had all the money on the balance sheet that just doesn't force the company to make some significant tradeoffs and the decisions of how we deploy the revenues and how we cannibalize the revenue pockets and how do we move the resources from bucket A to bucket B. So if you'd be a little bit patient with me and with the company for the next couple of quarters, I think we are going to go and show that the transition is actually working and the company is performing at a metric that is more aligned with the SaaS platforms and we couldn't be more excited about this relationship that we just announced and we couldn't be more excited about both our Health and Education platforms and its capabilities that we are offering to both our channel partners as well as our direct lines. And our team at Q4 is doing a tremendous job and we look forward to giving you more good news as we move forward this year. Thank you, again.

Ladies and gentlemen, now we'll conclude today's conference call. We do thank you for attending. You may now disconnect your telephone lines.