Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
David Erdman — Director – Investor Relations, Quicksilver Resources, Inc.
Glenn M. Darden — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Quicksilver Resources, Inc.
John C. Regan — Senior VP, Chief Financial & Accounting Officer, Quicksilver Resources, Inc.
Steven M. Karpel — Analyst, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC (Broker)
Noel A. Parks — Analyst, Ladenburg Thalmann & Co., Inc. (Broker)
David Epstein — Analyst, CRT Capital Group LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, and welcome to the Quicksilver Resources Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Call. My name is Mary-Kate, and I will be your operator today. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]

I would now like to turn the call over to David Erdman, Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Thank you, Mary-Kate, and good morning, everyone. I'm joined this morning by Glenn Darden, President and Chief Executive Officer; and John Regan, Chief Financial Officer. This morning, the company issued a press release detailing our preliminary results for the second quarter of 2014. A copy of the release is available on the Press Releases link of our Investor Relations webpage.

First, let's cover the Safe Harbor provisions. During this morning's call, the company will be making forward-looking statements, which are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those projected in these forward-looking statements. Additional information concerning risk factors, which could cause such differences are presented in length in the press release we issued this morning, as well as in the company's filings with the SEC.

This call will also include information regarding adjusted net income, which is a non-GAAP financial measure. A reconciliation of adjusted net income to the most directly comparable GAAP measure is available with the press release we issued this morning.

So with that, I will turn over the call to Glenn Darden. Glenn?

Thank you, David. Quicksilver Resources reported an adjusted net loss of $11 million or $0.07 per diluted share in the second quarter of 2014. These results are essentially flat with the 2013 quarter. John Regan, our Chief Financial Officer, will go through the financial details following my remarks. Today, I will layout what we have done to clarify Quicksilver story and company goals. While we have made progress, this company has more wood to chop. Quicksilver has streamlined its project portfolio to essentially four primary areas, Barnett and West Texas, in the U.S., and the Horseshoe Canyon CBM and Horn River Basin in Canada.

The Barnett and Horseshoe Canyon are steady cash flow generators. With success, West Texas provides big upside in oil diversification and the Horn River can give us large gas volume and reserve growth and we believe an avenue to the Asian market. I will talk about progress in each of these areas on this call. Our challenges are clear. We have too much debt on the balance sheet, we need to build cash flows and we must get value for our large investment in the Horn River. Additionally, recently, decline in gas prices due to the mild summer have not buoyed investor sentiment.

Fortunately, Quicksilver has hedged approximately 75% of estimated 2014 gas production at an average price above $5 per Mcf. We have hedges in place for approximately 2/3 of 2015's estimated gas production above $5 per Mcf as well. By reducing capital expenditures over the last few years, we have guarded our liquidity but that came at a cost of volume growth.

The company is now seeing Barnett production building again after investing in drilling. Our operations team has done an excellent job of maintaining our base production with small declines, primarily through low cost, high return workover program.

Our rejuvenated drilling and completion activity is bringing on new volumes at attractive returns. On the debt side, our near-term focus is on refinancing the $350 million of subordinated notes due in 2016.

For optionality, Quicksilver filed an S-3 registration statement that has a three-year life. This filing gives the company maximum flexibility for the next three years to issue securities of various types, debt and/or equity.

Although, we were required to provide a face plate dollar number which in the case of our filing was $1.75 billion, this in no way commits the company to any process. Again, the current focus is on the sub-debt refinance. John will talk more about that on this call. Ideally, we refinanced these notes with a positive company event.

One of the strengths of this company lies in the alliances Quicksilver has formed with strong partners. We have expanded the original scope with Eni and are now pursuing oil targets together in West Texas. We believe that the Quicksilver Tokyo Gas footprint can expand as well.

Moving to our operational areas, I will begin with West Texas. Quicksilver has started fracking operations on our first horizontal well in the 52,000-acre Eni joint venture in Pecos County.

In addition, another horizontal well is in the completion phase in the 7,500-acre farm-out project to the Northwest. We are also drilling our second well in the Eni farm-out as we speak.

We will be reporting on these wells as results come in and our partners allow us to talk about each of these areas. We hope to be talking in the near future. Each well of these two completions is targeting the Bone Springs and Wolfcamp formations.

Quicksilver has also signed an exploration agreement on its 31,000-acre lease block in Crockett and Upton Counties, East of our Pecos County farm-out and joint venture area. This agreement calls for the operator to carry Quicksilver in the first five wells and to cover all lease extensions in 2014.

Quicksilver will retain a 12.5% interest in all acreage in drilling. So to summarize our position and activity in West Texas, Quicksilver will focus on its over 30,000 net acres, 90,000 gross acres in Pecos, Crockett and Upton Counties.

We will be carried in drilling and completion with no capital outlay and as many as 10 wells across these blocks. And we will have new lease extensions on most of the acreage. We have attracted best-in-class operators in the farm-out blocks.

All of this gives the company very good opportunities to add new development areas on the oil side without spending the testing dollars. I will now turn [inaudible] (6:57) we realized the sales process to bring in partners has taken a long time. We have improved the overall project during this time, and I'll give you some details on that in a moment.

Nevertheless, we haven't reached an agreement with respect to terms or structure. We have had discussions and negotiations with several parties and talked with many more. Our primary push has been with a group of companies from one country and that process continues. But given the pace this has moved we have opened discussions with several additional well qualified companies from Asia. The common denominator with all of the current players is their drive to lower their energy import costs. There's a reason they are attracted to North American gas and having ownership in the value chain from upstream to export provides the opportunity to control and realize a lower cost of supply. Quicksilver's project offers all of this to the prospective partners.

Concurrently, we have built alternative plans to our main sales efforts. These are shorter in duration and significantly lower in costs than the commitment of full scale LNG development. These alternatives would also address near-term midstream obligations without detracting from the Discovery project. We will provide additional information regarding Horn River at the appropriate time.

Picking up on progress of the project, last week Quicksilver filed an application for an export license with the National Energy Board of Canada. That filing includes site location and the source of gas, both of which Quicksilver owns. This site at Campbell River, British Columbia is large, over 1,200 acres, relatively flat from a terrain perspective and is located on a deepwater shipping channel.

In fact, the now-shuttered pulp mill at the site had a large international export operation for decades. All of these attributes contribute to repurposing the site as an ideal LNG export facility. Quicksilver has worked cooperatively with the First Nations bands and recently executed a community investment agreement with the Acho Dene Koe First Nation.

The ADK's traditional territory covers the majority of Quicksilver's leases in the Horn River Basin. This agreement formalizes Quicksilver's commitment to training and development of local band members as well as providing for certain community initiatives.

The company has reduced base gathering fees and brought in additional third-party volumes, which allow us to spread the fixed cost gathering and processing over incremental gas volumes. As for the production, our wells are performing on or above the type curves and we have tested the size and quality of the resource under lease.

Our resource base is quite large. This quarter, third-party plant downtime has reduced production, but overall company production is within guidance given last quarter. We have been notified by Spectra, operator of this plant, that there will be another two weeks of planned outage in the third quarter.

In Texas, the Barnett Asset is beginning to grow again. In fact, we have bounced back over 20% from the production low in the first quarter. Overall, Quicksilver's Barnett production grew 11% quarter-over-quarter. We continue to drive down costs, which has pushed IRRs higher. These higher returns have been achieved through better new well performance with efficiencies in drilling, completion and lower operating costs as the main drivers.

Our team poured over the entire Barnett operations when activity slowed and has implemented a number of improvements. By rightsizing fracs sand optimizing spacing through detailed G&G analysis, we have improved drill site selection. In addition, we have refined low pressure production techniques on the base asset.

The Barnett land team has been busy as well and has added new leases at attractive bonus prices and royalties. These are high-graded acres screened by the operations team. We feel we are buying reserves very cheaply in this program, and we're continuing to add acres.

These add to the drilling inventory and extend potential lateral links on proposed wells on existing leases. Notably, we have negotiated cost concessions on existing midstream agreements as well, and John will provide more color on that.

Moving back to Canada for a moment, the Horseshoe Canyon CBM drilling program was delayed this spring due to weather. We are now drilling and expect to bring online up to 50 gross wells by year end. Because of the delayed drilling program and current gas prices, the company may reduce capital expenditures by approximately $8 million or so in this area. But we also may redirect these dollars and that spending toward additional Barnett development.

I'll now turn the call over to John Regan for a financial discussion, after which I'll provide a recap on the business and strategy. John?

Thank you, Glenn. Good morning, everyone. Before I begin my commentary on the second quarter results, I want to first address recent developments on the financial side of the business.

First, as I'm sure you've seen, we filed a registration statement last week via S-3 that, once effective, creates a shelf that gives us the ability to issue at our discretion any combination of common stock, preferred stock, debt securities, warrants and other listed securities over a three-year period for an aggregate amount of up to $1.75 billion. Because we do not presently qualify as a well-known seasoned issuer, we were required to cite a specific dollar amount in the S-3 filing.

The filing is designed to provide us with flexibility, as we execute against our key objectives for this year and for the next several years, and it in no way binds or limits the company to a particular path or timeline to address those key objectives or requires us to use any or all of that $1.75 billion shelf.

We continue to evaluate solutions to address the springing maturities that may be triggered by our senior sub notes. And while we understand the urgency of extending the maturity runway, we continue to believe launching a refinance effort on the heels of a catalyst event remains a sound strategy. We're attacking this on several fronts, and we will update the market at the appropriate time.

I'd like to emphasize, however, that we established a goal in 2014 to address the senior sub notes, and I still intend for Quicksilver to meet that goal. If we are successful with the refi of the sub notes and extending the maturity of the credit facility, the next scheduled maturity would be 2019, which would create a nice window of optionality for our securityholders.

I commented last quarter that we may elect to address this maturity ahead of any transaction involving our Horn River Assets. And while that remains a potential strategy, the refi path with the catalyst/credit enhancing event remains an organizational focus for the next several months. And, thus, we are simultaneously pursuing other opportunities, which we believe will improve our credit outlook and, thus, may provide a more appealing refinance scenario.

In any event, we have worked with and expect to continue working with our bankers to assess market conditions surrounding the refi effort. I'd also like to address recent reports in the media and other public conjecture that erroneously claim we've balked at proposals from holders of our subordinated notes.

While we periodically entertain conversations with our securityholders in order to gauge investor sentiment, those conversations have not included receipt of any formal proposals to comprehensively address the sub note maturity.

At present, we're continuing the collaboration with our board of directors, our management team, and our financial and legal advisors to craft a solution for our refinance effort, the priorities of which will focus not surprisingly on the cost of that undertaking and the certainty of its execution.

As of August 1, we had approximately $272 million of combined liquidity in the form of $26 million of cash and $246 million of availability under our revolver. We expect our current level of liquidity is sufficient to fund our capital pursuits through the end of 2015, based on our preliminary forecast and assuming no material debt maturities between today and that time.

With a focus on liquidity, we expect to adjust our capital spending based on prevailing natural gas prices, JV successes and drilling results in West Texas. We expect to comply with the financial covenants in our combined credit agreements through the end of the third quarter of 2015.

However, due to higher financial covenant levels that began to take effect thereafter, coupled with hedge expirations and more pronounced recent declines in natural gas strip prices, we do not expect to comply with the interest coverage requirement potentially beginning in the fourth quarter of 2015.

We could resolve this issue with a potential credit accretive purchase or sale transaction of which we have pursued several or through amendments through our credit facility or a combination thereof.

Additionally, while prospects of success are not assured, we may approach the lenders under the credit facility regarding waiving or extending the reductions to the interest coverage requirement.

We expect that our soon-to-be released 10-Q will contain expanded disclosures regarding several significant matters, including the importance of A&D activity on liquidity and results of operations, plus management's efforts undertaken pursuant to evaluation of the capital structure.

And while we've been tirelessly marketing our Horn River Asset and canvassing the market for accretive acquisitions, we've also kept our eyes on the base business. In that regard we feel like we've accomplished several wins.

As we've discussed previously, we've been working with our midstream providers to try to reduce the rates for gas lift and other GP services in the Barnett. We've finalized an amendment which took effect June 1 under which the rate assessed for gas lift was reduced by about 65% for volumes in our core dry gas areas.

The gas lift reductions are expected to lower production expenses by approximately $1.3 million for the remainder of 2014 and $2.2 million in each of 2015 and 2016. The gas lift savings will be reflected in LOE and our income statement. Another factor of the amendment, which covers new wells in our Southern Barnett, reduces the rate assessed for aggregate gathering and processing by approximately 40% to 45%. This reduction would affect new wells drilled or completed in the next 24 months but would apply to those wells for the remaining term of the gathering and processing agreements. We expect the GPT savings on new wells will result in a higher percentage of future capital activity in the Southern portion of the Barnett.

The GPT cost reductions improve overall rates of return on new Southern Barnett wells by approximately 900 basis points and generate an incremental PV-10 of about $0.4 million for typical well in that area.

Turning to earnings, and as Glenn mentioned, we reported a second quarter adjusted net loss of $11 million or $0.07 per diluted share, compared to an adjusted net loss of an equal amount in the 2013 quarter. To arrive at adjusted net loss in the 2014 quarter, we excluded both the change in the mark-to-market of the derivative portfolio as we've done since exiting hedge accounting and about $1 million of strategic transaction costs among other miscellaneous items including one-time effects related to the joint development agreement with Eni.

The most significant adjustments in the 2013 quarter were the gain on sale from the Tokyo Gas transaction and the cost of our debt refinance last summer. As a reminder, adjusted earnings represent a non-GAAP financial measure and as such, we've provided a detailed reconciliation to reported net income to the tables of our earnings release.

Production averaged 255 million cubic feet of natural gas equivalent per day in the second quarter, which is 11% higher compared to the first quarter and within the guidance range. Barnett volumes were solely responsible for the volume growth as we began our Alliance completion program in the back half of the first quarter.

For additional context, Barnett volumes are up approximately 22% compared to the lowest production point in the first quarter, which occurred in early February. And our exit rate in the Barnett was up more than 25% from that same February nadir. The increase in Barnett volumes was partially offset by declines in our Horn River Asset as we have limited capital activity until we are able to complete a strategic transaction for that asset.

Volume was adversely impacted by several days of unexpected shutdown during June of a third-party processing facility that serves our Horn River Asset. We were recently notified of a plan to overhaul at the Fort Nelson treating facility that will take place in the third quarter and David will cover the impact of the outage later in the call when he presents guidance.

On the cost side, excluding non-operational and non-recurring items as outlined in our press release, total costs for the second quarter, which include LOE, GPT, production and ad valorem taxes, G&A and DD&A were $3.55 per unit in the aggregate, which is $0.12 below our per unit guidance. Our total costs were $82 million, again excluding those same expenses which is about $3 million below the low end of guidance. Lower G&A drove the bulk of that variance, but LOE and GPT came in slightly below their guidance.

On a clean basis, LOE and G&A were below guidance due primarily to deferred recognition of long-term incentive comp expense which is related to delays in granting equity awards to non-executive employees. Senior executive salaries and long-term incentive compensation for those employees remain frozen, pending further progress on strategic pursuits or completion of a transaction involving the Horn River Assets.

GPT was $0.01 below guidance primarily due to a currency translation impact caused by a weakening Canadian Dollar in the second quarter. But that benefit was partially offset by both the production mix in our Barnett Shale Asset and the unplanned outage at the treating facility in the Horn River.

Of note, our Horn River GPT contracts require payment even in periods of plant shut-ins. Thus, despite moving no volumes through those midstream facilities, we continued to incur expenses which adversely impacted the unit cost.

On the CapEx front, we incurred approximately $37 million of capital in the second quarter, of which approximately 40% was directed towards the Barnett where we drilled four gross wells and completed 10 gross wells. As I mentioned earlier, the completion activity drove the second quarter production increase.

Our capital program through June 30 included $20 million of non-drilling and completion dollars, including $6 million in capitalized interest and capitalized G&A, plus $14 million for leasing activity. The majority of the leasehold spending was to extend leases in advance of the Southwestern transaction and in Pecos County pursuant to the terms of our joint exploration agreement with Eni. Total spending during the quarter and for the first six months is within our budget which was disproportionally weighted to the front part of the year.

Our full year capital spending forecast is $130 million to $135 million which reflects a small response to weak commodity prices by deferring a portion of our Horseshoe Canyon drilling program. This Horseshoe Canyon deferral will have an insignificant impact on second half of 2014 production, and hence we are maintaining our full year production guidance at 245 million per day to 255 million per day. As we've mentioned, we now have incentives in the form of GPT abatements in the Barnett.

Recent natural gas price weakness makes further capital deployment in the abatement area less attractive, but we may expand capital if we see price improvement in the back half of 2014 as we have the inventory of locations in our portfolios.

We continue to evaluate potential bolt-on opportunities among our core operating areas, but our current capital plan includes no allotment for acquisition spending. If commodity prices continue to retreat or if we close on an acquisition, we could make further reductions to our organic capital program.

We did pursue the Barnett Assets that have been disclosed as change of hands in recent days. But ultimately we were unable to agree with the seller on the value for the entirety of the package being offered, which included some midstream commitments.

I want to point out that given our more favorable cost structure, we believe that the metrics from the announced sale have little correlation to our Barnett Asset value.

Turning to hedging, our hedge portfolio continues to be a material asset, the value of which we estimate to be just over $100 million at July 31. This is about a 65% improvement compared to June 30 which results from the sharp near-term price declines we saw in July. Approximately 75% of our remaining production this year is covered by swaps at greater than $5 per Mcfe. And we estimate that greater than 2/3 of our 2015 gas production is covered by swaps also above a $5 per Mcfe threshold.

We continually evaluate the opportunity to add to our hedge position particularly in 2016 and beyond. The limitations imposed by the maturity of our credit facility may prevent us from doing so in the near-term. Before closing, I'd like to announce favorable developments on the legal and internal control fronts. First, we were notified last month that the SEC staff has completed its investigation under the subpoenas issued to us in July 2011 and June of 2012 principally related to oil and gas reserve recognition.

The SEC staff reported to us in writing that they do not intend to recommend an enforcement action against us. Secondly, we believe we've also resolved the material weakness related to the recording of significant non-recurring transactions following application of control enhancements in recording the Colorado sale. As I've stated in previous calls, the material weakness related to the reconciliation of deferred income taxes will require additional time to remediate and we are fully committed to that remediation plan.

I do, however, want to underscore that we continue to be subject to a tax valuation allowance and thus management does not believe that any potential future adjustment to our deferred tax asset will result in a material change to our financial statements. With that, we will continue to report the deferred tax material weakness in our second quarter 10-Q which we've planned to file after markets close either today or tomorrow.

I will now turn the call back over to David to cover third quarter guidance and then Glenn will provide a few additional thoughts.

Thank you, John. As outlined in our press release issued this morning, third quarter 2014 production volume is expected to be 245 million cubic feet equivalent per day to 250 million cubic feet equivalent per day. As we indicated, full year volume was reaffirmed at 245 million cubic feet equivalent per day to 255 million cubic feet equivalent per day. Third quarter production is expected to be 2% to 4% lower compared to the previous quarter due to the planned outage of the third-party treating facility in the Horn River, as John and Glenn outlined earlier in their remarks.

Barnett volumes are expected to be flat to about 1% higher overall compared to the second quarter due to ongoing completions but the true increase is muted as we must shut in wells adjacent to our fracking operations. Second quarter 2014 costs are expected to be in the following ranges; LOE between $0.83 and $0.86 which is an increase compared to the second quarter due to expected workovers and overhauls in our Horseshoe Canyon project. As a reminder, the spending is accounted for as lease operating expense. GPT is expected between $1.52 and $1.54 which also is an increase compared to the prior quarter due to the expected outage at the treating facility that serves our Horn River production. And as was mentioned earlier, we must continue to pay for those treating services despite that no volume is flowing and that outage is causing a distortion of about $0.03 per unit.

Production taxes are expected between $0.16 to $0.18, G&A is between $0.55 to $0.58 and I'll note that that is higher in the second quarter due to the accelerated expense recognition of non-executive long-term incentive compensation and this was related strictly to the delayed timing of those equity grants. And finally, DD&A is between $0.63 and $0.66 which is in line with the second quarter.

So let me turn the call back to Glenn for comments before we actually begin the Q&A portion of the call. Glenn?

Thank you, David. I'd like to give a few comments on recapping and state clearly our company goals in 2014. Our first objective, of course, is unlock and showcase value in the Horn River Basin through a transaction. We want to build our cash flows in our core areas of the Barnett and Horseshoe Canyon, sustain sufficient liquidity to pursue these cash flows, address the subordinated notes due in 2016, reduce our overall leverage, progress the West Texas project and continue to attack the cost structure.

Our plan is to work with strong partners to advance growth objectives and realize value on the assets that we already have in the inventory. The company has a strong hedge position for the remainder of 2014 and all of 2015.

As I said in the beginning of this call, we have some wood to chop and we have our challenges. But we believe we can execute on that plan and we will benefit – this plan will benefit all of our stakeholders. We've made gains in a number of areas but the market and Quicksilver expects more.

And now I'll turn the call back to our operator, who will open the lines for question-and-answer. Operator?

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And we do have several questions. Our first question is from Mr. Steven Karpel with Credit Suisse Securities. Go ahead, Mr. Karpel, your line is opened.

Good morning.

Good morning.

So maybe I'll come at it first, because I think you probably talked about it three times or four times during the prepared remarks. In terms of – in essence to acquisitions and if I read John's comments right, there is certain asset that he is referring to is the one that was announced yesterday.

So looking at that price, how would you have paid for that given that you've been on it and recognizing that maybe your price was lower, but regardless, maybe talk big picture what the plan was to pay for that?

Steven, this is Glenn. I would say that equity has been a component of any acquisition that we've looked at. So that would have been a component, but I'm not going to go into the details of how we formulated or what our bid was. What I would say in the Barnett in particular and John touched on this with his comments, we have continued to lower our cost structure in our Barnett footprint and that footprint's pretty large and our land team, I've said this in my remarks, our land team has been busy acquiring leases that is absolutely the most efficient reserve buy we can make.

With lowered royalty, these are efficient lease bonus prices and we are adding some significant acreage to it. So I'm not saying that that replaces the cash flow of potential acquisition, but these are – we are not – we are expanding our base as we speak. Speaking on a particular acquisition, I would say as a generic statement, a generic target, we would look to use an equity component in that.

As I tried to state in my prepared remarks that doesn't forestall inclusion of cash or any potential transaction that we would do and hence the comment around in an acquisition or bolt-on type environment, you may see us alter the organic capital plan in response to utilizing some cash as directed toward acquisition.

And, Glenn, kind of a separate, probably, pretty relevant question for everyone on the call. I asked you last conference call, if you were farther along in your negotiations on the Horn River so I don't know if that was three months ago. So, if you look at it where you are today, are you farther along than where you were then, and you seem to be alluding to that the process has been slow and you are now potentially looking at other parties or maybe...

Yes, let me add some clarity to that statement. Certainly, I believe we've made progress. There is clearly a group ahead of the others. That group started with one entity, so dealing now with multiple parties, complicated but perhaps enhances the overall result. I would say that we have entertained other interest and that interest is in the data room, so I would say that while there's a clear leader, that leader needs to move.

And we recognize this process has taken way too long, although we have improved the overall project along the way and most recent evidence is filing export license, improvement of our production, et cetera. Our cost structure.

But we need to make something happen there, and when I spoke of doing alternative structures, those are – it's a bit of a plan B and John mentioned that as well, these are shorter in duration, they can range from longer-term supply contracts to subsets of our project Discovery, and we have made progress on that front.

So, it's hard to measure, but there certainly has been progress on plan A, and I would say there's been progress on plan B. So we are going to cover – our objective is to cover our near-term midstream obligations and that involves additional drilling in 2015 and beyond. But we are trying to get the maximum value we can for this asset with the best partners who can take this the farthest down the track.

Great. And then shifting to West Texas, given these deals you've cut, and they all look great, because no capital. Can you just walk through – I guess, it's really the two acreage blocks of the three acreage blocks, what you have left, so to speak, what is your net acreage position to you following these deals? And I'm really referring to the Crockett and Upton/Pecos, not the stuff out to the West?

Yes. Yes, in those three counties, we have approximately a little over 30,000 net acres. So, that is 100% Quicksilver for the 30,000 acres. In the aggregate on the gross side, we're exposed in 90,000 acres and that's across Pecos, Upton and Crockett. So, we are, as I said in my remarks, we are covered on the drilling and completion side in as many as 10 wells across that acreage position. So, I think we're going to get a lot of looks at the rock here with some experienced players; our Eni JV is drilling its second well. So we're going to see some results here in the not too distant future.

And then just lastly I will sneak in, you've talked about doing a refinancing around the catalyst, obviously Horn River has taken a while, some of these acquisitions you don't know if you're going to win or lose, does that mean you are still – I don't want to spice your words too much, but you're focused on getting a deal done in 2014 or the 2016, that mean with or without an acquisition or Horn River deal?

I would say that is one of our 2014 goals, yes.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Our next question is from Mr. Noel Parks with Ladenburg Thalmann & Co.

Good morning.

Go ahead, Mr. Parks.

Good morning, Noel.

Let's see, a couple of things. In the Horn River Basin, there have been some pullouts by other parties on the E&P side in just the last month or so. Do you have any thoughts on how that changed the landscape for the larger play overall?

Are you referring to Apache, Noel?

Yes.

Well, we are not going to speak to what their thought process is. It looks like they're streamlining their portfolio in a number of areas, not just in particular, Kitimat. But what I will say is there we continue to get I guess assurance from Canadian government and provincial representatives that all of Canada is firmly behind exporting natural gas. I would say that our site, we believe, has advantages over some of the Northern BC Coast coastal export sites.

In the terrain, in the deepwater channels and several attributes which I outlined in my prepared remarks and probably the biggest thing is the construction of a pipeline over the Rockies to those Northern areas and that perhaps is more difficult than our plan. We believe that because we are using existing part of our plan is using existing pipeline infrastructure. So I really can't speak to individual companies what they are thinking and what their strategy is, but I don't see this slowing us down or [inaudible] (41:33) government efforts to get gas offshore.

Sure. I guess I was wondering if among the parties you are negotiating with on your own projects whether there was any reaction or any comments you heard from them with the realization that alternative projects maybe delayed even more than they might have once looked.

Well, it might be no surprise to say that they hold their cards fairly close to the vest. But I would say that my feeling is there's no question that the players we are talking with have kicked every tire of every project, export project up there. And they are still talking with us. I think our project has perhaps more of what they are looking for in transparency of cost across the value chain and participation in that value chain. And our project is not tied to crude-based pricing and so those are some of the key things that we believe distinguish our project from some of the others.

And I think along those lines as we think about the project and what we are proposing in the project continue to believe that what we are proposing aligns better to the desires of the potential partners as opposed to some of the other projects that are holding steadfast to the terms that don't necessarily align to our terms.

Okay, great. And I just want to turn to the Permian. With the new joint participation agreement, do you have any ballpark sense for the interest you retain – what the returns might look like there? I guess I was trying to get at sort of maybe the implied value of – well not just [indiscernible] (43:41) drilling interest but you mentioned that there were lease expirations that were also going to be taken care of by the partner, so, anyway to put a value on what that might look like for Quicksilver?

It's a little early on that, Noel. We will convey that as we get more information and certainly after drilling results. I would say you brought up one important aspect of that transaction and that was lease renewal. And we took these leases three plus years ago and so we were seeing some near-term expiration. So we've been able to extend those leases, extend the life of the projects there and participate in a number of wells, five wells in that particular case had no cost to Quicksilver.

So we get the lease renewals and carry on five wells and an ongoing participation in that project. So it's important, it was just recently executed and more details will follow as we firm up drilling plans, etcetera, project does but we are excited about that and I think we've got [inaudible] (44:58) at no additional cost to Quicksilver and a lot of acres in West Texas.

Okay, great. And any thoughts on just your gas assumptions going forward? After winter we had nice [indiscernible] (45:18) strip, and some of that's been given back since then. So just wondering about your outlook and also what you might think as far as the various trade-offs with more hedging at this point?

Well, these are all personal observations and views. We probably won't disclose the company. We use the strip as our economic forecasting, but I've been a little bit surprised it's come down, but I've been a little bit surprised of course of the mild summer, but we're August 5 here and I'm not sure summer is over. So we will watch that. Fortunately we do have our hedge position. John, do you have anything to add there?

I think when I look at some of the recent successes we've had in the drilling front and Glenn kind of highlighted some of what the new Alliance wells are doing, but you are seeing kind of a drill cost or drill completion cost and production cost structure in the, say, [ph] $2.75-ish range (46:29). And so if that's my recovery cost that I need to have revenues in excess of to generate profits, I think we're able to better push the needle down on the cost side than we are able to, clearly, influence the revenue side of things.

But from a hedging perspective, we look at the screen price today. And, again, I think, they're – one way or the other, we've got a – we have a sufficient portfolio today. And I think if we're going to layer our hedges, it would be 2016 and beyond. And that still remains pretty flat.

And I think that as we think about, in the macro, some of the catalysts that may be out there in terms of onlining of some LNG facilities or additional certainty about onlining of LNG facilities, I think, there are some catalyst events that potentially could influence that positively for the company. And I think we're looking for some of those catalysts to come to fruition, again, in the macro as well.

Great. That's all for me. Thanks.

Thank you, Noel.

Our next question is from [ph] John Kiani with Teilinger Capital (47:44).

Good afternoon.

Hey, [ph] John (47:53).

Can you hear me?

Yes, we can.

I know Steven Karpel asked this question. I wasn't clear on the answer. Just trying to get a better handle on a few different things. First of all, on the revolver, can you talk a little bit about your thoughts around paying that down during the quarter?

As to why we did pay it down?

Yes.

Yes. So if you recall, as we closed the first quarter, we were moving through a redetermination process with our lenders. And so we thought it was a prudent capital deployment to hold on to as much cash as we could going into that effort.

And so, as we close second quarter and looking at the interest savings that could be harvested by paying that down, shortly after quarter end or after the redetermination effort, we paid down some of the credit facility. I think that is just kind of our ongoing treasury type process around what prudent cash management would be.

Got it. So it eliminates the negative carry, and, obviously, as you were going into the redetermination, it seemed like that made sense to you. And then back on what, I think, Steven was touching on, didn't really understand the answer and trying to get a better sense for how you're thinking about the sub notes and refinancing them.

And dealing with the springing maturity on the loans in the situation where – obviously, you're working hard toward a successful Horn River transaction, but it's taking a little bit longer than you had originally hoped. What other alternative plans or strategies do you have to deal with the springing maturities in the event that this is going to end up taking a little bit longer?

Well, I'd say, you make mention of getting the Horn River deal done. I think what Glenn was trying to highlight was some faster-track alternatives that potentially help us work through some of that credit accretion that we're trying to capture.

But I think one of the things that we're also looking at are the various considerations we're making not only is – would the right acquisition also be credit accretive, you know, what does West Texas do for us in terms of accretion to the credit.

But as we think about what that total refi looks like, encompassing things like do we need to rework the credit facility in advance of or concurrent with a sub note refinance, what is the appropriate time, again, concurrent or subsequent to a sub note refi.

So I think there are lot of variables that go into that equation and all of that is sort of underscored by prevailing market conditions and/or investor sentiment in the Quicksilver story.

That makes sense. I think I see what you are saying. Is there a from a timeframe perspective a line in the sand you are willing to draw where by a certain point in time you feel like it's prudent to go and explore and try to execute some of these other alternatives, where it's – the Horn River is just taking a little bit too long. How do we think about that?

I'll come back to Glenn's comments about, it's a 2014 goal to deal with the sub note refinance and I think that what you heard hopefully in my comments and resonating through Glenn's as well, that the management team is focused on executing on the types of transactions that would be catalyst events for us, such that we can accomplish that refinance during the calendar year.

But as to whether or not that's a line in this – I wouldn't view that as a line in the sand per se, but certainly is an internal target to get that done.

Got it. Thanks, John.

Sure, [ph] John (52:16).

Our next question is from David Epstein with CRT Capital.

Hi. When you guys talked about the 30% IRR to 35% IRR at a Texas Motor Speedway, speedway you said at current commodity prices which I take to mean without the benefit of your hedges. Do you have – can you sort of quantify how many sort of drilling prospects you have there, you think can deliver similar kinds of IRRs?

Yes, this is Glenn, David. We, as I said, are expanding that portfolio as we speak. But I think the combination and that's in our Northern fairway up North of Alliance. In our Southern fairway, John outlined some of the cost savings we have achieved with our recent agreement with our midstream provider.

So we have those types of returns in those wells. So we have a multiyear inventory, certainly at today's pace several years of drilling and we are expanding that inventory. So, we're quite encouraged obviously we'd love higher gas prices to take advantage of but we make nice returns even at today's gas price.

Okay. And I apologize I didn't catch the full comments, but what did you say about recent transactions not being an indication of the value of your own assets? Did you say that? And can you elaborate?

Sure, I think that was my comment and so there was a public announcement of some Barnett Assets [indiscernible] (53:57) yesterday.

Yes.

And as you think about the metrics associated with that transaction, if you were to try to extrapolate those metrics to the Barnett – to our Barnett Asset, I was simply pointing out that we don't feel that is an appropriate extrapolation because given our lower cost structure and in particular, the way we have structured our midstream contracts vis-à-vis how that particular package of assets have structured their midstream contracts that it is necessarily an apples-to-apples comparison.

Did that bucket of assets that was sold, didn't they have a higher non-dry gas component or is that incorrect?

That is correct.

That is correct.

But you still think – despite that you think you guys are worth higher on – I guess you're probably focused on dollar per proved reserve. So I think the price per [indiscernible] (55:04) wasn't actually low, it's just that they had a long reserve life, right? But you're probably talking price per [indiscernible] (55:11)?

No, I think it had other complications and John was alluding to substantial midstream and development commitments involved in that. But we truly – we congratulate the seller.

Yes.

Okay. And then just finally, you said that – as you have said previously one of the advantages of your HRB project is non crude-based pricing. Are there any rumblings of the other projects altering their terms to offer pricing that is also not crude based or other features similar to what you are offering?

I think you would have to talk with those other players, David.

Okay, good luck [indiscernible] (55:57). Thanks.

Thank you.

Sure.

Our next question is from Mr. [ph] Sean Sneeden (56:07) with Oppenheimer & Co.

Hi, good morning. Most of the questions were answered but maybe on the capital spending side, given the strip that you've highlighted a few times now, how are you thinking about capital expenditures particularly heading into next year, kind of priority to minimize the outspend or maybe talk about how you're thinking about that?

Sure, I think as we think about 2015 and of course this is in the vacuum of sorts, agnostic to pricing, but generically I would say that you are looking at spending levels that approximate what 2014 spending levels look like and again I think you are going to see the preponderance or the overwhelming majority of those dollars deployed into our core areas, Barnett, Horseshoe Canyon where we've got the inventory of a fairly nice return assets.

And again, I think we will plan on limiting Horn River capital pending the completion of JV up there and again we're hoping to accomplish that sooner rather than later and provide additional clarity there.

But I think as we think about near-term pricing and given what decline curves look like you're going to capture a significant portion of economics in year one, and so 2015 you will still have a significant garnering of the economics under the hedge portfolio that we have in place today.

Okay. So it sounds like then you're still comfortable with, call it, the similar level of outspend that you're looking at this year, is that sort of the right way to read next year?

Well, of course, we haven't poured that capital planning in concrete yet, but as we think about where we want to spend the dollars I think it's clear to say that in the West Texas drilling exploration program is a bit of a wildcard there. But we're expecting the majority of dollars to be Barnett and Horseshoe Canyon and the overall level I don't expect is going to exceed what you're going to see this year.

Okay. That's helpful. And then can you just maybe remind us what your current base decline is and perhaps the NYMEX breakeven levels for both the Barnett and Horn River?

The base decline?

Right.

It's sub-20% in the Barnett and a bit higher in the Horn River because we haven't applied any capital to it.

And then I think from a NYMEX perspective and it's – we realize we're blending Horseshoe Canyon and Barnett here, but it's probably sub-$3, not by a bunch, but just underneath $3.

That's for the company as a whole, sub-$3 or...

No. Just...

Okay.

...yes, both Barnett and Horseshoe.

Okay. Okay. And then just lastly for me, can you remind me what the limitation on hedging is within your credit facilities? Is it just the maturity itself or is there other restrictions in that?

I'm sorry, [ph] Sean (59:44), you're cutting out, can you repeat that please?

Yes, sure. Just the limitation on hedging within your credit facility, is it just the maturity itself or are there other restrictions that don't allow you to currently hedge 2016 and beyond?

No, it's just the maturity.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you.

Our last question is from Mr. [ph] Erin Nicholas (60:10).

Yes. Hi. You guys have alluded to these faster-track plan B option for Horn River and you haven't really been specific at all about what that might be and what it means for the longer-term story. Can you just explain what that is that you're talking about and how you view that as – I'm not – [indiscernible] (60:39) something of a safety belt to say, look, if we can't get this broader Horn River deal done we have fast-track options. We can do something else and then it's going to allow us to refi the subs. Can you give us some more clarity, because it just seems like very – it's very opaque.

Well, we're not going to go into detail on that. What I was trying to convey is we have a plan A which is the full LNG project, that we have discussions ongoing, that has gone significantly slower than we would like and certainly than the market likes. But we have developed concurrently some off ramps with smaller projects that would accomplish our midstream – clear our midstream hurdles in terms of some new drilling and production. And I mentioned on the call that these could be long-term supply contracts, they could be – take the form of a subset of the bigger LNG project and truly that's all we want to convey today is that those are going on parallel paths with different players in discussions.

I kind of think of them as intermediate steps to ultimate accomplishment of what Glenn's captioned plan A, and so in no way detracting from the ability to execute plan A, but as we've outlined plan A is comprehensive, plan A is – it requires a significant absorption of capital over decades, and so in thinking about how we can, sort of, grease the skids to plan A, manage through some of the midstream obligations that we have and accomplish a couple of ancillary benefits associated with our core business, and I'd say – we say greasing the skids, it's additional proving up of the resource potential. So, anyway, I think again without putting too fine a point on it or unveiling too much information, view that as a sound step forward for the company.

I mean, can you – I understand you don't want to disclose the details, but how confident are you that these intermediate steps can be taken and executed in a timely fashion, because it does seem like the life of the company's hinging on the ability to get something done before the end of the year. What kind of confidence do you really have around this thing?

Well, as I said, we understand the timing. We understand the urgency to get something done. I commented on it several times on this call. We know what we have to do and our objective is to do it. So, I'm not going to put a percentage on that of confidence level. I do have confidence in the players that we're talking with that they can accomplish these goals.

Okay. I mean, how do you weigh that with the option of just trying to refinance it now, and if that winds up being dilutive to the equity or at terms the company doesn't love, I mean, how do you weigh the certainty – or potential certainly being able to refinance [indiscernible] (64:19) now versus hoping and working on, but really hoping that the transaction falls into place?

I think that is a very delicate balance, and I can't walk you through the probabilistic equations that we would go with on that. We do know from our market intel that is going to be very expensive and dilutive as I sort of intimated and to go with – in today's, sort of, paradigm and we feel like we've got realistic shots at a couple of credit accretive events, and we feel like on balance pursuing those as high-priority items for unified management team is the way to go at this.

And the words weren't hollow when I said two things, one, I understand the urgency to get the refinance done; and two, that the management team has rallied around and understands the priority of getting these credit accretive transactions done. So I balance it on our team's ability to execute and I think our team has the wherewithal to do that.

And I would add one more thing. We have some confidentiality on some of these alternative plans in terms of non-binding agreements, and so we are not going to go into detail, but we have players who are intent at getting something done as we are and we will see if we can accomplish those things. Obviously we are very, very motivated to get things done.

I mean that's the kind of information and with all due respect to confidentiality and I realize it's big part of it, but that's the kind of information that I think the market needs to know about in some form to have any kind of confidence that there are transactions here. I mean if you say that you're talking to players and they want to do stuff then plan B is in the works and then papers kind of being signed, that's material to me. I think being more – also I mean that kind of disclosure is helpful.

We are being as fulsome as we can be with given some certain restrictions. And I appreciate your position and I appreciate the position of our shareholder base and our bondholder base wanting to know more and we will give you more when we can and as we accomplish it.

Thank you.

All right, thank you.

That is all the time we have for questions today. Mr. Erdman, would you like to make any closing remarks?

Yes, thank you. Just before ending the call I just want to remind everyone that we do use our Investor Relations website to post company news, filings and presentations of other non-public financial information to comply with disclosure obligations under Reg. FD and we do use RSS as a routine channel to supplement distribution of this information.

So I would encourage you to register on our website to receive these RSS feeds and you can do so by visiting investors.qrinc.com/rss. Thank you, everyone, for joining us this morning and we appreciate your interest in Quicksilver Resources. This now concludes our call.

Thank you to all of our speakers. And thank you all in the audience for joining us today. The call has concluded. You may now disconnect.