corrected transcript


Quicksilver Resources Inc
 
KWK
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 8, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning. Welcome to the Quicksilver Resources Third Quarter 2005 Earnings


Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the


speakers’ remarks there will be question and answer session. [Operator Instructions]. I would now


like to turn the call over to our host, Diane Weaver. Thank you. Ms. Weaver, you may begin your


conference.


Diane Weaver, Director of Investor Relations


Good morning. I’m Diane Weaver, Director of Investor Relations, and I would like to welcome you


to the Quicksilver Resources Third Quarter 2005 Earnings Release Conference Call. Company


management on the call today are Glenn Darden, President and CEO; Toby Darden, Chairman of


the Board; Phil Cook, Senior Vice President and CFO, and Wayne Blair, Vice President, Controller.


We will begin today’s call with Glenn Darden discussing the Company’s operations followed by Phil


Cook, who will give a review of the third quarter financial results. We will then open the call to any


questions that you might have.


Before I turn the call over to Glenn, I would like to remind you that this call is covered by the


disclaimer in our Securities and Exchange Commission filings. Glenn?


Glenn M. Darden, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Diane, good morning. Quicksilver Resources earned $24.8 million or $0.31 per diluted


share for the third quarter of 2005. This compares to $0.10 per share in the third quarter of 2004,


taking into account the 3-for-2 stock split in June of this year and $0.21 per share for the prior


quarter. Our production averaged 141 million cubic feet equivalent per day for the quarter. The


Company is currently producing 145 million cubic feet equivalent per day. Quicksilver's gas


production is up 17% year-over-year.


On the operational front, MGV, Quicksilver's Canadian subsidiary, has drilled 375 Horseshoe


Canyon coal wells so far this year in Alberta, that’s 208 net wells. 95% of these wells have been


drilled north of the Palliser Block. Extremely wet weather conditions have affected field operations


in Alberta and have delayed completions and tie-ins and we are now playing catch-up till the end of


the year. The Company's current production from this area is 45 million cubic feet a day. And we


expect to produce approximately 15 Bcf for the year. As the colder weather sets in, we are making


progress and are accelerating all operations and we plan to drill an additional 150 gross wells


before year end to have a total of 500 gross wells and 277 net wells drilled in 2005. We expect


production to be in excess of 50 million cubic feet a day; our original target was 55 million. We may


be hitting that if we have good weather from now till year end.


As we discussed before, most of our drilling this year has been on joint venture lands north of our


original 100% ownership areas. Expanding our development areas so significantly involves


installing new facilities and gathering systems to get this gas to market. We will see the benefits of


this new infrastructure as new wells are added this year, and in 2006 and beyond. The Company


has completed two horizontal Manville coal wells and are currently testing these wells. Unlike the


Horseshoe Canyon coals, the Manville coals contain water and it is necessary to de-water the


wells, so it will take a little bit longer to see definitive results. We will be drilling several more


Manville wells in 2006 to test additional acreage blocks.
corrected transcript


Quicksilver Resources Inc
 
KWK
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 8, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Quicksilver’s Barnett Shale program continues to expand. The Company has drilled 25 net wells in


2005 with 19 of these completed and tied in to sales. Overall we have drilled 33 wells including last


year’s wells. The Company’s current production is 15 million cubic feet a day. We have seven wells


to be tied into sales over the next 30 days.


Due to the high BTU content of the gas in this area, that production number would be 20% higher if


we were running the gas through the cryogenic NGL plant in the Cowtown system. This plant will


be operational in December. We anticipate making between 110 and 120 barrels of NGLs per


million cubic feet of gas. With two drilling rigs running, we have been slowly building production, but


now that we have four rigs drilling, and we’ll be adding a fifth in the next two weeks, the production


numbers will start to jump. To address the drilling rig availability issue, the Company purchased


three rigs and are having two more built. Rather than owning and operating this equipment, we


made a deal with Patterson Drilling Company to purchase these rigs from Quicksilver. In return, we


will have a call on the equipment for as long as we can utilize it. With these additional rigs,


Quicksilver will increase the number of Barnett rigs to 10 later in 2006.


Our pipeline crews have been very busy as well and the company has laid 80 miles of mainline and


gathering lines. 100% of Quicksilver's operated Barnett gas will connect to our own system and gas


plant. We anticipate third party volumes as well. The plant, as I mentioned earlier has delayed the


start up until December due to some late equipment delivery. This delay actually is a better fit with


the increase of drilling rigs on our schedule later in this year and beyond, but the team is pushing


hard to kick off those operations.


Quicksilver’s land position in the Barnett now exceeds 250,000 net acres. On the production side of


the Barnett we are seeing solid consistency. We have drilled wells 28 miles apart in a north-south


direction and 14 miles east to west in an acreage corridor along the Hood-Johnson County line.


The wells are coming in at roughly 2 million cubic feet a day and we estimate an average of 2.5 Bcf


equivalent in ultimate recoveries. Fully 40% of this recovery will be in natural gas liquids. One of our


furthest south wells drilled to date the Gilligan 1-8 looks to be a 4 plus BCF type well so we are


continuing to have good results as we move south.


The company has drilled these horizontal wells on approximately a 160 acre spacing which allows


for one to two infill wells between those original wells. Down spacing will depend on further testing


which we have begun and will continue in 2006. Our first down spaced horizontal well was drilled


recently between two wells drilled last year. We are currently completing this well. Two other down


spacing pilots will be initiated in the first quarter of 2006. These pilots will consist of three parallel


horizontal wells drilled off a central drilling pad. This would equate to approximately 65 acre spacing


per well.


Quicksilver will evaluate our results along with other operators’ projects to determine what makes


the best economic sense from the reserve add versus production acceleration perspective.


During the fourth quarter, Quicksilver will be drilling three resource assessment wells to test the


outer areas of our acreage bought. The wells will be vertical wells and we will core the entire


Barnett section and the wells will be located in Hill, Bosque and Western Somervell Counties.


These wells will be set up to re-enter and drill a horizontal leg after analyzing the results.


To date Quicksilver has shot, processed, or acquired 166 square miles of three dimensional


seismic and will have a total of 215 square miles of 3D by year end. On a net basis this equates to


approximately 40% of the company's current acreage position. Quicksilver plans to shoot at least


an equivalent amount of seismic in 2006. As we have stated before, all of our wells will be drilled


with 3D coverage so we won't drill a well without that 3D coverage and we’re planning every well to


be horizontal over time.