corrected transcript


Quicksilver Resources
 
KWK
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 4, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning. Welcome to the Quicksilver Resources First Quarter 2005 Earnings


Conference Call. [Operator Instructions]. I would now like to turn the call over to our host, Diane


Weaver. Thank you. Ms. Weaver, you may begin your conference.


Diane Weaver, Director of Investor Relations


Thank you. Good morning. I’m Diane Weaver, Director of Investor Relations and I would like to


welcome you to the Quicksilver Resources first quarter 2005 earnings release conference call.


Company management on the call today are Glenn Darden, President and CEO; Toby Darden,


Chairman of the Board; and Wayne Blair, Vice President and Controller. Bill Lamkin, our Chief


Financial Officer, is ill today. We will begin today’s call with Glenn Darden discussing the


company’s operations, followed by Wayne Blair who will give a review of the first quarter financial


results. We will then open the call to any questions that you might have. Before I turn the call over


to Glenn, I would like to remind you that this call is covered by the disclaimer in our Securities and


Exchange Commission filings. Glenn.


Glenn Darden, President and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you Diane. Good morning. Quicksilver Resources earned $10.8 million or $0.20 per diluted


share for the first quarter of 2005. This compares to $0.12 for the first quarter of 2004 and $0.19


for the prior quarter. Our production averaged 134 million cubic feet equivalent per day for the


quarter. The company is currently producing 138 million cubic feet equivalent per day.


MGV, Quicksilver’s Canadian subsidiary has drilled 102 Horseshoe Canyon coal bed wells thus far


this year on a gross basis, 64 net. We plan to have 495 gross wells or 275 net wells by year end.


Actually, 46 of those wells were previously drilled at the end of the year 2004. Most of these wells


are in our joint venture project north of the Palliser Block and that is the reason for discrepancy


between the gross and net. We have partners in most of these projects. We’ve been in the spring


break up period in Canada for the last 8 weeks. During this time, most of the drilling, completion


and other operations are shutdown until the warm weather arrived. We anticipate, we’ll be back to


drilling in the next couple of weeks with 4 drilling rigs at the end of May.


As we’ve said before, the company will be installing 9 new coal bed methane facilities to


accommodate the new production, which will come across a broad area and we expect to exit the


year at 55 million cubic feet a day on the Canadian side. In addition to the Horseshoe Canyon


CBM activity, the company will be drilling several horizontal wells, as we come out of frost laws or


the breakup to test the Manville coals. We hope to have the results to discuss later this year.


As we said in our earnings press release, our Canadian gas production has more than doubled in


the last year and our team, the MGV team is doing an outstanding job of bringing this production


on.


Current production is approximately 38 million cubic feet a day, which includes a loss of 1.5 million


cubic feet a day for the next 2 weeks due to a third party gas plant shutdown. Production volumes


will begin to ramp up again in late May to hit that 55 million a day target at the year end.


Quicksilver’s Barnett Shale program is accelerating. Current production is approximately 13 million


cubic feet a day gross including the company’s participation in 6 third party operated wells. Of that
corrected transcript


Quicksilver Resources
 
KWK
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
May 4, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


number Quicksilver is producing 10 million a day or 8 million net from 12 operated wells, these are


100% owned Quicksilver wells.


We have drilled a total of 16 operated wells and the other 4 wells are in various stages of


completion. The BTU content of this gas is ranging between 1150 to 1250 BTU, so we are actually


realizing approximately 20% more in value effectively. I think that what’s most encouraging about


the overall play in the Barnett is that we are seeing very consistent results across a very broad


area. We’ve drilled now probably 25 miles apart in our wells, so this consistency is looking very


good. All this gas, plus gas from new wells drilled will be tied into company’s Cowtown Pipeline


system beginning this summer.


We’ve also start processing a portion of this gas through a temporary NGL plant, we have off site.


This temporary plant will be replaced by a 75 million a day capacity cryogenic plant which will be


more efficient in maximizing the liquids extraction. This plant will be in service by the fourth quarter.


Quicksilver currently has 2 drilling rigs running in the play and will add a third rig in June and a


fourth rig toward the end of the year. The company’s acreage position has increased to 222,000


net acres. Our concentration continues to be on an acreage corridor running south down the Hood-


Johnson County line into Somervell and Bosque Counties and east into Hill County.


We are working on horizontal projects in other areas in both Michigan and Indiana to try to improve


our current proved areas of shale production and perhaps extend these areas. The company is


also in the very early stages of evaluating a couple of other shales in other areas. Beginning this


month we get a boost from 30 million a day of low priced hedges expiring and this gas will float to


market prices. Remember that we are already paying the operating cost and severance taxes on


these volumes so the differential truly drops to the bottom line. At today’s gas price that’s over


$100,000 per day.


Over the last year we’ve addressed personnel needs that are required to fully develop the large drill


site inventory we have now assembled. We’ve added more talent on the technical and operational


side as well improving our reporting and control systems. Dana Johnson, the Head of our Eastern


Region, which covers Michigan and Indiana, will be moving to Canada to Calgary to become the


Chief Operating Officer of MGV. This operation is now fully in the development phase and Dana’s


experience and expertise will add to the quality team we already have in place.


Nelson Fairchild, one of Quicksilver’s top engineers will move to Michigan and head up the Eastern


Region. Nelson has been a leader in innovative completions in fractured shales for Quicksilver and


will be pushing the technology forward in both Michigan and Indiana on the projects that I


mentioned early.


Overall we feel very good about the progress made on multiple fronts. The company is in great


shape to capitalize on the opportunities we’ve created. On the financial side, the convertible


offering that we did last fall has prepared Quicksilver for the aggressive capital program that we


have in 2005. It now appears that the Barnett Shale project will be another large scale


development program that we can add alongside the Canadian CBM program. We will continue to


push to maximize the value of these projects and look for new opportunities that can create more


value for our shareholders. And now I’ll turn the call over to Wayne Blair, who will go through the


financials and we’ll be available for questions at the end of his remarks.


Wayne Blair, Vice President and Controller


Thanks Glenn. Total net earnings for the quarter were $10.8 million or $0.20 per diluted share


compared to 5.9 million for the same period in 2004 and 9.9 million for the prior quarter. Gross


revenues for the period were 55.2 million as compared to 39.8 million for the same quarter in 2004