corrected transcript


R.H. Donnelley Corp.
 
RHD
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 28, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the R. H. Donnelley Second Quarter


2005 Results Investor Teleconference. At this time, all parties are in a listen-only mode. Later we


will conduct a question and answer session and instructions will be given at that time. Please note


that today's teleconference is being recorded as well as webcast live over the company's web site


at www.rhd.com. I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr. Jim Gruskin. Mr. Gruskin you


may begin.


Jim Gruskin, Assistant Vice President-Finance


Thank you and good morning everyone. I am Jim Gruskin, AVP of Finance at R. H. Donnelley. On


the call today are: Dave Swanson, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of R. H. Donnelley; Steve


Blondy, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Peter McDonald, President and


Chief Operating Officer.


Certain statements made today maybe forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities


Litigation Reform Act. We call your attention to our press release for the quarter ended June 30,


2005, and our Form 8-K furnished to the SEC yesterday, July 27, which both discuss our second


quarter 2005 results. We also encourage you to review the company's other periodic filings with


the SEC, which set forth important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from


those contained in or suggested by any forward-looking statements. During this call today we will


refer you to certain non-GAAP financial measures in discussing the company's performance. You


can find additional information about these measures and a reconciliation between these measures


and the most comparable GAAP measures in the press release and related 8-K furnished on July


27th. A separate 8-K filed on February 24, 2005, includes an explanation of the non-GAAP


financial measures mentioned in connection with the SBC transaction.


Today, we will be referring to adjusted pro forma results, which unless otherwise indicated reflects


the combined results of R H. Donnelley and the directory businesses acquired from SBC assuming


the transaction took place at the beginning of the period presented. The press release is available


on our website and can be accessed by going to www.rhd.com under Investor Information. Copies


of our SEC filings may be obtained by contacting the company, its website, or the SEC website at


www.sec.gov. This transmission is the property of R H. Donnelley Corporation, and any


retransmission or broadcast without the express consent of the company is strictly prohibited. Now


with that, I would like to turn the call over to Dave Swanson.


David C. Swanson, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you Jim. Good morning everyone and welcome to R.H. Donnelley's Second Quarter 2005


Investor Call. I'm going to take the next few minutes to provide you with a brief review of our


second quarter highlights and afterwards Steve Blondy will take us through the company's financial


results in detail. We’ll then be happy to answer your questions.


During the quarter, we made considerable progress toward our goals for 2005. We delivered 5.3%


publication sales growth in our Sprint markets, an outstanding quarter and the best performance


since we acquired the business in January of 2003. Our online products continued to gain


momentum in both sales and traffic. We continued with the reconstruction of our SBC business in


Illinois, and for the most part, completed all integration and transition services initiatives. And, we


also used free cash flow to repay approximately $73 million of debt.
corrected transcript


R.H. Donnelley Corp.
 
RHD
 
Q2 2005 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 28, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


A little more color on some of the operating details for the quarter. Three things primarily drove our


better than expected Sprint results for the quarter.


First and foremost is the cumulative impact of the RHD business process implementation. As a


result of driving the process deeper into the organization, we grew sales across a broader cross-


section of markets, both large and small. National sales were also a strong contributor in the


quarter.


Second, we got some lift from having online product to sell in all of our markets rather than a select


few. You’ll recall on last quarter's call, we announced that we completed our infrastructure build-out


for our online products and now offer local online search in every market that we serve.


And third, we had an exceptionally strong performance out of several of our Florida directories


publishing in the quarter. Over and above the process and execution improvements we have


made, these markets received a lift in economic activity surrounding the services sector as a result


of last season's hurricanes. The post-hurricane rebuilding efforts have expanded the market for the


service businesses that are our bread and butter customers. This is translated into increased


advertising sales for us, as more new businesses move into the area to fill the increased demand


and existing advertisers have more cash to broaden their messages.


The underlying strength of our Sprint business and anticipated second quarter results led us to


raise our guidance in June for full year 2005 Sprint publication sales growth from 3.5%, to 4%.


While we expect solid sales growth numbers in Q3 and 4, we do not see them coming in quite as


strong as Q1 and Q2.


Now, I will turn to our SBC markets. We had another very productive quarter of integration activity,


and that process remains right on track and is for the most part complete. That said, we have a


have a lot of work in front of us in terms of product, process, and execution before we are going to


see meaningful improvement in sales growth. Publication sales for the quarter were down 2.7%,


reflecting the fact that we are still in the middle of our rebuilding effort. As we said when we


announced the SBC transaction last summer, building a foundation for growth will be disruptive at


the outset, and our investments in the market will not generate results overnight.


In June, we lowered our guidance for SBC publication sales to negative 2% from negative 1%,


reflecting the near term impact of 3 actions to position the business for long-term sustainable


growth.


First, we are no longer allowing advertising on the covers of our products. Our research showed


that this was making it more difficult for yellow page users to differentiate between the different


products in the marketplace. As a result, we removed the clutter, added the RH Donnelley brand


and introduced a clean, new look to all products in the market. While causing some short-term


pain, we believe the benefit to usage share over time is a good trade.


Second, as I mentioned on last quarter's call, we are re-scoping and consolidating some of our


directories together to create products that more appropriately reflect the expanded shopping areas


and patterns of our marketplaces there today. This was a project that was long overdue in the


Chicago-land suburbs. In some cases however, this has resulted in some lost revenue among


advertisers who are already paying for ads in all of the consolidated directories.


And finally, since transitioning the billing, credit and collection functions, from SBC to RHD in the


first quarter, we have implemented our proven process and policies regarding extending credit to


new customers and not allowing existing customers with significant past due balances to continue


to advertise. We are deploying the same kind of discipline to this process that we use in our Sprint


markets, which over time have led us to enjoy some of the highest advertiser renewal rates, and


lowest bad debt expense rates in the industry. Unfortunately, there's a near term price to pay and