corrected transcript


R.H. Donnelley Corp.
 
RHD
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 27, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the R.H. Donnelley's Third Quarter


2005 Results Investors Teleconference. [Operator Instructions] Please note today's conference is


being recorded as well as webcast live over the Company’s website at www.rhd.com.


I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Jim Gruskin. Mr. Gruskin, you may begin.


James M. Gruskin, Assistant Vice President, Finance and Investor Relations


Thank you and good morning everyone. I am Jim Gruskin, AVP Finance at R.H. Donnelley. And


on the call today are Dave Swanson, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of R.H. Donnelley;


Steve Blondy, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Peter McDonald; President


and Chief Operating Officer.


These statements made today may be forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities


Litigation Reform Act. We call your attention to our press release for the quarter end of September


30th 2005 in our Form 8-K furnished to the SEC yesterday October 26, which both discuss our third


quarter 2005 results. We also encourage you to review the Company’s other periodic filings with


the SEC, which set forth important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from


those contained in or suggested by any forward-looking statements.


During this call today, we well refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures in discussing the


company’s performance. You can find additional information about these measures and a


reconciliation between these measures and the most comparable GAAP measures in the press


release in related 8-K furnished on October 26. The press release is available on our website and


can be accessed by going to www.rhd.com under Investor Information. The separate 8-K filed on


February 24th 2005, includes an explanation of the non-GAAP measures mentioned in connection


with the SBC transaction.


Today we’ll will be referring to adjusted pro forma results, which unless otherwise indicated, reflect


the combined results of R.H. Donnelley and the Directory Business acquired from SBC assuming


the transaction took place at the beginning of the period presented. Separately, we’ll be referring to


the pending acquisition of Dex Media announced on October 3rd 2005. Please review the risk


factors described in the Safe Harbor language and where to find more information at the back of


the related press release. Copies of the press release and presentation related to the Dex Media


transaction are also available on our website. Now, I would like to turn the call over to Dave


Swanson.


David C. Swanson, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Jim. Good morning everyone and welcome to R.H. Donnelley’s Third Quarter Investor


Call. I am going to take the next few minutes to provide you with the brief review of the third


quarter highlights, and afterwards Steve Blondy will take us through the company’s financial results


in greater detail. We’ll then be happy to take your questions.


Since our last earnings call in July, we’ve had more than our fair share of excitement here at R.H.


Donnelley, with the headline being the announced acquisition of Dex Media, another important step


in the transformation of R.H. Donnelley. Our operating results in the third quarter were also very


solid. During the quarter, we delivered 1.7% aggregate publication sales growth driven by another


very strong performance in our Sprint markets, offset by our reconstruction efforts in Illinois. Year-
corrected transcript


R.H. Donnelley Corp.
 
RHD
 
Q3 2005 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 27, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


to-date, we have also delivered aggregate publication sales growth of approximately 1.7%, slightly


ahead of plan and a significant accomplishment given the more challenging nature of the Illinois


turnaround.


Our online products continued to gain momentum in the quarter in both usage and sales


contribution. We reported adjusted EBITDA of $147.8 million, a result that reflects solid cost control


leading us to raise full year EBITDA guidance to $590 million. And finally, we used cash flow to


repay approximately $116 million of debt.


Our Sprint markets delivered another industry leading performance in the quarter, with publication


sales growth of 4.4%. We experienced strong growth in virtually all of our major markets with


directories that published in the quarter, and saw consistent growth from both the local and the


national channel. We had another outstanding performance in Las Vegas, driven by both the


strong local economy and our team’s exceptional efforts in the face of new competition. And once


again, we received some lift from our online products as well.


I am very encouraged by the continued strength of the advertiser renewal rates and the growing


number of new business accounts in our Sprint markets. The cumulative impact of the


implementation of the R.H. Donnelley business process is delivering the desired results. For


example, now in the third year, our policy of accepting advertising from businesses that


demonstrate good pay habits has contributed to higher renewal rates and reduced bad debt


expense, which in turn have enabled us to convert more sales into cash flow.


We are increasing our guidance for full-year 2005 Sprint publications sales growth from 4 to 4.4%.


Through the first 3 quarters, we’ve achieved year-to-date sales growth of about 4.8% and while we


expect solid sales growth in Q4, it is traditionally our softest quarter because a disproportionate


amount of Q4 published directories are in the slower growing Midwestern markets.


Now I’ll turn to our SBC markets. Last quarter, I spoke about the near-term impact of 3 decisions


we made to position that business for long-term sustainable growth. First, removing advertising


from the covers of our products to strengthen our brand awareness. Second, re-scoping and


consolidating some of our directories together to create products that more appropriately reflect the


expanded shopping areas and patterns of those marketplaces today. And third, deploying the


same kind of discipline with respect to extending credit to advertisers that we use in our Sprint


markets.


Publication sales for the third quarter, the smallest quarter of the year in Illinois, were down 4.5%,


reflecting these efforts to clean up the products and the advertiser base. We’ve maintained a


disciplined approach with respect to the Illinois turnaround. Rather than managing to a number for


2005, we have held firm with the decisions we made to improve the long-term growth and


profitability of that business. We have no interest in perpetuating sales that won’t positively impact


cash flow and the usage of our products. While our Sprint markets have exceeded expectations


this year, I do think it’s fair to say that we underestimated the near-term impact of these actions in


Illinois. We expect to feel the lingering effects of our actions through the second quarter of next


year, at which time we will have completed a full directory cycle under our new policies.


As we have said previously, the changes we are making in Illinois also make it much more difficult


than normal to forecast sales results. For this reason and because of the impact of the changes


we’ve made in the market, we’re lowering guidance for 2005 SBC pub sales from negative 2% to


negative 3%. And while we are not at all satisfied with the performance in Illinois, we are


encouraged by some of the things that we are starting to see. First, the number of delinquent


accounts is decreasing. This positive development tells us that our new credit policy is working and


will ultimately create a more solid customer base from which we can drive renewals and recurring


revenue in the future. Second, our research is indicating that usage of our products in those