corrected transcript


R.H. Donnelley Corp.
 
RHD
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 28, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 5 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning ladies and gentlemen welcome to the R. H. Donnelley’s First Quarter


2005 Results Investor Teleconference. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later


we will conduct a question and answer session and instructions will be given at that time. Please


note that today’s teleconference is being recorded as well as webcast live over the company’s web


site at www.rhd.com. I would like to turn the call over to Jim Gruskin. Mr. Gruskin you may begin.


James Gruskin, Assistant Vice President-Finance


Thank you and good morning everyone. I am Jim Gruskin, AVP Finance at R. H. Donnelley. On


the call today are Dave Swanson, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of R. H. Donnelley; Steve


Blondy, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Peter McDonald, President and


Chief Operating Officer.


Certain statements made today maybe forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities


Litigation Reform Act. We call your attention to our press release for the quarter ended March 31st,


2005 and our Form 8-K furnished to the SEC yesterday, April 27th which both discuss our first


quarter 2005 results. We also encourage you to review the company’s other periodic filings with


the SEC, which set forth important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from


those contained in or suggested by any forward-looking statements. During this call today we will


refer to certain non-GAAP financial measures in discussing the company’s performance. You can


find additional information about these measures and a reconciliation between these measures and


the most comparable GAAP measures in the press release and related 8-K furnished on April 27th.


A separate 8-K filed on February 24, 2005, includes a explanation of the non-GAAP measures


mentioned in connection with the recent SBC transaction.


Today, we will be referring to adjusted pro forma results which unless otherwise indicated reflects


the combined results of R H. Donnelly and the directory businesses acquired from SBC assuming


the transaction took place at the beginning of the period presented. Press release is available on


our website and can be accessed by going to www.rhd.com under Investor Information. Now, I


would like to turn the call over to Dave Swanson.


David C. Swanson, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Jim. Good morning everyone. Welcome to R.H. Donnelley’s first quarter 2005 investor


call. I’m going to take the next few minutes to provide you with a brief overview of our first quarter


highlights and then I will have Steve Blondy take us through the company’s financial results in a


little more detail. We will then be happy to take your questions.


As you likely saw from our press release last night, Q1 was a very good quarter for us. We


delivered 4.8% publication sales growth in our Sprint markets, the best performance since we


acquired that business in January of 2003. We successfully completed some of the very important


integration projects in Illinois. We launched online search products in our remaining markets ahead


of schedule and we used cash flow to repay approximately a $113 million of debt. These


achievements and the underlying strength of our Sprint business enabled us to raise our guidance


for full year 2005.


Our solid Sprint results reflect the cumulative impact of the RHD business process implementation.


From Las Vegas, our largest market, through virtually all the markets with directories that


published, we showed solid growth in the quarter. Importantly, we’ve begun to see improved
corrected transcript


R.H. Donnelley Corp.
 
RHD
 
Q1 2005 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 28, 2005


Company

 
Ticker

 
Event Type

 
Date



www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2. 9 31 . 65 1 5 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 4 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


performance in some of our smaller markets, as our process moves deeper into our business.


National sales for the quarter were also strong. Across the board in our Sprint markets, our keen


focus on promoting usage and awareness of our products, solid sales execution, and a great


process in the areas of receivables collection and customer service is driving increased advertiser


renewals and recurring revenue. We are also benefiting from a discipline that began two years


ago, of only accepting advertising from businesses that are likely pay and continued to be good


customers, well into the future. The aggressive rollout of Internet Yellow Page search products


also contributed to our Sprint results. And finally, we feel like the economy has been more friend


than foe in many of our markets.


The early strong performance that we’ve seen in a number of our markets is leading us to increase


our guidance for Sprint pub sales by a 100 basis points to 3.5% growth for the year. Regarding the


Illinois business, we had a very productive quarter of integration activity and the process remains


right on track. I want to share just a few numbers with you today to give you an idea of the scope


and the success of our integration efforts thus far. First, we completed the conversion of customers


in the SBC markets to the R.H. Donnelley billing, credit and collection system and process. We’ve


added approximately 60 new staff to our receivables unit in Kansas City and are now issuing over


96,000 bills to Illinois advertisers on a monthly basis. And I’ve got to tell you I feel very good about


the fact that we have our proven team executing a proven process, strongly focusing on cash flow,


as they managed our receivables.


Next, we expand in our customer service group in Bristol, Tennessee and are now taking the


20,000 or so calls per month that come in from advertisers and users in Illinois, ensuring that they


get the high quality and courteous service they deserve. And we successfully completed the


printing and distribution management handoff in the quarter resulting in our managing the printing


of 18 of the SBC Directory titles and the distribution of over 3 million directories in the first quarter.


Getting these processes transitions so quickly and effectively is a real testament to the quality of


the teams involved from both R.H. Donnelley as well as SBC Directory Operations and the SBC


Telecommunications group.


Meanwhile, we continue to invest in sales and marketing in Illinois. We have significantly increased


our advertising and promotional efforts, and we began leveraging the strong R.H. Donnelley brand


in Illinois by launching co-branded directories with both the SBC and R.H. Donnelley names on the


covers.


As a reminder, Chicago is the birthplace of our company, and that R.H. Donnelley brand was on the


directories there for over a 100 years until the 1990s. And between R.H. and R.R., the Donnelley


name is very well known and highly respected in the Chicago area. The marketing team that we’ve


deployed in Illinois continues to re-scope and reconfigure our product offerings to better meet the


needs of users and advertisers. In a few cases, these product resets are likely to cause us to take


a small step backwards as a result of consolidating two or more directory products into one, but it’s


consistent with our plan and our philosophy to do the right thing and position the business for long-


term sustainable growth. These product reset projects will likely continue for the next couple of


years.


First quarter publication sales in our SBC markets were down 2.7%. I’ll remind you that we had


limited impact on these results given that they partly reflect sales campaigns that began before the


acquisition closed. I would also reiterate what we said when we announced the SBC transaction


last summer. Building a foundation for growth will be disruptive at the outset and our investments


in the market will not generate results overnight. I would advise you to expect more of the same in


the second quarter as we continue to move through the rebuilding process in Illinois. And while the


success of our integration efforts thus far is encouraging, it’s too early to be declaring victory and


it’s going to take time for the RHD business process to fully take root in Illinois. Net-net, things are