corrected transcript


RAIT Financial Trust
 
RAS
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 23, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Second Quarter 2010 RAIT


Financial Trust Earnings Conference Call. My name is Theodora and I will be your coordinator for


today. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. We will conduct a question-and-answer


session towards the end of this conference. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference


is being recorded for replay purposes.


I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today’s call, Mr. Andres Viroslav, Vice


President and Director of Corporate Communications. Please proceed.


Andres Viroslav, Vice President and Director of Corporate Communications


Thank you, Theodora, and good morning to everyone. Thank you for joining us today to review


RAIT Financial Trust second quarter 2010 financial results. On the call with me today are Scott


Schaeffer, Chief Executive Officer, and Jack Salmon, RAIT’s Chief Financial Officer.


This morning’s call is being webcast on our website at www.raitft.com. There will be a replay of the


call available via webcast on our website and telephonically beginning at approximately 11:00 AM


Eastern Time today. The dial-in for the replay is 888-286-8010 with a confirmation code of


31239567.


Before I turn the call over to Scott, I would like to remind everyone that there may be forward-


looking statements made in this call. These forward-looking statements reflect RAIT’s current views


with respect to future events and financial performance. Actual results could differ substantially and


materially from what RAIT has projected. Such statements are made in good faith pursuant to the


Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Please refer to


RAIT’s press release and filings with the SEC for factors that could affect the accuracy of our


expectations or cause our future results to differ materially from those expectations.


Participants may discuss non-GAAP financial measures in this call. A copy of RAIT’s press release


containing financial information, other statistical information and a reconciliation of non-GAAP


financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is attached to RAIT’s


most recent current report on Form 8-K available at RAIT’s website www. raitft.com under Investor


Relations. RAIT’s other SEC filings are also available through this link. RAIT does not undertake to


update forward-looking statements in this call or with respect to matters described herein, except as


may be required by law.


Now, I’d like to turn the call over to RAIT’s Chief Executive Officer, Scott Schaeffer. Scott?


Scott F. Schaeffer, Chief Executive Officer


Thank you very much, Andres, and thank all of you for joining us this morning as we present RAIT’s


second quarter 2010 results. The quarter ended June 30, 2010, RAIT generated $0.27 per share in


GAAP earnings and $6.5 million of REIT taxable income. This is our third consecutive quarter of


positive GAAP earnings and the first quarter of REIT taxable income since the third quarter of 2009.


We are pleased with these results and are hopeful that we have turned the corner and that these


trends will continue. Of course, our success is closely tied to continued improvement in general


economic and credit market condition.


On previous calls, we’ve described that our goals for RAIT, as we continue to adapt the business to


current market realities. I’d like to take a moment and update you on the progress we’ve made


towards achieving these goals during the first half of 2010. First is deleveraging the balance sheet;
corrected transcript


RAIT Financial Trust
 
RAS
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Jul. 23, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


during the second quarter, we made further strides in the deleveraging process. We repurchased or


retired approximately $48.1 million of RAIT’s total indebtedness, lowering RAIT’s debt-to-equity


ratio to 2.7 times. Specifically, we took advantage of opportunities to repurchase at substantial


discount, $33.5 million of our 6.875% convertible notes and CRE, CDO debt. The balance of such


convertible debt outstanding at the end of the second quarter was $172 million, as compared to


$246 million at the beginning of the year. Also subsequent to quarter end, we exchanged an


additional 10 million of our convertible debt for a combination of cash and equity. We expect to


continue to delever the company throughout 2010.


Our second goal is managing the performance of our commercial real estate platform. The credit


performance of our commercial real estate portfolio continues to improve. Our CRE related


provision for loan losses was $7.6 million in the second quarter, that’s compared to $19.5 million a


year ago. And our CRE loans or non-accrual remained level on a linked quarter basis and


decreased 23% year-over-year.


Our portfolio of directly owned commercial real estate assets totaled $804 million at June 30, 2010.


Average occupancy rates and rents continued to improve in the portfolio as a whole with the


multifamily assets being the largest and best performing property type within the portfolio. As an


owner, we benefit from many potential equity upside in the portfolio and future revenue growth that


we can achieve through our active management of these assets towards stabilization. We also


continue to execute on our green energy initiatives and are taking advantage of government


subsidies and tax credits focused on job creation within our office and retail properties.


Though future performance is difficult to predict, in the first half of 2010, our occupancy rates rose,


our provision for loan losses declined, and we continue to pass both yield to collateralization and


interest coverage tests on both of our CRE, CDO securitizations. Also as part of our strategy to


focus on our commercial real estate platform, during the second quarter, we completed the


disposition of our collateral management rights for eight unconsolidated non-core Taberna


securitizations with proceeds of approximately $16.5 million.


Our third goal is developing new sources of fee income. We have begun to see new fee income


generation from our broker-dealer RAIT Securities and our internal property management


company, Jupiter Communities. RAIT Securities generated approximately $800,000 in fee trading


income from higher trading volumes during the quarter, and Jupiter Communities, which manages


many of our own multifamily properties and provides third-party property management services was


awarded a third party management contract in the second quarter, which increased its multifamily


units under management by 15% to approximately 12,000 units.


We expect to begin to see the benefit of these additional contracts in the third quarter. We’ve also


added a group to internally manage and lease office and retail props. This group will initially focus


on properties within our portfolio, but will look to increase fee income through the addition of third-


party management contracts. We expect these initiatives to continue to have forward momentum in


the coming quarters. And finally, we continue to see opportunities for new commercial real estate


loans to be funded through our existing CRE, CDO securitizations or through one of the many


relationships that we have with various capital providers.


Before I turn the call over to Jack, I’d like to make some brief comments on the market. We


continue to believe that our success along with that of our peers remains closely linked to an overall


recovery in the economic and credit market conditions affecting commercial real estate. Positive


employment growth is the most important factor for improvement in real estate fundamentals.


Employment drives demand for apartment units, office space, as well as retail spending.


RAIT’s Capital Advisory Group analyzed 77 markets, and found that 75 had employment levels


higher than each of the market’s lowest points. We believe that this may point to an emerging, but