Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Andres Viroslav — Head-Investor Relations, RAIT Financial Trust
Scott L. N. Davidson — President, Chief Executive Officer & Trustee, RAIT Financial Trust
Alfred J. Dilmore — Interim Chief Financial Officer and Interim Treasurer, RAIT Financial Trust
Jessica S. Levi-Ribner — Analyst, FBR Capital Markets & Co.
Benjamin Zucker — Analyst, JMP Securities LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning. My name is Matthew, and I'll be your conference operator today. At this time, I'd like to welcome everyone to the Third Quarter 2017 RAIT Financial Trust Earnings Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you.

Andres Viroslav, you may begin your conference.

Thank you, Matthew, and good morning to everyone. Thank you for joining us today to review RAIT Financial Trust third quarter 2017 financial results. On the call with me today are Scott Davidson, RAIT's Chief Executive Officer; and Fred Dilmore, RAIT's Interim Chief Financial Officer.

This morning's call is being webcast on our website at www.rait.com. There'll be a replay of the call available via webcast on our website and telephonically, beginning at approximately 12 PM Eastern Time today. The dial-in for the replay is 855-859-2056 with the confirmation code of 95365064.

Before I turn the call over to Scott, I would like to remind everyone that there may be forward-looking statements made in this call that involve risk and uncertainty. These forward-looking statements reflect RAIT's current views with respect to future events and financial and operational performance. Actual results could differ substantially and materially from what RAIT has projected. Such statements are made in good faith pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

Please refer to a section entitled Forward-Looking Statements in RAIT's earnings release issued earlier today and RAIT's other filings with the SEC for factors that could affect the accuracy of our expectations or cause our future results to differ materially from those expectations. RAIT does not undertake to update forward-looking statements in this call or with respect to matters described herein, except as may be required by law.

Participants may discuss non-GAAP financial measures in this call. A copy of RAIT's earnings release and supplement issued earlier today containing financial information and a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures and the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure are attached to RAIT's most recent current report on Form 8-K available at RAIT's website, www.rait.com, under Investor Relations. RAIT's other SEC filings are also available through this link.

Now, I'd like to turn the call over to RAIT's Chief Executive Officer, Scott Davidson. Scott?

Thank you, Andres, and good morning. Thank you all for joining us today. As you know, we remain in the midst to focusing RAIT on a streamlined business model. It's committed to focusing on our world-class commercial real estate lending activities. We remain committed to the execution of our strategic plan of recycling capital from our legacy assets and reallocating that capital in the quality senior commercial real estate loans, as well as reducing debt. So far, we made good progress executing on that plan.

As of this call, our REO property portfolio is down to approximately $336 million as since the beginning of 2016. We've divested properties for $678 million and reduced related debt and corporate unsecured debt by more than $687 million. As importantly, loan volume was up more than 300% to $375 million in the nine-month period ending September 30, 2017. As expected, the progress we've achieved executing on our transformational strategy has resulted in a smaller balance sheet, less debt, and compressed cash. It remains our goal to be largely completed with the remaining asset dispositions and our strategic transformation by early 2018.

Our transformational strategy remains focused on: growing our core middle market CRE lending activities; divesting our legacy REO portfolio; divesting our property management operation; reducing our outstanding unsecured recourse indebtedness; and reducing our total expense base.

As previously noted, we continue to recycle capital into our lending activities. During the quarter, we closed nine floating-rate first mortgage loans totaling about $100 million. And during the first nine months of 2017, we originated a total of $375 million of loans, easily surpassing all of 2016 loan origination volumes and matching our capital availability. Our lending pipeline remained strong, and we're seeing consistent credit quality with our first-lien middle-market-focused product. We remain a leader in the floating-rate CMBS securitization market, and we're aggregating loans for our eighth rate-sponsored floating rate securitization and our second transaction of 2017.

As I alluded to, our legacy non-lending asset dispositions continue. While we expect quarterly volatility in the timing and amount of properties disposed of during our transformation, we sold and divested 13 properties totaling about $129 million from July 1, 2017, through November 1, 2017, bringing total property dispositions to $340 million in 2017 and $678 million since January of 2016. We currently have a property portfolio of 21 properties totaling about $336 million, with 15 of those properties or about $238 million in varying stages of our sales process.

As we continue executing on our plan, we continue making progress rightsizing our base compensation and G&A expense levels. 2017 base compensation and G&A expenses are on track to meet our approximate $25 million per-year goal. Third quarter expenses were approximately 17% lower than the third quarter of 2016. And when annualized, we estimate an approximate 21% decrease in compensation and G&A expenses from 2016. When you look at expense levels prior to RAIT commencing its strategic transformation, compensation and G&A expenses are estimated to decrease by more than 45% from 2016 levels on an annualized basis.

We are also managing our liquidity and focused on allocating capital to reduce RAIT's unsecured recourse indebtedness. Total recourse debt excluding RAIT's secured warehouse facilities declined by $12.6 million from July 1, 2017, through this call. And since January 1, 2016, total recourse debt has declined by approximately $115.8 million. Based on our internal estimates, we expect to release approximately $200 million of capital from our existing portfolio over the next 12 months. That capital can be reallocated into further debt reductions, our lending business, and to our working capital.

As to dividends on RAIT's common and preferred securities, the board considered a variety of factors during its evaluation of the third quarter common dividend. After an evaluation of the current facts and circumstances, the board made the difficult decision to suspend the quarterly common dividend. The board felt it was important to enhance RAIT's financial flexibility as the transition continues. The board expects to consider whether to reinstate the dividend on RAIT's common shares after RAIT completes the strategic transformation and exploration of strategic and financial alternatives. The board also declared fourth quarter preferred stock dividends in the normal course.

At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to Fred Dilmore, RAIT's Interim Chief Financial Officer, to report on our financial results.

Thank you, Scott. As Scott highlighted, we are in the midst of our transformation to a pure-play commercial real estate lender. This process, which includes the unlocking of capital for lending and debt paydowns by reducing the balance sheet through legacy asset sales and loan repayments, remains active and ongoing.

For the third quarter, we are reporting a GAAP loss of $0.26 per common share and a CAD loss of $0.01 per common share. The GAAP loss includes $4 million or $0.04 per share non-cash loss on deconsolidation of seven properties, which is expected to be offset by a gain on deconsolidation in future periods. In addition, we incurred a provision for loan losses against certain legacy CRE loans of $5.5 million and non-cash asset impairment charges of $3.1 million on certain REO assets for the quarter ended September 30, 2017. To-date, all of our loan losses and non-cash asset impairment charges relate to our legacy assets. All of our post financial crisis originated loans continue to perform as expected.

For the nine-month period ended September 30, 2017, GAAP loss per share was $1.97 compared to a loss per share of $0.28 for the nine months ended September 30, 2016. The increase in the GAAP loss per share was primarily caused by the previously announced non-cash asset impairment charges and provision for loan losses, as reported in the second quarter on certain legacy CRE properties and loans.

CAD loss per share for the nine-month period was $0.01 compared to CAD per share of $0.12 for the nine months ended September 30, 2016. Our loan portfolio stands at $1.24 billion as of September 30, 2017, compared to $1.28 billion at December 31, 2016. The loan portfolio continues to experience levels of loan payoff, consistent with our expectations. Loan repayments were approximately $110 million in Q3 and $385 million for the nine-month period ended September 30, 2017; while loan originations totaled $101 million during the quarter and $375 million for the nine-month period.

As Scott also indicated, we continued making progress divesting out of the real estate portfolio. Including the property sales that occurred subsequent to quarter-end, the total property portfolio is down to 21 properties, totaling approximately $336 million, a 61% decline from December 30, 2016.

During the year, we generated GAAP gains related to our property sales of nearly $23 million, with its overall indebtedness declined by approximately $162 million during the third quarter and $331 million year-to-date. Total recourse debt excluding RAIT's secured warehouse facilities declined over $10 million during the third quarter and over $150 million since January 1, 2016, through today.

We ended the third quarter with a cash balance of $46 million in every cycle, approximately $114 million of unrestricted capital during the nine-month period. As Scott mentioned, we expect to unlock an additional $200 million of unrestricted capital approximately from our capital recycling activities over the next 12-month period. This capital could be available to allocate towards debt reduction, working capital or reinvestment into [ph] new look (00:11:13).

Finally, two items worth highlighting. First, we reported a noncash loss on deconsolidation of properties of just over $20 million for the nine-month ended September 30, 2017, and expected loss to reverse via a gain on deconsolidation properties in coming periods possibly in the fourth quarter. As a reminder, this is being driven by a 10-property industrial portfolio that is encumbered by a single third-party cross-collateralized loan, non-recourse to RAIT, where RAIT no longer has an economic interest in the portfolio, yet must continue to consolidate the portfolio until the senior lender completes the process to divest RAIT of the remaining two properties to satisfy its loan. The senior lender began that process during the first quarter of 2017. And, once complete, we expect to fully reverse the related noncash at loss into a gain on deconsolidation of properties.

And secondly, we expect to recognize a gain of $5.5 million in our fourth quarter results related to the purchase by RAIT for $20.5 million of warrants and stock appreciation rights pursuant to the exercise of a put right by the holder with respect to the warrant and stock appreciation rights. The gain represents the excess between the carrying amount of this obligation and the purchase price. Overall, we continue making progress towards achieving our strategic transformational goals.

Scott, back to you.

Thanks, Fred. As you are aware, during the quarter, we announced that the RAIT board formed a Special Committee to begin our formal process of exploring strategic and financial alternatives for RAIT. The Special Committee continues to work diligently with Barclays and UBS Investment Bank on this process. Expressions of interest have been received from and discussions are advancing with multiple parties with respect to a potential transaction involving RAIT. There can be no assurance that any transaction will result from this process or as to the timing or nature of such potential transaction. Therefore, we will not be able to take any questions regarding the process. However, we are glad to do address other questions about RAIT.

And with that, operator, I'd like to open up the call for any questions. [Operator Instructions]

We have a question from Jessica Ribner with B. Riley/FBR. Your line is open.

Good morning. Thanks for taking my question.

Good morning, Jessica.

My first would just be on the pace of fourth quarter originations. Can you give us an idea of how that's looking already in the quarter?

Yeah. I mean, the pace is pretty consistent with the year so far. We've got a number of loans under wrap, a number of loans closed. And I don't know if there's anything out of the ordinary relative of the third quarter or the second quarter.

Okay. And I know that the new originations are coming in at slightly lower yields. Are you seeing the same trend in the fourth quarter? And what can you talk about – I mean, that's driven by competition. What are you seeing in the space, and how are you thinking about that?

I think the good news is while the – obviously, the yield is a function of the individual loan, right? On the other hand, our financing costs in the securitization market seems to be going down as that market does well, too. So, what we're able to do is pass along the benefit of the financing that we get to our borrowers. And we think that we're likely to end up with a higher [ph] yield to RAIT (00:14:58) on our residual interest in the current environment than in previous environment. So, I think it's actually somewhat a good thing, because what you're seeing is both sides of the spread market compressing.

Okay. And then can you speak a little bit to the liquidity that you have on hand? I know you guys talked a lot about being able to release about $200 million of capital over the next year. But today, what amount of originations does your liquidity support?

I think that we kind of targeted at the beginning of the year $500 million to $600 million or so of loan originations, if my memory serves. I think that from a model perspective, we balance both repaying debt as part of our strategic plan as well as allocating capital into our loan business. And I don't think that our notion of how many loans we have capital available to originate for this year has changed or is changing. What we have been pretty conservative about is managing sort of the property sales that we have, create a little bit of some unusual spikes, if you will, in our cash availability. And we're pretty conservative about how we manage that, or at least we try to be conservative and match that capital with our loan origination.

My last question is going to be on the dividend. It sounds like if we just kind of think about the guidance you're giving for next quarter that there's going to be some reversal of deconsolidation losses and you're going to have a $5.5 million gain with the originations kind of holding steady quarter-over-quarter. Can you expand a little bit on the thinking behind cutting your dividend altogether, and how we can think about that?

Sure. I think that the statement that the board put out and that our Chairman highlighted in his release, I think, sums up the board's thinking which is we are in the middle of a strategic alternative process. Keeping extra cash on hand provides extra flexibility for us over time. We do know that dividends are important to our shareholders and that's something that's very much at the forefront of the board's thinking process. And what the board has decided or wants to do is wait till we get through the strategic transformation process. And when we know how that process concluded, then to reanalyze and rethink about the best way to move forward as it relates to dividends.

Okay. Thank you.

And your next question comes from the line of Ben Zucker with JMP Securities. Your line is open.

Thanks, and good morning, everyone. Appreciate you taking my questions. I had one that I was going to ask about pricing trends and how pronounced those are in the smaller balance size of the market, but that was basically touched upon.

Scott, if I heard your prepared remarks right, it sounds like you guys are making really solid progress with the real estate sales now in 4Q 2017. And did I hear you right that all of the remaining held-for-sale assets are at least in some stage of the selling process and understanding that doesn't necessarily mean that they'll all close in this quarter?

Yeah. I think that's right. I mean, we're an active seller. Obviously, if something's closed, you can't say that they've closed, but we are working on every single asset. And there are various stages of the process. We are a disciplined seller, and we always reserve the right as someone tries to change terms on us at the closing table or some other things have pulled off the market and bring it back, but we are actively working on all of them. Feel good about the process, and it feels like we can see the light at the end of the tunnel in terms of getting rid of that portfolio at appropriate prices.

Well, that's great. I know this has been a long process. So, nice to see the progress. On the other side of that, that remaining $97 million, $98 million for held for investment real estate. Is there a reason that, that's held for investment? I mean, do you actually plan to hold those over an extended period of time or is that presumably the next wave of what will be divested once these initial assets are sold?

Sure. No, it's a good question. As you would expect, it's not just one asset, it's a little bit of a portfolio and each asset has its own particular story or reason. In some cases, there are legal reasons with other parties and interest in those transactions that prevent us from selling them in the near term. In other cases selling them in the near term. In other cases, it's that we know that there are some near-term events, tenant, et cetera, that we think will allow us to maximize value on the asset sale in the longer term. And obviously, we really care about the value [ph] as they say with the (00:19:53) assets.

So, there's a little bit of a different story with each. Safe to say, when we get ourselves in position and we think we can maximize value from the sale of the assets for the benefit of our shareholders, we don't plan on being a long-term real estate owner. But at the moment, those are the ones we're not marketing, because we think there's either something we can do or something specifically preventing us from selling the asset.

That makes sense. And I guess lastly for me, and this is kind of more strategically, CMBS conduit lending. It's a business line that RAIT used to operate in. And I even think I recall that it was identified as an area that RAIT would continue to pursue and allocate capital to after the transformation. And just given the spread environment that you guys obviously have a good grasp on, because of your floating-rate CMBS financings, is this an area – and the lack of capital needed to get this business going, which has been just kind of an issue as you're dealing with the lumpiness of sales. Is this a business that we might start to see originations pick up in the near term, or do you think it's safe to say you guys are more focused on the property sales on one side and originating these transitional loans on the other side?

Well, I think that you've identified a lot of things most of which I agree. It's a business that we love. It's a business that we've had great success in here in the past, and it's a business that we want to be active in. We have to do it with sort of the right financial circumstances and capital structure of the company. And we're looking forward to being active in that business in 2018, I think more reasonably than in this last quarter as we've kind of finished moving through our transformation. So, it is a great business. It's one we're set up to attack. We look forward to allocating, as you said, capital to it. It's great because the capital returns relatively quickly, and we're excited about the prospects there as well.

Great. Well, appreciate your comments, Scott. And again congrats on the continued progress, guys.

Thank you so much.

This concludes today's Q&A portion of the call. And now, I'd like to turn the call back over to Scott Davidson.

Thank you, and we continue to make progress executing on our plan to transition RAIT to a pure-play commercial real estate lender and look forward to updating you on our continued progress next quarter. Thank you all for joining our call today, and thank you for your continued interest in RAIT Financial Trust. Have a wonderful day.

This concludes today's conference call. All participants may now disconnect.