corrected transcript


RAIT Financial Trust
 
RAS
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 29, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


PARTICIPANTS


Corporate Participants


Andres Viroslav
 
– Head-Investor Relations


Scott F. Schaeffer
 
– Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer


Jack E. Salmon
 
– Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer


Other Participants


Gabe Poggi
 
– Associate, FBR Capital Markets


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the First Quarter 2011 RAIT Financial


Trust Earnings Conference Call. My name is Towanda, and I’ll be your coordinator for today.


[Operator Instructions]


I would now like to turn the presentation over to Mr. Andres Viroslav, Director of Corporate


Communications. Please proceed, sir.


Andres Viroslav, Head-Investor Relations


Thank you, Towanda, and good morning to everyone. Thank you for joining us today to review


RAIT Financial Trust’s first quarter 2011 financial results. On the call with me today are Scott


Schaeffer, Chief Executive Officer and Jack Salmon, RAIT’s Chief Financial Officer.


This morning’s call is being webcast on our website at www.raitft.com. There will be a replay of the


call available via webcast on our website and telephonically beginning at approximately 12:00 P.M.


Eastern Time today. The dial-in number for the replay is 888-286-8010 with a confirmation code of


22905171.


Before I turn the call over to Scott, I would like to remind everyone that there may be forward-


looking statements made in this call. These forward-looking statements reflect RAIT’s current views


with respect to future events and financial performance. Actual results could differ substantially and


materially from what RAIT has projected.


Such statements are made in good faith pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private


Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Please refer to RAIT’s press release and filings with the


SEC for factors that could affect the accuracy of our expectations or cause our future results to


differ materially from those expectations.


Participants may discuss non-GAAP financial measures in this call. A copy of RAIT’s press release


containing financial information, other statistical information and a reconciliation of non-GAAP


financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is attached to RAIT’s


most recent current report on Form 8-K, available at RAIT’s website, www.raitft.com, under Investor


Relations. RAIT’s other SEC filings are also available through this link. RAIT does not undertake to


update forward-looking statements in this call or with respect to matters described herein except as


may be required by law.


Now, I’d like to turn the call over to RAIT’s Chief Executive Officer, Scott Schaeffer. Scott?
corrected transcript


RAIT Financial Trust
 
RAS
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 29, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


Scott F. Schaeffer, Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer


Thank you very much, Andres, and thank all of you for joining us this morning as we present RAIT’s


first quarter 2011 results. Let’s start with some key highlights. We are reporting our second


consecutive quarter of operating income. We’ve increased rental income and property NOI on our


owned portfolio. Our NPLs are down in our loan book. Our provision for loan losses has declined to


$1.95 million, and our CRE CDO coverage tests have stabilized.


In March, we raised gross proceeds of $115 million through the issuance of a new convertible note


and used the proceeds to repurchase $88 million of our 2007 convertible notes, and to reduce


short-term recourse debt by $21 million, or 51%. Subsequent to quarter-end, we repaid an


additional $15.7 million of higher cost senior secured debt. And finally, we are experiencing


reduced volatility in our results quarter-over-quarter.


RAIT is a much different company today than it was four years ago. We’ve aggregated a sizeable


portfolio of directly held real estate and moved away from being solely a specialty finance company.


Going forward, as we continue to build our lending, ownership and management capabilities, we


also must adapt our performance metrics to match our new direction. Therefore, we are introducing


a new reporting metric, adjusted funds from operations, which will be a useful supplemental


operating performance measure to our GAAP results.


I’m pleased to report GAAP earnings of $0.05 per diluted share and $1.7 million of operating profit


for the quarter, our second consecutive quarter of operating income, which includes $7.1 million in


depreciation expense. Adjusted funds from operations, or AFFO, was $0.06 per share for the


quarter ending March 31, 2011, compared to $0.03 for the quarter ended March 31, 2010. Jack will


discuss RAIT’s financial results and AFFO in more detail and highlight key drivers of RAIT’s first


quarter financial performance shortly.


We continue to benefit from improvements in the commercial real estate markets in general, and


specifically from improvement in our core portfolios. These improvements have had a positive


impact on the stability and, importantly, the quality of RAIT’s earnings.


The quarterly earnings are a direct result of increasing net operating income, driven by higher


occupancy rates within our own commercial real estate portfolio, combined with stabilizing


commercial real estate loan book, lower credit costs and fewer nonperforming loans. General and


administrative costs are up slightly, as we invest capital today into future revenue generating


initiatives.


During the quarter, we took advantage of an opportunity to, in effect, refinance our outstanding


convertible debt. We successfully raised gross proceeds of $115 million in a public debt offering


through the issuance of 7% senior convertible notes. The proceeds from the offerings neutralized


the April 2012 put for cash of our 6-7/8% convertible debt. We believe the company has the


resources to retire the remaining $55.6 million balance if put to us in April 2012. This transaction


allows us to look forward and to focus our efforts on building revenues through our core


competencies utilizing our vertically integrated commercial real estate platform.


Now onto business initiatives, first, as I mentioned last quarter, in addition to our bridge and


mezzanine lending programs, we recently formed a CMBS lending unit, utilizing our existing


platform and internal expertise. We’ve been making progress. We’re in the market quoting new


loans and building a pipeline for future securitization.


Secondly, as previously announced, we formed a non-traded REIT named Independence Reality


Trust, or IRT, to acquire multi-family properties. RAIT is the external manager of IRT and will