corrected transcript


RAIT Financial Trust
 
RAS
 
Q1 2009 Earnings Call
 
May 6, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen welcome to the First Quarter 2009 RAIT Financial Trust


Earnings Conference Call. My name is Francine and I will be your coordinator for today. At this


time, all participants are in listen-only mode. We will conduct a question-and-answer session


towards the end of this conference. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being


recorded for replay purposes.


I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today’s call, Mr. Andres Viroslav, Vice


President and Director of Corporate Communications. Please proceed, sir.


Andres Viroslav, Vice President and Director of Corporate Communications


Thank you, Francine, and good morning to everyone. Thank you for joining us today to review RAIT


Financial Trust’s first quarter 2009 financial results. On the call with me today are Scott Schaeffer,


Chief Executive Officer; Jack Salmon, Chief Financial Officer; and Raphi Licht, our Chief Operating


Officer.


This morning’s call is being webcast on our website at www.raitft.com. There will be a replay of the


call available via webcast on our website and telephonically beginning at approximately 1.00 PM


Eastern Time today. The dial-in for the replay is 888-286-8010, with a confirmation code of


51124748.


Before I turn the call over to Scott, I would like to remind everyone that there may be forward-


looking statements made in this call. These forward-looking statements reflect RAIT’s current views


with respect to future events and financial performance. Actual results could differ substantially and


materially from what RAIT has projected. Such statements are made in good faith pursuant to the


Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Please refer to


RAIT’s Press Release and filings with the SEC for factors that could affect the accuracy of our


expectations or cause our future results to differ materially from those expectations.


Participants may discuss non-GAAP financial measures in this call. A copy of RAIT’s press release


containing financial information, other statistical information and a reconciliation of non-GAAP


financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is attached to RAIT’s


most recent current report on Form 8-K available at RAIT’s website, raitft.com, under Investor


Relations. RAIT’s other SEC filings are also available through this link.


RAIT does not undertake to update forward-looking statements in this call or with respect to matters


described herein except as may be required by law.


Now I’d like to turn the call to RAIT’s Chief Executive Officer, Scott Schaeffer. Scott?


Scott F. Schaeffer, Chief Executive Officer


Thank you very much, Andres, and thank all of you for being with us this morning as we present


RAIT’s first quarter 2009 results. After some brief remarks, I will ask Jack to deliver his financial


report after which we will open the call up for questions.


The negative credit cycle continued during the first quarter and although we believe a market


recovery will prevail, underlying fundamentals have yet to improve. Asset values generally remain


under stress and refinancing opportunities are scarce. We remain focused on preserving the level


of cash flow generated by our portfolios and maximizing the ultimate recovery value of our assets


over time.
corrected transcript


RAIT Financial Trust
 
RAS
 
Q1 2009 Earnings Call
 
May 6, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


I’d like to highlight the following results. First is earnings. Our portfolio generated adjusted earnings


of $0.27 per share for the quarter, although we incurred a $2.22 per a share GAAP loss. This loss


was caused primarily by mark-to-market valuation adjustments in our trust preferred securities


portfolio and continued additions to our provision for losses associated to our commercial real


estate and residential mortgage portfolios. The losses were reduced by gains realized due to the


extinguishment of outstanding debt at considerable discount.


Second is cash flow. During the quarter our portfolios generated gross cash flow of 30.5 million as


compared to 38.5 million for the fourth quarter of 2008. The majority of the gross cash flow,


approximately 24 million or 78%, came from our commercial real estate portfolio and senior


management fees we earned from assets under management.


As previously communicated, the primary cause of the diminution in gross cash flow occurred


subsequent to December 31, 2008 when our consolidated securitizations, Taberna VIII and


Taberna IX, failed their respective over-collateralization test. However, we continue to generate free


cash flow and comply with the over collateralization and interest coverage test in both of our


commercial real estate securitizations such that all debt and residual equity interests in those


transactions continue to receive monthly distributions.


Our portfolios, including our residential mortgage portfolio, domestic TruPS portfolio and European


portfolio, excluding senior management fees, generated approximately 6.7 million, over 22% of


gross cash flow.


Third is dividend, as announced in today’s release, and primarily driven by our interest in optimizing


our corporate flexibility, the board and management decided to review and determine the common


dividend, if any, when the full-year REIT taxable income is available. The board and management,


all of whom are investors in RAIT, took this action in light of the uncertainty in estimating annual


financial results on a quarterly basis caused by the market conditions and credit environment. The


board will continue its review and determination of the preferred dividends on a quarterly basis.


As a reminder, to qualify as a REIT, we are required to make distributions to preferred and common


shareholders an amount at least equal to 90% of our annual REIT taxable income. Ongoing market


conditions on our portfolios will impact these decisions as we continue to manage our business


towards a market recovery.


Fourth is credit. During the quarter the market environment continued to impact the credit


performance of our portfolios. We took non-cash mark-to-market valuation adjustments on our trust


preferred securities portfolio and continued the provisioning for potential losses in our commercial


real estate and residential portfolios.


In order to maximize recovery of asset value of the long term, we chose to convert the levy


commercial real estate loans into owned properties during the first quarter. Subsequent to quarter


end we completed the conversion of an additional seven loans. Depending on market conditions,


this tactic may continue for the reminder of 2009. As always, we continue to explore all options,


including asset sales, repositioning and other alternatives in order to maximize cash flow and


recovery value.


And finally, liquidity. We continue to generate positive free cash flow. We ended the quarter with 41


million of cash and 32 million of recourse bank debt that is scheduled to mature in 2009. We are in


active discussions with these lenders to extend our current relationships. Anticipating an expected


decline in our gross cash flow, as previously communicated, we implemented cost-saving initiatives


which have reduced both our general administrative costs as well as compensation expense by


15% as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2008.