corrected transcript


RAIT Financial Trust
 
RAS
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 4, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Third Quarter 2009 RAIT Financial


Trust Earnings Conference Call. My name is Grace Ann , and I will be your coordinator for today. At


this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. We’ll be facilitating a question and answer


session towards the end of today’s conference. [Operator Instructions]. As a reminder, this


conference is being recorded for replay purposes.


I’d now like to turn the presentation over to Andres Viroslav, Vice President and Director of


Corporate Communications. Please proceed sir.


Andres Viroslav, Director of Corporate Communications


Thank you, Grace Ann, and good morning to everyone. Thank you for joining us today to review


RAIT Financial Trust’s third quarter 2009 financial results. On the call with me today are Scott


Schaeffer, Chief Executive Officer; Jack Salmon, Chief Financial Officer; and Raphi Licht, our Chief


Operating Officer.


This morning’s call is being webcast on our website at www.raitft.com. There will be a replay on the


call available via webcast on our website and telephonically beginning at approximately 1:00 P.M.


Eastern Time today. The dial-in for the replay is 888-286-8010, with a confirmation code of


52282533.


Before I turn the call over to Scott, I would like to remind everyone that there may be forward-


looking statements made in this call. These forward-looking statements reflect RAIT’s current views


with respect to future events and financial performance. Actual results could differ substantially and


materially from what RAIT has projected.


Such statements are made in good faith pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private


Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Please refer to RAIT’s press release and filings with the


SEC for factors that could affect the accuracy of our expectations or cause our future results to


differ materially from those expectations.


Participants may discuss non-GAAP financial measures in this call. A copy of RAIT’s press release


containing financial information, other statistical information, and a reconciliation of non-GAAP


financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is attached to RAIT’s


most recent current report on Form 8-K available at RAIT’s website, www.raitft.com, under Investor


Relations.


RAIT’s other SEC filings are also available through this link. RAIT does not undertake to update


forward-looking statements in this call or with respect to matters described herein, except as may


be required by law.


Now I’d like to turn the call over to RAIT’s Chief Executive Officer, Scott Schaeffer. Scott?


Scott F. Schaeffer, Chief Executive Officer


Thank you very much, Andres, and thank all of you for joining us this morning as we present RAIT’s


third quarter 2009 results. 2009 continues to be a transitional year as we execute changes for our


business model in response to changing market reality. We are building a vertically integrated


commercial real estate platform with the capability to originate, invest, manage, service, trade, and


advise on commercial real estate-related assets including loans, securities, and properties. The
corrected transcript


RAIT Financial Trust
 
RAS
 
Q3 2009 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 4, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


platform enables RAIT to provide asset and collateral management services not only to our legacy


portfolios, but to new opportunities that exist in the market today.


The market is still credit-constrained. Lending activity in the commercial real estate sector has not


started in any real sense. Broadly speaking, our borrowers, who are the commercial real estate


sponsors or public REITs, continue to experience a dearth of opportunities to increase income,


borrow funds, or sell assets at profitable levels. However, we believe RAIT is poised to take


advantage of existing and future income opportunities.


We have announced the expansion of services offered by our broker/dealer RAIT Securities, LLC


to include fixed income trading and commercial real estate advisory services. We have hired


experienced professionals with a wide range of contacts to drive this business.


During the quarter we launched the Commercial Real Estate Advisory business to provide financial


institutions and institutional investors with portfolio management services. These initiatives build on


the knowledge and experience developed at RAIT during our 11 years of commercial real estate


lending. These initiatives will require relatively minimal cash investment, while expanding our reach


within the commercial real estate markets and diversifying our revenue streams in the future.


Through the acquisition of Jupiter Communities, our in-house property manager, and our existing


rated primary loan servicer, we are pursuing ways to leverage our commercial real estate expertise


and business relationships into new sources of revenue, which arise from managing 10.3 billion of


assets. The relationships we have formed through managing these assets have enabled Jupiter


Communities to continue to grow its units under management and to increase its third-party


management relationships. This strategy also enables us to control direct ownership of properties


more effectively.


With management’s workout experience, in-house property management capabilities, and our


existing long-term liabilities, we can be patient sellers in order to maximize value on our portfolio of


directly owned commercial real estate. Where appropriate, we are actively looking at ways to


enhance the performance of this portfolio through government-sponsored programs, green


initiatives, and rent subsidy programs. Our goal is to build a portfolio that outperforms the market


while we monitor the market for opportunities to sell or refinance these properties.


During the quarter, we took back four properties totaling 73 million of principal loan value into direct


investments in real estate. At the end of the quarter, our investments in real estate totaled 645


million.


On the corporate level, we continued to de-leverage the balance sheet, while our business


operations evolve. The cumulative effect of previously announced transactions including the sale of


the residential mortgage portfolio, the deconsolidation of four Taberna securitizations, and the


exchange of approximately 98 million of our senior convertible notes for secured debt are fully


incorporated in the third quarter financial results. We believe that one the benefits of these


transformative events will be less volatility in our financial results and more transparency in our


financial statement since we disposed of assets that require mark-to-market valuation or other


temporary impairments unrelated to RAIT’s actual exposure to losses in these assets.


The $0.38 per share GAAP loss is indicative that we have reduced volatility and compares


favorably to the $2.82 loss generated during the quarter ended September 30, 2008 and the $4.43


loss reported for the quarter ended June 30, 2009. The primary driver behind our GAAP loss for the


third quarter was the previously announced sale of the residential mortgage portfolio, which


generated a $62-million GAAP loss, but reduced our outstanding indebtedness by 3.1 billion and


generated 15.6 million in cash. This portfolio was not a business driver, but rather a portfolio owned


for re-qualification purposes.