corrected transcript


RAIT Financial Trust
 
RAS
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 6, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Second Quarter 2009 RAIT


Financial Trust Earnings Conference Call. My name is Michelle, and I will be your coordinator for


today. At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. We’ll be facilitating a question-and-


answer session towards the end of today’s conference. (Operator Instructions).


And I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today’s call, Mr. Andres Viroslav,


Vice President, Director of Corporate Communications. Please proceed.


Andres Viroslav, Investor Relations


Thank you, Michelle, and good morning to everyone. Thank you for joining us today to review RAIT


Financial Trust’s second quarter 2009 financial results. On the call with me today are Scott


Schaeffer, Chief Executive Officer; Jack Salmon, Chief Financial Officer; and Raphi Licht, our Chief


Operating Officer.


This morning’s call is being webcast on our website at www.raitft.com. There will be a replay of the


call available via webcast on our website and telephonically beginning at approximately 1:00 p.m.


ET today. The dial-in for the replay is (888) 286 8010, with a confirmation code of 85227218.


Before I turn the call over to Scott, I would like to remind everyone that there may be forward-


looking statements made in this call. These forward-looking statements reflect RAIT’s current


views with respect to future events and financial performance. Actual results could differ


substantially and materially from what RAIT has projected.


Such statements are made in good faith pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private


Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Please refer to RAIT’s press release and filings with the


SEC for factors that could affect the accuracy of our expectations or cause our future results to


differ materially from those expectations.


Participants may discuss non-GAAP financial measures in this call. A copy of RAIT’s press release


containing financial information, other statistical information, and a reconciliation of non-GAAP


financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is attached to RAIT’s


most recent current report on Form 8-K available at RAIT’s website www.raitft.com, under Investor


Relations. RAIT’s other SEC filings are also available through this link. RAIT does not undertake


to update forward-looking statements in this call or with respect to matters described herein, except


as may be required by law.


Now, I would like to turn the call over to RAIT’s Chief Executive Officer, Scott Schaeffer. Scott?


Scott F. Schaeffer, Chief Executive Officer


Thank you very much, Andres, and thank all of you for joining us this morning as we present RAIT’s


second quarter 2009 results. Before I turn the call over to Jack to go through the financial


highlights, I would like to briefly discuss results for the quarter and then focus my comments on


activities recently announced in either 8-K or press release form.


Some things have not changed. The market environment remains challenging. Liquidity is scarce


and commercial real estate fundamentals remain weak. However, we’ve taken a number of steps


towards investing in our future by de-leveraging the balance sheet, enabling the market to get a


clear view of RAIT and building on RAIT’s core competencies in real estate and the real estate


securities market. It’s impossible to time the ultimate market recovery, so we will continue to take
corrected transcript


RAIT Financial Trust
 
RAS
 
Q2 2009 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 6, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


step by step approach to our balance sheet and the business as we position the company for future


growth.


During the second quarter, our portfolio generated adjusted earnings of $0.19 per share and we


incurred a $4.43 per share GAAP loss. The GAAP loss was caused primarily by a $4.82 per share


non-cash loss that we incurred on the sale of our interest in four domestic Taberna securitizations


and a $1.02 per share provisional losses in our commercial real estate loans and residential


mortgage loan portfolios.


During the second quarter, we added 27 million to the provision for commercial real estate loan


losses compared to 62 million in the first quarter and we wrote off approximately 44 million against


our reserves primarily due to the conversion of seven commercial real estate loans into owned


properties during the quarter.


We ended the quarter with 108 million provision for commercial loan losses as compared to 126


million at the end of the first quarter. It’s also important to note that we only had 27.3 million in


future funded commitments, which are pre-funded and available within our securitization.


While we remain focused on the credit performance of our assets, we have also taken steps to


reduce our corporate leverage. We completed a number of transactions during and after the


second quarter, which we expect will de-lever our balance sheet materially in the third quarter.


In July, we purchased at a discount approximately 98.3 million par amount of senior convertible


notes for 53 million through a combination of 10 million in cash and the issuance of a new 43 million


senior secured note which matures in 2014. We expect to save approximately 1.4 million of


interest expense per year. The transaction eliminated 55.3 million of senior debt, provided us with


additional two years of term on the new debt and reduced the amount of cash needed to service


our recourse obligation. We feel this transaction was a major step forward, is beneficial to our


shareholders, and provides the company with the needed flexibility as the de-leveraging process


continues. During 2009, we were also successful in paying off or extending 51.2 million of recourse


debt outstanding on our lines of credit and term loan indebtedness.


At June 30, 2009, RAIT had a 3.4 billion residential mortgage portfolio and 3.1 billion of securitized


debt which financed these assets. On July 16, we sold all of our residual interest in these


securitizations. We no longer needed these assets for re-qualification purposes, and the assets


have performed poorly along with the residential real estate market. The sale generated 16.5


million in cash proceeds and eliminated the assets and corresponding liability from our balance


sheet. The sale also removed the potential for future credit risks and expected losses as default


rates and delinquencies increase. We recorded 116.3 million of loss provisions on these assets for


the six months ended June 30, 2009. The pro forma impact of the sale can be reviewed in the 8-K


we filed on July 21, 2009.


During the quarter, we also sold our residual equity and a portion of our non-investment grade


investments and four of our Taberna Trust preferred securitizations. These sales resulted in the


removal of a significant amount of mark-to-market assets and liabilities from our consolidated


balance sheet.We expect the impact to be a more transparent presentation of our financial


statements and less volatility in our financial results in future quarters.


Also, we have taken steps to build upon RAIT’s core competencies in real estate and the real


estate securities market. We continue to provide collateral management services for the


deconsolidated securitizations and generate corresponding senior asset management fees.


Furthermore, we expect to diversify our income streams by generating fee income through


noncapital incentive business activities. We recently announced the expansion of our broker-


dealer, RAIT Securities, LLC, into a fixed-income sales and trading platform and hired two