Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Andres Viroslav — Head-Investor Relations, The Bancorp, Inc. (Delaware)
Scott F. Schaeffer — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, RAIT Financial Trust
James J. Sebra — Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer, RAIT Financial Trust
Scott L. N. Davidson — President, RAIT Financial Trust
Steven C. DeLaney — Analyst, JMP Securities LLC
Jade J. Rahmani — Analyst, Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the RAIT Financial Trust Q3 2015 Earnings Conference Call. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded.

I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference, Mr. Andres Viroslav. Sir, you may begin.

Thank you, Tamara, and good morning to everyone. Thank you for joining us today to review RAIT Financial Trust's third quarter 2015 financial results. On the call with me today is Scott Schaeffer, Chief Executive Officer; Jim Sebra, RAIT's Chief Financial Officer; and Scott Davidson, RAIT's President. This morning's call is being webcast on our website at www.rait.com. There will be a replay of the call available via webcast on our website and telephonically beginning at approximately 12:00 PM Eastern Time today. The dial-in for the replay is 855-859-2056 with a confirmation code of 58570092.

Before I turn the call over to Scott, I would like to remind everyone that there may be forward-looking statements made in this call. These forward-looking statements reflect RAIT's current views with respect to future events and financial performances. Actual results could differ substantially and materially from what RAIT has projected. Such statements are made in good faith pursuant to the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Please refer to RAIT's press release and filings with the SEC for factors that could affect the accuracy of our expectations or cause our future results to differ materially from those expectations.

Participants may discuss non-GAAP financial measures in this call. A copy of RAIT's press release containing financial information, other statistical information, and a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is attached to RAIT's most recent current report on Form 8-K, available at RAIT's website, www.rait.com, under Investor Relations. RAIT's other SEC filings are also available through this link. RAIT does not undertake to update forward-looking statements in this call or with respect to matters described herein, except as may be required by law.

Now I would like to turn the call over to RAIT's Chief Executive Officer, Scott Schaeffer. Scott?

Thank you, Andres. Good morning and thank you for joining us today and welcome to RAIT's third quarter 2015 earnings call.

Cash available for distribution per share was $0.27 and we paid an $0.18 dividend for the third quarter. The performance of our loan and property portfolios combined with the revenues from our asset and property management businesses delivered $0.20 of base CAD and property sales delivered an additional $0.07 of CAD.

During the third quarter, market conditions were extremely volatile, which impacted the performance of our conduit lending business. Bond spreads widened by approximately 40 basis points or about 2.5 points of CMBS gain on sale within the conduit lending business. Our conduit lending strategy has been to sell our fixed rate loans frequently, thereby reducing exposure to bond spread volatility and credit risk. I'm pleased to report that not withstanding the spread widening, we've sold all of our fixed rate loans without any kick outs and managed to earn $434,000 of gains for the quarter and $6.1 million of gains during the nine months ended September 30, 2015.

Our floating-rate lending business remains strong as evidenced by the $173 million of loan originations during the quarter. This business line is less volatile when compared to the conduit lending and sale business and it delivers recurring interest income. We are now aggregating loans for our fifth RAIT sponsored floating-rate securitization, RAIT FL5 which will be approximately $325 million and expect to close it in December.

Our property portfolio, anchored by our multifamily properties continues to deliver stable and growing returns as fundamentals remain positive. Both average rent and occupancy were up year-over-year by 4.2% and 1% respectively. We are also seeing improvement in the operating performance of our office portfolio as occupancies and average rental rate were also up nicely during the same period.

We will continue to simplify the business and focus on our core strategy, commercial real estate lending. To do this, we are accelerating the RAIT property sale program in order to recycle capital for reinvestment. We've identified approximately $250 million of RAIT owned properties to sell over the next six months. The sales will be slightly accretive to CAD, will reduce leverage, and unlock approximately $50 million of capital to recycle into the higher yielding lending business.

Our asset management business continues to grow as Independence Realty Trust closed on its acquisition of Trade Street Residential. As IRT's external manager, in just over two years we have successfully grown IRT to 50 properties with over 14,000 units and total capitalization of $1.4 billion. This growth has led to an increasing recurring fee stream to RAIT for the services it provides to IRT.

At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to Jim to report on the financial results.

Thank you, Scott. CAD for the second quarter was $23.7 million or $0.27 per common share. The $0.27 includes $0.07 of property sale gains and $0.20 of base CAD. Year-to-date, our CAD was $0.83 including $0.24 of property gains, generating an annualized return on our adjusted book value of 16.3%. From a GAAP perspective, for the third quarter, we are reporting a net loss of $6.5 million or $0.07 per diluted share.

During Q3 there were several transactions of note. First, IRT completed its announced merger with Trade Street, the effects of which are consolidated in RAIT's financial statements. As a result of the merger, you will see a large increase in our consolidated real estate assets and non-recourse debt along with acquisition expenses, [indiscernible] (0:05:29) and separation expenses, and a gain on the merger.

As Scott mentioned, the benefit of this transaction for RAIT is increased asset management and property management fees. Based on IRT's portfolio today, we expect IRT will pay RAIT approximately $7 million of asset management fees and $5.2 million of property management fees in 2016. Second, we completed the sale of one real estate property and two land parcels generating gross proceeds of $20.5 million, a GAAP gain of $7.4 million and a CAD gain of $6.3 million.

Lastly, during Q3, we unwound the FL1 securitization and refinanced the $55 million of remaining loans through our warehouse financing arrangement. Loan repayments in FL1 decreased the efficiency of their securitization and by unwinding this securitization, we increased our returns on the remaining assets.

We are planning to resecuritize the remaining loans in our future FL securitizations to further enhance returns. We view this unwinding as a positive event and clearly demonstrates the combination of a securitization cycle without issue or default.

Let's move on to income statement. First, we'll discuss year-over-year highlights. When comparing year-over-year results, please remember that the financial impact of Taberna is still present throughout 2014. Comparing third quarter net interest margin year-over-year, it decreased by $9.2 million, which was largely associated with Taberna in 2014.

From a real estate perspective, the property NOI increased $8.6 million to $29.5 million for the third quarter of 2015, consisting of $13.5 million of NOI from IRT and $16 million of NOI from the RAIT-owned properties. NOI at the RAIT-owned properties increased $1.7 million or 12.9% year-over-year driven by improved performance of the office portfolio and same-store NOI growth in the multifamily assets of 10.8%.

Interest expense year-over-year was up $5.7 million primarily due to $2.8 million of increased interest expense at IRT, $600,000 of additional interest expense from RAIT's August 2014 senior note offering, and $1.3 million of interest expense associated with our $72 million of senior secured notes that were previously eliminated in the Taberna consolidation prior to 2015.

Fee and other income decreased $4.4 million sequentially to $3.1 million on lower CMBS gain on sale volumes. During Q3 2015, fee and other income was comprised of the following, $434,000 of CMBS loan sale profitability on $116 million of loan sold; $2.6 million of property management revenue; and $58,000 of other income.

From a credit perspective, we recorded a provision for loan loss of $1.9 million. Non-accrual loans increased by $15.6 million this quarter related to a first mortgage loan which had a major tenant vacate their space in September 2015. As a result, we've taken appropriate reserve for this loan. At quarter end, our CRE non-accrual loans represent 2.5% of our loan portfolio and loan loss reserves are $14.6 million, or 36% of our non-accrual loans.

From a balance sheet point of view, we ended the quarter with $93 million of cash on hand and $391 million of availability under our lending warehouse facilities. During the quarter, we originated $238 million of loans comprised of $173 million of floating-rate bridge loans and $65 million of fixed-rate CMBS loans. In addition, we had $39 million of CRE loan repayments. We ended the quarter with an adjusted book value of $584 million, or $6.43 per share.

Subsequent to quarter-end, we've continued to use our cash on hand and warehouse availability to fund loans. Since quarter-end, we funded floating-rate and conduit loans aggregating $102 million and currently have an additional $323 million of loans under AP and working towards closing in Q4. This fourth quarter loan volume should bring our total 2015 loan production to approximately $1 billion. Based on this loan production volume, we are currently expecting fourth quarter CAD per share of approximately $0.22 to $0.23, which will include approximately $0.03 of gain on sale of real estate properties.

Scott, this concludes the financial report. Back to you.

Thank you, Jim. At this time, operator, I'd like to open up the call for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Steve DeLaney with JMP Securities. Your line is now open.

Hey. Good morning, everyone, and thanks for taking the question. First...

Good morning.

Thanks. So first, Jim, you talked about the unwinding of FL1. Remind me, what is the actual trigger in that structure that gives you the right to call it and unwind it?

Hi. This is Scott Davidson. The...

Hi, Scott.

Hey, how are you doing?

Good.

It's basically two years after issuance we have the right to call the security.

Got it. So, that would've been issued back 2013. And did you say it was about $50 million of residual loans?

$55 million.

$55 million of residual loans. Okay. Great. And I apologize, Jim Sebra, when you were making your comments about the – I wanted to ask about the non-accrual loans. I apologize, I was writing furiously, and I believe you said it was a single loan. Do you mind repeating the specifics on that increase in non-accruals?

Sure. It's $15.6 million first mortgage loan.

Got it.

It's on two office properties just outside of Houston. Went on non-accrual from a – because a major tenant vacated at the end of September 2015. We have taken some reserves and are cooperating – the owner is cooperating with us.

Okay. Great. Thank you for that. Okay. So, a single loan and office in Houston. Got it. And then, Scott Schaeffer, your comments, I think I got the bulk of it. It sounds like you've had the success obviously harvesting gains in the legacy on real estate portfolio. Do I hear you right that you are going to accelerate that process here over the next several quarters? I believe you mentioned a figure of $250 million of properties?

Yes, Steve, that's correct. We've had success selling properties, and we believe that it's the right approach now for RAIT relative to the values within the real estate markets in general, and also it allows us to recycle that capital back into the lending business because we will not be selling common shares at this price level.

No. Totally understand it, and I appreciate that, and I think obviously you've got great momentum in this core middle market floating-rate senior bridge loan business. And I think frankly investors are going to reward you more for the success of that business going forward than the legacy.

I couldn't recall if you commented, it sounded like the $250 million that we should not expect material gains relative to some of the larger gains you've booked here in the last two quarters. Did I hear you right on that?

Yes. It's more about a return of capital and then recycling that capital into the lending business than booking gains. There probably will be some gains, but it's not going to be something that is really that meaningful and it's really not what we're focused on. We're focused on, again, redeploying the capital, recycling the capital out of the property business at this time in the market.

Got it. So $50 million would probably allow you to put another $200 million of loans on the portfolio?

Approximately.

Yeah. Okay. Thank you all for your comments. I appreciate it.

Thanks, Steve.

Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of Jade Rahmani with KBW. Your line is now open.

Yes. Hi, and thanks for taking the questions. Just stepping back, the volatility in the market that was experienced this quarter, how much of it do you think relates to concerns – building concerns about where we are in the commercial real estate cycle, frothiness in terms of pricing and loosening underwriting standards on the lending side?

Well, this is Scott Davidson again. I think that more of it – so let's break the question maybe into two portions. The first is, what is really behind the general widening? And I think that's much more related to macroeconomic events, interest rate policy, things that are going on in China, just general bond spread widening that you see across multiple asset classes, not just CMBS or commercial real estate related. So that's – and by the way, I think the CMBS indices is an easy way for financial folks to hedge some of those macro events and, as a consequence, can be pushed around a little bit, impacting bond spreads.

I think what you are seeing, though, in response to sort of part of your question that relates to credit concerns and underlying loans is we're starting to see significant differentiation in transactions. So, when one CMBS deal comes to market and the collateral is agreed by the market to be better, you'll see it accommodate significantly tighter spread than transactions where collateral is perceived by the market to be a little bit worse.

So, what the market is starting to do is transaction by transaction, make a judgment about the transaction and put a price on it based on that. However, all of those transactions were materially wider in this quarter than in prior as there was a general market widening.

And in terms of the market differentiation, what would you characterize as the major points of difference between various CMBS deals? Is it just property-specific stories that the market doesn't like or is it certain lenders? Or is it concentration risk? How would you characterize that?

I think it's different transaction by transaction. I think what's interesting or unique about the CMBS deal is the deals are not homogenous, right? So, one deal, you might see a large loan that folks like less, that colors the way they feel about that entire transaction. In the next you might see – and that's a reason that deal might trade wide. In the next transaction you might see an average LTV or average debt yield that's viewed poorly by the market. And the next one, you might find an average LTV that's lower and a higher debt yield that the market likes.

So it's not as if you could point to one factor. It really is transaction by transaction and loan by loan, and, of course, I think what we all like about the real estate markets is we have to think – with the commercial real estate markets is, it's not homogenous. You got to think loan by loan, you have to think about specific markets.

So, I wish I could tell you this is what it is and then we could all manage around that, but it's really deal specific. I think the macro theme, of course, is that leverage continues to increase and as we get later into the cycle, folks generally are more concerned with leverage today than they were two years ago.

In terms of the conduit business, one question is have you had any loan kick outs? And two is have margins reset to a more normal level? So, I think in about 60 to 90 days post the spread widening, margins should be kind of back to the natural level.

As we sit here today, we don't have any kick outs. And in terms of – we've been fairly consistent over time in the way that we price our loans. So all – what we've tried to do in this recent widening and what we've seen others do is take counts where you think the market is and add your natural level of spread. We haven't – and we haven't seen others increase spread relative to that increased volatility. And so, I think there was a period during the widening where nobody knew where the market was and it was hard to price a lone.

I think that we – the market stabilized and we have a good sense of where spreads are. I wouldn't describe the current profit environment as being one with excess profit, but it's certainly one where – where I'll call it a normalized profit environment.

Okay. And then just in terms of how the environment plays to your favor, are you seeing any changes in the market that would allow you to price higher loan yields on your bridge lending book? And are borrowers coming back to you more often because other potential lending sources that have been maybe more looking at this as a trade or stepping back a bit? Is there any of that type of activity going on?

Well, I think so. I mean, we've gotten some feedback although we don't know it first-hand from a couple of borrowers that there are folks who have pulled out of the floating-rate lending market. Obviously, we haven't. Obviously, it's something that we've been doing for a long time and we look forward to continuing to do for a long time.

We have a high number of repeat borrowers across the business and that continues to grow because folks have gotten comfortable, but we – not only do we what we say but we close loans as agreed. So, I think that the market conditions continue to benefit us and the way they benefit us is we're pretty consistent through the market conditions and over long periods of time. That works quite well.

So, in terms of credit [ph] at RAS (0:19:47), we've maintained a pretty consistent line again in terms of our credit policies and parameters and there may have been a moment earlier in the summer or in the spring when other folks were a little bit more aggressive, they've become a little bit more chastened and we've been consistent. And I really do believe that consistency over a long period of time is a winning strategy.

Thanks. And then can you just provide some color on the Garden City impairment?

Certainly. This is Scott Schaeffer. This is an asset where we had a mezz loan that went into default. A couple of years ago, we took over the property. The senior lender sold the loan that was ahead of us. We felt at the time that there was value in the property and accordingly started working with the new senior lender to try to resolve the whole debt structure. And we came to the conclusion recently in the fourth quarter of this year that we were not going to try to restructure or pay off the first mortgage or acquire it, and that we were going to just give the property back to the senior lender.

So, even though that is happening in the fourth quarter, since we had – we knew about it before we were reporting the third, we're taking the charge during the third quarter as an impairment. I didn't believe that in this time, in this environment that it was the best use of RAIT's capital to try to, in fact, recapitalize this office building on Long Island. So, that's why we decided to just let it go.

Okay. Thanks for taking my questions.

You're welcome. Thank you.

Thank you. And I'm showing no further questions at this time. I would like to turn the conference back over to Mr. Scott Schaeffer for any closing remarks.

Well, thank you for joining us today and we look forward to sharing our progress with you next quarter. Thanks.

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. This does conclude today's program. You may all disconnect. Everyone, have a great day.