Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Andres Viroslav — Director-Investor Relations, RAIT Financial Trust
Scott F. Schaeffer — Chief Executive Officer, RAIT Financial Trust
Scott L. N. Davidson — President, RAIT Financial Trust
James J. Sebra — Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer, RAIT Financial Trust
Steve C. DeLaney — Analyst, JMP Securities LLC
Jade Rahmani — Analyst, Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to the RAIT Financial Trust Third Quarter 2016 Earnings Conference. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we'll a conduct question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a remainder, this conference is being recorded.

And, now, I'll turn the conference over to our host Andres Viroslav. You may begin.

Thank you, Olivia, and good morning to everyone. Thank you for joining us today to review RAIT Financial Trust's third quarter 2016 financial results. On the call with me today are Scott Schaeffer, Chief Executive Officer; Scott Davidson, President; and Jim Sebra, RAIT's Chief Financial Officer.

This morning's call is being webcast on our website at www.rait.com. There'll be a replay of the call available via webcast on our website and telephonically beginning at approximately 12:00 PM Eastern Time today. The dial-in for the replay is 855-859-2056 with a confirmation code of 96082603.

Before I turn the call over to Scott, I'd like to remind everyone that there may be forward-looking statements made in this call. These forward-looking statements reflect RAIT's current views with respect to future events and financial performance. Actual results could differ substantially materially from what RAIT has projected. Such statements are made in good faith pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Please refer to RAIT's press release and filings with the SEC for factors that could affect the accuracy of our expectations or cause our future results to differ materially from those expectations.

Participants may discuss non-GAAP financial measures in this call. A copy of RAIT's press release containing financial information, other statistical information and a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is attached to RAIT's most recent current report on Form 8-K available at RAIT's website, www.rait.com, under Investor Relations. RAIT's other SEC filings are also available through this link. RAIT does not undertake to update forward-looking statements in this call or with respect to matters described herein, except as may be required by law.

Now, I'd like to turn the call over to RAIT's Chief Executive Officer, Scott Schaeffer. Scott?

Thank you, Andres. Thank you all for joining us today and welcome to RAIT's third quarter 2016 earnings call. Third quarter CAD was $0.12 per share, falling within our quarterly guidance range. During the quarter, we continued taking steps to simplify our business through the sale of non-core assets. We took a big step in the simplification process, by entering into an agreement with Independence Realty Trust, to monetize RAIT's investment in IRT, which also enables us to deconsolidate IRT from our financial statements, and allows IRT to internalize its management.

We agreed to sell IRT's external advisor and RAIT's multi-family property management capabilities to IRT for $43 million, which we expect to close by the end of the year. Additionally, as part of the internalization transaction, we sold RAIT's ownership position in IRT stock for $62 million, which generated $18.3 million of cash after retiring $43.7 million of debt.

Also as previously announced, there will be a management changes at RAIT, once the internalization transaction is completed. I'm moving over to IRT full-time, so this will be my last RAIT earnings call. RAIT is extremely fortunate that Scott Davidson, who's RAIT's current President, will become the CEO of the company. Scott is very capable and brings strong relationships, knowledge and experience to the CEO position. Jim Sebra, RAIT's CFO, will continue in the dual RAIT IRT CFO roles through the filing of RAIT's 2016 10-K before heading to IRT full-time.

At this point, I'd like to pass the call to RAIT's next CEO, Scott Davidson. Scott?

Thank you. Before I begin, I'd like to take a moment to thank Scott, for his many years of service and the great dedication to RAIT that he's shown. He's done an incredible job steering RAIT through the financial crisis, and he's helped all of us to build a world-class organization. He's been a member of RAIT's management team for over 16 years, a mentor to most of us, and a great friend. His presence will be missed. We wish him well and we know he'll continue to have great success at IRT. So, Scott, thank you so much.

As part of that transition to IRT, RAIT's board decided and I wholeheartedly agree with the decision to separate the roles of CEO and Chairman and elected Michael Malter, previously a RAIT Independent Trustee to the role of Chairman of the Board.

I'm excited to continue to work with Michael and the entire board in the development and growth of our great platform. We've also begun the process of identifying RAIT's new CFO and we will provide you updates when we've made our choice.

Given that Michael was recently elected to Chairman, and I won't be seated as CEO and Trustee for another month, I hope you'll understand that while you may be eager to hear about our plans, it will take us some time to refine and communicate them. We expect to work hard in the weeks and months ahead to hone a vision and execution plan for RAIT in 2017 and beyond. And, we look forward to sharing that with you in the near-term.

As you know, we've built a comprehensive real estate lending platform, a one-stop shop lender with a reputation for consistently executing efficiently with our borrowers. In that vein, we remain on track to close our sixth floating rate securitization by year-end, a space we remain particularly active and continue to be a leader.

It bears mention that we're once again starting to see an increase in our floating rate volume on terms that meet our lending criteria. Though it's taken us a bit longer to originate our sixth pool of floating rate loans. Our focus on credit quality and return on our capital has been unwavering.

On the CMBS side of our business, given the near-term regulatory and market changes, we've decided to be quite defensive and we've been waiting for a little bit more market certainty before committing additional capital to the origination of loans for sale.

As Scott mentioned and highlighted, we continue to make progress simplifying RAIT's business as exemplified by the monetization of RAIT's investment in IRT. That transaction has the benefit of triggering the deconsolidation of IRT from RAIT's reported results, which will simplify the presentation of RAIT's financial results heading into 2017. We also continue to simplify through opportunistic property sales and expense reductions. In the short-term, however, selling asset does have a negative impact on CAD as we de-lever the balance sheet, right-size the company, and take time to thoughtfully reinvest capital.

As to our progress surrounding those property sales, year-to-date we've sold 12 properties totaling $192 million which generated $24 million of GAAP gains and net proceeds of $15.1 million. During this last quarter, we sold four properties for $126 million generating $18.3 million of GAAP gains. You will also notice that in this quarter we reported an $18.9 million asset impairment charge. The majority of that charge, about $10 million is a result of the decision we took to further simplify the business by eliminating practically all of RAIT's industrial portfolio from our focus and attention. We wrote down that portfolio by $10 million, our real exposure and that exposure began with a pre-financial crisis mezzanine loan in anticipation of exiting the majority of the industrial portfolio in the near-term, and I know Jim will spend a little bit more time talking about that.

Before turning the call over to Jim, I'd again like to thank Scott for his many years of dedicated service and thank the board for the trust they've placed in me. I look forward to communicating with you frequently and specifically in the near-term around our thoughts and plans with regard to RAIT and its continued growth and evolution.

Jim, would you like to talk about our financial results?

Thank you, Scott. We are reporting a GAAP net income of $0.00 per diluted share and CAD of $0.12 per common share for the third quarter. For the nine months ended we are reporting a GAAP net loss of $0.28 per share and CAD of $0.37 per share. As a result of the IRT internalization transaction announced previously, you'll also notice that we're now presenting the results of IRT, IRT's advisor and RAIT residential as discontinued operation in our financial statement.

As you have seen in the earnings release and supplement, presenting these businesses as discontinued operations has the effect of presenting their assets and liabilities in the one line on the balance sheet and their revenue and expenses through one line on the income statement. This presentation helps investors understand the assets and liabilities that will be removed once the IRT internalization is complete.

Our real estate portfolio continues to shrink, as we sell assets to de-lever and recycle capital into our lending business. Through September 30, we've sold $192 million of properties generating $24 million of GAAP gains and $15 million of proceeds that had been used in our lending [ph] business (08:50). In addition, as detailed in our supplemental, we have identified 12 properties for sale aggregating $237 million. These properties are under contract and we expect to sell them during their fourth quarter, which should generate approximately $40 million of CAD gains and $24 million of additional proceeds.

During the fourth quarter, we expect to have generated $86 million of cash from property sales and monetizing our investment in IRT. We've used the proceeds from the real estate sales to reduce our overall leverage and to reinvest in our lending business. Since year-end, we've reduced our indebtedness by $440 million. This includes a repayment of $58.6 million of our recourse debt. Year-to-date, our lending business has originated $89 million of loans and is on target to originate the $200 million of loans we've provided in our guidance. The loan portfolio continues to experience elevated levels of loan payoffs as borrowers are taking advantage of the rate environment, and strong real estate market to either sell or refinance their properties. As a result, our net interest margin has declined from Q2 this year and from Q3 of 2015, as loans repay and leverage decline.

As Scott mentioned, we are preparing to market out sixth floating rate securitization. We currently expect a transaction size of approximately $300 million, which should close later this year. Our floating rate securitizations provide us with low cost, non-recourse financing for our bridge lending program.

From a credit perspective, all of our post financial crisis originated loans continued to perform well. However, our non-accrual loans increased by $74 million during the third quarter, all attributable to a single pre-crisis loan to a single borrower. We are in the process of separating the loan into six individual loans, that will provide easier access to the underlying collateral, and a structure that incentivizes the borrower to either sell or refinance the properties as expeditiously as possible.

While, it is reasonable to expect full recovery in our recorded investment in these loans, we have taken the opportunity to reserve $2.4 million as of quarter-end to cover potential additional shortfalls. We also incurred $18.9 million of asset impairments in Q3, including $8.9 million of asset impairments on three real estate assets that are expected to be sold in Q4, and $10 million associated with the 10 asset industrial portfolio, Scott mentioned in his remarks.

This industrial portfolio was from a legacy mezzanine loan, where we took ownership in late 2015, and consolidated the $96 million of properties, and the $84 million of senior debt on our balance sheet. During Q3, we decided not to invest additional capital into the situation, and instead we'll turn the portfolio over to the senior lender.

Before handing the call back to Scott, let's review our 2016 guidance. As a result of the recent transactions, we are updating our 2016 guidance and expecting full year 2016 GAAP net income to be between $0.18 and $0.30 per share. And full year 2015 GAAP CAD to be between $0.46 and $0.50 per share.

It should be noted that this guidance update includes a $43 million IRT internalization payment in GAAP net income, but excludes it from CAD. While I maybe receiving cash, we are excluding it from CAD to ensure a transparency given the magnitude of the positive impact. Looking ahead, we are expecting to see reduced G&A, compensation and overall employee head count as a result of the IRT internalization and the sales of multi-family property management business. Scott, thank you.

Thanks, Jim. Operator, at this time, I'd like to open up the call for any questions. [Operator Instructions]

Our first question coming from the line of Steve DeLaney with JMP Securities. Your line is open.

Hey, good morning, everyone. And I commend you guys on your steps you've taken to simplify the company in your financials. It's going to be a big help to the investment community.

I'd like to start with the lending activity. It looks like the senior portfolio actually shrunk in the third quarter given the $130 million of payoffs that you had. So my question is with the kind of selective approach you've been taken to lending, where's the collateral going to come for this six securitization that you plan for the fourth quarter? And are you cleaning up any old deals and freeing up any collateral that will help fill that the new one, the new transaction.

Well, I'll answer in part and Jim will be more specific. We've been originating loans throughout the course of the year for FL6. I think we've got something around $250 million or so of loans that are currently closed. We have a few more loans under [indiscernible] (14:04) that are going to close in the near term, which should get us to our target of $300 million or so for that securitization. So, we've targeted about a $300 million deal and I think we're going to end up with about a $300 million deal.

As it relates to future pipeline, one of the things I tried to indicate is we've been pretty consistent as we have for a long period of time about the credit quality and the types of loans that we want to make. There has been a period sort of at the beginning of this year, when others in the market perhaps were a little bit more aggressive than we were and it was a little bit harder for us to originate loans.

What we've seen over the last call it six weeks is that our pipeline has started to fill up again. Demand from borrowers for our loan product has increased and we're seeing a lot more loans that we like that we believe that we're going to be successful in closing. So, the pipeline looks good, our credit quality and our focus on borrower quality and all the rest of it remains absolutely unchanged. And again, the pipeline [indiscernible] (15:04) looks good and I think we look good for FL6. So, Steve, does that answer your question?

Absolutely. I didn't realize you had sort of $250 million that were on kind of warehouse lines from – obviously, you didn't add a lot in the third quarter, but you're saying the earlier part of the year you'd sort of built up some collateral for later this year for the securitization. So, I'm good on that.

Scott, I know your comments, you need to spend some time with the board, but thinking about your background before you came to RAIT, should we assume at this point that the company will attempt to remain active in CMBS conduit lending in some fashion, given your experience with that market?

I think that's a good assumption. Look our job here is to be a really good user of our shareholders' capital and produce high risk-adjusted returns for them. If those opportunities are available in the CMBS market, we have the skill and the technology and the background to take advantage of them. And if they're not available in the CMBS market, we'll use capital appropriately in other lending markets to produce those same returns. So, there are moments in time, where we really like CMBS and then there have been moments in time when we've been more defensive and have liked it less. So, the last little period here, given our size and our capital structure, it didn't really make sense for us to step in front of the train of the market changes that are going on and will be completed kind of in December. When that's done, we'll look at next year and we'll look at the opportunities associated with every loan and decide how we want to attack the market. But we're very much focused on the lending business and we like the idea of giving our customers one-stop shop financing across a range of products and we've generally liked the CMBS product, but we're not committed to any product unless the returns are appropriate.

Got it, got it. That all makes a lot of sense. So, it sounds like with the transition, with risk retention, we shouldn't expect much to see much in the fourth quarter but it's an opportunity of markets to readdress in 2017's kind of what I'm hearing.

I think that's a very good way of saying it. Maybe I should have said it that way. Thank you.

That's their job. Jim, I was trying to – curiously as you going through your comments, could you just recap for me what you said about fourth quarter property sales? I didn't get all of those, the details.

Certainly. Right now in the supplement, we've identified 12 properties for sale that aggregates $237 million. When they sell in the fourth quarter, we're expecting to generate approximately $40 million of GAAP gains and then...

Got it.

....$24 million of proceeds that we can use in our lending business and other aspects of the firm.

All right. Very good. Gentleman, thanks for the comments this morning.

Thank you,

Thank you.

Thank you. Our next question coming from the line of Jade Rahmani with KBW. Your line is now open.

Hi. Thanks for taking my questions. Stepping back for a moment could you just summarize the pro forma portfolio, which I think would be helpful for investors post IRT, what's the total asset base? How does it split between debt and equity? What's the leverage ratio? I think just a quick summary would be helpful.

Sure. I mean once IRT is being consolidated as you can see in this supplement, you'll see that the pro forma portfolio of loans and kind of real estate gets you to about $2.5 billion of total assets. That leverage ratio pro forma is slightly less than about 80% debt to gross assets with the rest being obviously between common and preferred equity.

And what's the mix of loans in real estate?

So, the loans will be about $1.35 billion, $1.4 billion and then there's about in terms of gross real estate dollars, just under about $1 billion of gross real state.

And, what of the $1 billion in gross real estate is anticipated to be sold over the next 12 months?

Well. We've identified 12 properties for sales that aggregates about $237 million.

And you'll also see the industrial portfolio come off next quarter as well.

That's fair. Yeah.

Sorry, and how much is the industrial portfolio?

It's about $93 million.

Beyond that, what are the remaining properties and are those going to be core holdings?

What we've done or what we continue to do is go property-by-property and make sure that we're maximizing value with regard to any sale or disposition. So, we continue to do that and as much as we continue to focus on simplification and we continue to focus on the idea of devoting capital to our lending business, we want to make sure that we're not leaving any money on the table, as it relates to any asset sales or dispositions. So, we go property-by-property. When we think we maximize proceeds we're likely to trying to sell them. What we can tell you about are the properties that Jim has identified that we have under contract.

Okay. You mentioned the dilution to earnings near-term as you delever and sell properties. Do you anticipate earnings to cover the dividend over say the next 12 months?

The board considers the dividend each and every quarter based on cash available for distribution as well as thoughts about the market and the company. It's a decision that board takes and again they don't really make the decision on an annual basis to my knowledge, I believe, we've been making on a quarterly basis, I think that our next likely decision about that is in December and we'll make an announcement then.

Can you say what your current investment capacity is, how much available capital is there to invest?

Sure. I think, Jade, this is Jim. In my commentary, I referenced, kind of how much cash has been generated here in the fourth quarter from IRT and the asset sales, is approximately $86 million. And we have about $340 million of availability across our various warehouse lines to fund the additional floating rates and conduit loans, not that we would fund conduit loans, but to Scott's point earlier, but the capacity is there.

The $86 million is that leverageable equity?

That is cash coming in that could be leveraged, correct.

Okay. And can you just talk to credit performance on the loan book quarter-over-quarter and maybe just remind us what drove the non-accrual?

Sure. In my commentary, I kind of referenced those. There is a single $74 million kind of pre-crisis loan that was made to a single borrower. During the quarter, we worked with or are working with the borrower to restructure that into instead of one loan into six individual loans to provide easier access to the collateral and then a structure that incentivizes the borrower to exit the property or refinances out. We are in the process of finalizing that, what I'll call restructure and expect that to kind of move off to non-accrual list here in the fourth quarter.

And what's the LTV on that and maybe the property type?

The property type is a combination of both small office and retail properties on the Eastern Coast, mainly in Pennsylvania and New Jersey. And I don't have the LTV rate in front of me, but I can certainly get that and call you back.

Okay. And then just finally, a lot of the commercial mortgage REITs, non-bank lenders, people at conferences, representing debt funds are citing attractive opportunities on the lending side but flexible capital on transitional properties. You guys sound a little more cautious. Is that due to capital availability and the company's simplification strategy plus CMBS turmoil or is there anything that you're seeing in the market on pricing, underwriting, credit trends that makes you more cautious?

I wouldn't use the word cautious I'd use the word consistent. We're pretty consistent with regard to the types of loans that we make and how we make them the people to whom we make them. So we try and not get too excited when things feel better and we try not get too upset when things feel little bit worse.

So, we've been very consistent with what we've been doing for a while now. We will continue to be consistent. I agree that that is a great opportunity in the transitional space and we're well prepared to attack it. So, we don't want to be too excited about it either, because when you get too excited, I think is when you tend to make mistakes. So, we're going to approach it like we always have, but I do agree there's a great opportunity there.

Thanks for taking my questions. [Operator Instructions]

I'm showing no further questions at this time. I'll now turn the call back over to Mr. Scott Davidson for closing remarks.

Thank you. We look forward to updating you on our progress soon, and we appreciate everybody's time and attention this morning. Have a great day.

Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude our conference for today. Thank you for your participation in today's conference. You may all disconnect. Everyone have a wonderful day.