Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Andres Viroslav — Investor Relations Contact, The Bancorp, Inc.
Scott F. Schaeffer — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, RAIT Financial Trust
James J. Sebra — Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer, RAIT Financial Trust
Jason M. Stewart — Analyst, Compass Point Research & Trading LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q1 2014 RAIT Financial Trust Earnings Conference Call. My name is Emily, and I will be your operator for today. At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. We will conduct a question-and-answer session towards the end of this conference. [Operator Instructions] And as a reminder, this call is being recorded for replay purposes.

I'd now like to turn the call over to Andres Viroslav. Please proceed.

Thank you, Emily and good morning to everyone. Thank you for joining us today to review RAIT Financial Trust's first quarter 2014 financial results.

On the call with me today are Scott Schaeffer, Chief Executive Officer; and Jim Sebra, RAIT's Chief Financial Officer. This morning's call is being webcast on our website at www.rait.com. There will be a replay of the call available via webcast on our website and telephonically beginning at approximately 1:00 PM Eastern Time today. The dial-in for the replay is 888-286-8010, with a confirmation code of 105Q3484.

Before I turn the call over to Scott, I'd like to remind everyone that there may be forward-looking statements made in this call. These forward-looking statements reflect RAIT's current views with respect to future events and financial performance. Actual results could differ substantially and materially from what RAIT has projected. Such statements are made in good faith pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Please refer to RAIT's press release and filings with the SEC for factors that could affect the accuracy of our expectations or cause our future results to differ materially from those expectations.

Participants may discuss non-GAAP financial measures in this call. A copy of RAIT's press release containing financial information, other statistical information and a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is attached to RAIT's most recent current report on Form 8-K available at RAIT's website, www.rait.com, under Investor Relations. RAIT's other SEC filings are also available through this link.

RAIT does not undertake to update forward-looking statements in this call or with respect to matters described herein, except as may be required by law.

Now, I would like to turn the call over to RAIT's Chief Executive Officer, Scott Schaeffer. Scott?

Thanks, Andres. And thank you all for joining our call today. We are pleased to report a quarter of significant growth in loan production and continued growth and stability in our portfolio of owned real estate. Our results this quarter as compared to the quarter ended March 2013 continue to demonstrate the depth of our commercial real estate platform.

As usual, let's start with some highlights. Total revenues grew 15.4% to $67.3 million for the quarter ended March 31. Net interest margin from our loan portfolio increased 17% to $27.8 million. Rental income from our property portfolio increased 29% to $35.2 million and net operating income increased 34% to $17.1 million.

Cash available for distribution or CAD, [ph] is a new performance measure (0:02:52), increased 58% to $17.2 million. As we've previously discussed on our calls, we are growing our on-balance sheet floating rate bridge lending business. Though it's more capital intensive than our fixed-rate conduit loans for sale business, the bridge lending, which is RAIT's historical core business, offers attractive risk-adjusted returns and a stable recurring stream of interest income.

During the first quarter, we originated $224.5 million of new loans. $175.6 million were bridge loans, which surpassed the $130 million of bridge loans that we produced for all of 2013. We also closed $46 million of conduit and $3 million of mezzanine loans during the first quarter. In addition, since the end of the first quarter, we closed an additional $93 million of loans and had $240 million of loans in our pipeline, which we are targeting to close before the end of the second quarter. Of course, the actual amount of loan closings during the quarter may change as we continue the underwriting and due diligence process.

In order to support this growth, we entered into a new warehouse facility with UBS this past January. We closed two capital raises, one in January, one in April, and we completed our second RAIT-sponsored floating-rate CMBS transaction in April.

In our second floating-rate CMBS transaction, we match-funded $196 million on first lien bridge loans with non-recourse financing, by selling $156 million of investment grade bonds [indiscernible] (0:04:17) with RAIT retaining the $40 million residual interest, which should generate return in the high-teens to RAITs.

The liability is priced at a weighted average cost of LIBOR plus 1.79%, which is an improvement from the LIBOR plus 1.85% pricing of our first floating-rate CMBS securitization, which closed in July of last year. We also increased the advance rate to 79.5% from the 75% advance rate on our first securitization. We expect to continue to use CMBS transactions like this to finance our bridge lending business going forward.

Our owned real estate continues to provide stability to the overall portfolio. The multifamily properties continue to perform well and experienced a year-over-year same-store average rent per unit growth of 4.2%.

Our subsidiary, Independence Realty Trust, an apartment property equity REIT which we externally manage and consolidate, acquired seven properties during the first quarter, closing 2,180 units for $127 million of purchase cost, and now owns 4,970 apartment units. RAIT currently owns approximately seven million shares of stock representing 39% of IRT's outstanding common stock.

On the asset and property management side of the business, we expanded our property management capabilities and now control a retail focused property manager named Urban Retail Properties based in Chicago. Urban currently manages 62 properties, with 16.7 million square feet in 26 states.

With the addition of Urban, RAIT commercial real estate platform includes the ability to offer property management services for multifamily, office and retail properties for us and third-party property owners across the country. Including Urban's properties, RAIT's asset under management increased to $5.1 billion at March 31, 2014. As a result of this performance across our core businesses, RAIT's board announced our seventh consecutive quarterly common dividend increase to $0.17 per share or approximately 75% of CAD for the first quarter of 2014.

At this point, I'd like to turn the call over to Jim to review the financial results in more detail. Jim?

Thank you, Scott. Historically, we have reported AFFO as a key operating metric. To further clarify our earnings without the effect of the legacy Taberna securitizations, we are introducing cash available for distribution or CAD as a key performance measure.

For the first quarter, CAD was $0.22 per share or $17.2 million. This is a 58% increase over Q1 2013, where CAD was $10.8 million. Compared to Q1 2013, investment interest income was up $3.7 million, due to increased loan production, while investment interest expense was down by $300,000, primarily due to reduced hedging costs offset by increased interest costs from our warehouse lending on floating rate loans for the first quarter.

For the first quarter, our loan production was $225 million, as compared to $95 million of loan production in the first quarter of 2013. As we've discussed previously, the interest rate hedges in our RAIT I and RAIT II securitizations are continuing to burn off. Based on the current one-month LIBOR curve, we expect to see $2.9 million of reduced hedging costs over the remaining portion of this year, when compared to the 2013 run rate, as hedges continue to expire according to their terms.

From a credit perspective, our non-accrual loans declined to $28 million and represent about 2.3% of our loan portfolio at March 31. Our current loan loss reserves are $14.3 million or 51% of our non-accrual loans, and we believe that we are adequately reserved for any future potential losses.

Rental income increased by 29% or $8 million in Q1 2014. This increase is primarily a result of $7.1 million of rental income associated with properties acquired since March 31 of last year, with $863,000 of increased rental income due to continued improvement in occupancy and rental rates across the remaining properties.

Lastly, fee and other income decreased approximately $2.9 million in Q1 2014, as the profitability in our conduit loans sales business declined when compared to Q1 last year. We expect that profitability will normalize throughout the remainder of 2014 into two to four point range.

With respect to our expenses, there are couple items of note. Interest expense for Q1 2014 is up $1.9 million compared to Q1 2013, due primarily to $1.5 million of interest associated with mortgage loans used to finance the real estate properties we acquired since the end of the first quarter last year.

Property operating expenses for Q1 2014 increased by $3.7 million as compared to Q1 last year. This increase is a result of $2.9 million of operating expenses associated with properties acquired since March 31 last year and $480,000 of one-time real estate tax catch-ups for 2013, increased utility costs and other severe weather-related items that occurred in the first quarter of this year.

Without these one-time items, property operating expenses on the historical portfolio increased $291,000 or 2.1%. Overall, the net operating income of our real estate portfolio was $17.1 million in Q1 2014, an increase of $4.3 million from Q1 2013.

Combined comp and administrative expenses increased slightly to approximately 19% of total revenue in Q1 2014 as compared to 18% of total revenue in Q1 2013. We did increase our loan-loss provision to $1.0 million in Q1 2014 from $500,000 in the first quarter of last year. This increase is a result of our increased production of on-balance sheet loans in 2014.

We all reported a GAAP net loss for Q1 2014 of $14.6 million or $0.18 per share. The GAAP net loss was attributable to the $24 million of continued negative changes in the fair value of our various financial instruments. The primary driver of those negative changes was an increase in the market price of the legacy Taberna securitization liabilities during 2014, the effect of which narrows that gap between our adjusted book value and GAAP book value.

Please remember that the changes in the fair value of our financial instruments are non-cash. As such, we believe that our presentation and discussion of CAD is more indicative of our financial performance.

With respect to our CRE CDOs, we continue to meet all of the over-collateralization tests. CRE I reported an OC test of 127%, above the required level of 116%. CRE II reported an OC test of 119%, above the required level of 112%. These OC test results are largely unchanged compared to year-end 2013.

As of quarter-end, we continue to maintain good liquidity and capital available for investment. We ended the quarter with $486 million of capital available for investment, comprised of $110 million of cash on hand, $228 million of availability under our two conduit warehouse lines, and $148 million of availability under our two bridge loan facilities.

We exited the capital markets twice since the start of the year. First in January, we completed a common stock offering of 10 million shares and raised $83 million of net proceeds. In April, we completed a $60 million offering of 7.625% senior notes and raised net proceeds of $58 million. We also drew the remaining $35 million of availability under our $100 million commitment from Almanac at quarter end. All these proceeds are being used to fund our pipeline of loans.

Lastly, in January 2014, Independence Realty Trust, our consolidated sub, completed eight million common share offering and raised net proceeds of $63 million. All these proceeds have been deployed in eight properties acquired by IRT so far in 2014.

Scott, this concludes the financial report. Back to you.

Thanks, Jim. I think at this time, operator, we'd like to open the call up for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Okay. Your first question comes from the line of Jason Stewart with Compass Point. Please proceed.

Hey, good morning. Thanks for taking the questions. Scott, I was wondering if you could give us some more color on the competitive environment in the conduit origination market. I mean I think, Jim, you gave us some color on gain on sale. But in terms of volume, what are you seeing there? [indiscernible] (0:13:05) think that you can generate significant cash flow this year or is it becoming too competitive for the return [indiscernible] (0:13:12)?

No. I don't think it's becoming too competitive. I think it's clearly more competitive than it was in 2013, especially in the space that we play, which is in the smaller loan category. The first quarter is always unique. It's always the weakest quarter for loan production. For RAIT, I think a lot of it has to do with the loans which we closed in the first quarter. Many of them are sourced in the latter half of the fourth quarter, which is a – just happens to be a slower time in the world.

What we're seeing going forward is, we're seeing loan volumes that I would assess that will be similar in volume for us, on the conduit side I was speaking, as 2013. But the increased competitiveness has resulted in a reduced spreads or profitability.

So, while we were getting five points, six points, seven points of gain on sale last year, you're seeing, what Jim referred to as, normalizing at two points to four points. We kind of always knew this would happen. Clearly it happened a little more quickly than I anticipated. But, we still see it as a viable business. We still think that we will be able to clearly maintain the volume that we've generated in the past, and hopefully increase it. But for the rest of 2014, anyway, I think pricing will be lower and resulting in that 2% to 4% range.

Yeah. Well, I guess that's what happens when you'd amortize 60%, 70% ROEs on the business, people [indiscernible] (0:14:59) to it, right?

Yes. It's one of the downsides of being successful.

That's helpful commentary. And If you think about that in the bridge business, are you seeing banks, other lenders start to enter that product as well? Or is that still pretty [indiscernible] (00:15:21)? Okay.

Well, it's really not that unique per se, but it's something where, for us, the market is much larger. We still are – we're a non-recourse lender, where most banks are not. Banks still do not want to be at the 75% loan-to-value range, especially not non-recourse. So, what we're seeing is tremendous growth opportunities on that side of the lending business.

We really jumped into it in earnest that the middle – maybe in the middle half of last year, because that's when we were able to put the warehousing in place. Now, we're seeing increased warehousing capacity. We have other banks coming to us saying, please let us warehouse those loans for you. We're able to match-fund them through the floating-rate securitizations. So, what I see going forward is real growth and increased volumes, and good, stable recurring net interest or growth in net interest margin from those floating-rate loans. [ph]

Thanks, Scott (0:16:30). And then in terms of the provision, how are you guys looking at the provision? I mean, obviously the more [indiscernible] (0:16:38), I think everybody would assume you have to think about the provision. But how should we look at that? I mean, are we supposed to model that out over expected loss over the life of this product or is this a rolling-forward 12-months type provision that we should be thinking about?

No. I think it's a rolling-forward provision. Right now, we have been adequately reserved for the legacy issues in the portfolio, and we've increased it. I think we put aside $1.5 million in the fourth quarter just because we have been at $500,000 for the first three quarters of 2013.

And for 2014, based upon the production as we see it, it shifts the general provision of $1 million. No real specific analyses as to problem loans in the portfolio. It's just with the increased production when we're comfortable with $1 million a quarter going forward.

The reserves represent just over 1% of the loan [indiscernible] (0:17:46) which is relatively consistent with other industry practices.

Okay. So that's – as you grow, that 1% number would be a fair number to model?

Yeah. Sure.

Okay. One last one [indiscernible] (0:18:01) I'll jump out. The CAD number, can you give us what CAD would've been for the launch for the fourth quarter?

CAD was $0.27 for the fourth quarter.

Okay. All right. Thanks, guys. I appreciate it.

Thank you, Jason.

Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of [indiscernible] (0:18:23).

Hi. Good morning.

Good morning.

Good morning.

In terms of the growth in assets under management, was that an acquisition, the property manager Urban Retail Properties?

It was a company that RAIT made a preferred equity investment in a number of years ago. And we made the decision late in the fourth quarter that we were not comfortable with the direction of the company. And under the [indiscernible] (0:19:00), we took control.

But is that a positive – is that a positive financial implications the fact that you are now the owner?

I think it is, yes. I think it will generate a recurring stream of management fees, net profit management fees to RAIT, and it has 62 properties that it manages, which you never know the opportunities that will arise from being close to those assets, financing and/or otherwise. And we think that the company in the current environment has a lot of future potential. So we decided that – I guess one way to say this, we didn't like the direction of the company at the time and that since we had the right to take control, we did.

Okay. Is it possible to give what your current overall fee basis on your assets under management?

I'll get that number for you and get back to you.

Okay. On your own portfolio, just looking at your trends in retail, obviously, it's going quite well in multifamily. But the retail occupancy trends have been headed down over the last year or so, could you comment on that a little bit?

Yeah, occupancy is down a little bit. Rental rate is up a little bit. I'm seeing you're smiling, because we're in the process of changing management companies on our owned retail properties from the third-party, [indiscernible] (0:20:47) fees-generating management company that we were using that we have no interest in. They were just managing for us, because we didn't have the capability. So now we're going to turn them over to Urban. We're in the process of doing that.

I'm hopeful that we'll see some increase in performance. But the retail properties that we have – has had difficulty and we're working them. And I think in a better economic environment in the future, they will obviously do better. There was some repositioning involved and occupancy issues relate to – is the side effect, I should say, of that repositioning. But I'm thankful that it's not worse, and we think it will get much better under – now that we can manage them ourselves, or have the capability to manage them ourselves.

Okay. And then just to follow-up a little bit on the prior question on the conduit loans versus bridge loans. So I guess my takeaway is that the sequential – some of the sequential decline in distributable cash reflects the absence of those higher margins on conduit loans and if that's the case, I guess my question is, is this a good kind of base level looking forward through the rest of the year, where there won't be additional drag from further changes in your issuance volume on conduits.

I think it is a good base level. I think you will see clearly growth from this point forward, clearly in the on-balance sheet lending. And I do think that the final three quarters – and again, this is a forward-looking statement, without much to back it up other than looking at our pipelines and talking with our originators, that the final three quarters of this year will be better from a conduit lending perspective than the first quarter was.

But having said that, the conduit lending is a lumpy business, the gain on sale; some quarters are good, some quarters are bad. We had a good quarter in the third quarter and fourth quarter of last year. And the first quarter clearly was not nearly is good. That was one of the reasons that we talked about changing the strategy a little bit and focusing more on the on-balance sheet bridge lending which, yeah, you're not generating 3-point, 4-point, 5-point profit after holding a loan for three weeks and having levered it three to one, but you're generating a 17%, 18% return on your equity recurring with match-funding. So there is – we're not taking any interest rate risk.

It's a more stable income stream. And I think that we're going to be much more comfortable at a 75% payout ratio like we were in the first quarter on dividends, based upon that more stable income stream than we were with the lumpy stream relative to the conduit business.

What the bridge business also does for us is it's a feeder pipeline, if you will, for the conduit, because these are three-year to five-year loans, transitional properties. The borrower does his work, increases his cash flow and his income and then looks to put permanent financing on, while we have the relationship and we have, really for lack of a better term, the last look at doing that permanent financing.

So, it's good recurring high-teens income, net interest margin and then it becomes a feeder for the conduit business going forward.

Okay. And then on your book value calculation and I think there were some commentary on this – earlier on the call, but I didn't quite follow it. But in regards to Taberna, the Taberna adjustment has come down quite a bit. Does that reflect a revaluation up of the Taberna liabilities or a revaluation down of the Taberna assets or some combination of the two?

It's a smaller increase in the value of the Taberna liabilities than what we've experienced in the past. And I think I'm answering your question, in the prior quarters, we had much larger market value increases in the liabilities and that's why the GAAP losses were greater. At some point, these liabilities really can't go any higher and I believe we're getting near that time. And that's why it was a $24 million increase in liability expense in the first quarter. And it does affect our GAAP book value. But since we eliminate that for the adjusted book value calculation, that's why that spread is narrowing, because GAAP book value is coming down, but it doesn't affect the adjusted book value, so that, that – again, that [ph] gap (0:26:04) becomes smaller each time...

I guess what I'm asking is, if – on the chance that there eventually is some value to Taberna, I'm just curious why that value as reflected in your book value adjustments has come down so much?

The book value – the Taberna effect in calculating adjusted book value effectively records our interest in Taberna at zero. So if there is some improved value, that is nothing but a good guide from an adjusted book value standpoint.

Right. Okay. Then, last question, just on your land holdings, I'm just curious what those are more specifically and if those are something you might sell at some point?

They are something we might sell at some point for sure. They are largely beachfront parcels in Daytona, Florida that were [ph] hoteled (0:27:01). The hotels were damaged in a hurricane in the mid-2000s and while the borrower was fighting with his insurance company, he kept fighting right up into the Great Recession and ended up filing for bankruptcy. We had mezzanine loans – no, no, it's not true. We had first mortgage loans and we ended up taking the parcels back and closing down the properties that were on it, because they had never been repaired from the hurricane damage.

What we're seeing in Daytona is we were a very small piece of a large – of a company that had large land holdings. So, when they went down, we ended up with this 20-some acres, it's all beachfront, but they probably had 120 acres of beachfront. So, the other banks that were involved were Wachovia, and some of the larger banks. They have, over the last three or four years, have been on a systematic selling program of selling the parcels that they took back from this company.

We have decided that we would be better off being the last group to sell rather than the first group to sell. We're now starting to see some development on those parcels. There's a [indiscernible] (0:28:24) going up. There's some overseas developers who have put a lot of money into the area and are talking about building new hotels. We think that we are well-positioned with the parcels that we hold. We're in the middle of some of the development that's happening, and that over time, our value will be better than it is today.

But I do think it's something – in the relatively near-term, and when I say that, two years or so, that we would be disposing off this land. It's not going to be a long, long, long-term hold for us.

Do you have any sense of what the other owners have been selling their parcels for?

We certainly do. But I don't as I'm sitting here.

Okay. Well, thanks for all the – answering all the questions and...

Sure.

...look forward to next quarter.

Thank you for your question. I would now like to turn the call over to Scott Schaeffer for closing remarks.

Well, thank you for joining us today. Our plan is to continue executing on our strategy and growth. And we look forward to sharing our progress with you at the end of next quarter. Thanks.

Thank you for joining in today's conference. This concludes the presentation. You may now disconnect. Have a good day.