corrected transcript


RAIT Financial Trust
 
RAS
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 26, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


yMANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2008 RAIT Financial Trust


Earnings Conference Call. My name is Tania and I will be your coordinator for today. At this time,


all participants are in a listen-only-mode. [Operator Instructions].


I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today’s call, Mr. Andres Viroslav, Vice


President and Director of Corporate Communications. Sir, please proceed.


Andres Viroslav, Vice President and Director of Corporate Communications


Thank you, Tania and good morning to everyone. Thank you for joining us today to review RAIT


Financial Trust fourth quarter and fiscal 2008 financial results.


On the call with me today are Scott Schaeffer, Chief Executive Officer; Betsy Cohen, Chairman of


the Board; Jack Salmon, Chief Financial Officer and Raphael Licht, our Chief Operating Officer.


This morning’s call is being webcast on our website at www.raitft.com. There will be a replay of the


call available via webcast on our website, and telephonically beginning at approximately 1:00 PM


Eastern Time today. The dial-in for the replay is 888-286-8010 with the confirmation code of


82111440.


Before I turn the call over to Betsy, I would like to remind everyone that there may be forward-


looking statements made in this call. These forward-looking statements reflect RAIT’s current views


with respect to future events and financial performance.


Actual results could differ substantially and materially from what RAIT has projected. Such


statements are made in good faith pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities


Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Please refer to RAIT’s press release and filings with the SEC for


factors that could affect the accuracy of our expectations or cause our future results to differ


materially from those expectations.


Participants may discuss non-GAAP financial measures in this call. A copy of RAIT’s press release


containing financial information, other statistical information, and a reconciliation of non-GAAP


financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is attached to RAIT’s


most recent current report on Form 8-K available at RAIT’s website www.raitft.com under Investor


Relations.


RAIT’s other SEC filings are also available through this link. RAIT does not undertake to update


forward-looking statements in this call or with respect to matters described herein except as may be


required by law.


Now, I would like to turn the call over to RAIT’s Chairman, Betsy Cohen. Betsy?


Betsy Z. Cohen, Chairman of the Board


Thank you Andres, and again welcome to all of you on the call. I just wanted to take the opportunity


to review the recent resignation of Daniel Cohen as CEO of RAIT. Daniel has gone on to be the


CEO of another company of which he was Chairman.
corrected transcript


RAIT Financial Trust
 
RAS
 
Q4 2008 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 26, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


We are very fortunate here at RAIT to have what we think of this deep bench – a deep bench and


to have colleagues from which to draw leaders who have been with us over a long period of time,


and who have a very relevant experience to today’s market.


Scott Schaeffer who has become our CEO was active in the distressed debt markets of the early


1990s. He has overtime not only had acquisition experience in that area, but certainly substantial


commercial real estate workout experience. And indeed, was a part of the RAIT team which prior to


the advents of available securitization in our marketplace allowed us to grow, develop, and succeed


with a very sound CRE platform.


Raphael Licht, who has moved from the position of General Counsel to that of Chief Operating


Officer, again brings with him long experience in the securitization field from both, the legal and a


negotiating perspective, and in understanding of our business platform which will enable us, I think


to operate even more effectively.


With that I am going to turn the call over to Scott Schaeffer.


Scott F. Schaeffer, Chief Executive Officer


Thank you very much Betsy, and thank all of you for being with us this morning as we present


RAIT’s 2008 results and our current business strategy. After some brief remarks, I will ask Jack to


deliver his financial report, after which we will open the call up for questions.


I think it is very clear to everyone how challenging the market has become. So I am not going to


spend time describing what we often experience by turning on the TV, reading a newspaper or


watching volatility in the stock market. Simply to put, RAIT faces macroeconomic recessionary


market condition as the de-leveraging process continues with out times as to when the economy


will recover.


Unfortunately, we have no control over these conditions. However, we can determine how RAIT


responds and manages through this difficult period in order to maximize available cash flow, build


assets and provide returns to our shareholders.


Today, we have adequate cash flow and liquidity to meet our debt maturities, and in existing


commercial real estate platform which is positioned to take advantage of opportunities in the


distressed commercial real estate debt market. We recently hired a former Managing Director of a


large financial institution with extensive CMBS experience to support us in this initiative.


As detailed in our earnings release, we generated $0.33 and $1.84 per share of adjusted earnings


for the quarter and year-ended December 31, 2008. Our portfolio has generated gross cash flow of


174 million for the year-ended December 31, 2008 as compared to 214 million in 2007.


We are vigorously and I think effectively, managing and servicing our investment portfolios with the


focus on cash flow. In order to understand where our business is today, it’s important to understand


that the majority of our gross cash flow, approximately 55% came from our commercial real estate


portfolio during 2008.


We build our commercial real estate portfolio over 10 years, and we feel it’s a strong foundation


that will support RAIT’s future. Our other portfolios including our residential mortgage portfolio,


domestic TruPS portfolio, and our European portfolio also generate significant cash flow. Our ability


to earn positive investment income on our investments in these portfolios is highly dependent on


the overall economy and particularly its effect on our borrowers’ liquidity.