Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Andres Viroslav — Vice President & Director-Corporate Communications, RAIT Financial Trust
Scott F. Schaeffer — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, RAIT Financial Trust
James J. Sebra — Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer, RAIT Financial Trust
Gabe Poggi — Analyst, FBR Capital Markets
Zach H. Tanenbaum — Analyst, McNicoll, Lewis & Vlak LLC
Brian Gonick — Principal & Director, Senvest International LLC
Jonathan R. Evans — Portfolio Manager, Edmunds White Partners, LLC.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Q3 2012 RAIT Financial Trust Earnings Conference Call. My name is Catherine, and I will be your operator for today. At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. We will conduct a question-and-answer session towards the end of this conference. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this call is being recorded for replay purposes.

I would now like to turn the call over to Andres Viroslav, Vice President. Please proceed, sir.

Thank you, Catherine, and good morning to everyone. Thank you for joining us today to hear RAIT Financial Trust's third quarter 2012 financial results. On the call with me today are Scott Schaeffer, Chief Executive Officer and Jim Sebra, RAIT's Chief Financial Officer.

This morning's call is being webcast on our website at www.raitft.com. There will be a replay of the call available via webcast on our website and telephonically beginning at approximately 11:00 AM Eastern Time today. The dial-in for the replay is 888-286-8010, with a confirmation code of 33732273.

Before I turn the call over to Scott, I would like to remind everyone that there may be forward-looking statements made in this call. These forward-looking statements reflect RAIT's current views with respect to future events and financial performance. Actual results could differ substantially and materially from what RAIT has projected. Such statements are made in good faith pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Please refer to RAIT's press release and filings with the SEC for factors that could affect the accuracy of our expectations or cause our future results to differ materially from those expectations.

Participants may discuss non-GAAP financial measures in this call. A copy of RAIT's press release containing financial information, other statistical information and a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is attached to RAIT's most recent current report on Form 8-K, available at RAIT's website www.raitft.com, under Investor Relations. RAIT's other SEC filings are also available through this link. RAIT does not undertake to update forward-looking statements in this call or with respect to matters described herein except as may be required by law.

Now I'd like to turn the call over to RAIT's Chief Executive Officer, Scott Schaeffer. Scott?

Thanks, Andres, and thanks to all of you for joining our call today. We are pleased to report another strong quarter at RAIT. The hard work and effort we've put forth focusing on our core business is clearly paying off. Revenues increased across all three categories this quarter. Interest income, rental income and fee income all increased, driven primarily by the expansion of our core lending businesses and continued growth of our rental revenue.

Operating expenses as a whole remained flat during the quarter, resulting in a 57% increase in operating income on a linked quarter basis. As discussed on previous calls, our interest expense continues to decline as hedges burn off. We remain match funded because we're increasing the number of floating rate loans in the portfolio, and as a result, we don't need to replace the interest rate hedges when they expire. We saved $300,000 in the third quarter and expect to save an additional $250,000 in the fourth quarter as existing hedges burn off. We estimate an additional $3 million in hedge savings – hedge cost savings during 2013.

The bottom line impact of these results is that AFFO rose to $0.30 per share and operating income jumped to $9.4 million for the third quarter. These increases were directly attributable to the progress we've made originating and securitizing CMBS loans, from receiving a full quarter of interest income on the loans we funded during the second quarter and from further reductions in interest expense. As a result of this progress, RAIT's board recently announced our second quarterly common dividend increase of 2012. We remain focused on delivering a consistent and steadily growing dividend to RAIT's shareholders as we continue to accretively deploy capital into our core businesses.

Jim will go through the numbers shortly, but I'd like to take a moment to discuss the recently announced $100 million capital commitment from Almanac Realty Investors. We've recognized a need to identify a new capital to help us continue the positive forward momentum in our lending businesses. We've made good progress toward obtaining this capital. We secured two warehouse facilities to fund our CMBS lending initiatives. And we are actively exploring other similar initiatives for our bridge lending businesses. We have also begun to partner with banks who are interested in participating in our pipeline of bridge loans.

As previously reported, Almanac Realty committed to purchase $100 million of our newly issued securities. We are excited to have this relationship with such a well-respected and capable partner as Almanac. The commitment is structured so that RAIT can draw funds as needed over a two year period so that the capital isn't dilutive to earnings.

We will use the proceeds to fund all of our lending businesses and fully expect this capital to be accretive to our common shareholders as we close and sell CMBS loans, and close and lever bridge loans. When we deploy capital in our lending businesses we target returns in excess of 20%, well in excess of the 7.5% current cost of the Almanac capital.

At this point, I'd like to turn the call over to the Jim to go through the financial results. Jim?

Thank you, Scott. The third quarter was a good quarter for RAIT. AFFO increased 30% to $0.30 per diluted share, up from $0.23 in the third quarter of 2011.

Let's spend a little time on the numbers and the drivers of our business. As Scott discussed, all three categories of our revenue were up on a linked quarter basis. Interest income grew by $1.6 million or 6% quarter-to-quarter as year-to-date loan production reached $285 million of which $31 million [inaudible] (5:44) driven by seasonal trends, we are continuing to push rents in our multifamily portfolio and are seeing occupancy increases in our office and retail properties.

Lastly, fee and other income is up 73% or $1.5 million as a result of our securitizing $36 million of CMBS conduit loans resulting in $2.1 million of profit that is included as part of fee and other income.

With respect to our expenses, most expenses are in line with our expectations and historical levels. A couple items of note; first, interest expense is down sequentially due to lower hedge costs in our CRE CDOs of $300,000 and lower interest costs on $25 million of subordinated debt that flipped from a fixed rate to a floating rate of interest during the third quarter.

We expect that our CRE hedge costs will decline by an additional $250,000 in the fourth quarter as compared to the third quarter. For the full year of 2013, we are expecting additional savings in our interest rate hedge costs, associated with our CRE CDOs of approximately $3 million as these hedges continue to burn off or amortize.

Second, property operating expenses increased by $800,000 as the two properties we acquired in May 2012 were owned for a full quarter. Property NOI was $12.2 million for the third quarter, while NOI increased by $100,000 on a linked quarter basis, it has increased by $3.1 million since the third quarter of 2011, or a 34% increase. That increase equates to $12 million of additional NOI on an annual basis.

Combined compensation and administrative expenses are consistent as a percentage of revenue and are running at approximately 16%. We expect some modest increase in these expenses as we continue to hire the personnel necessary to grow our business. From a credit standpoint, we continue to see stability in our loan portfolio. Non-accrual loans decreased slightly to $70 million or 6.8% of our portfolio. We continue to maintain loan loss reserves at approximately 47% of our non-accrual loans, and believe that we are adequately reserved for any potential future losses.

We reported a GAAP net loss for the third quarter of $18.4 million or $0.37 per diluted share. As with the prior quarters, the GAAP net loss was attributable to continued negative changes in the fair value of our various financial instruments. Please remember that the changes in the fair value of our financial instruments relates to our consolidated Taberna securitizations and are non-cash. As such, we believe that our presentation and discussion of AFFO is more indicative of our financial performance. As of September 30, we continue to maintain good liquidity and capital growth for investment.

We ended the quarter with $40 million of cash on hand and $291 million of capital available for investment. As Scott mentioned in October 2012, we closed on a $100 million capital commitment from an affiliate of Almanac Realty and as such, our capital available for investment has increased to $391 million.

During 2012, we introduced adjusted book value, or ABV, to help investors [audio gap] (9:07) management's view of book value. Schedule II of our press release reconciles our GAAP book value to ABV. Our ABV at September 30 was $6.65.

Finally, in September we declared a dividend of $0.09 per common share. This declaration represented a second increase in our common dividend during 2012 or a 50% increase since last year.

Scott, this concludes the financial report. Thank you.

Thanks, Jim. Operator at this time, I think we want to open up the call for questions.

Thank you, Scott. [Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Gabe Poggi from FBR. Please proceed.

Hey, good morning guys.

Good morning.

Good morning, Gabe.

A few questions, Scott I was hoping you could provide a little more color around the program – the bank participation program, I know you had noted that in the Q2 conference call and you mentioned it today and you're working on some things. Just any incremental color you have there would be helpful. Second question is, you guys obviously you're having a lot of success in the CMBS market contributing loans to conduits, can you give me a kind of a sense of, if you're working with a kind of a diversity of different conduits or is there – do you have kind of one or two key relationships there, because obviously the CMBS market is opened back up materially here in the back half of the year? And then lastly Jim, you may have said this and if you did I apologize, can you just give me the breakout of the $391 million now of capital available between cash and lines, et cetera, just so I have kind of the different buckets of where that $391 is? Thanks guys.

Thanks Gabe. I'll start with the CMBS question. The two warehouse lines that we have are with, one is with Barclays and one with Citi. And we have been securitizing loans through their programs. We are – we like that strategy because it appears, at least for the time being, that they're each coming to the market with deals every other month. So, it allows us to have good velocity in turning our loans and we're not carrying them on our balance sheet for very long. But so far it's just those two partners and those are the partners that provide the warehousing to us.

Got you.

As far as the bank program goes, we have been working to establish relationships with the banks who would participate with us on the bridge lending – you, I'm sure you recognized that banks are hungry for loans. We've had good success. We have five or six banks that have expressed a strong interest in doing this program with us. It's now incumbent upon us to generate the loans that they will participate. And of course the second quarter, we were slightly – or the third quarter, excuse me, we were slightly capital constrained because we were fully invested through our CDOs at the end of the second quarter and the new capital that we discussed from Almanac didn't come in until the very beginning of the fourth quarter.

So, we have been busy building up the pipeline, but, of course, we didn't want to get out ahead of ourselves, because we're still going to need 25% or 30% equity for each of these loans that we fund under this program. But now that we have the capital it's full speed ahead, and again, we're very pleased with the response we received from the banks that we're working with.

That's great. Jim, before you answer the other question, Scott, can I follow-up on that real quick? Can you just give me, I think I ask you this every quarter, but can you – the world is obviously changing rapidly quarter-to-quarter, QE3 is now implemented. Have you guys seen any major delta between where you guys can originate those bridge loans, or kind of, I should take a step back, what's, has the ROE profile changed either in the CMBS world, what you guys are doing there, that velocity turnover, or where you guys can put out bridge money?

No, we really haven't seen much of a change. It's still – there is a very healthy spread. And on the bridge product, we all know that we're doing smaller floating rate loans, we're still seeing pricing in the 6.5% to 7% range for these assets that have a modest amount of transition associated with them, and the banks are in the 3.5% range.

Right.

So there is a good healthy spread and it's all equates to a 20% give or take yield on our residual subordinated piece.

And on the CMBS side, spreads have come in a little bit on the origination side, but it's because the spreads have come in on the securitization pricing as well. And so we're seeing similar margins and again we're playing in smaller loans where there's just less competition and that allows us maybe to have slightly better margins than would be available if we were playing in the larger loan area with more competition.

Thanks. That's helpful. Sorry Jim.

And Gabe, on the capital available for investment of $391 million, it's made up of about $41 million of cash at the end of the quarter, $250 million available on the warehouse lines and $100 million of capital commitment from Almanac.

Got you. Okay. Thank you guys.

Let me just add one thing there, Gabe, which is that, we securitized the most recent pool of loans right near the end of the third quarter, and that's why the lines were all paid back.

Got you. Okay. Great. Nice job guys. Thank you.

Thanks.

Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of Zach Tanenbaum from MLV. Please go ahead.

Thanks. Good morning guys.

Good morning.

Good morning, Zach.

Just on terms of the Almanac investment, after completing the first drawdown of that capital, do you expect to deploy those proceeds fairly quickly by the end of the year, meaning were there targeted investments that you had lined up before you drew down those proceeds?

Yes, absolutely. There's targeted investments that we've had lined up to deploy before the third week in November. And that's why we drew the money. Again this was structured so that we wouldn't be sitting on capital that would be dilutive to our common shareholders. So we drew it, so that we knew we had it and we're in the process of closing loans using that capital.

Great. And then going forward is it safe to assume future drawdowns will be then used to match fund investments as they come along?

Absolute yes, that's the program.

Great. Switching gears a little bit on the multifamily occupancy was down 100 basis points sequentially; any color on that? You mentioned you're trying to push rents more in that asset class. Did occupancy take a hit because of those rent increases?

We are pushing rents and that's always a balance between pushing rents and occupancy. So, we do think that had some effect on the slight decline in occupancy. However, the third quarter seasonally is typically a little softer than the other three quarters of the year. So, we're not at all alarmed about it. There is still a strong demand for multifamily properties, and notwithstanding the uptick in homeownership, from what we've seen that really has impacted the A plus properties, and ours are mostly B plus to A minus, and we expect occupancies to remain strong in the 90%s and we still believe will be able to push rents going forward.

Great. And then finally just on the CMBS securitization loans, as Gabe mentioned that the new issue markets picked up a little bit, and you guys have talked about your large pipeline of those deals, are you comfortable kind of, you did $36 million of securitization in the third quarter. Is that a good run rate going forward? You mentioned kind of Barclays and Citi are kind of alternating a deal a quarter. What do you think is a good run rate in terms of your securitization volume targets on a quarterly basis?

I think we're still ramping, and we're still a relatively new entrant to this field and that the run rates should be three times that going forward for the year 2013.

Got it, great. Thanks guys, nice quarter.

Thank you.

Thank you.

Thank you. The next question comes from the line of Brian Gonick from Senvest. Please go ahead Brian.

Good morning guys.

Good morning.

Good morning Brian.

So if you made $2 million and change on $36 million of loans you sold, is that kind of point level going to be sustainable for a while do you think?

Well, the market adjusts daily, Brian. There was some tightening up spreads on the issuance side, the securitization side during the third quarter and we benefited from that because we were securitizing loans that had been originated prior to that period. However, we still believe that in the space that we play that we're in a three to four-point area and you lever that three times, you get to the 10% to 12% gains on each loan. So that's kind of where we think it'll stay for a while. And again it's because we're doing smaller loans where there is less competition.

Right, great. Can you talk little about IRT and how things are going there and what your expectations are for next year?

Things are going slow. We are continuing to sign up broker-dealers. There is clearly some headwinds in the industry as a whole. There has been a drumbeat of negative news, which has affected us and many others, but we still believe that we have a viable program and a good strategy. And we're moving forward. We've only been at the signing up of broker-dealers process for a year, and again if you look back at other groups that have been successful in this space it's, always takes two years plus until you really start to see the volume increase.

Right.

So, we're, again – we believe in the program, we're sticking with it. We're doing it in a way that we believe is cost-effective. So it's not really hurting RAIT's bottom line, but it's slower than what we had hoped for.

Okay. In your investor presentation you provide some 2012 and 2013 expectations for cash flow, and I think one of the key assumptions in that presentation is that there was no incremental capital put to work. Now that you've got this $100 million facility from Almanac, as well as the warehouse lines, are you going to adjust what your thinking is for 2013 now?

We will and that will be included in the next version of the presentation that will come out in a couple weeks.

In a couple of weeks. Is there any way you can tell us sort of on an apples-to-apples basis, what the Q3 cash flow per share was?

Sure. I mean the cash flow per share that would be increasing the amount of – related to the amount of dividends that we're declaring is, was kind of give or take roughly $0.14, $0.15 a share, because as we all know the earnings off the Taberna securitizations is used to delever that portfolio or delever that debt. So the cash flow per common share will be closer to $0.14, $0.15.

Okay. And what does that kind of imply given the range you've got for 2012 of $0.48 to $0.63 in the last presentation, what does that imply for Q4, what's the range on Q4 cash flow per share?

We expecting Q4 to be in the same range.

So, comparable to Q3?

Comparable to Q3, correct.

So, you're paying out $0.09 on say $0.15, roughly 60% as a payout ratio. Is that ratio sort of what we expect to continue to pay out, and as cash flow goes higher therefore our dividend will go higher?

Yes, that's a fair assumption Brian.

Right.

And I will tell you that as we put the new capital to work, I expect the cash flow to increase. So, the fourth quarter, we're only three weeks into it, we haven't closed any loans yet in the fourth quarter although the pipeline is very full of signed up deals and they will start closing, I think as early as late next week, right through the end of the year. So, I would not be surprised at all if the cash flow for the fourth quarter is slightly ahead of where we were for the third quarter.

Okay. So looking at what you previously had for 2013, the midpoint of the range is about $0.95, and given that we have more capital to put to work now, let's say you make a buck in cash flow, paid out a 60% ratio, that would imply a $0.60 dividend next year?

Yes, it would.

Okay. Thank you, guys.

You're welcome, Brian.

Thank you. Your next question comes from the line of Jon Evans from Edmunds White Partners. Please proceed.

Can you just talk a little bit about, I guess, your thoughts of leverage over time and how much leverage that you think you, what's the leverage ratio that you are comfortable with and potentially when you need more equity, can you help us understand that?

Well, on the loans that we're originating for sale, the leverage that we're using there is 75%. On the loans that we are holding on our balance sheet, the bridge loans, because the pricing is a little bit more advantageous, we are targeting 50% leverage. And on the bank participation program, the way that that shakes out is that we would – for example, we would originate a 75% loan, let's say, just for the math, let's say a 70% loan, and if the bank comes in and buys 70% of our loan, there is 50% leveraged against the property, which is where they want to be, and then we would theoretically be left with a subordinated debt piece that is 30% of the loan.

Got it.

Does that make sense?

Yeah, it makes a lot of sense. And then the last question I have for you, relative to the convert, if it goes through the strike, can you – is there like if it trades above the strike for so many days, do you have the ability to force conversion or can you not do that until 2016, because obviously that changes your leverage ratio too if that turns to equity?

I believe that we cannot. That it goes until 2016.

Okay.

But we can confirm that and get back to you.

Great. Thanks. Great job.

You're welcome. Thank you.

Thank you. I would now like to turn the call over to Scott Schaeffer for closing remarks.

Well, thank you. In summary, I just want to say that that RAIT is a full service real estate company with a scalable platform that supports commercial real estate lending and direct commercial real estate ownership. We believe that these asset classes are complementary and provide a balanced approach to investing in commercial real estate, and we remain focused on growth and will put our capital to work across all of these business lines.

We look forward to sharing our progress with you next quarter. And thanks for joining our call today and for your continued interest in RAIT.

Thank you for joining today's conference. This concludes the presentation. You may now disconnect. And have a good day