Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Andres Viroslav — Vice President & Director-Corporate Communications, RAIT Financial Trust
Scott F. Schaeffer — Chairman, President & Chief Executive Officer, RAIT Financial Trust
James J. Sebra — Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer, RAIT Financial Trust
Gabe Poggi — Analyst, FBR Capital Markets
Jason M. Stewart — Analyst, Compass Point Research & Trading LLC
Brian Gonick — Principal & Director, Senvest International LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Second Quarter 2012 RAIT Financial Trust Earnings Conference Call. My name is Ann, and I will be your coordinator for today's call. As a reminder, this conference is being recorded for replay purposes. At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions] We will be facilitating a question-and-answer session following the presentation.

I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today's call, Mr. Andres Viroslav, Vice President, Director, Corporate Communications. Please proceed, sir.

Thanks, Ann, and good morning to everyone. Thank you for joining us today to review RAIT Financial Trust's second quarter 2012 financial results. On the call with me today are Scott Schaeffer, Chief Executive Officer and Jim Sebra, RAIT's Chief Financial Officer.

This morning's call is being webcast on our website at www.raitft.com. There will be a replay of the call available via webcast on our website and telephonically beginning at approximately 11:00 AM Eastern Time today. The dial-in for the replay is 888-286-8010 with a confirmation code of 43131737.

Before I turn the call over to Scott, I would like to remind everyone that there may be forward-looking statements made in this call. These forward-looking statements reflect RAIT's current views with respect to future events and financial performance. Actual results could differ substantially and materially from what RAIT has projected. Such statements are made in good faith pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Please refer to RAIT's press release and filings with the SEC for factors that could affect the accuracy of our expectations or cause our future results to differ materially from those expectations.

Participants may discuss non-GAAP financial measures in this call. A copy of RAIT's press release containing financial information, other statistical information and a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measure is attached to RAIT's most recent current report on Form 8-K available at RAIT's website www.raitft.com, under Investor Relations. RAIT's other SEC filings are also available through this link. RAIT does not undertake to update forward-looking statements in this call or with respect to matters described herein except as may be required by law.

Now I'd like to turn the call over to RAIT's Chief Executive Officer, Scott Schaeffer. Scott?

Thanks, Andres, and thank you all for joining our call today. We are pleased to report solid results for the second quarter as we benefit from growth in both our loan book and owned real estate portfolios.

AFFO rose to $0.25 per share, an increase of $0.04 per share on a linked quarter basis. Operating income increased to $6.4 million or 92% from the first quarter and the balance sheet remained stable. We've had strong loan originations during the first half of the year. As expected, we funded over $170 million of new loans during the quarter and $243 million during the first six months of the year. We redeployed all loan repayments received during the quarter and expect to receive minimal loan repayments during the second half of 2012.

Interest income improved and should continue to rise in the third quarter as we receive a full quarter of interest income on newly funded loans. At this point, all available funds in RAIT CRE, CDO-2 have been deployed and the reinvestment period has ended.

Our CMBS loan business is ramping nicely. During the quarter, we closed and funded $32 million of small balance CMBS loans and contributed loans into two recent securitizations. Our warehousing agreements with two banking partners enables us to continually close and sell CMBS loans into their securitization. Having multiple securitization partners shortens the holding period of our loans, thereby increasing the turnover of our capital and reducing our overall risk. The CMBS pipeline continues to grow as we add to our origination team, and looking forward, we expect to be selling loans every quarter.

Our portfolio of directly-held real estate also continues to improve. Rental income, as well as occupancy and NOI, have increased as we raised rents, leased additional office and retail space, also as property operating expenses remained stable and actually declined slightly during the second quarter. Multifamily properties remain our favorite property type in this environment and represent the majority of our directly-owned portfolio. We remain focused on growing the NOI of the entire portfolio, which will increase cash flow and the value of RAIT's equity investments in these properties.

With that overview, I'd like to turn the call over to Jim. Jim?

Thank you, Scott. The key drivers of our second quarter 2012 financial performance were as follows:

First, asset growth. During the second quarter, we had gross loan production of $170 million and payoffs totaling $86 million resulting in net loan growth of $84 million. This loan growth was the primary contributor to the increase in our interest income of $800,000 on a linked-quarter basis. We expect that our interest income will increase in the third quarter as the loans funded in the second quarter will have been outstanding for a full quarter.

Second, asset performance. Regarding our loan portfolio, three items of note; first, we converted two loans totaling $25 million to owned real estate; one property is a 229,000 square foot, 79% occupied office tower in St. Paul, Minnesota, and the other property is a 64,000 square foot, 87% occupied retail center located in Round Rock, Texas just north of Austin. These loans were current on their interest, but were in maturity default. We incurred a gain on these transactions as the value of the real estate exceeded our loan base.

Second, our non-accrual loans increased due to an $18 million loan that became delinquent during the second quarter. We expect full recovery from this loan as the property value, as it is today, exceeds our outstanding loan balance. Non-accruals ended the quarter at $74 million or 6.9% of our outstanding loan balances.

At quarter end, we maintained CRE loan loss reserves of approximately $35 million, which were adequate to cover anticipated loan losses in the future.

Lastly, our CRE CDOs continued to perform with good coverage in their OC and IC tests. With regards to our owned real estate portfolios, we continued to see improvements in the key measures of their performance, occupancy and rental rates. Our portfolio occupancy has increased 85% as of June 30th, up from 83% as of June 30, 2011. This improvement, along with rental rate gains, has increased rental income by approximately $700,000 on a linked quarter basis. Real estate operating expenses were down $300,000 in the second quarter as compared to last quarter.

As a result, the net operating income at our own properties increased to $12 million this quarter; that is a $1 million increase since last quarter and a $4 million increase since the second quarter of 2011. To further highlight the improvement in our owned real estate performance, let's look at our multifamily assets, which represent approximately 60% of our owned real estate portfolio. The improvement in their occupancy and performance was even more dramatic.

Since the second quarter of 2011, occupancy in our multifamily business has increased to 91%, up from 88%. Average rental rates have increased to $695 per month, up from $673 per month in the second quarter of 2011. Net operating income from the multifamily properties was $7.5 million this quarter, up 41% since the second quarter of 2011.

Our business activity has contributed to an improvement of our reported AFFO of $12 million or $0.25 per diluted share during the second quarter. As depicted in our press release, our AFFO has increased year-over-year and on a linked quarter basis. Revenue was higher in the second quarter as compared to last quarter, driven by our asset growth and improved performance at our owned properties. Overall expenses were down predominantly driven by lower real estate operating expenses and lower compensation expenses. Interest expense was also lower this quarter as compared to the first quarter. For the remainder of 2012, we expect additional interest savings of approximately $300,000 per quarter from our CRE CDO hedges as they continued to burn off according to their original term.

We listed our New York office base for sublease and accrued a $1.5 million loss in other expense on a future sublease. As a result, our rent expense will be reduced going forward as well.

We did report a GAAP net loss for the second quarter of $7 million or $0.14 per diluted share. The GAAP net loss was attributable to continued negative changes in the fair value of our various financial instruments. Please remember that the changes in the fair value of our financial instruments relate to our consolidated Taberna securitizations and our non-cash. As such, our presentation and discussion of FFO above is more indicative of our financial performance.

Finally, let's discuss some key statistics with respect to our balance sheet, book value and capital available. During the second quarter, we introduced adjusted book value or ABV to help investors understand management's view of book value. Schedule two of our press release provides a reconciliation between our GAAP book value and our ABV. Our ABV was $6.56 at June 30, 2012, and our GAAP book value was $13.52.

From a capital perspective, we ended the quarter with $275 million of capital available for investment. Our capital consists of $44 million of cash on hand and the unused portion of our warehouse lines totaling $231 million as of June 30th.

Scott, this concludes the financial report.

Thanks, Jim. We've been productive with the capital that we raised in our March offering. We invested approximately $13 million of the proceeds into our core lending business, $15 million went into a bridge loan and the balance was invested in the seven CMBS loans. The annualized return on this invested capital is approximately 31%. The CMBS business is a volume business where we will turn our invested capital multiple times per year as we originate and securitize CMBS loans, recover our invested capital and invest it again.

Going forward, our bridge loan business will be funded through bank participation program. As you know, many regional banks and insurance companies are having difficulty originating small well-positioned good-yielding loans. Our program provides these banks and insurance companies with senior loan participations of 50% to 60% LTV that will result in a mid to high-teens return to rate on a retained subordinate loan investment. We are, in effect, creating small mezzanine loans for our balance sheet. As we do this, we're looking to the past as we had success with this type of program during our pre-CDO period and expect to have success in the future.

I think at this time, operator, we'd like to open the call for questions.

Okay. [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Gabe Poggi with FBR. Please proceed.

Hey. Good morning, guys.

Hi, Gabe.

Good morning.

Hi. Very nice job in the quarter and thank you so much for the clarity on the adjusted book value, it's really helpful. Just a couple of quick questions. Scott, I think I ask you this every quarter, but I'm going to ask it again, can you just give us an update based on the kind of the compression across the curve? Is there any change in where you guys can put out money from a bridge lending perspective and kind of where you're putting money out today relative to a quarter or two quarters ago?

Gabe, there's really not – there's not been any compression, I should say. As you can tell from our release, we had a very active period for bridge loans. We have a strong pipeline looking forward. Loans are being funded in the LIBOR plus 550 to 600 range with floors between 6% and 6.5% depending on the leverage and the property type and location. And that's what we've seen for the last six months or so. So, we're not seeing any compression whatsoever.

How competitive is that market? I know you guys, as you mentioned in your prepared remark, prior to your CDO days, you guys had a niche business with a significant rolodex in that area and I assume you guys still have that rolodex. How competitive is that business right now just in terms of the scarcity of lenders, even just across the board, as you mentioned, banks unwilling to go into that market. How competitive is it from other specialty finance names, so to speak?

It's competitive at the larger levels, but we're still – RAIT's focus has always been on smaller loans and that's where we stay in the middle market, so to speak. If you're looking at a loan or if we're looking at a loan in the $25 million to $30 million range, there's a lot of competition. But in the $7 million to $10 million, $12 million range, there's not nearly as much, and that's where we're focusing our efforts. That's what we've always done. We think it builds a more granular portfolio, which just leads to safety going forward and that's our bread and butter and we're sticking to it.

Got you. That's helpful. One more question if I may. How do you guys think about kind of on a go-forward basis, you reported $0.25 of AFFO this quarter, that's more indicative of kind of the cash-on-cash return at rate relative to the $0.08 payout?

Good question, Gabe.

Not pressing it, just kind of thinking on over time, you obviously have built in a lot of cushion, which is a good thing.

We have and rates come through a period of low turmoil. We are confident and comfortable at the $0.08 level. Obviously, we discuss it with our board every quarter. The operations continue to improve and we believe going forward that there's no reason they won't improve even more. We've stated that the $0.08 that we will not distribute less than $0.08 or that we don't intend to distribute less than $0.08. I am hopeful that as our AFFO and cash flow improve going forward that the board will authorize higher dividends. But at this point, it's reviewed on a quarterly basis and the company's results, the market, everything is taken into consideration. And as we've said, we don't intend to lower it from $0.08, but we will continue to review it and again hopefully, the board will recognize as results increase or improve that we should be increasing the dividend.

Great. Thanks so much. Nice job, guys.

Thank you.

And our next question comes from the line of Jason Steward with Compass Point. Please proceed.

Hi. Good morning.

Hi. Jason.

Good morning.

On the $275 million of capital available for investment, how do you think about breaking that between the opportunities in CMBS, bridge and mezz?

Of the $275 million that we did in the first six months of the year – oh, I'm sorry. Were you talking about the production or the capital available?

The capital available. Just thinking about how you would like to allocate it going forward.

Well, it's largely allocated through the two warehouse lines for CMBS production. That's $230 million of the available cash or capital.

And I guess if you had a bank signed and you saw an opportunity there, would you shift some of the non-CMBS capital to fund those loans or would you think about getting a different warehouse fund, how would we think about that business being funded on a go-forward basis?

The way we're going forward is that we have the warehouse lines for the CMBS business. And the participation program or a syndication effort, if you will, will be for the bridge business. We don't like to leverage mezz because it's inherently leveraged already. So, the bridge business will be funded by selling senior pieces of the loans off to, again, as I said to various banks and smaller insurance companies. That in itself is similar to what we would be doing with the warehouse line.

Okay. Are we close – are you close to signing a bank on the participation side? How that process...

We have a number of banks that we are working with and actively showing deals to, and we are confident that if we want to move forward because of the credit profile of the opportunity works for us that the bank will be there to fund alongside us.

Okay. And is the board thinking about the fact that that is the mezz piece, if it is participation with the bank on the senior side that you don't want to lever it, is the board thinking that the retained capital would be used for that asset or is that one of the reasons the board is not thinking?

Yes.

Okay.

Yes. And again, it's – these are small, these will be small individual interests. Again, if we're doing an $8 million loan and we're selling off 60% of it, you're talking about $3 million of retained interest. So, we can do a fair amount of that with the capital that we have available.

That makes perfect sense. And then, if you could just give us some more color on the CMBS business in the pipeline, it looked like as is usual in this environment, some transactions flip quarter-to-quarter, but I think before you talked about a $60 million-ish pipeline that was close to closing and if I can add it up, do we still have some more that might be closing in the third quarter, is that right?

We do. We have a very active pipeline. We closed -- the number was $32 million in the second quarter. There's been some closing since. And we have a very strong pipeline going forward. That business is ramping nicely, as I indicated.

And last question and then I'll jump out. Does the gain on sale margin, I mean there's obviously eight points, so it seems like it was an anomaly, which is great, and it's a good anomaly to have. On a go-forward basis consistently, what should we be thinking about in terms of margin there?

On the CMBS business, what we're seeing is 2.5 to 3 points on the total loan, of which we have 25% of that loan is our capital and the other 75% is the warehouse line. So, on our equity, you can multiply that by three, so you're looking at a 10-point business, they're nine to 10 points business.

On equity, okay. Great, great quarter, and thank you for the disclosure and taking all the questions. I appreciate it.

Thank you.

And our next question comes from the line of Brian Gonick with Senvest. Please proceed.

Good morning.

Hi, Brian.

It's a great quarter. Hi. On the restricted cash, it's like $100 million now, is that all – so how much of that is potentially re-investable into things? I know the reinvestment period is over, but I thought that there were some extension possibilities still even though the reinvestment period is over.

The reinvestment period has ended and of the restricted cash, there's between $50 million and $60 million that is being held for future funding commitments within existing loans. So, that is not interest earning capital at the moment, but as we fund it, it will be.

And over what period of time does that happen?

I would – it depends obviously on the borrower because these are for improvements being made to properties and then how quickly the borrowers get that done, but I would guess within a year.

Okay. And on the interest expense, I know you had some hedges rolling off. Is there any way you can quantify how much that will continue this year and how much has already rolled off, what sort of savings?

Sure, I mean we're going to – this is Jim. We're going to have about $300,000 of savings per quarter in the third quarter and in the fourth quarter of 2012 from the roll-off of the hedges.

And how about anything in the next year.

There is some next year, I don't have the number handy, but there is certainly some continued [ph] roll back (20:27) next year as well.

Listen, we like to see that the AFFO and the cash was going forward and you had put out in a investor presentation recently, your expectations for cash flows this year and next, has that changed at all?

Yeah, we are still tracking with those projections.

Great. And in light of that and sort of following up on the question asked earlier, we think the dividend pay-out ratio is low, and we think that it would be sending a very good signal if you were to increase that, even though however modest that might be sequentially each quarter as your cash flow goes higher to support that?

We hear you, Brian, and we understand that, and as I said to Gabe that we will be reviewing it on a quarterly basis with our board. And we're comfortable with the pay-out ratio, where it is relative to AFFO, so once AFFO increases, I think it's fair to assume that the dividend will increase along with it.

Great. And when is the next time that you meet to determine the dividend?

We meet on a quarterly basis, it's every quarter.

And so, when do you expect that the next dividend announcement date would be?

Well, usually, it – later of the – late in the second or early in the third month of each quarter.

Great. Okay. Thanks, guys.

You're welcome.

Ladies and gentlemen, with no further questions, this concludes today's question-and-answer session. I would now like to turn the call back over to Mr. Scott Schaeffer for closing remarks.

Once again, thank you for joining us today and we look forward to speaking with you again after the end of our third quarter. Thanks.

Ladies and gentlemen, we thank you for your participation in today's conference. This concludes the presentation and you may now disconnect. Have a good day.