corrected transcript


RAIT Financial Trust
 
RAS
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 10, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Q4 2010 RAIT Financial Trust


Earnings Conference Call. My name is Steve and I’ll be your operator for today. At this time, all


participants are in a listen-only mode. We will be conducting a question-and-answer session


towards the end of today’s conference. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is


being recorded for replay purposes.


I would now like to turn the conference over to your host for today, Mr. Andres Viroslav, Senior Vice


President and Director of Corporate Communications. Please proceed, sir.


Andres Viroslav, Head-Investor Relations


Thank you, Steve and good morning to everyone. Thank you for joining us today to review RAIT


Financial Trust’s fourth quarter and fiscal 2010 financial results. On the call with me today are Scott


Schaeffer, Chief Executive Officer and Jack Salmon, RAIT’s Chief Financial Officer.


This morning’s call is being webcast on our website at www.raitft.com. There will be a replay of the


call available via webcast on our website and telephonically beginning at approximately 01:00 PM.


Eastern Time today. The dial-in for the replay is 888-286-8010 with a confirmation code of


87219017.


Before I turn the call over to Scott, I would like to remind everyone that there may be forward-


looking statements made in this call. These forward-looking statements reflect RAIT’s current views


with respect to future events and financial performance. Actual results could differ substantially and


materially from what RAIT has projected.


Such statements are made in good faith pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private


Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Please refer to RAIT’s press release and filings with the


SEC for factors that could affect the accuracy of our expectations or cause our future results to


differ materially from those expectations.


Participants may discuss non-GAAP financial measures in this call. A copy of RAIT’s press release


containing financial information, other statistical information and a reconciliation of non-GAAP


financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is attached to RAIT’s


most recent current report on Form 8-K, available at RAIT’s website, www.raitft.com, under Investor


Relations. RAIT’s other SEC filings are also available through this link. RAIT does not undertake to


update forward-looking statements in this call or with respect to matters described herein except


that may be required by law.


Now, I’d like to turn the call over to RAIT’s Chief Executive Officer, Scott Schaeffer. Scott?


Scott F. Schaeffer, Chief Executive Officer


Thank you very much, Andres and thank all of you for joining us this morning as we present RAIT’s


fourth quarter and fiscal 2010 results. Let’s get right to it. We are seeing clear signs of improvement


in the commercial real-estate market, which has had a positive impact on the quality of RAIT’s


earnings and the continued improvement in the credit and operating performance of the assets


within our portfolio.


Quarterly earnings continue to show improvement driven by increasing rental income combined


with increasing operating costs and credit reserves. GAAP earnings of $1.11 per diluted share and


REIT taxable income of $11.3 million for the year both showed dramatic improvement over 2009
corrected transcript


RAIT Financial Trust
 
RAS
 
Q4 2010 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 10, 2011


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 1 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


and supported not only our preferred dividend distribution in 2010 but also an annual common


dividend of $0.3 per common share, our first common dividend in over two years.


Operating income came in at $1.9 million, the first operating profit for RAIT since the third quarter of


2008. Key drivers of revenue growth during the quarter came from increasing rental income as well


as occupancy and rent levels headed in the right direction and declines in property operating


expenses as Jupiter Communities and CRP Commercial Services, RAIT’s internal property


managers continued to do an excellent job managing our own portfolio.


In addition, we continued to generate gains and reduced interest expense throughout 2010 from


repurchasing both our recourse and non-recourse debt at a discount. Also worth noting, corporate


G&A expenses declined quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year as we began to realize the


benefits of various cost cutting strategies.


The credit environment continues to improve. Our stability in the loan portfolio resulted in a


reduction of the quarterly provision for loan loss. At year end, we feel we are adequately reserved


for potential future losses with a 51% reserve against our loans on non-accrual status. We are also


seeing an increase in loan repayments as liquidity returns to the commercial real estate market.


We continued to make progress deleveraging the balance sheet. In 2010, we reduced our total


indebtedness by $239 million and ended the year with $294 million of recourse indebtedness. We


repurchased $59 million of our CRE CDO debt at substantial discount during the year. We paid


$13.5 million on our secured credit facilities and retired approximately $102.5 million of our senior


convertible notes in 2010.


Now on the new business initiatives, first, on responsible revival in the securitization market, I’m


pleased to announce that we recently formed a CMBS lending business utilizing our existing


platform and internal expertise. We have begun quoting loans to prospective borrowers and will


write loans at $5 million to $30 million on stable office, retail, multi-family and light industrial


properties on a nationwide basis.


The CMBS business will be funded with our own capital and not with an outside investor to a joint


venture relationship. Secondly, we recently announced the acquisition of a development stage,


non-traded public REIT which we have renamed Independence Realty Trust. We plan to position


Independence Realty Trust to be a multi-family focused equity REIT externally managed by RAIT.


Since Independence Realty Trust is a separate public company, information concerning its activity


will be provided through its SEC filings. We look to build on these initiatives throughout 2011.


At this point, I’d like to turn the call over to Jack.


Jack E. Salmon, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer


Thank you, Scott. The financial highlights for the periods ended December 31, 2010 include GAAP


earnings per share diluted from continued operations of $29.5 million or $0.29 per common share


for the quarter and $98.2 million or $1.11 per share for the year that ended. $5 million of REIT


taxable income was generated during the quarter and $11.3 million was generated for the full year.


And $41 million reduction in total debt outstanding this quarter resulted in cumulative debt


reductions of $239 million since December 31, 2009.


I am going to comment on our consolidated results of operations, which have shown significant


improvement for the fourth quarter and in comparison to the prior quarter of the prior year as


follows: total revenue this quarter was $37.1 million, an increase of 1.7% over the third quarter of


2010. In total, 54% of our revenue was derived from rental income, 38% from net interest margin


and 8% from fee and other income. Changes in our net interest margin this year reflect higher