Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Andres Viroslav — Head-Investor Relations, Independence Realty Trust, Inc.
Scott F. Schaeffer — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Independence Realty Trust, Inc.
James J. Sebra — Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer, Independence Realty Trust, Inc.
Jason M. Stewart — Analyst, Compass Point Research & Trading LLC
Steve C. DeLaney — Analyst, JMP Securities LLC
David M. Walrod — Analyst, Ladenburg Thalmann & Co., Inc. (Broker)
Jade J. Rahmani — Analyst, Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, Inc.
Richard A. Eckert — Analyst, MLV & Co. LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the First Quarter 2015 RAIT Financial Trust Earnings Conference Call. My name is Crystal, and I will be the operator for today. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]

I would now like to turn the call over to your host for today, Mr. Andres Viroslav, Senior Managing Director. Please proceed.

Thank you, Crystal, and good morning to everyone. Thank you for joining us today to review RAIT Financial Trust's first quarter 2015 financial results. On the call with me today is Scott Schaeffer, Chief Executive Officer; and Jim Sebra, RAIT's Chief Financial Officer. This morning's call is being webcast on our website at www.rait.com. There will be a replay of the call available via webcast on our website and telephonically beginning at approximately 1:00 PM Eastern Time today. The dial-in for the replay is 888-286-8010, with a confirmation code of 42757358.

Before I turn the call over to Scott, I would like to remind everyone that there may be forward-looking statements made in this call. These forward-looking statements reflect RAIT's current views with respect to future events and financial performance. Actual results could differ substantially and materially from what RAIT has projected. Such statements are made in good faith pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Please refer to RAIT's press release and filings with the SEC for factors that could affect the accuracy of our expectations or cause our future results to differ materially from those expectations.

Participants may discuss non-GAAP financial measures in this call. A copy of RAIT's press release containing financial information, other statistical information and a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is attached to RAIT's most recent current report on Form 8-K available at RAIT's website, www.rait.com, under Investor Relations. RAIT's other SEC filings are also available through this link.

RAIT does not undertake to update forward-looking statements in this call or with respect to matters described herein, except as may be required by law.

Now, I'd like to turn the call over to RAIT's Chief Executive Officer, Scott Schaeffer. Scott?

Thanks, Andres, and thank you for joining us today, and welcome to RAIT's first quarter 2015 earnings call. We have entered the next chapter at RAIT with a more simplified and transparent business model and presentation. We've also made progress and are closer to finalizing the previously announced Taberna settlement with the SEC and hope to finalize the settlement documentation within the next 30 days. We are, therefore, reaffirming our prior disclosure that the amount of the settlement will be $21.5 million, which was expensed in the third quarter of last year.

Now, on to the quarterly results. Cash available for distribution or CAD for the first quarter was $0.19 per share, which falls within our guidance. We are also reaffirming our previously announced annual CAD guidance of between $1.02 and $1.20 per share for 2015, which includes approximately $0.26 to $0.32 per share of CAD from gains on property sales. We expect the second quarter will have approximately $0.18 per share of property sale gains in CAD, and anticipate additional gains in the second half of the year.

During the first quarter, we originated 17 loans totaling $218 million, consisting of $90 million of floating-rate bridge loans and $129 million of fixed-rate conduit loans. We sold $93 million of conduit loans during the quarter, which generated fee income of $2 million. We are currently on track and expect to complete our fourth RAIT-sponsored floating-rate CMBS securitization, appropriately named FL4 during the second quarter.

RAIT's property portfolio continues to grow and is providing an even larger, more stable revenue stream. The NOI from our consolidated property portfolio totaled $28 million for the quarter, as compared to the $16.3 million of NIM generated from our loan portfolio during the first quarter. The multi-family property portfolio continues to experience rent and occupancy growth, and strong market fundamentals remaining tailwind for the portfolio. There's work to be done in our office and retail portfolios, and our property management companies are working diligently to improve the operating performance of these properties.

Our platform is now comprised of over 775 employees with $4.6 billion of assets under management, which is up from $4.5 billion at the end of 2014.

At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to Jim to report the financial results.

Thank you, Scott. For the first quarter of 2015, CAD was $15.3 million or $0.19 per common share. From a GAAP perspective for the first quarter, we are reporting an overall net loss of $7.1 million or $0.09 per share, which is down from $0.18 loss a year ago.

When comparing the income statement for 2015 to prior period, there are several variances of note. Though the first quarter of 2015 is the first quarter without any impact from Taberna on our reported results, the financial impact of Taberna is still present in prior – in periods prior to 2015.

For the first quarter, our net interest margin was down $11.4 million as compared to the first quarter of last year. The two primary drivers of the decrease in NIM were $5.1 million associated with Taberna and $6.3 million of non-recurring items in 2014, which were both included in Q1 2014, but not present in Q1 2015.

Excluding these items, NIM was essentially flat as interest income associated with loan payoff was replaced with interest income associated with new loans and a reduced hedging cost, which we've discussed before.

As we previously discussed, the interest rate hedges in our RAIT I and RAIT II securitizations are continuing to burn off. Based on the current one month LIBOR curve, we expect to see about $6.2 million of reduced hedging costs during the rest of 2015, when compared to 2014 as these hedges continue to expire according to their terms.

From a credit statistics perspective, loan quality remains stable. Our CRE non-accrual loans decreased to $24.9 million during Q1 2015 and represent about 1.6% of our loan portfolio at quarter-end. Our current loan loss reserves are $10.8 million or 43% of our non-accrual loans and we believe that our reserves are adequate.

Rental income increased by 53% or $18.8 million in Q1 2015 as compared to last year. This increase is primarily a result of the $17.3 million of rental income associated with the properties that were acquired during 2014 or present for a full quarter, the first quarter in 2015.

The growth in new properties is primarily driven by the growth in Independence Realty Trust. The remaining increase of $1.5 million is due to continued improvement in rental rates across the same-store properties. Fee and other income increased to 27% to $5.6 million in Q1 2015 which is up from $4.4 million last year.

During Q1 2015, fee and other income was comprised of $2 million of CMBS loan sale profitability and $3.6 million of property management revenue. During the first quarter, we also earned $2 million of asset management and property management fees through our external management and property management agreements with IRT. While these IRT fees are eliminated for GAAP, they are captured in CAD.

With respect to our expenses, a couple items of note. Interest expense this quarter is up $8.1 million as compared to Q1 last year. This is primarily due to $4.2 million of interests associated with the mortgage loans that we used to finance the properties that were acquired during 2014. The remaining increase in interest expense of $3.8 million resulted from our issuances of $132 million of senior unsecured notes after Q1 2014 and interest on the $76 million of senior secured notes that were eliminated in consolidation prior to 2015.

Property operating expenses increased by $7.9 million in Q1, as compared to last year. Of this increase, $7.6 million relates to the properties that we acquired during 2014. Property operating expenses in the same-store portfolio increased $300,000, primarily because of increased real estate taxes. Overall, the net operating income of our real estate portfolio was $28 million this quarter, an increase of $10.9 million from Q1 last year. On a same-store basis, NOI this quarter increased 8% from Q1 2014.

Compensation and G&A costs ended the quarter at $11.5 million or 15% of our total revenue. From a balance sheet point of view, we ended the quarter with $93 million of cash on hand and $402 million of availability under our lending warehouse facilities.

During the quarter, we originated $219 million of loans comprised of $90 million of floating rate bridge loans and $129 million of fixed rate CMBS loans. In addition, we had $70 million of CRE loan repayments during Q1 2015. We ended the quarter with an adjusted book value of $516 million or $6.22 per share.

As with the published guidance, we estimate our CAD for 2015 the range of $1.02 to $1.20 per share. Excluding the property sale gains, quarterly CAD should range between [ph] $0.19 to $0.215 (10:00) per share per quarter.

Scott, this concludes the financial report. Back to you.

Thanks, Jim. At this time, operator, I'd like to open the call up for questions. [Operator Instructions]

Our first question will come from the line of Jason Stewart from Compass Point. Please proceed.

Hi. Good morning. Thanks for taking the questions.

Good morning.

Jim, I heard you go through the interest income, and I just want to go back to that because it increased quite a bit – I'm sorry, the interest expense, quarter-over-quarter. And I wonder if you could break us just kind of a little bit more to what was driving the quarter-to-quarter increase in interest expense?

Sure. I think I mentioned that the increase in interest expense was $8.1 million quarter-on-quarter. It's primarily due to $4.2 million of interest on the new mortgage loans and the remaining $3.8 million is associated with the $132 million of senior unsecured baby bonds we did last year, and the $76 million of senior secured notes that we used to eliminate in consolidation, when we consolidated Taberna.

The new mortgage loans, Jason, relate to properties that we're acquired subsequent to the first quarter of last year.

Okay. I'm just looking at the total liabilities. And the percentage increases aren't matching, and I'm wondering if I'm missing either, number one, something that was happening in consolidation, or number two, that you're just carrying more liquidity that you're going to deploy and you're planning for in the first quarter?

We certainly have $93 million of cash on hand, but – which is consistent with the end of the year in previous quarters. We can certainly talk after this and go through the details further.

Okay. Second question was just on loans held for sale carried over a quarter, and if could just give us a number of what was carried over but not sold?

The number that was carried over into the quarter, I believe, was $127 million.

Thanks.

Our next question will come from the line of Steve DeLaney from JMP Securities. Please proceed.

Good morning. Thanks for taking the question. So, looking at the first-quarter loan production mix on the $219 million, it breaks at about 60/40. Obviously, quarter to quarter, that can bounce around. But, if we look after the full year, how should we feel about sort of the balance between – to the market opportunities today, the balance between conduit loans and bridge loans for the portfolio? Thanks.

We still believe that, over the course of the year, that it will be more of a 50/50 ratio between floating and fixed rate. But, it is likely, as you point out, on a quarter-to-quarter basis.

Right. Okay. And just looking – just generally, Scott, looking at second quarter, sort of pipeline, how do you feel about the conduit side of things in the second quarter vis-à-vis the $93 million of sales in the first quarter?

We feel very good. As Jim just pointed out, we have an excess of $120 million of loans held for sale at the end of the quarter on our balance sheet, plus production in the pipeline in the second quarter looks good. So, we feel that we're in a good position relative to the second quarter.

Great. And we did notice that the gain on sale margin, at least the way we calculate it, jumped up to about 215 from about 170 in the fourth quarter, so nice to see that trend.

Yes. My last thing is really just strategic big picture as opposed to anything about the first quarter. I'm just curious in – we look at your sort of integrated platform, are you looking to acquire any operating companies or businesses that might be nice bolt-ons to the platform, similar to what you did with Urban Retail last year? And where I'm going, Scott, is if you – as you look at what you have in place today, is there anything on your wishlist or any holes you have that would just think could make you guys more effective, more profitable, if you had certain capabilities that maybe you lack now in property services or asset management? Thanks.

We're always looking at opportunities to acquire assets and companies that could help us. But, I have to tell you that I believe that our platform is very strong. We have good leadership at the top of each of division, and each division is easily scalable. So, as the portfolio sits today and the different property types that we own and manage, I feel that the platform as it is, is well-positioned to continue to grow and take advantage of those portfolios.

I appreciate the comments, guys. Thanks.

Thank you.

Our next question will come from the line of David Walrod from Ladenburg. Please proceed.

Good morning, everyone.

Good morning.

Quick question. Just on your CAD calculation, the allocations in non-controlling interest was up significantly. Can you kind of walk me through the details of that?

It's just the allocation associated with IRT, the third-party owners of Independence Realty Trust. As you know, IRT bought a significant amount of properties in the fourth quarter, so that's why you're seeing that rise.

Okay. Thank you.

Our next question will come from the line of Jade Rahmani from KBW. Please proceed.

Thanks for taking the questions. Just on the interest expense question, quarter-over-quarter, can you explain why it increased? I think that the answer you gave was on a year-over-year basis, the $8.1 million. So, if you could clarify why the quarter-over-quarter increase in interest expense went up by $3 million, that would be helpful.

Sure. It's the same discussion that we had before, same kind of component, it's the interest expense on the new mortgage debt, as well as the interest on the baby bond that we issued after the first quarter of last year, as well as the $76 million of senior secured notes that were previously eliminated in consolidation.

Jade, you're referring to the fourth quarter to first quarter?

Yes.

Again, the deconsolidation of Taberna happened at the end of the fourth quarter, so the interest on that $76 million appears in the first quarter for the first time. And we acquired a number of properties, many properties, at the IRT level in the fourth quarter so the first quarter was the first full quarter that we had that mortgage debt in place. So, that's really the two primary drivers of that.

Great. That's helpful. Just big picture, I wanted to get your thoughts on the competitive environment for lending, where are you seeing the most pressure from competition and where you think rate has a niche or advantage?

We are seeing a significant competition in the CMBS space. I still believe that we have a great niche and advantage in the smaller loan space. I still believe that there is a -that's the inflection point of profitability for us is in the small loans where we can price them a little wider because there is less competition at that level.

On the floating rate side, again, it's a big market and we are a relatively small company. And as such, we think there's a tremendous room for growth in our originations for those types of loans. Most of our competitors are chasing the fixed rate CMBS conduit lending type loans because it's less capital-intensive.

Are you seeing new entrants impact pricing and perhaps be a little less disciplined than people who have been doing this for quite a long time?

New entrants are impacting pricing on the larger loan side, yes, and that's why spreads have come in. The lending fundamentals, from a credit perspective, it changes as the market matures, but we're still very comfortable with the credit and the structures that we're able to put in place, and we're not having to stretch to compete for loans in that area.

Okay. The margin on the CMBS conduit business, would you say that they're stable or still under pressure?

Right now, I think they're stable.

And are you seeing any push towards securitizers having to contribute more of their own directly originated loans to deals and push out smaller loan contributors?

No. No, we're still contributing loans with each of our partners and they're happy to take our assets, our loans.

Okay. So, you're not – no pushback because I think that in the media, there has been various reports about bond buyers preferring securitizers. They originate more – just I think over 50% of the loan contributions.

Well, we're a meaningful contributor. We're contributing pools in the $100 million, give or take, range. That's meaningful and we are a named issuer within the securitization. So, we're not just blindly contributing loans to somebody else's pool.

Got it. Do you think that B notes and mezzanine are attractive at this point? Would you consider increasing or broadening your credit pallet to include those?

No. I wouldn't. As I've stated before, we will consider a subordinate debt piece where we're doing the senior loan. I have no interest in doing subordinate debt behind others. I just think, with where rates are today for that type of product, I'm much happier doing the senior piece and either securitizing it ourselves if it's a floating rate or selling it. So, we're not really looking to build a subordinate debt portfolio.

Great. Thanks. And just one last one, can you comment on current investment capacity and how you would approach issuing capital at this point and also target financial leverage?

Sure. I mean, we – as we've talked about leverage in the past, we have our warehouse agreements in all of our lending arrangements limit our leverage at 80%. We ended the quarter with $93 million of capital on hand to fund new loans and with $402 million of capacity under our lending warehouses. We always kind – as we kind of put out into our guidance, we are expecting to do some capital kind of raising later in the year, but that is dependent on loan flow and production volumes quarter-on-quarter.

Thanks for taking my questions.

Thank you.

Our next question will come from the line of Richard Eckert from MLV & Company. Please proceed.

Hello. One of my questions is already answered. The other question I have is I see your stake in IRT is down to 23% now, but do you always see a point at which your investment in IRT would make it non-consolidatable sometime later this year or next year?

Richard, this is Jim. Thanks for the question. It's always a possibility, as you know, in our disclosures, Independence Realty Trust is considered a variable interest entity. As a result, the consolidation guidance around it with the external management contract is a very complex set of [ph] factors represented (23:05). As our investment continues to decline, yes, it will eventually lead to deconsolidation, although there's no exact fine point as to what that percentage needs to get to in order to deconsolidate.

Okay. So, this is just from a modeling standpoint, can I consider that for most of the remainder of this year and next, you will be consolidating that entity?

That's a fair assumption.

Okay. Thank you.

The next question will come from the line of Jason Stewart. Please proceed.

Hey. One follow-up on – I think you could tell we're all sort of struggling with this expense up here. If I calculate the increase in rental income, I'm getting about $8.5 million quarter-to-quarter. But I'm also getting an increase in interest in real estate operating expense almost about the same amount, a little less like $6 million, $6.1 million. I'm just wondering how much of that – I mean it sounds like that's all related to IRT, but if there's any one-time items in there, anything we should back out to look at the increase in operating income – anything – any color you can give us on the latest [indiscernible] (24:27) would be really helpful.

Certainly. I think we commented on the property operating expense increase from Q1 of last year to Q1 of this year. It's about $7.9 million.

Jim, I think the point that all the analysts are struggling with is not year-over-year, it's quarter-to-quarter because that's when the deconsolidation happens. So, if you could just focus on it quarter-to-quarter, that would be more helpful for us.

Sure. Well, let me get that information. We'll call you back.

Our next question will come from the line of Jade Rahmani. Please proceed.

Thanks. Just a follow-up on IRT, how do you think about the management structure of that company and whether to internalize? Most equity REITs are internally managed, you yourselves are internally managed, and that would be a way to capitalize the management fee stream and thereby increase book value.

The management contract between IRT and REIT has a four-year term. It's non-cancellable. I guess both parties could agree. But outside of that, it has a full year term that automatically renews for one year period after the first four years. We're about two years into that four year period. So, I think, for the next two years, at least, that contract will probably stay in place.

Thanks.

Thank you.

And with no further questions in queue, I would like to turn the call back over to Scott Schaeffer for closing remarks.

Thank you, operator, and thanks for joining our call today, and we look forward to updating you on our progress next quarter. Have a good day.

Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes today's presentation. You may now disconnect. Have a great day.