corrected transcript


RAIT Financial Trust
 
RAS
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 19, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Fourth Quarter 2009 RAIT


Financial Trust Earnings Conference Call. My name is Jasmine , and I will be your operator for


today. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later we will conduct a question-and-


answer session. [Operator Instructions]. As a reminder, this conference is being recorded for replay


purposes.


I’d now like to turn the conference over to your host for today Mr. Andres Viroslav, Vice President


and Director of Corporate Communications. You may proceed, sir.


Andres Viroslav, Director of Corporate Communications


Thank you, Jasmine and good morning to everyone. Thank you for joining us today to review RAIT


Financial Trust’s fourth quarter and fiscal 2009 financial results. On the call with me today are Scott


Schaeffer, Chief Executive Officer and Jack Salmon, RAIT’s Chief Financial Officer.


This morning’s call is being webcast on our website at www.raitft.com. There will be a replay of the


call available via webcast, on our website and telephonically beginning at approximately 1:00 P.M.


Eastern Time today. The dial-in for the replay is 888-286-8010, with a confirmation code of


39106645.


Before I turn the call over to Scott, I would like to remind everyone that there may be forward-


looking statements made in this call. These forward-looking statements reflect RAIT’s current views


with respect to future events and financial performance. Actual results could differ substantially and


materially from what RAIT has projected.


Such statements are made in good faith pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private


Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Please refer to RAIT’s press release and filings with the


SEC for factors that could affect the accuracy of our expectations or cause our future results to


differ materially from those expectations.


Participants may discuss non-GAAP financial measures in this call. A copy of RAIT’s press release


containing financial information, other statistical information, and a reconciliation of non-GAAP


financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is attached to RAIT’s


most recent current report on Form 8-K available at RAIT’s website, www.raitft.com, under Investor


Relations. RAIT’s other SEC filings are also available through this link. RAIT does not undertake to


update forward-looking statements in this call or with respect to matters described herein, except as


may be required by law.


Now I’d like to turn the call over to RAIT’s Chief Executive Officer, Scott Schaeffer. Scott?


Scott F. Schaeffer, Chief Executive Officer


Thank you very much, Andres, and thank all of you for joining us this morning as we present RAIT’s


fourth quarter and fiscal 2009 results. As the press release indicates, we’ve accomplished a lot


during 2009, which was clearly a transition year for RAIT. That transition continues into 2010, as we


continue to adapt our business to current economic condition. We provided a lot of information in


the press release. However, I would like to take a moment and go through some of the highlights.


During the year, we restructured the balance sheet by aggressively selling non-core portfolios. We


sold our residential mortgage portfolio and we sold our equity in and deconsolidated four Taberna


securitizations, which removed risk from our balance sheet and volatility from our financial results.
corrected transcript


RAIT Financial Trust
 
RAS
 
Q4 2009 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 19, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Towards the end of 2009, we also began two new business initiatives, RAIT Securities, LLC, which


provides real estate related fixed income trading services to the market. And we launched RAIT


Advisory, which offers the knowledge and expertise within our vertically integrated commercial real


estate platform to holders and investors of commercial real estate related assets. So in their infancy


both initiatives complement RAIT’s core commercial real estate focus. Looking forward these


businesses will take time to develop and we expect to see a meaningful contribution to our


operating results later this year.


At the corporate level, we lowered our overhead and further reduced our outstanding recourse


indebtedness. We’ve been executing on our strategy to build equity within the portfolio as we


manage through this cycle. During 2009, we took back a number of properties to direct investments


in real estate. At the end of the year, our investments in real estate totaled 738 million, which is


broken down as follows; 67% multifamily, 25% office, 5% retail, and 3% other types of properties.


It’s important to note that when we originally underwrote the loans against these properties, we


understood and were comfortable with the reality of potentially owning them one day. And we


remain comfortable with our current valuation. RAIT’s investments in Jupiter Communities, our


multifamily property manager, affords us the ability to manage our multifamily portfolio directly,


which we believe is a key component to creating value. We’re not looking to sell our properties


given the current environment, but instead we’ll continue to manage the portfolio to maintain


ultimate flexibility until liquidity returns in both the equity and debt capital markets.


In our experience, the first year after taking control of a property is typically a transition year. We


are encouraged by recent leasing activity and resulting increases in occupancy level at our


multifamily and office properties, which comprise 92% of our owned portfolio. The multifamily


portfolio should also benefit once the government removes the incentive for first time homebuyers.


And we will continue to actively manage and invest in this portfolio to maximize equity value over


the long-term for RAIT.


We’re starting to see some positive developments in the commercial real estate lending markets.


Within our loan portfolio, we are seeing more loan repayments in the first quarter of 2010. Any such


repayments will provide the capital necessary to take advantage of new profitable commercial real


estate lending opportunities at wider spread and lower leverage.


In addition, many of the larger banks have restarted their commercial loan securitization


businesses, which will bring much needed liquidity to the commercial real estate market. We will


continue to manage through this challenging market, a market characterized by high


unemployment, a lack of liquidity, minimal capital market activity, and government intervention,


which to this point has not helped the commercial real estate market. But we remain patient and


optimistic about the future.


During 2010, we will use all available options and strategies towards the following goals. Focus our


resources on building and managing portfolios of commercial real estate properties and loans,


create value to investing in our own commercial real estate assets, and implementing portfolio wide


cost savings program such as green initiative to help maximize property value overtime. We will


further reduce RAIT’s outstanding indebtedness and grow our business initiatives and potentially


invest in RAIT common equity through open market purchases previously authorized by RAIT’s


Board.


I believe the economy is now in a slow V-shape recovery. However market factors including job


growth and access to liquidity for commercial real estate will play a major role in the timing and


speed of the recovery. The offer by Simon Properties to purchase GTP is certainly a positive sign


and we all know that owning real estate is a good hedge against inflation risk.