corrected transcript


RAIT Financial Trust
 
RAS
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 29, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


RAIT Financial Trust (RAS)


Q1 2010 Earnings Conference Call


April 29, 2010


Operator: Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the First Quarter 2010 RAIT Financial


Trust Earnings Conference Call. My name is Christy and I will be your coordinator for today. At this


time all participants are in listen-only mode. Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.


[Operator Instructions]. As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes.


I would now like to hand the call over to your host for today Mr. Andres Viroslav, Vice President,


Director of Corporate Communications.


Sir, please proceed.


Andres Viroslav, Vice President and Director of Corporate Communications


Thank you, Christy and good morning to everyone. Thank you for joining us today to review RAIT


Financial Trust’s first quarter 2010 financial results. On the call with me today are Scott Schaeffer,


Chief Executive Officer and Jack Salmon, RAIT’s Chief Financial Officer.


This morning’s call is being webcast on our web site at www.raitft.com. There will be a replay of the


call available via webcast on our web site and telephonically beginning at approximately 1:00 PM


Eastern Time today. The dial-in for the replay is 888-286-8010 with a confirmation code of


93479995.


Before I turn the call over to Scott, I would like to remind everyone that there may be forward-


looking statements made in this call. These forward-looking statements reflect RAIT’s current view


with respect to future events and financial performance. Actual results could differ substantially and


materially from what RAIT has projected. Such statements are made in good faith pursuant to the


Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Please refer to


RAIT’s press release and filings with the SEC for factors that could affect the accuracy of our


expectations or cause our future results to differ materially from those expectations.


Participants may discuss non-GAAP financial measures in this call. A copy of RAIT’s press release


containing financial information, other statistical information and a reconciliation of non-GAAP


financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is attached to RAIT’s


most recent current report on Form 8-K available at RAIT’s web site www. raitft.com under Investor


Relations. RAIT’s other SEC filings are also available through this link. RAIT does not undertake to


update forward-looking statements in this call or with respect to matters described herein, except as


may be required by law.


Now, I would like to turn the call over to RAIT’s Chief Executive Officer, Scott Schaeffer. Scott?


Scott F. Schaeffer, Chief Executive Officer


Thank you very much, Andres, and thank all of you for joining us this morning as we present RAIT’s


first quarter 2010 results.


RAIT generated $0.41 per share in GAAP earnings for the quarter, our second consecutive quarter


of positive earnings. Jack will detail the financial results for our quarter shortly. RAIT’s progress
corrected transcript


RAIT Financial Trust
 
RAS
 
Q1 2010 Earnings Call
 
Apr. 29, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


continues as we further adapt our business to the current market environment while taking the


necessary steps to return to our core competency, commercial real estate lending.


The success of this strategy for us as for others is in our ability to access capital for lending. We are


currently pursuing joint ventures and other strategies to enable this business go forward.


On a corporate level I’m pleased with the progress we’ve made since the beginning of the year.


During the first quarter we continue the deleveraging process by exchanging 55 million of senior


convertible notes at a discount for a combination of cash, equity and new senior secured notes.


These exchange transactions which decreased recourse indebtedness, reduced interest cost and


extended maturity are a long term positive for our shareholders. When analyzed together the


transactions were accretive to book value. We expect to continue the deleveraging process


throughout 2010.


Subsequent to quarter end we announced the sale of our collateral management rights on eight


unconsolidated Taberna securitization to an affiliate of Fortress Investment Group for approximately


$16.5 million. In addition, RAIT will realize ongoing cost savings resulting from a reduction in


associated expenses. We continue to manage approximately 4.1 billion of assets after this


transaction.


During the quarter we took back six properties which served as collateral for our loans. As a


reminder we choose this strategy because of our experience and capabilities to effectively manage


the transition of these assets in order to create value for RAIT over time. We actively manage these


properties through our in-house asset and property management team which provides RAIT with


flexibility as we continue various value creating strategies.


Our portfolio has directly held most real estate assets, totaled 796 million at March 31st 2010.


Before I turn the call over to Jack I would like to make some brief comments on our capabilities in


the market. Today, RAIT has a commercial real estate lending platform capable of sourcing,


underwriting, closing, asset managing and servicing loans for our account and for others. RAIT has


committed revolving low cost capital and its two commercial real estate securitizations which


provide capital for RAIT to relend as repayments occur. RAIT is also actively pursuing new third


party sources of capital for investing. We continue to see opportunity to originate loans into the


strengthening commercial real estate market at wider spreads and lower leverage.


And with this I would like to turn the call over to Jack to go through our financial results. Jack?


Jack E. Salmon, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer


Thanks Scott. The financial results highlights for the quarter ended March 31st include the


following: The $55 million reduction in our convertible debt outstanding compared to year end 2009.


GAAP earnings per share on a diluted basis for continuing operations of 31.2 million or $0.41 per


share as compared to the fourth quarter 2009 earnings of $0.24 per share and a loss of $2.22 per


share in the first quarter of 2009. And third, the quarter over quarter increases in rental income and


fee and other income which I’ll discuss briefly. These results reflect our ongoing efforts to


deleverage the balance sheet to diversify our revenue generated from our core CRE lending and


direct ownership of real estate and to implement cost savings. I’ll now review some of the key


trends.


Total revenue was 45.1 million of which 39% was derived from net interest margin, 41% was


derived from rental income, and 20% from fee and other income. The total revenue increased 4%


as compared to the fourth quarter of 2009. Rental income increases reflect quarter over quarter


increases in occupancy of 3% in the multi-family, 1% in office and 2% in retail owned assets.