Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Andres Viroslav — Director of Investor Relations, RAIT Financial Trust
Scott L. N. Davidson — President & Chief Executive Officer, RAIT Financial Trust
James J. Sebra — Treasurer & Chief Financial Officer, RAIT Financial Trust
Ted Beachley — Analyst, FBR Capital Markets & Co.
Steve C. DeLaney — Analyst, JMP Securities LLC
Jade Rahmani — Analyst, Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the RAIT Financial Trust Q4 2016 Earnings Conference Call.

At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later we will conduct a Q&A session and instructions will follow at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded.

I would now like to introduce your host, Mr. Andres Viroslav. Sir, you may begin.

Thank you, Brian and good morning to everyone. Thank you for joining us today to review RAIT Financial Trust fourth quarter and fiscal 2016 financial results. On the call with me today are Scott Davidson, RAIT's Chief Executive Officer; Michael Malter, RAIT's Chairman; Jim Sebra, RAIT's Chief Financial Officer; and [ph] Glenn Riis, RAIT's Chief Risk Officer (00:48).

This morning's call is being webcast on our website at www.rait.com. There will be a replay of the call available via webcast on our website and telephonically beginning at approximately 12:00 PM Eastern Time today. The dial-in for the replay is 855-859-2056 with the confirmation code of 64221042.

Before I turn the call over to Scott, I would like to remind everyone that there may be forward-looking statements made in this call that involve risk and uncertainty. These forward-looking statements reflect RAIT's current views with respect to future events and financial and operational performance. Actual results could differ substantially and materially from what RAIT has projected. Such statements are made in good faith pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Please refer to the section entitled Forward-Looking Statements in RAIT's earnings release issued earlier today and RAIT's other filings with the SEC for factors that could affect the accuracy of our expectations or cause our future results to differ materially from those expectations.

Participants may discuss non-GAAP financial measures in this call. A copy of RAIT's earnings release issued earlier today containing financial information, other statistical information and a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is attached to RAIT's most recent current report on Form 8-K available at RAIT's website, www.rait.com, under Investor Relations. RAIT's other SEC filings are also available through this link. RAIT does not undertake to update forward-looking statements in this call or with respect to matters described herein, except as may be required by law.

Now, I would like to turn the call over to RAIT's Chief Executive Officer, Scott Davidson. Scott?

Thank you, Andres. Good morning and thank you all for joining us today. I am Scott Davidson and I am the CEO of RAIT and I've been in this position since December 20. I am extremely happy to be with you on my first earnings call as CEO. Before I get started, I should say that we will not be discussing on this call or addressing any questions concerning the externalization of management transaction that a shareholder has publicly suggested we pursue or the Notice of Nomination that we recently received from a shareholder.

Earlier today, we issued a press release commenting on that Notice of Nomination and we refer you to that press release. In addition to this call, our earnings release and supplement, I'd like to direct you to a new Investor Presentation that's now available on our website. As detailed in that presentation and in the earnings release, we are in the midst of implementing a strategy to transition RAIT to a streamlined business model that's focused on our core commercial real estate lending business.

We began executing this strategy in 2016 and will continue this pursuit throughout 2017, as we transform RAIT into a pure-play commercial real estate lender. Our transformational strategy is focused on opportunistically divesting, while maximizing the value of our legacy REO portfolio and ultimately minimizing our REO holdings, opportunistically divesting our property management operations, optimizing our capital structure and reducing our outstanding indebtedness, reducing our total expense base, and most importantly, reallocating capital into and growing our core middle-market CRE lending activities.

Our transition is ongoing and once completed will result in a simpler, cost-efficient and lower leverage business model that's focused on that core commercial real estate lending business. We believe that we will be able to enhance shareholder value by delivering stable and repeatable returns. We will do that with a significantly lower expense base that matches our lending-focused strategy with an appropriate capital structure and lower levels of debt.

We had significant success and made outstanding progress in driving that transformation forward. In December of last year, we sold our external manager to Independence Realty Trust and our multifamily property management business to IRT as well for $43 million.

Additionally, we sold our entire IRT stock position generating $62 million of aggregate gross proceeds. These divestitures and deconsolidation of IRT reduced our revenues by about $19 million, but lowered our compensation and G&A expenses by approximately $15 million.

Additionally, we are announcing our commitment to the disposition of Urban Retail, our commercial property management business. Urban Retail has done a great job managing our commercial properties, but as we transition to a pure-play commercial real estate lender, we will no longer need Urban's property management expertise.

Once Urban is sold, we expect our expenses and revenues to both decline by approximately $10 million. For clarity, Urban-only related expenses have been separated on the income statement under property management expenses and Urban's revenues are then classified within the fee and other income line.

We ended 2016 with about $855 million property portfolio. As you have seen, we've been thoughtfully and opportunistically selling down that portfolio. We sold 18 properties for $338 million in aggregate proceeds during 2016. After costs and repaying related indebtedness, we received net proceeds of approximately $35 million. We are targeting an additional $540 million of property dispositions throughout 2017.

The cumulative effect of all of these initiatives have led to a 35% reduction in our base compensation and G&A expense run rate from $49 million in 2015 to approximately $32 million in 2016. These initiatives will contribute to an additional 21% reduction in our ongoing expense run rate in 2017 to approximately $25 million, with further reductions expected in 2018.

Another important aspect of our strategy is the reduction of our overall leverage. During 2016, RAIT's indebtedness declined by $665 million or 27% from $2.5 billion to $1.8 billion, and total recourse debt, excluding RAIT's secured credit facilities declined by $57 million or 13.6%. RAIT's corporate leverage excluding deconsolidated subsidiaries declined from 83% to 76% at the end of 2016. Our Investor Presentation outlines our longer-term capital structure goals including leverage.

In support of our return to core lending strategy, we've announced certain management and board changes to better align with our new strategic direction. Our board separated the CEO and Chairman roles and in October of 2016 elected Michael Malter, who is relatively new to our board, having joined [ph] at November 15 of (07:37) November of 2015 to serve as our Independent Chairman.

Given my experience in RAIT as its President and head of its core lending business, in December of 2016 the board asked me to take on the CEO role and I was concurrently appointed to the board. So far in 2017, we've announced additional changes at both the board and management level. The board recently welcomed a new highly-qualified independent trustee, Tom Wren, who brings to our board substantial financial, regulatory, capital markets and mortgage REIT expertise, including past service in the board of a publicly traded mortgage REIT, to complement our board's diverse set of skills and experiences and add to our board fresh perspectives and insights.

On the CFO search front, we've recently announced the hiring of Paul Kopsky and we feel very fortunate to have Paul join us. Paul brings an extensive financial, operational and accounting expertise to support our transformation strategy and we believe his addition aligns our strategic vision for growing shareholder value, with our vision for strong operational execution and financial performance, which we believe will benefit RAIT and our shareholders greatly. Paul rounds out an experienced team of senior executives who bring many years of knowledge and extensive expertise to RAIT's lending business.

As you heard, we made significant progress towards our goal of becoming a simpler and more streamlined pure-play commercial real estate lender and we plan to take further actions toward this goal in 2017 through asset sales, delevering and making new loans. We anticipate recycling approximately $175 million to $225 million of capital in 2017, which has the potential of generating approximately $600 million to $800 million in new loan originations and we've been building a loan origination pipeline to match our capital generation.

That pipeline is strong, growing, and have consistent quality with our first-lien middle market origination goals. However, 2017 will be a transitional year for RAIT. The cumulative impact of selling business lines and property, deleveraging the balance sheet and increasing loan payments will cause RAIT's CAD to compress in 2017 when compared to 2016. However, we expect CAD will rebound in 2018 as the transformation is completed.

As to our dividend, though CAD will compress this year due to the ongoing business transformation, the board expects to declare a $0.09 per share dividend for the first quarter of 2017 when we report first quarter earnings. The board considers many factors when evaluating the dividend level, including the future earnings potential of RAIT as a focused CRE lender, potential gains on real estate sales, estimated annual REIT taxable income, CAD, market conditions, liquidity as well as other factors.

The board is committed to producing high shareholder returns and distributing cash to our shareholders. And as always, while future dividend declarations are subject to the approval of our board, we are aware of the importance that our shareholders place on the dividend and having cash distributed to them on a regular basis.

At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to Jim, our CFO, to report on our financial results.

Thank you, Scott. We are reporting a GAAP net income of $0.17 per diluted share and CAD of $0.07 per share for the fourth quarter. For the year ended, we are reporting a GAAP net loss of $0.11 per share and CAD of $0.45 per share.

During Q4, IRT completed the previously announced management internalization and paid RAIT $105 million, comprised of $62 million for RAIT's common shares of IRT and $43 million internalization fee in December 2016.

As discussed last quarter, the results for IRT, the IRT advisor and the residential property management operations are all presented as discontinued operations in Q4 in all previous periods that are presented in our supplement. Additionally, for clarity, we separated the expenses of the remaining property management operations into its own line item on our income statement.

With respect to our real estate portfolio, we continue to make progress during Q4. During Q4, we sold $146 million of properties, generating $29.5 million of GAAP gained and $19.8 million of proceeds. For the year, we sold $337 million in properties, generating $53.3 million of GAAP gain and $35 million of proceeds.

In addition, as Scott mentioned, and as detailed in our supplement, we have identified 36 properties for disposition in 2017 aggregating $540 million. We have used and will continue to use the proceeds from real estate sales to reduce our overall leverage and to reinvest in our lending business.

Since 2015, we reduced our indebtedness by $818 million using proceeds from real estate sales and loan repayments, including $57 million of unsecured corporate debt. So far in 2017, we further reduced our indebtedness by an additional $102 million using the proceeds from asset sales and loan repayment.

For 2016, our leading business originated $157 million of loans and completed its fixed floating rate securitization in November 2016. FL6, as we refer to it, is a $258 million floating rate securitization and issued $270 million in investment-grade bonds with a weighted average interest cost of LIBOR plus 2%.

The loan portfolio continues to experience elevated levels of loan payoffs, as borrowers are taking advantage of the strong real estate markets to either sell or refinance their properties. As a result, our net interest margin has declined from 2015 as loans repaid and our leverage declined. Loan repayments were $116.8 million in Q4 and $425 million for 2016.

From a loan credit perspective, all of our post financial crisis originated loans continue to perform well. However, the balance of our nonaccrual loans is higher than historical norms, as a result of the single loan to the single borrower that we discussed on our third quarter call. In fact, our entire nonaccrual loan category, aggregating $121 million, relate to seven pre-crisis legacy loans. We [indiscernible] (14:35) loans to either sell or refinance the underlying properties as expeditiously as possible and we are beginning to see progress.

For example, in January 2017, our property collateralized a $3.3 million nonaccrual loan [indiscernible] (14:53). Our loan was repaid in full and excess proceeds were used to bring the accrued interest [indiscernible] (14:57) on other cross collateralized profits. While we believe recovery on our loan balances are probable, we maintained a loan loss reserve of $12.4 million at year-end or about 10% of our nonaccrual loans.

Before handing the call back to Scott, a few comments on 2017 guidance. As Scott discussed, 2017 will continue RAIT's transition away from real estate ownership and property management. This is resulting in a large volume of asset sales and a sizable deleveraging to RAIT's balance sheet. Because of these sizeable changes, we are not providing 2017 guidance. Please remember though since most of our assets are securitized, loan repayment and asset sales often result in a deleveraging, because of the sequential pay structures, other securitization, rather than immediate proceeds available for reinvestment.

We ended 2016 with $110 million of cash and have been active in closing loans during Q1 2017. We have a current pipeline of approximately $250 million of loans that we are actively working on. Based on our current cash position and expected capital inflows of approximately $175 million to $225 million from asset sales and loan repayments in 2017, we expect to have the capacity to generate anywhere from $600 million to $800 million of loans during 2017.

Scott, back to you.

Thanks much, Jim. At this time operator, I would like to open up the call for questions.

Thank you. [Operator instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Jessica Levi-Ribner from FBR and Company. Your line is now open.

Hey, guys. Ted Beachley here for Jessica.

Good morning.

So, my first question is, I know you guys mentioned that there will be some CAD compression. I was just wondering, do you expect to cover the dividend on a CAD basis going forward during these restructuring initiatives?

One of the reasons that we haven't provided the CAD guidance is that there is a lot of variability in terms of potential outcomes based on the loan timing, both in terms of repayments and fundings. But as I said in my statement, our board looks at a lot of factors not only CAD, but also the gain on sales from properties as well as sort of the structural [indiscernible] (17:37) to generate earnings long-term based on our new business model when you think about setting our dividend.

Okay. Thanks. And secondly, what do you guys say is your primary focus right now? Will it be investments, deleveraging, cost cutting, where do you guys [ph] frame (17:54) most of your efforts towards?

Well, the most important thing that we do here is make loans. So, we're super focused on a daily basis with serving our customers and providing really high credit quality first-lien loan product to them. So, that's job one, job two and job three.

Pass that, we're focused on all of the activities coincidently and they're all part and parcel of the same activity. We sell each property one by one to maximize value associated with the sale. We then use those proceeds to delever and to appropriately restructure our balance sheet. So, it's all super important and we're focused on all of it equally.

Sounds good and could you maybe just give me some sort of G&A target going forward and I am going to believe you won't be able to, but if you could? [indiscernible]

(18:49) If you look at our presentation, we imagine that 2017 will have comp and G&A expense of approximately $25 million, and if you look in our further presentation, once we get done with the rest of our transformation, we imagine that number will be something more like $21.5 million. Of course, that imagines that our firm is a firm that we know with the employees that we have in the structure and the loan volume and originations that we're currently contemplating.

Sounds great. Thank you, guys.

Our next question comes from the line of Steve DeLaney from JMP Securities. Sir, your line is now open.

Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Scott, with your future plans to focus the company on your core commercial real estate lending, and also given your background in the CMBS market, I didn't hear you mention, when you were discussing lending activity, whether you would be trying to originate conduit loans going forward. So, could you comment on whether RAIT will have a role in the conduit lending market in the future, thank you?

Sure. It's a great question, Steve. I think that at the moment, we're very much focused on our first-lien transitional product, because we see great opportunity there, lots of borrowers' demand and it's been the product for which RAIT has long been known.

As you know there have been significant change in the CMBS market in terms of risk retention and other rules which we think play into our strengths in terms of we like to make loans and we like to keep credit risk of those first-lien loans that we make on our balance sheet.

So, on a longer-term plan, is to do what few other folks have done and what we've done in the floating rate side, which is originate our own CMBS transactions and issue RAIT-only CMBS transactions where we hold the residual interest, given our capital flows as we've discussed on the call, that's a more likely outcome in the back half of the year as opposed to the first half of the year/ And we think that that will – we've always provided I think our borrowers with both the fixed and floating-rate options and we want to continue to do that and we think that's the right way to do it.

And just to be clear, we still are visiting CMBS loans. If we see a loan or two we'd like, we have the avenue to sell them in a regular way format, but we're looking forward to that longer-term business opportunity and when we can attack it.

Great. And that's great to hear for the platform and appreciate the comments. Thank you, Scott.

You're welcome. Thank you for asking.

Our next question comes from the line of Jade Rahmani from KBW. Your line is now open.

Thanks. Can you tell us how much equity is in each of the business lines at this point?

When you say business line, [indiscernible] (21:46) like floating rate lending, CMBS lending etcetera. I don't have those rates in front of me. So, we'll call you back later on and share with you.

The property management business, Urban Retail, you said revenues and expenses were equivalent. So, do you expect to get any sort of platform value or anything out of that?

Yeah, we hope to. We think Urban Retail is a wonderful franchise with a lot of great people and we've seen the great work they've done managing our properties as well as the properties for other folks. With that said, as our property portfolio gets smaller, we don't need them to continue that activity and we judge that they're sort of best being either on their own or part of some other entity.

The discussions that we've had with various folks does indicate that there is significant value and it's our intent to do everything we can to maximize value in that disposition through the course of the year.

In terms of property dispositions, the $540 million you mentioned, do you expect that to generate net gains?

It's our hope, we don't want to be too specific on this call, so that you won't on the next call be confused, but we had a pretty good track record of so doing and we're definitely – that's why we sell one by one to maximize value.

In terms of the origination platform, can you tell us how many originators you currently have and if head count is flat or up or down year-over-year?

Well, without getting too specific, our head count in our core areas, origination, underwriting, asset management, securitization, credit, is flat to up. We have taken the opportunity to create expense savings in technology, in the transition to IRT, in the finance office and a few other places. So, the core lending activity staff is strong, consistent and what one would expect it to be.

In terms of the balance sheet, what's the aggregate amount of 2017 and 2018 debt maturities, including both recourse and nonrecourse?

Well, the non-recourse, they don't have stated debt maturities. If you do look at their stated maturities, it's [indiscernible] (24:13). On the recourse side, you'll need $27 million, there is about $30 million of recourse debt maturities in 2017. We've already paid back $15 million of them. The next $15 million is in October and then the next – there is no additional debt maturities until the October 2018, which is another $15 million piece. And then you have the 4% [indiscernible] (24:40) October of 2018.

October of 2018?

Correct.

Okay. And just based on where you stand right now, what would be your expectation for that?

Well, we're continuing, as you know, to de-lever the firm, and as much we're generating, we believe around – you talked about the number $175 million to $225 million of capital this year, we look forward to being able to self-generate more next year and we're comfortable that that will address 2018 debt requirements.

Okay. And so, the convert is around $150 million.

$140-ish million I think.

Okay. And just on credit, it looked like the nonaccrual [indiscernible] (25:34) increased quarter-over-quarter. What drove that? Was it just the smaller portfolio and those watch list loans being unchanged sequentially?

The portfolio shrank quite sizeably in the fourth quarter from the loan repayment. So that's the key driver of why the percentages are higher.

Thanks for taking the questions.

That now concludes our Q&A session. I would now like to turn the call back to Scott Davidson, CEO for any closing remarks.

Thanks, Brian and thanks everybody for joining. We look forward to communicating with you frequently and regularly and certainly on our next earnings call. Have a wonderful day all.

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. This concludes today's program. You may all disconnect. Everyone have a great day