corrected transcript


RAIT Financial Trust
 
RAS
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 22, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to Third Quarter 2010 RAIT Financial


Trust Earnings Conference Call. My name is Kauma and I’ll be your coordinator for today. At this


time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions]. Later, we will conduct a


question-and-answer session.


I would now like to turn the call over to your host for today Mr. Andres Viroslav, Vice President and


Director of Corporate Communications. Please proceed.


Andres Viroslav, Vice President and Director of Corporate Communications


Thank you, Kauma and good morning to everyone. Thank you for joining us today to review RAIT


Financial Trust’s third quarter 2010 financial results. On the call with me today are Scott Schaeffer,


Chief Executive Officer and Jack Salmon, RAIT’s Chief Financial Officer.


This morning’s call is being webcast on our website at www.raitft.com. There will be a replay of the


call available via webcast on our website and telephonically, beginning at approximately 01:00 p.m.


Eastern Time today. The dial-in for the replay is 888-286-8010 with a confirmation code of


40540330.


Before I turn the call over to Scott, I would like to remind everyone that there may be forward-


looking statements made in this call. The forward-looking statements reflect RAIT’s current views


with respect to future events and financial performance. Actual results could differ substantially and


materially from what RAIT has projected.


Such statements are made in good faith pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private


Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Please refer to RAIT’s press release and filings with the


SEC for factors that could affect the accuracy of our expectations or cause our future results to


differ materially from those expectations.


Participants may discuss non-GAAP financial measures in this call. A copy of RAIT’s press release


containing financial information, other statistical information and a reconciliation of non-GAAP


financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is attached to RAIT’s


most recent current report on Form 8-K, available at RAIT’s website, www.raitft.com, under Investor


Relations. RAIT’s other SEC filings are also available through this link. RAIT does not undertake to


update forward-looking statements in this call or with respect to matters described herein except


that may be required by law.


Now, I’d like to turn the call over to RAIT’s Chief Executive Officer, Scott Schaeffer. Scott?


Scott F. Schaeffer, Chief Executive Officer


Thank you very much, Andres and thank all of you for joining us this morning as we present RAIT’s


third quarter 2010 results. I would like to start the call with some financial highlights. For the quarter


ended September 30th, 2010, RAIT generated $0.16 per share in GAAP earnings and 2.6 million of


retaxable income. This is our fourth consecutive quarter of positive GAAP earnings and second


consecutive quarter of positive retaxable income.


We further delever the balance sheet during the quarter. Total indebtedness was reduced by 64


million and recourse indebtedness was reduced by 43 million. We also took some actions during


the quarter to enhance our over collateralization test of our commercial real estate loan CDOs,


which Jack will explain shortly.
corrected transcript


RAIT Financial Trust
 
RAS
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Oct. 22, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


As previously announced during the quarter, we exchanged 28.3 million of our senior convertible


notes and multiple transactions reducing the outstanding balance to 143.6 million at quarter-end.


Looking forward, we will continue to respond to increase for potential exchanges and review all


reasonable requests and options to effectively reduce the remaining balance of the convertible


notes. We continue to believe that retiring notes at a discount is a very good investment for RAIT.


Jack will walk you through the numbers in more detail, but first, I’d like to spend some time on the


markets and highlight key business and strategic initiatives.


As we previously stated, the long-term performance of the commercial real estate market is closely


tied to the national employment picture. The good news is the private sector job growth has been


positive every month in 2010 adding approximately 863,000 jobs. This modest private job growth


when coupled with limited new supply of real estate has helped the property markets begin to


stabilize. However, the road recovery varies among property types and locations.


We believe the national apartment market has turned the corner and has began to recover as


occupancy levels and effective rents has both increased during each quarter of 2010. With demand


for rentals increasing and financing readily available, cap rates have declined resulting in increasing


valuations. RAIT’s multi-family portfolio continues to experience increasing occupancy trends and


we believe the apartment demand will continue as home purchases continue to be delayed in the


stagnant housing market.


For every 1% decline in home ownership, 1 to 1.5 million new renters enter the market. The


national office market is also showing signs of stabilization as vacancy rates are not climbing as


quickly and rental rates are not growing in many markets. Within the RAIT’s office portfolio, we


were able to lease the entire Yamato Road property in Boca Raton, Florida through ADT during the


third quarter with physical occupancy during the fourth quarter. We also leased approximately


92,000 square feet of previously unrented space at our McDowell Mountain office property in


Scottsdale, Arizona.


RAIT will begin to see the economic benefits of these new leases in the first quarter of 2011. The


national retail sector is a bit more fragile since it is very much tied to consumer spending. Vacancy


levels remain around 10.9% nationally and effective rents held steady in the third quarter of 2010.


RAIT’s exposure to retail properties is much smaller than our multi-family and office exposure.


We are renovating and repositioning our Inlet Square property in Myrtle Beach and our Sharpstown


property in Houston and are pleased to report overwhelming acceptance from the marketplace as


evidenced by strong leasing activity. Again, we will begin to see the benefits of this leasing activity


when the repositioning of these assets is completed in 2011.


We continue to execute on our strategy of transitioning loans into directly held real estate when we


believe additional investment today will generate good returns on total capital over time. This


strategy requires patience, and in some cases committed capital to manage and reposition the


properties through the cycle.


Jupiter Communities and CRP Commercial Services, which is our new property management group


focused on the office sector have been instrumental in this process. They along with our third-party


Property Managers and our Internal Asset Managers have been working diligently to improve the


performance of our portfolio. Though there is still plenty of work to be done, we are seeing positive


signals throughout the portfolio.


As a reminder, we believe that it takes a minimum of 12 months once we take control of a property


to begin to see material improvements in its performance.