Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Andres Viroslav — Head-Investor Relations, RAIT Financial Trust
Scott F. Schaeffer — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, RAIT Financial Trust
James J. Sebra — Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer, RAIT Financial Trust
Scott L. N. Davidson — President, RAIT Financial Trust
Benjamin Zucker — Analyst, JMP Securities LLC
David M. Walrod — Analyst, Ladenburg Thalmann & Co., Inc. (Broker)

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the RAIT Financial Trust First Quarter 2016 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

I would now like to introduce your host for today's conference, Mr. Andres Viroslav. Mr. Viroslav, you may begin.

Thank you, Andrea, and good morning to everyone. Thank you for joining us today to review RAIT Financial Trust first quarter 2016 financial results. On the call with me today is Scott Schaeffer, Chief Executive Officer; Scott Davidson, President; and Jim Sebra, RAIT's Chief Financial Officer.

This morning's call is being webcast on our website at www.rait.com. There'll be a replay of the call available via webcast on our website and telephonically beginning at approximately 12:00 PM Eastern Time today. The dial-in for the replay is 855-859-2056 with a confirmation code of 91318485.

Before I turn the call over to Scott, I would like to remind everyone that there may be forward-looking statements made in this call. These forward-looking statements reflect RAIT's current views with respect to future events and financial performance. Actual results could differ substantially materially from what RAIT has projected. Such statements are made in good faith pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Please refer to RAIT's press release and filings with the SEC for factors that could affect the accuracy of our expectations or cause our future results to differ materially from those expectations.

Participants may discuss non-GAAP financial measures in this call. A copy of RAIT's press release containing financial information, other statistical information, and a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is attached to RAIT's most recent current report on Form 8-K available at RAIT's website, www.rait.com, under Investor Relations. RAIT's other SEC filings are also available through this link. RAIT does not undertake to update forward-looking statements in this call or with respect to matters described herein, except as may be required by law.

Now, I would like to turn the call over to RAIT's Chief Executive Officer, Scott Schaeffer. Scott?

Thank you, Andres. Good morning and thank you for joining us and welcome to RAIT's first quarter 2016 earnings call. First quarter CAD was $0.14 per share, coming in at the high end of our quarterly guidance. Revenues were slightly above our expectations and the expense reductions we've made have positively impacted first quarter results.

Volatility, however, continued during the first quarter with AAA spreads bouncing from an intra-quarter high of 173 basis points to a low of 129 basis points. We continue to price and fund loans, but remain cautious as we attempt to mitigate the risk associated with this volatility.

During the quarter, we originated $40 million of loans, made up primarily of floating rate first mortgage bridge loans. As of this call, we have closed an additional $41 million in the second quarter and have now aggregated $183 million of loans for our sixth floating rate securitization later this year. We've also sold $21 million of fixed rate loans in the second quarter at approximately a breakeven price.

There'll not be economic resulting target. As part of our risk management discipline, we sell loans as soon as possible rather than holding the loans and hoping market conditions improve. We have an additional $36 million of fixed rate loans scheduled to be sold in an upcoming securitization.

The CMBS sector has been and we believe will continue in the future to be an attractive source of fee and interest income for us with manageable risk. In April, we retired effectively all of our 7% convertible senior notes. Looking forward, our debt maturities are very manageable with no other unsecured corporate debt maturing in 2016 or 2017.

A highlight of the quarter is the performance of our real estate portfolio. The portfolio continues to deliver attractive and stable cash flow. At quarter end, RAIT owned 21 apartment properties, 5,103 units with a 93.3% occupancy rate, and average rent of $853 per unit, a 5.3% year-over-year increase and a 13.4% year-over-year NOI increase. Including our office and retail portfolios, NOI for the total portfolio increased 6.4% year-over-year.

We continue to take advantage of current market conditions and opportunistically sell properties from our own portfolio. During the quarter, we sold an apartment building in Gainesville, Florida at a 4.95% cap rate and an office property in Denver, Colorado at a 6.2% cap rate. We also have four apartment properties in Phoenix and one in Jacksonville under contract to sell at a weighted 5.5% cap rate in the coming quarter.

At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to Jim to report on the financial results. Jim?

Thank you, Scott. We are reporting a GAAP net loss of $17.8 million or $0.20 per diluted share for the first quarter. CAD for the first quarter was $12.9 million or $0.14 per common share. As we highlighted in the earnings release, we're adjusting our definition of CAD to exclude gains on real estate.

Market feedback and the goal of providing greater transparency of our recurring business were the primary drivers of that decision. The CAD decline of $0.05 on a linked-quarter basis is driven primarily by lower origination volumes and no CMBS gain in the first quarter.

In Q1, our lending business generated $41 million of new loans and had loans payoff of $55 million. While no CMBS loans were sold, we did sell $21 million of CMBS loans in April at a breakeven price.

Net interest margin increased Q1 2016 when compared to Q1 2015, resulting from the $522 million of loans that we originated since April 1 of last year. On a linked-quarter basis, net interest margin decreased due to loan repayments in Q1 and increased investment interest costs from the completion of our fifth floating rate securitization in December of 2015.

From a credit perspective, we increased our loan loss reserves by $1.3 million. All of our other credit metrics, including our non-accrual and watch list loans remain consistent with year-end. We continue to see positive improvement in our real estate portfolio. The supplemental package provides same store portfolio results quarter-by-quarter.

The RAIT-only same store NOI increase in Q1 2016 was 6.4% across all asset classes when compared to the similar period in 2015. This improvement was led by RAIT's multi-family assets which had same-store NOI growth of 13.4%.

RAIT's retail properties did have a decrease in NOI because of a one-time legal settlement received in Q1 2015. However, excluding that one-time item, the retail property same-store NOI increased by 10.2% in Q1 2016 as compared to Q1 last year.

Lastly, as we previously discussed, we're opportunistically selling property. We impaired one asset in Q1 by $3.9 million as we expect to sell the property later this year at a price less than its recorded book value. During Q1, we sold two properties for total proceeds of $16.7 million. We had a net GAAP gain of $90,000, excluding our gain on debt extinguishment.

Before handing the call back to Scott, let's review our 2016 guidance. Given current market conditions, we continue to take a relatively conservative view. We previously guided that our CAD guidance for the full year was $0.50 and $0.60, excluding gains on real estate. We are reaffirming that guidance. For Q2, we are expecting CAD between $0.11 and $0.13 per share.

Scott, that concludes the financial report. Back to you.

Thank you, Jim. Operator, at this time, I'd like to open up the call for questions.

Thank you [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Jade Rahmani with KBW. Your line is open.

This is actually [ph] Brian Jones (08:07) on for Jade. I just had a question regarding your loan repayments first quarter. They seem to moderate sequentially. And some of the other – or some of the other commercial mortgage REITs have noted that was due to the volatility in the market. Just wondering if you guys have any comments on that, or if it was just lumpiness or any color on that?

They do moderate quarter-by-quarter, so it'd be based on maturities. I mean, we did see – we are seeing a little bit of an uptick in the past few quarters maybe because of the market conditions, but nothing sizable that should be mentioned.

Okay. Thanks. And then the next one is have you guys noticed any kind of pullback from the banks in the market? And then, there's the tightness in the CMBS market, do you think there's any potential for a liquidity crunch given those two dynamics? Or is that just – they're not of that magnitude at this point?

Scott, do you want to take that?

Yeah. Could you repeat the question? I'm not sure – I want to make sure I'm answering the right question.

Yeah. It's kind of two parts. So I'll just go to the first one right now. Have you guys seen any kind of pullback from the banks in the market?

You mean in terms of competitors not lending?

Yeah.

Well, I think that every projection that I've seen, I'm imagining that it's going to be a much smaller origination volume year in CMBS than anyone imagined at the beginning of the year or the end of last year. So, I think that you have seen fewer CMBS loans being made.

On the other hand, I think that there are other lenders, whether they're balance sheet or whatnot, were picking up that slack in terms of regional banks and others. So, net-net, I still think you've got loan availability. But on the other hand, I do think that there's going to be fewer CMBS loans.

I think some portion of that is less – though it's not about the willingness of CMBS lenders to be active, but rather given the volatility that Scott talked about earlier, borrowers have been a little bit gun-shy to accept the CMBS spread not knowing when they accept the spread two or three months later what the actual spread is going to be on the loan if they close, and that volatility has led borrowers to move towards other lenders until the world calms down.

Okay. Thanks. That kind of wrap up my – the second part of question, too. Appreciate taking my question. Good day.

Thanks, [ph] Brian (10:30).

Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Ben Zucker with JMP Securities. Your line is open.

Good morning, guys. Thanks for taking my questions. First, I was thinking about the balance sheet loan portfolio. I was just wondering what kind of loan spreads you guys are seeing in today's environment, if any, like the dislocation we saw in 1Q was translating into some incremental pricing power for you guys.

Scott?

Yeah. I'd say the average loans that we're quoting today is probably floored at somewhere around 6%, depending upon credit quality with a LIBOR spread in the 500s. And so, we've definitely seen a pickup in – a widening of spreads and the volatility, and we've seen the ability to get those wider spreads on loans that we continue to like the credit quality of.

That's great. And can you also comment on that mix of the originated loans subsequent to 1Q? I think I heard it was $41 million so far?

That's right. It's all on the rate side, on the floating rate side.

Okay, that's helpful. And I guess between knowing that all that is spread, I was going to ask about the conduit. It really seems like spreads have come back measurably lately. I think we're seeing stock price with AAA spreads over swaps even under 120 basis points. I was just wondering how would you guys characterize the environment today. I mean now I know you're not – you haven't originated the new conduit loans and I still hear caution, but I'm just wondering with the reversal if you're kind of thinking maybe you might have game on and can put the pedal to the metal a little bit and maybe that's a little exaggeration, but I mean how are you feeling about this market generally, if this is a market you're comfortable with now, whether you're still a little hesitant to step back in?

This is Scott, David. It's certainly a market with which we're comfortable. I think the question becomes how are the borrowers in the market dealing. So, we're never, and you used the right word, never – pedal to the metal guys and we also tried really hard not to pull out of the market. We try and be very consistent over long periods of time.

However, we do care – I think that in Scott's prepared remarks, he talked about caution and we continue to be cautious with regard to the market. What you're seeing, though, is that volumes are lower because borrowers having sort of whipsawed by the recent volatility or I'll use the word gun-shy. Not us, I think it's at the borrowers'. I don't think it's also unique to our borrowers; I think it's consistent across the market.

And I suspect that what will happen, as what we've seen over time, is if the volatility continues to dampen as it has recently and spreads continue to come in, the CMBS product will be attractive again and those opportunities, both for us and others in the market, will continue to increase. So I wouldn't be surprised if three, four, five months from now we're talking about a much more aggressive market. But we don't bet that it will be or we don't bet that it won't be here. We sort of just address the market that we see in a loan-by-loan basis and try and price loans appropriately and hope that we can provide a fair deal to our borrowers and a fair deal for us as well.

That's very helpful. If I could squeeze one more quick follow-up. And I'm just wondering, when you have these kind of widespread macro credit events, is there any – like do you guys see any incremental pickup in borrowers coming to you for transitional bridge mortgages due to the distress in the CMBS and their just unwillingness to take one of these higher spreads? Or does it kind of just pause borrower demand across the spectrum for all types of loan products? And that's it from me, guys. Thanks.

Sure. I think it's really case-by-case. If you have a borrower for once 10-year fixed rate money, they're not going to be excited about a short-term floating rate loan. So, it really depends borrower to borrower.

On the other hand, you do have other borrowers who were interested in a fixed rate loan, and then they don't like the market and they think it's going to improve and will opt for a floating rate loan. So I hate to generalize, I do think that it's helpful for the floating rate business generally and I think it's easier for borrowers to understand why floating rate spreads are wider when they see the very direct evidence in the CMBS market of wider spreads.

So, it helps our borrowers understand our pricing. And I think on the margin, there's probably a loan or two that becomes a floating rate loan because of the difficulty in the longer term fixed rate market. But I wouldn't say it's sort of a sea change and every borrower automatically converts from a fixed to a floating rate loan.

That makes sense. Thanks again, guys, for the comments.

Thank you.

Thank you. And our next question comes from the line of David Walrod with Ladenburg. Your line is open.

Good morning.

Good morning, David.

Just quick question. Scott, in your prepared remarks, you said you have $186 million in loans that are aggregated for a future securitization. Was that the right number?

Yes. For a floating rate securitization, yes.

Right. Okay. And then if you could just address – so your book value historically always been very stable. I don't think it was down a little bit this quarter. Could you just kind of talk about what happened and then maybe give some idea where it's at today?

Yeah. I mean, I think we looked at the – like the whole content of an undepreciated book. We kind of tracted because depreciation will continue to drive that book value number down over time. So when you look at the undepreciated book, it's pretty consistent with where it was at the end of the year, up slightly about 375-ish or so.

Okay. Thanks.

Thank you, David.

Thank you. This concludes today's Q&A session. I would now like to turn the call back over to Scott Schaeffer for any closing remarks.

Thank you. Thanks for joining us today and we look forward to catching up with you after our second quarter is published. Thank you.

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. This does conclude the program and you may all disconnect. Everyone have a great day.