corrected transcript


Rand Logistics, Inc.
 
RLOG
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 10, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning. My name is Brandi, and I will be your conference operator today. At this


time, I would like to welcome everyone to the first quarter fiscal year 2011 earnings conference call.


All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers’ remarks,


there will be a question-and-answer session [Operator Instructions]


Thank you. I would like now to turn the call over to Lesley Snyder, Investor Relations Counsel.


Please go ahead.


Lesley Snyder, Investor Relations


Thank you, operator. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to Rand Logistics fiscal


2011 first quarter conference call. On the call today from the Company are Laurence Levy,


Chairman and Chief Executive Officer;Ed Levy, Rand’s President; Scott Bravener, President of


Lower Lakes; and Joe McHugh, Chief Financial Officer. A live audio webcast and accompanying


slide presentation will be available on the Rand website at


www.randlogisticsinc.com/presentations.html.


Before we begin, we’d like to remind everyone that this conference call contains forward-looking


statements. For all forward-looking statements, we claim the protection of the Safe Harbor for


forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


Forward-looking statement are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which cannot


be predicted with accuracy or are otherwise beyond our control, and some of which might not even


be anticipated.


Future events and actual results affecting our strategic plan as well as our financial position, results


of operations and cash flows could differ materially from those described in or contemplated by the


forward-looking statements. Important factors that contribute to such risks include, but are not


limited to, the effect of the economic downturn in our markets, the weather conditions on the Great


Lakes and our ability to maintain and replace our vessels as they age.


For a more detailed description of these uncertainties and other factors, please see the Risk


Factors section in Rand’s Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the Securities and Exchange


Commission on June 16, 2010.


And with that, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Laurence Levy.


Laurence S. Levy, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Lesley, and good morning everyone. Thank you for joining us on today’s call. After my


opening remarks, Scott Bravener, President of Lower Lakes, will discuss our operating results; Joe


McHugh, our Chief Financial Officer, will review the financial results; and Ed Levy, Rand’s


President, will discuss capital deployment opportunities and our fiscal 2011 earnings outlook. We


will then open the call up for questions.


We experienced an overall increase in demand in our markets during the fiscal first quarter, as


compared to the same period last year when a weakened economy delayed the start of the 2009


sailing season for certain of our vessels. Overall, we are satisfied with our fiscal first quarter


operating performance as we continued to achieve operational improvements within the fleet. We


are, however, disappointed that these improvements, as well as any improvement in sailing days,


we’re partially offset by major mechanical incident on the Saginaw, which resulted in approximately


43 days in down time in the quarter.
corrected transcript


Rand Logistics, Inc.
 
RLOG
 
Q1 2011 Earnings Call
 
Aug. 10, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


Scott will elaborate on this later. We estimate that we incurred approximately $400,000 in excess


repair expenses in the fiscal first quarter related to this single incident. Of greater impact to the


quarterly performance was the forgone revenue and profit from the affected vessel not operating,


as well as the inefficiencies created in trade patterns resulting from having to substitute other less


optimal vessels.


Notwithstanding the mechanical incident and resulting inefficiencies, we feel that our fiscal first


quarter results, including a 26.8% increase in operating income before depreciation, amortization,


and the one-time loan amendment fee, and the operating results for the latest 12 months of $23


million clearly illustrate the benefits of our differentiable and sustainable, competitive advantages.


These include high barriers to entry, a non-duplicatable asset portfolio, custom and end market


diversification, long-term contracts with revenue visibility and an efficient cost structure.


Now, I’d like to turn the call over to Scott for a review of our operations. Scott?


Captain Scott Bravener, President of Lower Lakes Towing and Lower Lakes Transportation


Company


Thanks, Laurence. While demand for many of the commodities that we transport remains below


their trailing five-year averages, I’m pleased to report that thus far in the 2010 sailing season our


customer demand has been consistent with our expectations. Currently we are experiencing steady


demand and expect it to extend through the remainder of our sailing season. As such we are


confident that sufficient demand will exist to support the operation of our entire fleet through the


remainder of the 2010 sailing season.


Thus far in the 2010 sailing season our revenues are up 10% while our tonnage is up 2%. Our


revenue and tonnage improvement are driven not only by an increase in vessel sailing days, which


have been improved meaningfully as compared to last year, but also as a result of a better product


mix. Several years ago, we initiated a strategy to maximize a commodity mix to drive organic


growth. We believe that we are beginning to see the benefit of this sales and marketing strategy,


and that over time it will allow us to maximize our per day profit metrics.


We are experiencing varying degrees of demand improvement across the markets that we serve.


Lakes-wide, iron ore shipments increased by 130% in the first quarter versus the same period in


the previous year and were comparable with the trailing five-year average for the first quarter. North


American steel makers are running at approximately 75% of capacity, versus 40% for the same


period a year ago.


Our shipments increased by 31% as compared to the same period last year. Based on discussions


with customers, we expect to see quarter over quarter increases in our iron ore tonnage for the


remainder of the year. Lakes-wide aggregate shipments increased 34.6% versus the same period


one year ago while remaining approximately 16.6% behind the historical five-year average for the


period. The increase is primarily attributable to the improved demand from the steel industry for


lime and fluxing stone.


The construction industry has seen very low benefit from government stimulus efforts to date. For


first fiscal quarter our shipments increased modestly in line with construction related demand. Coal


shipments, Lakes-wide, decreased by 2% from the year ago quarter and are down approximately


28.1% from the historical five-year average. This is attributable to reduced demand for power


generation, declining coal fired electrical generation demand, and high inventory levels.


Lower Lakes increased shipments by 51% to our industrial customers during the fiscal first quarter,


as many of these customers ceased or back-loaded their quarters in the first half of last year due to