Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Annemarie P. Dobler — Director-Corporate Communications, Rand Logistics, Inc.
Edward Levy — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Rand Logistics, Inc.
Mark S. Hiltwein — Chief Financial Officer & Vice President, Rand Logistics, Inc.
Scott Bravener — Director, President of Lower Lakes Towing and Lower Lakes Transportation Company, Rand Logistics, Inc.
William W. Horner — Analyst, BB&T Capital Markets
Jon E. Tanwanteng — Analyst, CJS Securities, Inc.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, everyone, and welcome to the Rand Logistics Incorporated Fiscal Year 2016 Second Quarter Conference Call. Today's conference is being recorded.

At this time, I'd like to turn the conference over to Annemarie Dobler, Director of Corporate Communications. Please go ahead.

Thank you. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to Rand Logistics fiscal 2016 second quarter conference call. On the call today from the company are Ed Levy, Rand's President and CEO; Mark Hiltwein, Rand's Chief Financial Officer; and Scott Bravener, President of Lower Lakes, will join the call for the question-and-answers. A live audio webcast and accompanying slide presentation will be available on the Rand website at www.randlogisticsinc.com/presentations.html.

Before we begin, we would like to remind everyone that this conference call contains forward-looking statements. For all forward-looking statements, we claim the protection of the Safe Harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

Forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which cannot be predicted with accuracy or are otherwise beyond our control and, some of which might not even be anticipated. Future events and actual results affecting our strategic plan as well as our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could differ materially from those described in or contemplated by the forward-looking statements.

Important factors that contribute to such risks include, but are not limited to, the effect of the economic downturn in certain of our markets, the weather conditions on the Great Lakes and our ability to maintain or replace our vessels as they age.

For a more detailed description of these uncertainties and other factors, please see the Risk Factors section in Rand's Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 11, 2015, as well as other recent filings.

We may refer to certain non-GAAP measures such as adjusted EBITDA, which we define as operating income plus depreciation, amortization, and loss or gain on foreign exchange. Please see our press release dated November 4, 2015 filed on Form 8-K for a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP measures.

With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Mr. Ed Levy. Go ahead, Ed.

Thank you, Annemarie, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us on today's call. For our fiscal second quarter ended September 30, 2015, we reported net income of $11.5 million or $0.58 per share on a fully diluted basis from $5.5 million or $0.29 per share in the prior year period.

Before a tax benefit of approximately $0.22 per share, net income per share increased to $0.36 per share on a fully diluted basis, an increase of 12.5%. Adjusted EBITDA decreased $1.3 million, or 7.3%, to $16.1 million from $17.4 million during the year ago period.

On a constant-currency basis, Adjusted EBITDA increased 2%, or $300,000. On a constant-currency basis, EBITDA equaled $17.9 million, up 2.8% in the quarter ended September 30, 2015. Year-to-date on a constant-currency basis, EBITDA is up nearly 8%, or $2.2 million.

Total Sailing Days in the quarter were 1,278 compared to 1,351 in the prior year. The 73-day decline in Sailing Days was comprised of 92 lost days attributable to our time chartered bulk carriers. Although these vessels did not operate for the entire quarter, we continued to receive daily charter payments at a reduced rate. These lost days were partially offset by a 19-day reduction in days out of service.

Our bulk carriers are heavily depended on the Canadian grain trade. As we've disclosed previously, given the strength of the Canadian grain trade harvest, it is not atypical to lay up certain of these vessels in the summer months.

Delay Days, which comprise lost time due to inclement weather, dock delays, traffic congestion, and mechanical issues, declined by approximately 5.6% to 5.4% of Sailing Days which is consistent with the comparable period last year.

We have experienced three unpaid days out of service or 0.2% of total Sailing Days to date in the 2015 sailing season. This compares to 29 days or 1.1% of total Sailing Days out of service during the comparable period last year.

Business conditions in the quarter were consistent with our expectations. Tons carried were up over 6.3%, including tonnage carried on a vessel we are time chartering from a third party until we introduce our newest vessel into service later this month. Excluding tons carried on the vessel we're chartering from a third-party, our total tonnage for the quarter ended September 30, 2015 increased by 1.2% year-over-year.

On a constant-currency basis, marine freight and related revenue was up 4% quarter-over-quarter as a result of price increases, improved trading pattern, and the elimination of unpaid days out of service.

On a per Sailing Day basis, marine freight and related revenue was up 10% quarter-over-quarter. The 10% growth resulted from the aforementioned item as well as receiving 92 days of daily time-charter payment even though the vessels did not sail.

Four weeks into our third fiscal quarter, business conditions for the primary commodities that we carry remain satisfactory. As reported in our first quarter investor call, there is presently excess capacity in both the Canadian and U.S. Great Lakes market for larger carrying capacity vessels, which are markets that we have limited exposure to. This excess capacity is primarily a result of the decline in demand for iron ore.

Our newest vessel will be introduced in the service later this month. It is presently approximately 1,000 nautical miles from the West Coast of Panama. We had previously disclosed our intention to borrow an additional $20 million to make the final installment payment to the shipyard that converted the vessel.

As a result of free cash flow generation, we were able to reduce the amount we borrowed to $10 million. This vessel is scheduled to be introduced into service at or near the time our present agreement to time charter a third-party vessel expiree. At that time, we will transfer tonnage to this vessel at what we expect will be levels of profitability consistent with or better than our existing fleet and at higher levels than we are currently achieving through utilizing a time charter.

Now, let me turn to commodity tonnages. As I previously mentioned, demand is consistent with our expectation. On a year-to-date basis, tons carried are up over 12% including tons carried on a vessel we're time-chartering from third-party.

On the 15 vessels that we own, tons carried was up 6.6%. Our aggregates tonnage was up 22.8% on a quarter-over-quarter basis. Aggregates represented approximately 55% of our total tonnage for the second quarter of fiscal 2016.

A portion of this increase is due to growth in our market share and the remainder to organic growth. As we have mentioned previously, the majority of our aggregates are used in construction and infrastructure related end markets, primarily in Michigan and Ohio. Aggregates demand continues to build off the lows experienced in the 2009 through 2012 period in these markets.

Based on preliminary discussions with certain of our major aggregates customers, we are optimistic regarding continued growth in demand for this commodity. Our customers' optimism is based on strong demand for use in readymix concrete and asphalt applications.

Much of this material is being used for private and residential construction. Expected demand is also being driven by several major projects in the Great Lakes region and the potential for an increase in public infrastructure spending in the markets we serve beginning in calendar 2016. [indiscernible]

(09:54) iron ore tons hauled are down approximately 6.3% compared to the five-year average. Iron ore represented approximately 12.6% of our total tonnage in the second quarter of 2015. We are expecting to carry a significant amount of iron ore for the remainder of the 2015 sailing season as a result of a customer building inventory for the January through March period.

Coal comprised approximately 8.5% of our total tonnage. Our coal shipments decreased by approximately 24.7% during the quarter. The decrease is a function of delivery timing and not a change in market conditions or customer demand.

Salt represented approximately 11.4% of our total tonnage. Our salt tonnage was constant during the quarter versus the year ago second quarter. We are expecting that our salt tonnage on a full-year basis will be relatively consistent with the levels we experienced in the 2014 sailing season.

Grain represented approximately 8.6% of our total tonnage during the quarter. The grain tonnage, that we carried decreased by approximately 9%. The decline was a result of the aforementioned lay-up of certain of our bulk carriers on time charter.

Notwithstanding the lay-up of certain of these bulk carriers, we have been pleased with the growth in our grain tonnage for domestic milling requirement that we carry on our self unloader. This growth has resulted from a suboptimal weak crop in Northern Ohio, Southern Michigan and Indiana, which has resulted in customers sourcing product from [ph] Lake-based (11:34) locations.

With that I'd like to turn the call over to Mark Hiltwein for a review of the financial results. Mark?

Thanks, Ed. I would like to provide a more detailed explanation of our financial results for the quarter ended September 30th, 2015 compared to the prior year first quarter.

For the quarter freight and other related revenue, which excludes fuel and other surcharges decreased $2.3 million, or 4.9%, to $43.8 million during the three months period compared to $46.1 million in the year-ago period.

On a constant currency basis, freight and other related revenue increased 4% or $1.9 million. Year-to-date, freight and other related revenue, which again excludes fuel and other surcharges, increased to $100,000, or 0.1%, to $82.8 million compared to $82.7 million during the prior-year period.

On a constant-currency basis, freight and other related revenue increased 8.2% or $6.8 million. The year-over-year increase in revenue is attributable to an increase in tonnage and Sailing Days, contractual price increases and higher water level.

For the quarter, freight and related revenue per Sailing Day increased $176, or 0.5%, to $34,300 per Sailing Day compared to $34,124 per Sailing Day in the year ago period. On a constant-currency basis, freight and related revenue per Sailing Day increased 10%, or $3,409 per Sailing Day.

Year-to-date, freight and related revenue per Sailing Day decreased $190, or 0.6%, to $33,042 per Sailing Day compared to $33,232 per Sailing Day during the six months period ended September 30, 2014. On the constant-currency basis freight and related revenue per Sailing Day increased 7.4%, or $2,468 per Sailing Day.

Total revenue for the quarter decreased 4.3%, or $2.3 million, to a total of $51.9 million. Total year-to-date revenue was down $819,000 from $97,600,000 of last year to $96,800,000 this year.

Vessel operating expenses decreased by approximately $3.6 million, or just under 11%, from $33.6 million last year to $30 million this year. The decrease was primarily due to improvements in our operating performance, a reduction in fuel expense and the weaker Canadian dollar.

Vessel operating expense per Sailing Day decreased by 5.6%, or $1,381, from $24,879 last year to $23,498 in the second quarter of this year.

Year-to-date, vessel operating expenses decreased by approximately $5.1 million, or 8.2%, from $61.6 million last year to $56.6 million this year. Vessel operating expenses per Sailing Day decreased by 8.8%, or $2,185, from $24,765 last year to $22,580 in the first six months of this year.

On a constant-currency basis, our vessel margin per day for the fiscal quarter increased by 8.5% to $16,598 compared to the quarter ended September 30th, 2014. The improvement in margin per day is being driven by operating efficiencies and lower fuel expense. On a constant-currency basis, year-to-date vessel margin per day increased 7.8% to $13,905 compared to the prior year.

Our general and administrative expenses decreased approximately $200,000 to $3.1 million in the second quarter. General and administrative cost decreased year-over-year mainly due to the weaker Canadian dollar. Total G&A through six months increased $200,000 to $6.4 million.

We saw an increase in compensation expense primarily due to non-recurring duplicative head count cost resulting from changes in our management team.

Our general and administrative expenses as a percentage of freight and related revenues in the quarter were 7.1% compared to 7.2% in the second quarter of last year.

Adjusted EBITDA decreased $1.3 million, or 7.3%, to 16.1 million during the three months period ended September 30, 2015 from $17.4 million during the year-ago period. On a constant-currency basis, adjusted EBITDA increased 2% or just over $300,000.

For the six months ended September 30, 2015 adjusted EBITDA decreased $200,000, or 0.6%, from $28.6 million last year to $28.4 million this year. On a constant-currency basis, adjusted EBITDA increased 7.9%, or $2.2 million, during the six months period ended September 30, 2015.

Interest expense in the quarter decreased by approximately $745,000 to $3 million from $3.7 million last year. On a year-to-date basis, our interest expense decline by $1.5 million from $7.5 million last year to $6 million this year.

Income before income tax increased $818,000 from $6.5 million last year to $7.4 million this year. Through six months income before taxes increased $1.5 million, or 17%, from $8.9 million last year to $10.5 million this year.

We did record a deferred tax benefit of $4.5 million for the quarter, which certainly seemed counter-intuitive based on our pre-tax profit. The combination of our seasonal business and taking into account the entire year's forecast when calculating either the tax benefit or the tax expense and taking into account our permanent differences results in a very unusual tax provision for the quarter. This will continue throughout the remainder of the year and we will see the benefit reversed in the fourth quarter.

As stated earlier, net income increased by $5.5 million from last year's numbers to $11.5 million this year. For the year to date period net income was $14.1 million, up approximately 12.5% from the prior year.

For the quarter ended September 30, 2015, the average exchange rate equaled 0.764 per Canadian dollar this compares to 0.918 per Canadian dollar for the prior year ended September 30, 2014.

Moving on to the balance sheet, the increase in accounts receivable from our fiscal year end March 31, 2015, reflects the seasonality of our business. Our total debt is up $23.1 million from yearend, but up only $7 million from the June 30, 2015 quarter end. This represents strong free cash flow from operations offset by the final shipyard payment on our new vessel.

Net cash flow generated in operating activity throughout six month is up $1.3 million or just under 12%. As many of you are aware, weather becomes an important variable in our business in November and December and this can result in uncontrollable delays and diminished profitability.

Our goal is to have substantially all of our vessels laid up by December 31. We are readdressing our service model after January 1st and our goal is to mitigate the operational risk that is inherent in sailing in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016 without receiving the appropriate return on the capital and the risk taken.

We remain focused on developing and executing initiatives to improve our return on invested capital. Specifically these initiatives are intended to drive operational excellence, capture cost savings opportunities, improve the efficiencies of our capital spending, introduce the new vessel and leverage our market position.

Relating to operational excellence, we continue to track our key performance indicators and make improvements when needed. This initiative is adding to our earnings every day and will continue to add.

Currently our cost savings program is on track where we have identified our largest spend and opportunity areas across the company. The cost savings program will facilitate the delivery of accelerated cost benefits through improving our sourcing and purchasing processes, leveraging enterprise wide spend and evaluating competitive options and alternatives.

Initially, the team has applied a short-term focus on fuel, engine part, loading and unloading parts such as belts, rollers, et cetera and provision expenses. All expense accounts and spend areas are being reviewed and we continue to develop plans to address priority spend areas and opportunities with the aim of reducing our total cost of ownership. More to come as we continue to make progress in this area.

As Ed mentioned earlier, we will be introducing our newest vessel into service later this month both on-time and on-budget. The new vessel will have the largest carrying capacity of any existing River Class self-unloader and is anticipated to be the most efficient vessel of its class on the Great Lakes.

We are not projecting a meaningful profit contribution from this vessel in our current fiscal year. However, once utilized we expect per day profitability generated from our newest vessel to exceed that of any of our existing vessels.

We estimate that the new vessel will increase our free cash flow per basic share outstanding calculations at our current FX rate by between $0.18 and $0.22 on a full-year basis.

In regards to leveraging our market position, we are analyzing strategies to generate improved returns. We provide an invaluable service to our customers and because of the risk of weather and the capital needs to maintain our fleet, it is necessary to achieve greater contribution. Although we believe that we can make gains internally from our operational initiatives on a daily basis, this initiative to appropriately value our services has a longer cycle for execution as our contracted buyer.

Regarding spending and discipline around our capital spending, our goal is to improve in this area through effectively managing our capital investments and prioritizing the initiatives that will achieve the best possible return for the company. In the off-sailing season where the majority of our capital and repair expenditures take place, we will review all options, alternative and opportunities for our larger project that is slated for dry dock and winter work. The objective is to obtain the best possible return on invested capital and cash spend.

We look forward to continuing to progress on these initiatives given the everyday focus that they are receiving. Our goal, short term, is to continue to generate additional free cash flow and to use this cash to reduce our debt balance.

Now I would like to return the call back to Ed.

Thanks, Mark. We remain committed to increasing free cash flow per share and achieving our goal our reducing our cost of capital and paying down debt. We continue to focus our efforts on the factors of our business that we could control. We are focused on process and operational excellence and our business metric.

The improvements that we have realized are supported by the fact that notwithstanding a 14% decline in the value of the Canadian dollar versus the U.S. dollar compared to last sailing season, net cash generated in operating activities thus far this year equal $12.2 million, an increase of $1.3 million or 11.9%.

Recent additions to our management team are allowing us to sharpen our focus on cost and capital expenditure management, which along with the introduction of our newest vessel into service later this month, are key element of our plan to improve our return on invested capital. We believe that these initiatives will start to become apparent in our financial results throughout the remainder of this fiscal year and into the 2016 sailing season.

With that we'd like to open the line up for questions. Operator? [Operator Instructions]

And we will take our first question from Kevin Sterling with BB&T Capital Markets.

Good morning. It's actually William Horner on for Kevin.

Good morning, William.

Good morning, Ed. Going back to something I think I heard you say earlier in the call, Ed, just wanted to clarify, did you say that you only had three unpaid days in this quarter, did I hear that number right?

Year-to-date, we've had three days out of service from April 1st till yesterday, William, we've had three days and that compares to high 20s last year. And if you recall going back to 2012 sailing season, that number was well over 100 days, taking it from well over 100 to three.

Right. So, what I am looking at is out of service days, we're just talking about mechanical issues and operational things of that nature, correct?

Well we used to label as incidents and mechanical, but out of service is correct.

Okay. I just want to make sure that I am framing that right, that's great to see you are making good strides there. Going back to the aggregates outlook for a second, obviously it's shaping a pretty good, demand has been strong, as you noted, a lot of talk around some of the favorable end market demand and transportation funding bills.

You noted your customer discussions are progressing pretty well. So, when – this new vessel coming online next year, help us – remind us how this vessel can kind of help you sort of rebalance your mix and capture some incremental demand opportunities as they come up. I know it's going into service for contractual business you already have in place. But I think it would also, again, sort of help rebalance your fleet and allow you to come and get some of those incremental opportunities.

Good morning, William, it's Scott here. With regards to the new vessel as we previously disclosed, largely to put in service to service existing customer base, but it will augment our existing fleet and allow us greater flexibility and scheduling opportunity to pursue those opportunities that you have mentioned.

Okay. Thanks, Scott. And I guess just looking at the business as a whole, obviously, you're making strides in driving operating efficiencies and it seems like the only thing holding you back right now is some of the FX headwinds you're facing. Mark, you spent some time talking about some of the cost efficiencies that you are kind of to drive as well as some of the strategic leverage you are trying to pull kind of get better contributions and such and get your customers really value your services and on a longer term execution basis. So, can you give us a little more color maybe on some of the things that you're doing in terms of the pricing and other steps you're taking to readdress your service model? I know, you all talk before about making sure that the contracts are properly priced to account for some of the winner work that you all do, and just want to see if you could give a little more color on those things.

Sure, absolutely. I think, first and foremost is the ability for us to take our vessels and not have them sailing in January when the weather conditions are very uncertain. I think that we are in a very good position this year to have most if not all of our vessels off the lakes by the end of the calendar year, which I think is very positive.

Our January sailing season last year was very – was unfavorable and we don't want to continue to do that. So, I think we will be off the lakes for the better part of most of our vessels by the end of the year. So, that's number one.

Number two, is on the cost side, we bucketed some of the larger components that we're looking to go after, obviously, fuel is our largest expenditure. I think we've seen reduction in fuel, lot of it's market driven just based on what's going on with the commodity. But we're continuing to try to improve our total cost of ownership as it relates to getting fueling on the vessels perhaps at the same time that we're doing other thing with the vessels like providing provisions and that sort of thing.

So, trying to gain more time in our – everyday and finding that 15 minutes that Ed so often talks about. So, some of the instances may not be a specific reduction in the unit cost, but it's going to be a lower total cost of ownership.

As you look at the vessels there's a lot of spare parts that are being purchase on a daily basis whether that relates to things in our engine room or unloading equipment, or self-unloading equipment whether those are rollers, or anything in those areas.

So, we are talking the largest cost component and we are trying to reduce those costs as quickly as we can. But we're also going through every single line item of our account, and we are developing a plan to save money on each and every line item that we have.

And I think the prudent thing to do is start at the larger expenditures which I think we – we're well in the process of doing now, but not stop there, just deep dive into the entire chart of accounts and see where we can save money throughout the platform.

That's great color, Mark. I really appreciate that. One last question, and then I'll turn it back over, something that's been in the headlines recently which is ongoing contractual head-butting between ore mine or and the steel producer in the Great Lakes region and with the respect to the potential sensitive nature of your contractual arrangements, and just speaking more high level, has this kind of dynamic led to any shifts in the supply chain that could be potential incremental opportunities for Rand?

William, I think that while we don't prefer to speak about customer specifically. We are very attuned to what's going on in the market and the relationship that a customer may have with its supplier. And we feel as though given our relationships with our customers, our customer tends to be highly supportive of the services that we're providing and want us to continue to maintain the high quality service that we provide it. So we don't foresee any issues from our perspective near-term as it relates to the customers' buyer issues that you're referencing.

Okay. Great. Now, so you couldn't give me much more than that, but that still gives color, appreciate it.

We appreciate your respecting the sensitivity of the situation.

Absolutely. All right. I'll leave it there. Thanks, guys. Appreciate your time.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

We'll go next to Jon Tanwanteng with CJS Securities.

Good morning, gentlemen. Thank you for taking my question.

Good morning, Jon.

We are getting pretty close to the winter sailing season, and if I'm reading you correctly you don't plan to be sailing at all. Would there be any kind of changes there, are you still negotiation with customers at all?

I think that relative to prior years, Jon, we're doing our best to be done by the end of December. We will have some days that will go into January, but we're going to try to minimize those numbers. As Mark touched on, January of 2015 was a very challenging month for us weather wise and our profitability was significantly negatively impaired as a result of the January 2015 weather. So we're going to charter everything off – we're shooting for end of December, but we will have a few days in January and we're yet to determine whether we will be sailing in March or not for 2016.

And, Jon...

Okay. Are there any preliminary forecast to what the lake conditions may look like this year, obviously, last two years were rough, but maybe a reversion to mean or something like that?

The only statistics that I have seen, Jon, is that water levels are warmer this year by approximately four degrees than they were at this time last year and the prior year. That's the only temperature dynamics that I've seen. Scott, I don't know, if you say anything different.

No, no. That's it.

Okay. Great. And just regarding the cost improvements that you've been detailing, how much of that did we see in the quarter? And can you provide any color on the magnitude of cost synergy you could achieve over time?

It's tough to estimate in the quarter. We've got approximately $120 million cost opportunities out there. So there is certainly components and savings that we feel we can achieve. It's tough to give you a precise number, Jon. I wish I could.

Okay. Fair enough. Would you provide more color on that as you go-forward with the process next quarter or so?

Absolutely. Yes, That's the plan to update on all those initiatives that we have talked about.

Okay. And just the same question on the winter dock and lay-up work, how much could you potentially save there and what does that do to your CapEx projections for next year?

Yes, I think that's another reason why it's important to try to get the vessels in and off the lake sailing, so that the plans that we make in regards to whether it's dry-dock or CapEx or just winter work that we've got that we are putting those vessels into the areas where we have negotiated the best pricing. So it's our goal to save as much as we possibly can in that winter work in the three-month period. I think we've got a good head start on looking at what our capital number looks like and it's up to us now for the next two months to try to gain as much attraction and try to dry down that CapEx number as much as we possibly can with our leverage here over the next two months.

Can we expect that CapEx next year to be down year-over-year, exclusive of the other vessel you acquiring I guess?

I think we could probably say it's going to be at least flat to the current year. I mean, it would be our goal obviously to reduce that, Jon.

Okay. And then just finally, on the new vessel. Can you clarify, are you expecting a lower profitability or kind of a break in period at the end of this year or is it more is it a function of not sailing [indiscernible] (39:15) just contribute meaningfully.

It should go to work on probably around the 25th of November, which will run through the end of the sailing season. We've tried to be conservative and assume that we'll have a break in period to get the bugs out. And so that's why we tried to be conservative in terms of our expectation of profitability for the new ship.

Got it. Thank you very much. It's all very helpful.

Thanks, Jon. [Operator Instructions]

And we have a follow-up from Kevin Sterling with BB&T Capital Markets.

Hey, guys. It's William. Thank for taking my follow-up. Just going back to the comments around trying to done with your sailing season by the end of December. Ed, I know you said you might have some days in January and you're trying to minimize those. Just trying to get a sense, is this more of a function of getting your customers to firm up their commitments over the next 45 days or is it more just kind of [indiscernible] (40:18) situation because of just winter sailing conditions because obviously they can be challenging? So I know you want to get out ahead of the winter sailing conditions, but just kind of get a sense of, if your cautious optimism is around the sailing conditions or more just around overall demand?

I think they are more at overall demand at this point, William. We've done a good job reducing our days out of service. We budget the new 1% of our total Sailing Days, days out of service, so we budget 40 days as days out of service. You've had three this year and so it's created 37 more Sailing Days for us. We continue to reduce our delay metrics and so we've been creating time for ourselves over the course of the part of the season that we want to be operating in. And it's allowed us to fulfill our obligation to our customers. So, candidly, this is the way – ideally this is the way it should work where we come to the end of December, we've done everything that customers want. We put our vessels – we lay up our vessels as Mark mentioned and we do our work in an organized timely fashion over the 90-day period from January 1st to end of March. That way we'll get best pricing around capital that's got to go into equipment.

Okay. Well that all make sense. Appreciate you adding the color, Ed.

Okay. Thank you.

And gentlemen at this time, I would like to turn the call back over to you for any additional or closing remarks.

Thank you, operator. And thank you everybody for your continued interest in Rand Logistics. To the extent you have any questions, please don't hesitate to call Mark or myself. We're certainly available to answer anything that you require at any time. We look forward to speaking with you next conference call.

Sir, I'm so sorry. We did just have another question. Would you like to take it?

Sure.

Okay. Thank you. And we do have a follow-up from Jon Tanwanteng with CJS Securities.

Hey, thanks for taking the just last one. Can you just discuss any pricing increases as you renew contracts in the next year what the trend I like and what do you see strength or weakness?

It's a bit too early, Jon. As you know we're coming into our contract renewal season now and so while we've had discussions preliminarily with customers, it would be too early for us to give you a sense as to where we think pricing is going to last in terms of new contracts. We continue to like our market position, that hasn't changed, and again, in these situation least specific as we look at opportunities.

Okay.

So, certainly on our next call we can give you a more color in terms of how pricing is shaking out. We don't have a significant amount of contracts coming up for renewal this year.

Got you. And one final one just on the chartered vessel that you currently are using, would you employ that again if demand is significant next year?

We will not employ that next year. We've got – our new vessel coming, which will give us plenty of capacity to meet our existing obligations and to continue to pursue new growth opportunities. So...

Great. Thank you.

We'll convert all that revenue that we have booked this year on that vessel into revenue at a profit margin more consistent with what we've done historically and we think that will be a nice – that's what's driving a nice upside opportunity, speaking to the $0.18 to $0.23 of free cash flow that Mark referenced earlier.

All right.

Again Jon, that charter contract is basically breakeven, so we'd like to move on from that as soon as we can and on to our new vessel.

Understood. Thank you very much.

And gentlemen now I would like to turn it over to you for closing remarks.

Thank you again, operator. Thanks everybody for your continued interest in Rand. To the extent you have any questions, please don't hesitate to call Mark or myself. We're certainly available to answer any questions and we'll try to do in as timely a fashion as possible. Now, we look forward to speaking with you next conference call. Thanks, again.

Thank you. And that does conclude today's conference. Thank you for your participation.