Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Lesley Snyder — Head-Investor Relations, Rand Logistics, Inc.
Laurence S. Levy — Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, Rand Logistics, Inc.
Scott Bravener — Director, President of Lower Lakes Towing and Lower Lakes Transportation Company, Rand Logistics, Inc.
Joseph W. McHugh — Chief Financial Officer & Vice President, Rand Logistics, Inc.
Edward Levy — President, Rand Logistics, Inc.
Arnie Ursaner — Analyst, CJS Securities, Inc.
Chris Snyder — Analyst, Sidoti & Co. LLC
Haruki Toyama — Vice President, Marcus Investments LLC
Matt S. Dodson — Analyst, Edmunds White Partners LLC
Rick G. D'Auteuil — Analyst, Columbia Management Investment Advisers LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning. My name is Brooke and I'll be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Rand Logistics Fiscal Year 2013 First Quarter Earnings Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question and answer session. [Operator Instructions]

Thank you. I would now like to turn the conference over to Lesley Snyder, Investor Relations Counsel. Thank you, Ms. Snyder. You may begin your conference.

Thank you, operator. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to Rand Logistics' fiscal 2013 first quarter conference call. On the call today from the company are Laurence Levy, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Scott Bravener, President of Lower Lakes; and Joe McHugh, Rand's Chief Financial Officer. Ed Levy, Rand's President will join for the question and answer portion of the call. A live audio webcast and accompanying slide presentation are available on the Rand website at www.randlogisticsinc.com/presentations.html.

Before we begin, we would like to remind everyone that this conference call contains forward-looking statements. For all forward-looking statements, we claim the protection of the Safe Harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which cannot be predicted with accuracy or are otherwise beyond our control and some of which might not even be anticipated. Future events and actual results affecting our strategic plan as well as our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could differ materially from those described in or contemplated by the forward-looking statements. Important factors that contribute to such risks include, but are not limited to, the effect of the economic downturn in our markets, the weather conditions on the Great Lakes, and our ability to maintain and replace our vessels as they age.

For a more detailed description of these uncertainties and other factors, please see the Risk Factors section in Rand's Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 8, 2012.

And with that, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Laurence Levy.

Thank you, Lesley, and good morning everyone. Thank you for joining us on today's call. After my opening remarks, Scott Bravener, President of Lower Lakes, will discuss our operating results, and Joe McHugh, Rand's CFO will review the financial results. We will then open the call up for questions and will be joined by Ed Levy, Rand's President.

Overall, we are pleased with our first quarter fiscal year 2013 results and continue to be excited about the prospects for further shareholder value creation in the near term. We continue to be enthusiastic about the highly strategic nature of the five vessels that we acquired during 2011.

As illustrated on slide five of the slide deck available on Rand's website under Investors, Events and Presentations, these vessels further strengthen our competitive market position in the Great Lakes market.

We expect that the acquired vessels will continue to enhance the efficiency of the remainder of the fleets by better enabling us to match fleet configuration with customer requirements.

Our business visibility remained strong and demand for our services in our markets continues to be strong. Based on current market conditions, we do not believe that our tonnage hauled in the 2012 sailing season will deviate materially from the levels that our earnings guidance was predicated on, and our outlook for fiscal year 2013 remains consistent with our previous guidance.

As stated last quarter, based on contracts in hand, our expanded fleet is fully booked for the 2012 sailing season. We continue to believe that we are well positioned to accelerate stockholder value creation given our non-duplicatable asset portfolio, the long-term nature of our customer contracts, attractive market supply/demand dynamics and our favorable cost structure.

Given the current size and scale of our business and our capital expenditure expectations in fiscal year 2014 and beyond, we believe that we are at a unique inflection point, which by virtue of inherent operating leverage in our business is likely to result in our return on equity growing at a higher rate than our profits over the next several years.

Now I would like to turn the call over to Scott for a review of our operations. Scott.

Thank you, Laurence. Overall, our fleet with the exception of one vessel performed close to or surpassed expectations for the quarter. The improvement in our results was driven in part by a full quarter of operation from the vessel that was repowered last year and which only operated for 30 days in the first quarter of fiscal year 2012.

Additionally, our vessel margin continues to benefit from increased scheduling efficiencies due to the growth of the fleet. This success validates the assumption that our recent acquisitions were predicated on. The one vessel that did not perform up to our expectation should return to budgeted contribution levels by mid-August.

In addition, our results for the quarter exclude any benefit from the self-unloading tug barge unit we acquired in December 2011, which we anticipate will be introduced later this quarter. Based on customer contracts in hand, this vessel should be fully utilized as soon as it commences sailing. As we have discussed on previous calls, vessel margin per day is a key performance metric that we monitor in our business. For the first quarter of fiscal year 2013, vessel margin per day increased by 9.6% or $1,143 to $12,996 per day as compared to $11,853 for the same year-ago period.

Equally as encouraging was the improvement in vessel margin per day for vessels that we operated in both the quarter ended June 30, 2012 and June 30, 2011. On a comparable vessel basis, vessel margin per day increased by approximately $2,271 per day or 19.2%. We believe that the increase in vessel margin per day illustrates our continued ability to improve the operating efficiency of our fleet, and capture the operating leverage inherent in our business attributable to a larger fleet and the capital investments that we continue to make in our vessels.

We have been able to achieve the operating performance that we are announcing today even though demand for many of the commodities that we transport remains below their trailing five-year averages. Notwithstanding, demand for our services in our markets continues to be strong.

As a result of this increased customer demand and the expanded size of our fleet, we experienced a 10.2% increase in the number of sailing days during the first quarter of fiscal year 2013 compared to the same year ago period, which in conjunction with better scheduling efficiencies and price increases resulted in a 21.6% increase in marine freight revenue, excluding the impact of currency changes. Overall, our tonnage carried increased by 18.7%.

The magnitude of the demand improvement for our services varied across the end-markets that we serve and the commodities that we transport. Aggregates comprised approximately 55% of our total first quarter tonnage. Shipments increased 14.9% Lakes wide year-to-date versus the same period one year ago. As I have mentioned previously, the majority of our aggregates are used in construction end-markets.

Our shipments were up 45.1% during the first quarter as compared to the same year ago period. This increase was primarily driven by market share gains as a result of additional new business. We are projecting that aggregate tonnage will expand in the 2012 sailing season due to additional new business and modest growth in the market. Iron ore comprised approximately 11% of our total first quarter tonnage. Shipments increased 9.2% Lakes wide year-to-date versus the same period one year ago. Our shipments increased by 12% during the first quarter as compared to the same year ago period.

Coal comprised approximately 13% of our total first quarter tonnage. Shipments decreased 7.6% Lakes wide year-to-date versus the same period one year ago. We increased coal shipments by 35.8% during the first quarter to our industrial small utility customers and chartered export tonnage. Our coal tonnage for the 2012 season is projected to increase, however, not at the rate we experienced in the first quarter.

For customer specific reasons, we believe that the majority of this tonnage is not vulnerable to the current low natural gas pricing. Salt comprised approximately 8% of our total first quarter tonnage. The salt tonnage that we carried decreased by 29.8% during the first quarter in line with our expectations due to the abnormally mild weather patterns last winter in the Great Lakes region.

Grain comprised 9% of our total first quarter tonnage. As I have mentioned in the past, much of the grain that we haul is used on a highly consistent and predictable basis for milling purposes rather than for export. The grain tonnage that we carry decreased by 8.9% during the first quarter versus the same year ago period due to a decrease in the export segment of our tonnage. Severe drought conditions in the U.S. Midwest may increase our shipments to milling customers due to changes in commodity sourcing. Our total sailing days increased by 109 days or 10.2% to 1,174 sailing days during the first quarter of fiscal year 2013 from 1,065 sailing days during the same year ago period.

Management believes that each of our vessels should achieve approximately 91 sailing days in an average fiscal quarter assuming no major repairs or incidents and normal dry-docking cycle times performed during the winter lay-up period. We operated 15 vessels during the three-month period ended June 30, 2012, including the vessels acquired in the second and third quarters of fiscal 2012 compared to 13 vessels during the same year ago period.

One aspect of our business that we believe can be improved upon is lost sailing days. Management continues to focus on the implementation of several initiatives to improve vessel availability and increase our number of sailing days. We are encouraged by our continued growth in vessel margin per day. These improvements are reflective of our continued capital investment in increasing the size and efficiency of our fleet.

Although we remain concerned by the recently reported declines in manufacturing activity in North America, our outlook for the balance of the season remains strong and we look forward to the completion this quarter of our self-unloading ATB that we acquired in December 2011.

With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Joe McHugh for a review of the financial results. Joe?

Thanks, Scott. I would now like to give you a more detailed explanation of our financials. Total revenue during the three-month period ended June 30, 2012 was $49.6 million, an increase of $7.3 million or 17.2% compared to $42.3 million during the same year ago period. This increase was primarily attributable to higher freight revenue, fuel surcharges and a modest increase in outside charter hire partially offset by the weaker Canadian dollar.

Marine and related revenue excluding fuel and other surcharges and outside charter revenue increased by $5.6 million or 18.4% to $36.3 million during the three-month period ended June 30, 2012 compared to $30.7 million during the same year ago period.

Excluding the impact of currency changes, freight revenue increased 21.6% during the three-month period ended June 30, 2012, compared to the same period last year. The increase was attributable to 109 additional sailing days and contractual price increases.

Marine freight and related revenue per sailing day increased by $2,122 or 7.4% to $30,943 per sailing day in the three-month period ended June 30, 2012 compared to $28,821 per sailing day during the same year ago period. This increase was somewhat muted by less than full usage of certain of our bulker vessels and a weaker Canadian dollar. Vessel operating expenses increased by $4.6 million or 16.0% to $33.2 million in the three-month period ended June 30, 2012 compared to $28.6 million in the same year ago period. This increase was primarily attributable to higher fuel costs and increased number of sailing days including two additional vessels acquired in the second and third quarters of fiscal 2012 and partially offset by a weaker Canadian dollar.

Vessel operating expenses per sailing day increased by $1,411 or 5.3% to $28,243 per sailing day in the three-month period ended June 30, 2012 from $26,832 per sailing day in the same year ago period. Our general and administrative expenses were $3.0 million during each of the three-month periods ended June 30, 2012 and June 30, 2011. These costs were flat due to the weaker Canadian dollar, which offset increased compensation costs, primarily related to higher engineering and IT head count. Our general and administrative expenses represented 8.2% of freight revenues during the three-month period ended June 30, 2012, a decrease from 9.7% of freight revenues during the comparable year ago period. During the three-month period ended June 30, 2012, $900,000 of our general and administrative expenses was attributable to our parent company and $2.1 million was attributable to our operating company. During the three-month period ended June 30, 2012, the company's operating income increased by $1.8 million to $7.6 million compared to operating income of $5.8 million during the same year ago period. Operating income plus depreciation, amortization and dry-dock costs and amortization of intangibles increased by 26.8% or $2.6 million to $12.3 million during the three-month period ended June 30, 2012 from $9.7 million during the same year ago period.

Finally, I'd ask you turn to slide 14 of the aforementioned presentation. We believe that this chart, which illustrates the company's trailing four quarters of operating income plus depreciation and amortization since the time of Rand's purchase of Lower Lakes highlights the company's earnings quality and growth in both good and difficult economic conditions.

With that, I would like to open the lines for questions. Operator? [Operator Instructions]

Your first question comes from Arnold Ursaner with CJS Securities.

Hi, good morning. I'm actually backing for Andrew Gadlin. My question relates to the drought. You mentioned that grain was down 9% this quarter, can you remind us how much exposure you have if any to corn or give us a better sense of the grains you carry and to the extent the drought continues? Two more questions about it. One would be how might it impact the balance of the year when we have more of the crop come out? And then also you've in the past talked about the water levels in the Great Lakes and how it can impact the amount of goods you can carry on the ships? How that might be impacting you?

Good morning, Arnie. Scott would you mind addressing that please?

Yeah. Okay, good morning Arnold. The first question as it relates to corn, we do carry some corn into the U.S. market for 1 million customers, but their shipments in the last couple years have been fairly minimal due to good crops and local crops in the Ontario region. Primarily, our milling markets are milling wheat, Western Canadian wheat where we don't have drought conditions.

We are seeing one of our customers that had moved out of Ontario wheat and was sourcing in the U.S. has now moved back into the Canadian market due to the lack of supply in the U.S., so we're seeing a bit of a pickup in our milling markets right now due to the drought conditions. We do not typically participate in the export grain movement out of the U.S. on the Great Lakes, but that will impact our competitors to some degree. As far as water levels, we are seeing a pretty dramatic impact on water levels right now, we're trading on average close to a foot, 12 inches lower of available water depth in the upper Great Lakes right now than we were in the same period a year ago.

And again with the water level being down a foot already and perhaps get worse, remind us again how that would impact the amount of tonnage you can typically carry on a ship?

Each inch of draft typically represents about 80 on one of our ship and that depends on whether you're – you can't generically say across the board that we lose that tonnage whether you're in a port that restricted – with restricted draft then those come into play and we have seen it. We have seen some impact in the first quarter.

So, going back to your original guidance for the year given your indication that, yeah at a high degree confidence you were sold out, to the extent your ability to meet the demand is reduced because of the low water draft. How should we put all this together and think about, what is the offset if you will in your guidance to the lost volume you have from the lower water levels?

Well, the offset right now, the opportunity that we have is – we have of course the new unit coming on in September, we also had several assets that have out performed expectations in the first quarter. If that trend continues throughout the balance of the year we have the opportunity to makeup some ground from the one half that we've had some issues with. If the weather relatively benign weather patterns continue into the third quarter, we have an opportunity there. And we do not – historically have not budgeted many vessel days in the fourth quarter, but we do traditionally sail a large part of our fleet late in the fourth quarter, and some of that fleet early in the fourth quarter. So we typically sail more days than what we budget during the fourth quarter, and weather conditions and the economy permitting, that is an opportunity to make up some ground.

I have a few follow-ups, but I'll jump back in queue. Thank you.

Your next question comes from Kevin Sterling with BB&T Capital Market.

Good morning, guys. This is actually [ph] William Horne (24:20) on for Kevin.

Good morning, William.

Good morning. First question, you did a pretty good job of improving your top line particularly when looking at revenue per sailing day, which was up 7.4%, and is this more a function of mix pricing or is it also the benefits you're seeing from better aligning your expanded fleet or a combination of all the above?

Scott, go ahead.

William, it's a combination of all the above, but particularly the scheduling efficiencies as we've continued to grow the fleet, as it's given a better opportunity to maximize our scheduling efficiency.

Okay. Thanks, Scott. And then to follow-up with that, in your press release and your remarks you mentioned one vessel that didn't perform to your expectations, and it sounds like you're still working to get that vessel back to full utilization, could you give us some additional color on why that vessel didn't meet expectations? Was it a mechanical issue or was it demand or scheduling? And if you could, possibly quantify the impact?

Yes. We suffered some major mechanical issues on one of our newly acquired vessels from last year and we lost about 38 days, 38 sailing days this year downtime and an additional 23 days sailing on one engine in the first quarter with this outflow. We also have an additional 18 days on one engine in the early second quarter and we're going to have approximately 25 lost sailing days in the second quarter as a result of this incident before the vessel is fully back online which will be sometime next week, the impact on our first quarter results roughly 12% on EBITDA.

Okay. Thanks.

William?

Yes.

Good morning, it's Ed speaking just a couple of follow-ups to that. Demand is not an issue at all, it was purely mechanical the demand is absolutely out in the market for us. And nothing to do with the downtime as Scott just articulated. And just to clarify what Scott is talking about, our earnings probably would have been 12% to 15% higher than what we reported last night but for this one vessel. So you're probably looking at a number that was probably pretty close to $14 million of operating income before depreciation and amortization excluded – but for this one vessel, one incident and across the fleet the remainder of the fleet operated, as we stated in our prepared remarks in line with our expectations. So this was just the single issue that we faced in the quarter.

Okay. Thanks, Scott. And that's really good color. Next question is on expenses, you did a pretty good job, controlling them relative to your revenue per sailing day, with vessel operating expenses were flat 0.3% and could you quantify how much of that increase was attributable to fuel, which I know you mentioned was partly due to it.

Joe, could you address that please.

About – over a third or 40% of that increase was fuel.

Will, I'll just add to that, a lot of the increase in vessel expenditures for the quarter was related to this one vessel in addition. So we would expect our vessel expenditures to decline more in line with our experience plus fuel as we go forward.

Okay. Great that's helpful too. And one more question, and then I'll turn it back over. On the tax rate, which obviously spiked in the quarter, I know it's from the absence of a tax benefit and the change in valuation allowance. But could you give us some color on how we should think about that going forward?

All right, Joe.

Yes. Last quarter as you mentioned, we had valuation allowance, so effectively all of our U.S. income last quarter had no federal tax. In other words that federal tax was basically eating up the valuation allowance, which is effectively part of our net operating losses. So as we report taxes, we are going to offset the net operating losses that we have, which are about $27.5 million in the U.S. and about $17.5 million in Canada. So we have $45 million of net operating losses to use up before we become a tax payer. So the difference in the rate was a little bit of mix between U.S. and Canadian and the fact that there was no U.S. tax provision on our U.S. earnings in the prior year, whereas there was an effect this year at the normal rate of about 34% federal and a couple of percent state taxes.

So looking forward to the next couple of quarters, should we expect it's actually more in line with what we saw this quarter or more in line with what we saw in your fiscal 2012?

You're going to see that a similar rate for the full year with the only change in the rate really the difference between the mix of income between the U.S. and Canada by quarter, because under U.S. GAAP when you record your tax provision, you have to make an estimate of what your tax rate is for the year and then apply that same rate each quarter on an aggregate basis for all the quarters, including the three quarters where we make income in the first three quarters offset by the benefit you get in the fourth quarter when we have a loss when the vessels are shutdown.

Okay, great. Thanks, guys. That's all I have right now.

Thanks, William.

Your next question comes from Chris Snyder with Sidoti & Company.

Hey. Good morning, gentlemen. I was hoping you could just provide a little more color on how the drought would be able to possibly increase volumes of the grains that you guys ship?

Go ahead Scott.

Yeah, as I stated earlier, most of the million grains that we're moving are sourced Western Canadian grain. We're not experiencing drought in Western Canada. The Western Canadian crop is good this year. Where we expect to increase shipments is we've seen some sign of additional Western Canadian milling grain moving into the U.S. markets now because of the dissolution of the Wheat Board effective August 1, but we're also seeing some Ontario wheat, Ontario winter wheat that has historically moved in the U.S. market for the last year or so, our customers they were sourcing U.S. wheat, they are now moving the sourcing back into the Ontario wheat due to the lack of available commodity in the U.S. so that's where we're expecting to see some pickup in our milling business.

Okay. Thanks a lot, it's really helpful.

Your next question from Haruki Toyama with Marcus Asset Management.

Good morning.

Good morning, Haruki.

You mentioned the slightly reduced backhauls in your network. Can you talk about that a little bit.

Scott.

You mentioned in the press release a slightly reduced backhauls that impacted your financial this quarter can you talk about where that comes from?

Scott, go ahead please.

Yeah, good morning, Haruki. That's primarily the salt, as we explained our salt shipments are down about 29% in the first quarter. Some of that is – that's in line with expectations for the year but it is also somewhat timing as one of our major customers has had mine shutdowns in the first quarter of this year.

Okay. And then in the geographical split, your U.S. revenues were down is that mostly from the one underperforming vessel.

That's correct.

Okay, great. Thank you.

Your next question comes from Matthew Dodson with Edmunds White Partners.

Hey, can you just follow-up on Arnie's question. So if the waterways are too low or they are lower and you can't carry as many goods, does that actually push demand back, so that you'll have potentially more demand later? Or can you help us understand and how you get paid for those goods, if you can't carry as much on one vessel and you have to make more trips?

Ed, go ahead.

Good morning John, it's Ed. The water level issue is immaterial to the business right now. We ought not spend a lot of time talking about water levels, the impact it's having. I'm not trying to cut off your question. But in the context of our business today, and given the size and magnitude of our fleet, the fact that the water levels are up or down isn't something that is material to our operating results, and doesn't have a material impact or bearing on our demand and our utilization factors. It's relatively de minimis at this point in our business in terms of the impact on the business. So it's important to mind you, but it's not something that has a material impact on the result.

Well, thank you.

I mean, this is Laurence, I'll just highlight, the major drivers are probably our weather conditions that we're operating in, the demand from customers, the operational performance of our specific vessels. And we are optimistic on that front with the one vessel that's been underperforming, should be up to speed by next week, as Scott said. And our additionally our new self-unloading ATB will be in service in the foreseeable future. So we think we look very good at this point as we move into the balance of the sailing season.

Perfect, thank you.

Sure.

Your next question comes from Rick D'Auteuil with Columbia Management.

Good morning. Most of my questions have been answered, but just a follow-up on the nature of the vessels that had the issue. Is there any – since it was a recent acquisition, is there any recourse to the seller? Was there anything built into the contract with them that would give you some recourse?

No recourse that we have Rick, and there is no reason for us to believe that the equipment was faulty or that our diligence was lacking at the time of the consummation of the purchase. It was one of the vessels that we acquired in February of 2011, and it performed very nicely throughout the 2011 sailing season. So we don't want to imply at all that there was some nefarious behavior on the part of the seller that resulted in this issue.

Okay. And then once you get it back in service, is this fully fixed or you're just trying to Band-Aid it until the off-season where it will be a bigger issue?

It will be fully fixed. We've been Band-Aiding it for the better part of the quarter and that's when Scott had talked about the fact that we've been operating under reduced speeds. It's a two engine vessel we've been operating, when operating, it's been operating under one vessel (sic) [engine]. And so as a result of its reduced speed, it lacked this level of profitability that is standard for this piece of equipment. But once we get it into operation next week, it will have both engines working. We have no reason to believe that there's going to be any issue with the vessel. As I said it was one of our strongest performers in 2011. And so rest assured that the Band-Aid is reflected in the results that we presented last evening and now we've got it back to full speed.

And then as far as your budgeted CapEx and maintenance budget, does this throw that off at all?

All expensed in the P&L. So the numbers that you see and the impact that it had was all expensed to the P&L.

And therefore what we've indicated, what we expect for this upcoming winter season remains unchanged and will not be impacted by this single vessel.

So but Rick your question is a very good one. When we talk about the fact that earnings would be, call it 12%, 14% higher, that's both repair cost and lost days margin. And the repair cost has all been expensed.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

Your next question comes from Arnold Ursaner with CJS Securities.

Hi. So, just to follow up on that, your repair and maintenance expense in the quarter was half of last year and below our estimate. So, how much was specifically attributed to this one vessel or is it more in the vessel operating expenses area?

Yeah. The repairs and the maintenance expense is the winter work expense. This all falls into the line of vessel operating expenses.

So, can you quantify because that was a line relative to our model, you missed by about $1.5 million. Was this item $1.5 million or so?

The combination of that explains both lost sailings, lost budgeted contribution margin and expenditure.

Okay. Thank you. And then you have this new vessel that's going to be starting up where you mentioned you expect it to be fully utilized as soon as it does come into service. Can you tell us when you expect that to come in and to the extent it's delayed for any reason, what sort of an impact that could have if it were delayed?

Go ahead, Scott.

I'm sorry.

No, I'm asking Scott to please respond to your question Arnie.

As we talked about in our year end call, it was our expectation that that vessel would start on or about August 1 originally. We did not have any expectation of any delays at that point. We did have a late shipment of the one generator that was to go into that vessel that pushed the delivery of that vessel back. We are looking at mid September right now. So mid second quarter give or take a week either side of that right now. And so we don't expect it to have any material impact beyond that and the vessel has been fully booked for the balance of year.

Okay. And going back to your – can you just remind us of your CapEx and D&A guidance for the year please?

Scott, go ahead please.

I've got to defer that question to Joe who has the information handy here.

Arnie, think about for this year, we have got four dry dockings this year. So you ought to be thinking about a number like $14-ish million, $14 million, $15 million of CapEx. And dry docking, we've got as we've talked about in the past, this past fiscal year, this past winter that's the January through March 2012 period. And January through March 2013, we've got a bubble of dry-dockings. We'll have nine out of our 15 vessels are being dry-docked in that period. And so then in the subsequent fiscal years, we've got a pretty significant fall-off in our capital expenditure needs.

And D&A for the year?

Joe what's your take on D&A for the year? What do you want to say?

The D&A for the year will be approximately about $18 million. The only increase will be bringing on the [ph] Mary Beverly (41:50) ATB when that comes online.

Okay. And a final question from me. The elephant in the room that's impacted your stock is the PIK preferred and you have in the past spoken about considering other strategies to get rid of this. And again I'm sure you don't want to disclose everything on a public call, but could you give us some idea of what types of things you can do to get rid of this PIK preferred and give us some of your thoughts?

Arnie, I mean this has been an ongoing issue as you do highlight. Practically that preferred is convertible into approximately 2.5 million common shares. It is our belief that there are two holders of that preferred, each of them own approximately half of the preferred. One of the two holders to our knowledge has elected to pursue a strategy of in essence shorting against his position that it's convertible into. If you look at the short position in our common stock that is reported by NASDAQ, we are approaching 1.5 million shares, which is a historic high to our knowledge. And therefore, we believe to a large extent that holder has worked his way out of his stock position. We anticipate that therefore in the foreseeable future you won't have the overhang of this shorting on an ongoing basis on the stock. And it is our belief that hopefully that should result in the stock pricing able to perform consistent with underlying valuation metrics and improve its performance. So we do believe we are through the majority of this process. And we do think it will have a significantly positive impact on our common stockholders once the convertible preferred has been converted. And we are able to significantly reduce the financial cost of that instrument.

Well, that's true of the one holder, who appears to be shorting it, but the other holder is larger and that other holder's accounts have been in various forms of reduction liquidation. How are you dealing with the other sizable preferred shareholder?

It's not an issue that we're worried about, Arnie. That's their decision, that's that holder's decision. That holder has conveyed to us a very strong level of support for the company and a desire to continue to be a long-term investor in the company.

But he owns both common and preferred. You've talked about the ability to try to reduce his preferred holding. I don't think you are disclosing any strategies that make any sense other than just hoping...

No, we've never discussed reducing his preferred. What we've talked about is refinancing out the accrued preferred dividend in order to arbitrage the cost differential on the accrued preferred dividend, which is ticking away at 12% of what we believe we can borrow capital at. That's the only thing we've talked about in the context of the preferred. And we continue to be very focused on that opportunity in terms of taking out the accrued preferred dividend, recognizing though that if we force conversion of the preferred, then the accrued preferred dividend becomes a subordinated note at 7.75%.

With the resulting improvement in cash flow to our – or in earnings to our common stockholders of approximately $2 million, Arnie, we are not concerned about the second holder that you alluded to. He has been a very large and supportive stockholder. He has had one of these minor partnerships liquidate and that resulted in a minor realization of our common stock. We do not anticipate anything significant beyond that.

Okay, we'll see you guys at our conference next week.

We look forward to that. Thank you, Arnie.

Your next question comes from the Matthew Dodson with Edmunds White Partners.

Hey, guys. Can you kind of help us understand about the pricing environment right now and what you're seeing out there? You guys mentioned you had some contracts roll off that you were able to price, can we expect any more of that in the following quarters?

Matt, it's not a time in the year where we're talking about price with our customers. As you're aware, we typically get into price discussions in the fourth calendar quarter when we looking at renewals and the like. And so we don't have any material empirical data that support any view as to where pricing is. Our business is fully contracted and as our contracts come up for renewal, then we're having dialogue with our customers. But at this point we're just focused on operating the business and continuing to perform and put up numbers. And as we get towards the latter half of 2012, then we'll be able to give you a better read on that, and obviously into the first quarter of calendar 2013.

I mean, the best indicator at this point for us is demand is strong, and business conditions are good, which hopefully is encouraging for the future for us.

Got you. And then can you help us understand – you talked about how utilization was hurt by this vessel being ran on one engine. And now it being fixed and you're bringing another one onto the Lakes. Can you kind of help us what your utilization rate was this quarter, how it was hurt, and then kind of how we can frame it going forward?

Scott, go ahead please.

I think we lost 38 sailing days in the first quarter, Matthew, with that vessel and then we sailed 23 days on one engine, which is basically not a real contributor to margin when we were sailing on one engine, it's moving product for our customer. So you can really look at it as we lost the margin, contribution margin for that vessel for almost 60 days during the first quarter.

And I mean the revenue, you can quantify because every marine freight revenue per sailing day is approximately $31,000. So based on the sailing days, Scott has quoted for you, you can quite easily quantify the impact on our total revenue. And you can do a similar exercise for vessel margin.

Got you. Thank you. And my last question is, you guys have done a great job acquiring these assets. Are there any other opportunities out there that you guys kind of talk about, and maybe what we can see in the near future?

Matt, right now, we're very focused on integrating the acquisitions that we did last year and continuing to maximize the scheduling efficiencies that the largest fleet is providing us. We'll obviously continue to look for growth opportunities in terms of adding new capacity, but for the moment, we're very focused on just operating what we have and making sure that we properly integrated the assets that we have acquired and that we're getting the return on invested capital that the acquisitions were predicated on.

Having said that, we do keep our eyes and ears open for further opportunities, as our longer-term objective remains to continue to build and grow this company significantly.

Perfect. Thank you very much.

Thank you.

Your next question comes from Rick D'Auteuil with Columbia Management.

Yes. Actually my questions were just answered. I appreciate it, and I'll see at Arnie's conference. Thanks.

Thanks, Rick.

Thanks Rick.

At this time there are no further questions. Gentlemen, are there any closing remarks?

Yes. Thank you very much for your participation on Rand's first quarter call. We are very encouraged by the condition that our company is in and the outlook for our business as we move through the 2012 sailing season. Demand remains good for us, and as our vessels come back to full operation, and we introduce our new ATB, our outlook for the balance of the year we believe remains very positive. So we thank you all for your interest in Rand and look forward to keeping you updated about our progress. Thank you, operator

Thank you. This concludes the conference. You may now disconnect.