corrected transcript


Rand Logistics, Inc.
 
RLOG
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 12, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning. My name is Brandy and I will be your conference operator today. At this


time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Rand Logistics Incorporated Second Quarter Fiscal


2010 Earnings Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the


speakers’ remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] Thank you.


I would now like to turn the call over to Lesley Snyder, Investor Relations Counsel. Please go


ahead.


Lesley Snyder, Investor Relations Counsel


Thank you, operator. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to Rand Logistics’ fiscal


2010 second quarter conference call. On the call today from the company are Laurence Levy,


Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Scott Bravener, President of Lower Lakes; and Joe


McHugh, Rand’s Chief Financial Officer. Ed Levy, Rand’s President will join us for the question-


and-answer portion of the call. A live audio webcast and accompanying slide presentation will be


available on the Rand website at www.randlogisticsinc.com/presentations.html.


Before we begin, we would like to remind everyone that this conference call contains forward-


looking statements. For all forward-looking statements, we claim the protection of the Safe Harbor


for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


Forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which cannot


be predicted with accuracy or are otherwise beyond our control and some of which might not even


be anticipated. Future events and actual results affecting our strategic plan as well as our financial


position, results of operations and cash flows, could differ materially from those described in or


contemplated by the forward-looking statements.


Important factors that contribute to such risks include, but are not limited to, the effect of the


economic downturn in our market, the weather conditions on the Great Lakes, and our ability to


maintain and replace our vessels as they age.


For a more detailed description of these uncertainties and other factors, please see the Risk


Factors section in Rand’s Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the Securities and Exchange


Commission on June 25, 2009.


And with that, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Laurence Levy.


Laurence S. Levy, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Lesley, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us on today’s call. After my opening


remarks, Scott Bravener, President of Lower Lakes, will discuss our operating results, Joe McHugh,


our CFO, will review the financial results, and I will summarize the prospects for the remainder of


the shipping season. We will then open the call up for questions.


Given the challenging macroeconomic environment, there was a reduction in demand for bulk


freight shipping services on the Great Lakes during the second quarter of fiscal 2010 as compared


to the same year-ago period. Specifically, certain of the major commodities that are transported on


the Great Lakes experienced lake-wide tonnage declines of up to 60%. These factors limited our


vessel scheduling flexibility and the overall operating efficiency of our fleet.
corrected transcript


Rand Logistics, Inc.
 
RLOG
 
Q2 2010 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 12, 2009


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 00 9 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


Notwithstanding the decline in demand, we were pleased with our vessel utilization, which equaled


87.1% of the theoretical maximum during the six months ended September 30, 2009, as well as our


tonnage volumes, which were down only 10% excluding outside voyage charter versus the same


time period in the prior year and much less in the lakes-wide average decline in tonnage volume.


The diversity of our customer base, flexibility of our vessels, outside voyage charter strategy, cost-


efficient operating model and market position within the River Class segment, all contributed to our


being able to partially offset decreases in demand for the transportation of certain commodities.


As a result of the steps taken thus far in the fiscal year to reduce costs, coupled with improving


customer visibility, we believe that consistent with prior years our operating income before


depreciation and amortization for the six months ended September 30, 2009 will be reflective of our


full year results, barring significant weather delays on an operational incident over the next 60 days.


As a result, our operating income for fiscal 2010, before depreciation and amortization and a one-


time amendment fee paid to our lenders, is likely to be only marginally lower than the fiscal 2009


results, which were the highest in the company’s history, notwithstanding, a weaker Canadian


dollar and significantly higher operating efficiencies caused by a reduction in customer demand.


We have substantially completed our 2009 sailing season and are very pleased with our results,


particularly in light of the significant economic downturn and the material reduction in lakes-wide


shipping volume. We believe that the fiscal year-to-date performance validates the quality of the


company’s business model and earnings in both good markets and bad markets.


Now, I’d like to turn the call over to Scott for a review of our operations. Scott?


Captain Scott Bravener, President of Lower Lakes Towing and Lower Lakes Transportation


Company


Thanks Laurence. Overall, we are pleased with our vessel utilization, which equaled 87.1% of the


theoretical maximum during the six months ended September 30, 2009. We achieved this utilization


in a market where demand for certain bulk freight shipping services lakes-wide was down by as


much as 60% thus far in 2009 as compared to the prior year comparable period due to the


weakened economy.


In view of the net reduced demand from our customers, our total sailing days, which we define as


days a vessel is crewed and available for sailing, decreased 135 days, or 6.6%, to 1,912 sailing


days during the six-month period ended September 30, 2009 from 2,047 sailing days during the


same period – during the same year-ago period.


Due to reduced demand from our customers, we sailed one of our vessels for only 45 days during


the six-month period ended September 30, 2009 versus all 183 sailing days during the six-month


period ended September 30, 2008. Due to the repowering the Saginaw during the prior year, we


operated this vessel an additional 72 sailing days during the six-month period ending September


30, 2009.


Excluding these two vessels, we operated our remaining 10 vessels for 69 fewer sailing days year-


over-year. While our utilization was acceptable given market conditions, the decline in customer


demand and our lack of typical visibility impacted our ability to optimize the scheduling flexibility of


our fleet, which in turn negatively impacted the overall operating efficiency of our vessels relative to


the same period last year. The decline in our efficiency resulted in our marine freight revenue per


day decreasing by $1,784 or 6.1% to $27,344 for the six months ended September 30, 2009 from


$29,128 for the same period last year.