Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Alison Ziegler — Vice President, Cameron Associates, Inc.
Laurence S. Levy — Executive Chairman, Rand Logistics, Inc.
Edward Levy — President, Chief Executive Officer, Rand Logistics, Inc.
Joseph W. McHugh — Jr., Chief Financial Officer
Joseph W. McHugh, Jr. — Chief Financial Officer, Rand Logistics, Inc.
Scott Bravener — Director, President of Lower Lakes Towing and Lower Lakes Transportation Company, Rand Logistics, Inc.
William W. Horner — Analyst, BB&T Capital Markets
Jon E. Tanwanteng — Analyst, CJS Securities, Inc.
Matthew S. Dodson — Analyst, JWEST LLC
Richard G. D'Auteuil — Senior Portfolio Manager, Columbia Management Investment Advisers LLC

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Standby, we're about to begin. Good day, and welcome to the Rand Logistics Incorporated Second Quarter Fiscal 2015 Earnings Conference Call. Today's conference is being recorded.

At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Ms. Alison Ziegler, Vice President, Cameron Associates. Please go ahead ma'am.

Thank you. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Rand Logistics Fiscal 2015 Second Quarter Conference Call. On the call today from the company are Laurence Levy, Rand's Executive Chairman; Ed Levy, Rand's Chief Executive Officer; Joe McHugh, Rand's Chief Financial Officer; and Scott Bravener, President of Lower Lakes.

A live audio webcast and accompanying slide presentation will be available on the Rand website at www.randlogisticsinc.com/presentations.html.

Before we begin, we would like to remind everyone that this conference call contains forward-looking statements. For all forward-looking statements, we claim the protection of the Safe Harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

Forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which cannot be predicted with accuracy or are otherwise beyond our control, and some of which might not even be anticipated. Future events and actual results affecting our strategic plan as well as our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could differ materially from those described in or contemplated by the forward-looking statements.

Important factors that contribute to such risks include, but are not limited to, the effect of the economic downturn in our market, weather conditions on the Great Lakes, and our ability to maintain and replace our vessels as they age. For a more detailed description of these uncertainties and other factors, please see the Risk Factors section in Rand's Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 12, 2014, as well as other recent filings.

And with that, I'd like to turn the call over to Mr. Laurence Levy. Go ahead, Laurence.

Thank you, Alison, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining us on today's call. After my opening remarks, regarding a series of organizational changes, Ed Levy will provide a business review; Joe McHugh will review the financial results; and Scott Bravaner, President of Lower Lakes will join us for your questions.

As most of you have likely seen, yesterday afternoon, we announced two organizational changes. First, Joe McHugh, Rand CFO intends to retire in calendar year 2015 after nearly a decade of service to Rand. The company has engaged a search firm and the process to find his replacement is underway. Joe will remain until his successor is in place and will provide ongoing support during the transition. Joe has made a significant contribution to Rand and he will be missed. We all wish him the best in his retirement. Second, effective immediately, Ed Levy, Rand's President, has taken on the additional role of Chief Executive Officer.

We are also implementing several changes to our Board of Directors. Concurrent with the company's annual meeting, which is to be reconvened on November 20, 2014, Michael Lundin will be appointed Non-Executive Chairman of Rand's Board of Directors. Mike has been on Rand's Board since April 2008 including serving as Lead Independent Director for the last 18 months. Mike is currently a director of Euramax International, Inc. and U.S. Concrete, Inc. and was formerly President and Chief Executive Officer of the Oglebay Norton Company, a miner, processor, transporter and marketer of industrial minerals on the Great Lakes.

I will be appointed Executive Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors. And then in addition to customary board matters, I will continue to be involved in strategic and capital markets related matters as an executive of the company.

As previously disclosed, Jonathan Brodie, Board Member since 2006 has notified the company that he will not be standing for reelection to the Board of Directors. Jonathan has been a valued performer and I'd like to thank him for his work on the compensation and audit committees. We will miss his valued strategic insights and contributions to our board.

Let me now turn the call over to Ed for a discussion about our second quarter results.

Thanks, Laurence. We were generally satisfied with our fiscal second quarter results, which showed a trend of continued improvement in vessel reliability statistics and strong customer demand. Both vessel reliability and demand were in line with our expectations in October as well.

For fiscal second quarter ended September 30, 2014, we reported operating income plus depreciation, amortization and loss on foreign exchange of $17.4 million, up 11.2% from the prior year period.

For the six months of fiscal 2015, this figure was up 3.3% to $28.6 million. These gains have been somewhat tempered by weakness in the Canadian dollar and adverse weather conditions in April through mid-May of this sailing season.

As previously discussed, our operating income plus depreciation, amortization and drydock costs, as well as amortization of intangibles and loss on foreign exchange was $3 million less in April 2014 than in April 2013.

The improvement in our earnings is being driven by several factors. First, we are continuing to improve our reliability measures. We are also benefiting from new business, which has helped us to rebalance our commodity mix and leverage our existing root network, leading to improved trade pattern efficiencies.

Finally, we are benefiting from higher water levels and modest contractual price increases. During the second quarter of fiscal 2015, we operate 15 vessels consistent with the second quarter of fiscal 2014. The number of Sailing Days that we operated increased by 5.1% or 65 days to 1,351 days as compared to the same quarter last year. This compares to a theoretical maximum of 1,380 days.

The full 65-day increase, consistent with our expectations, was related to our four bulk carriers. These vessels are heavily dependent on the Canadian grain trade. While we typically may [ph] lay up (07:07) certain of these vessels in the summer, this year, all four vessels were fully utilized given the strength of the Canadian grain harvest.

Vessel reliability remains an everyday priority throughout our entire company. Process improvements that we began initiating 18 months ago continue to yield encouraging results. Specifically, they are driving both revenue gains and expense reductions. We sailed an average of 90 Sailing Days per vessel during the three-month period ended September 30, 2014, versus a possible average of 92 days available. This performance resulted in a fleet utilization of 98%, an improvement from the 93% level achieved in the year ago period. The 2% loss in fleet utilization during the quarter equaled 29 Sailing Days. For the six months ended September 30, 2014, we have had a total of 29 days out of service or 1.1% of total Sailing Days as compared to 20 days or 0.8% of total Sailing Days for the comparable period last year. Besides days out of service, Delay Days, which we defined as the loss time incurred by our vessels while in operation is another key reliability metrics that we monitor.

Delay Days can occur due to inclement weather, dock delays, traffic congestion or vessel mechanical issues. Our overall delayed time losses totaled 72 days or 5.3% of actual Sailing Days in the three months ended September 30, 2014. This compares to 93 days or 7.2% of total Sailing Days experienced in the quarter ending September 30, 2013.

Year-to-date overall delayed time losses totaled 203 days or 8.1% of actual Sailing Days. This compares to 222 days or 8.7% of total Sailing Days for the same time period last year. The 21-day reduction in Delay Days allowed us to increase the time that our vessels were in revenue loaded condition and is one of the several factors that allowed us to increase operating income plus depreciation, amortization of dry dock costs, amortization of intangibles and loss on foreign exchange by 11.2% on a quarter-over-quarter basis.

We're experiencing 1.8% increased in tonnage transported in our second fiscal quarter versus the same period a year ago, which was relatively consistent with our expectations coming into the sailing season. A more balanced commodity mix and more robust customer demand is resulting in improved scheduling flexibility. This has allowed us to improve the efficiencies of our trade patterns and combined with the improved commodity mix is another factor contributing to our earnings growth thus far in the 2014 sailing season.

Our salt tonnage was up 39% in our second fiscal quarter and 16% year-to-date and is contributing to the improved efficiency of our trade patterns. The increase in salt tonnage is primarily due to restocking depleted supplies after the past winter. Our iron ore tonnage was up 59% in the quarter and 26% year-to-date. Growth in our iron ore tonnage is almost entirely a result of long term contracts that we were awarded and that begin in the 2014 sailing season.

While we still haul a majority of the infrastructure aggregates transported on the Great Lakes, our aggregates tonnage was down 8% for the quarter and down 17% on a year-over-year basis. Much of the decline is a result of not being able to catch up from the weather issues we experienced in April and May of this year.

For the first time in several years, we are seeing signs of organic growth in certain selective aggregates end markets, but by no means in all the markets that we serve. Aggregates currently account for approximately 48% of our total tonnes moved.

Our coal tonnage was down approximately 14% for the second fiscal quarter, and 6% on a year-over-year basis. The decline is due to weather issues in April and May and timing of deliveries. We are benefiting from an improvement in water levels which have rebounded, and are now at or near historical norms in all of the Great Lakes.

Lake Superior, Lake Michigan and Huron, and Lake Erie, are 11 inches, 22 inches and seven inches respectively, above their levels a year ago. Well like Lake Ontario, is three inches below its level of a year ago.

This has enabled us to increase our tons carried per trip, compared to last year. Based on our October results, and the remaining fulfillment needs of our customers, we do not foresee the demand environment changing through the end of the 2014 sailing season.

As a result, we are planning to operate our fleet into late December and several of our vessels in January. As many of you are aware, typically weather becomes a more important variable in our business, in November and December, and this can result in uncontrollable days, and diminished profitability.

With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Joe McHugh, who will review on the financial results. Joe?

Thanks Ed. I would now like to provide a more detailed explanation of our financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2014 compared to the second quarter of the prior fiscal year. Freight and related revenue, which excludes few another surcharges, announced by charter revenue, increased by 7.3% to $46.1 million from $43 million.

This increase was primarily attributable to additional Sailing Days resulting in a modest increase in tonnage carried, prices increases, improvements in commodity mix and water levels, and a higher percentage of time and revenue loaded condition, offset by the weaker Canadian dollar. On a constant currency basis, freight and related revenue increased by 10.1% or $4.3 million. Fuel and other surcharges increased by $582,000 or 7.7% to $8.2 million.

Freight and related revenue per Sailing Day increased by 2.2% or $722 to $34,124 per Sailing Day from $33,402 per Sailing Day. On a constant currency basis, freight and related revenue increased 4.8% or $1,600 per day.

Total revenue for the quarter increased by 7.4% to $54.3 million. Vessel operating expenses increased by $2 million or 6.3% to $33.6 million. This increase was primarily due to a greater number of Sailing Days, offset by a weaker Canadian dollar. Vessel operating expenses per Sailing Day increased by 1.2% or $300 to $24,879 from $24,579 in the second quarter of fiscal 2015 versus the comparable period in fiscal 2014.

We achieved an increase in vessel margin per day of 4.5% from $14,631 in the quarter ended September 30, 2013 to $15,295 in the quarter ended September 30, 2014. Assuming no change in exchange rates compared to the comparable quarter last year, our vessel margin per day for the quarter ended September 30, 2014 increased $1,057 or 7.2%.

We are pleased how this operating measurement is trending. We continue to believe that the phase out of service and Delay Days for the remainder of the 2014 sailing season are consistent with our expectations. We will achieve a 5% to 7% growth in vessel margin per day, before changes in currency exchange rates that we previously forecasted. Our general and administrative expenses were $3.3 million in the quarter. G&A costs increased slightly quarter-over-quarter due to a modest increase in compensation and benefit costs and one-time incremental proxy-related expenses offset by a weaker Canadian dollar.

Our general and administrative expenses represented 7.2% of freight and related revenues compared to 7.4% in a year-ago quarter. Operating income plus depreciation, amortization and loss in foreign exchange increased 11.2% or $1.7 million to $17.4 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2014. Assuming no change in exchange rates compared to the comparable quarter last year, our operating income plus depreciation, amortization and loss of foreign exchange for the quarter ended September 30, 2014 increased by an additional $500,000 or 14.1% above the prior year. For the quarter ended September 30, 2014, the average exchange rate equaled $0.918 per Canadian dollar as compared to $0.963 per Canadian dollar for the quarter ended September 30, 2013, down 4.7%.

The change in exchange rates resulted in a reduction of operating income plus depreciation, amortization and loss of foreign exchange of approximately $500,000, as compared to the same quarter last year. Over the course of a year, every $0.01 change in the value of the Canadian dollar versus the U.S. dollar, our operating income plus depreciation and amortization is affected by approximately US$250,000.

In addition, we incurred $1.3 million of balance sheet adjustments during the quarter that were recorded in our earnings on a loss on foreign exchange. This was primarily a non-cash loss on translation of approximately US$34.2 million denominated debt incurred in March 2014 and carried on the balance sheet of our Canadian subsidiary, net of $10 million of currency hedging during a portion of the three-month period ended September 30, 2014.

For the quarter ended September 30, 2014, our effective income tax rate equaled 10.8%, primarily due to the implementation of the valuation allowance related to the net U.S. federal deferred tax assets.

Our projected interest expense for fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 is approximately $13 million.

Finally, I'd ask you to turn to slide 15 of the aforementioned presentation. We believe that this chart, which illustrates the company's trailing four quarters of operating income plus depreciation, amortization and loss or gain on foreign exchange since the time of Rand's purchase of Lower Lakes, I like the company's earnings quality and growth in both good and difficult economic conditions.

Now, I'd like to turn the call back over to Ed. Ed?

Thanks, Joe. It is still too early to provide a precise outlook for the 2015 sailing season. However, based on selective conversations with certain of our major customers and based on new contracts that we have already been awarded for the 2015 sailing season, we do not foresee a change in demand for our services, next sailing season as compared to the current season. We have approximately 10% of our tonnage under contract expiring prior to the start of the 2015 sailing season. No single expiring contract accounts for more than 2% of our total tonnage.

Finally, our 17th vessel has arrived at the shipyard in China and steel cutting and fabrication of the new forebody has begun. The project remains on schedule and on budget and we are anticipating introducing this vessel into service in the second half of 2015. Management believes that the introduction of our 17th vessel combined with contractual price increases and continued improvement in our operational metrics will be a catalyst for continued further growth of our earnings. Operator, we'd now like to open the call up for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Kevin Sterling of BB&T Capital Markets.

Good morning, gentlemen. It's actually William Horner on for Kevin.

Good morning, William.

Good morning. Ed. Congrats on the new CEO role and Joe, I know you're going to be around for a little bit longer. The best of luck in your upcoming retirement.

Thanks.

Ed, real quick on this. I know you started the utilization of [ph] your bulkers (22:22) is pretty strong in the quarter because of the grain harvest. But did you cite how much your grain business was up during the quarter?

With that, on a tonnage basis, that was relatively [indiscernible] (22:36).

Okay. So, is that utilization more a function of just supply and capacity being tight on the lakes in general?

Yes. That's correct. The bulkers operated at full utilization through the quarter. It's just a factor of where the trade patterns, where the loads were located from which affected the amount of tonnage that they transported.

On a company-wide basis in 2013 sailing season the grain was approximately 9.1% of our tonnage; this year, it's 9.6%. So, relatively de minimis change.

Right, okay. Thanks and I appreciate that. And second with your outlook for 2015. I know you cited some new business awards and only 10% of your contracts expiring. Could you remind me, how much of your business is under contract any given year? And what the split is typically between, so you take your pay and contracted a fragment?

North of 98% under contract, William, and the vast majority of our business is contract for fragment. That's vast majority for the COA.

Okay. So sticking with that theme and given the favorable market dynamics, demand working pretty good, supply obviously has been pretty tight, are you finding maybe some opportunities with your customers to maybe move more towards the time charter kind of contract structure and away from the COAs or COAs still are going to be kind of typically the way that we should see things next year?

Yeah. I think in general, William, the conversations we're having with our customers is how can we provide them greater certainty of our ability to meet their demand to the extent that there are customers who are concerned about the certainty that they're going to have capacity in the future. And so, we're more than happy to have those discussions with those customers that are concerned about the supply-demand dynamics in our market.

Okay. So in other words – I mean obviously – I don't want to get too granular, but just it sounds like your customers might be open to the idea of finding the best ways for them to make you such secure tonnage and make sure that it's out there?

Yeah. William, within certain segments of our business, I would say that yes that is true.

Okay. All right. And then on terms of efficiency, obviously, you had mechanical delays, incidents will come and go, you're trending down a little bit, you're benefiting from water levels normalizing to a certain degree. And, so overall, it seems like the initiatives you're making to drive better efficiencies are taken hold. So my question is how much more leg room is there, and what other initiatives can you put into place that maybe further solidify the progress you've made. And not necessarily from the scheduling a more favorable mix standpoint, but maybe some areas where you can call us either and while sailing or maybe import during loading conditions just other areas that you've identified that you can drive some better leverage?

Okay. Let me start there and I'll turn over to Scott as well. I think that from the days out of service perspective we're running about 1% thus far in the 2014 sailing season that's compared to 0.8% in the 2013 sailing season. That's about right in line with where we want to be, it's down meaningfully from 2011, 2012. So, we're pleased with that number. As it relates to our Delay Days, we're running at about 5.5% now, overall on a full-year basis, we probably want to be high single-digits and we would expect that in the quarter we just finished, we chill our best delay day statistics given that weather is relatively benign in that in our second fiscal quarter. So we're in pretty good shape we think on the reliability metrics, where we see the opportunity I think, William, is to improve our port times, load and unload and switching while at the dock, and we put forth statistics for every approximately 15 minutes that we can save per vessel, per day over the course of the sailing season, we can improve our earnings by the neighborhood of about $1.250 million and so the next big focus for our company is to be thinking about ways that we can reduce time, and its primarily reducing time imports, that we're very focused on right now. I think analysis create more time for us to sell and allow us to be in revenue loaded condition on higher percentage of our time. [indiscernible]

(27:54)

No. I think they're pretty much loaded today, but we do believe we still have some runway within operating efficiencies. We're still highly focused on that. And they thrust upon port efficiencies and customer efficiency – customer performance, so the parameters of our agreement is a real priority for us right now. And scheduling efficiencies this year with a compression in the market due to April being pretty much non-existent, has created some scheduling in efficiencies in our network, just servicing customers to make sure they're not running on a material, and in a normalized year, we believe we've still got some run rate there for further scheduling efficiency improvements.

Got you. Thanks, Ed and Scott. That's a great color, and appreciate you giving me these numbers upon the efficiencies. One last and I'll turn it over. Obviously, there's been a theme in transports, but there's been a lot of rail congestion issues, particularly in the Chicago area and other areas in the Northwest, but have you seen any sort of impact from your business from rail congestion or cargos making through lakes sometime, are there any vessels kind of waiting for loads or just, if you can maybe just give a review of, if at all that's impacting your business at all?

Yeah. William, we've seen both positive and negative impact of the real congestion issues. On the negative side, we have experienced and has contributed scheduling inefficiency particularly within our coal cargos not showing up at port at scheduled times and having to reload vessels, et cetera. On the positive side, we're seeing cargos that haven't moved on the lakes for a number of years, customers coming back looking for waterborne transportational opportunities again, so it's a bit of a mix blessing.

Got you. [indiscernible] (30:09) for service. Anyway, that's it for me. Congrats on a good quarter, guys.

Thanks, William.

And our next question comes from Jon Tanwanteng of CJS Securities.

Good morning, guys. Nice quarter. I jumped in the call a bit late so I apologize if I missed this, but what is the impact of foreign exchange so far in the December quarter and are you trying to hedge some of that exposure?

Yes. We are hedging at this time $25 million of that $34.2 million exposure of the U.S. debt that's on a Canadian subsidiary. However, there is an impact of the continued deterioration of the Canadian dollar as it weakens our Canadian subsidiaries results do get diminished in the third quarter. Now in the fourth quarter, when we primarily incur [ph] winner work and lay up (31:08) expenses and G&A were more explanatory and that the weaker Canadian dollar actually offset some of what hit us in the third quarter.

Jon, the $25 million hedge that Joe was referencing is exclusively against that $34.2 million balance sheet, U.S. debt, denominated debt that's on our Canadian subsidiary. So it's entirely related to the balance sheet hedge. We never hedge the operating exposure to business. We've looked at it for many years, the cost is [indiscernible] (31:46) expensive.

Got it. Thank you. And then as fuel prices and presumably that the fuel charges decline, are you seeing any benefit at all or is that a 100% pass through?

100% pass through. To the extent that we see some benefit it will be in the fourth quarter when the vessels are laid out. We've got to [indiscernible] (32:07) because we're doing work on it, but that will be relatively de minimis.

Got it. And with the total price decline as a result of lower fuel price present probably demand at all?

If it's prolong it will have particularly in aggregate markets, it will have an impact, Jon, and if it stays at these levels for a level of time, it will reduce our operating cost once as we lower our budget where our fuel surcharges kick into our customers.

Okay. Thanks. And then just, can you talk about the demand environment 2015 and does that support the reactivation of the [indiscernible] (32:51) or do you have other plans for that vessel at this point?

We are in relatively fragile stage in the negotiations with the owner of that barge, Jon. I think that the general view of the management team is that the capital necessary to bring that vessel back into service would be – will be difficult for us to achieve the kind of return that we're looking for in our capital at this point to bring that vessel back into service. But again, I think, I'd rather leave it at that. We are in a subsequent negotiations with the owner that vessel right now, Jon.

Okay, great. And then just a final, can you give us little more color as we're heading to December quarter regarding utilization mix or trending?

October we were satisfied with. The first few days of November have been okay, but again as you appreciate November and December there's greater weather variability in the business. And so we'll continue to operate as best as possible. The demand certainly exists for us to run our fleet full out through the closing and the locks, no doubt about that. We've got plenty of demand to run us out and we're – fingers are crossed that the weather stays relatively benign for us.

Okay. Thanks. And congrats again and best of luck Joe.

Thank you very much, Jon.

And our next question comes from [ph] Fahad Khan of EL Financials (34:31).

Good morning, gentlemen. My question relates to I think you've mentioned in the presentation the 17 vessels on schedule, on budget. Can you provide any color on the budget and the price for the vessel?

We have not disclosed the price the all-in cost of the vessel at this point.

Okay. Did you know just in terms of the shipyard where you guys just looking at the shipyards or just how did you come to change the [ph] ETPD (35:07), the art of choice, was it price related?

We did exhaustive analysis. We had our team over there on several occasions. We looked at several yards in our evaluation and based on a lot of factors quality, price, timeliness of delivery, reputation, we concluded that while there are many terrific yards over there the [indiscernible] (35:33) was best view to conserve our needs for this particular project.

Okay. Fair enough. And I guess, and it's still scheduled to launch I think in the second half of 2015, on a fiscal year or on a calendar year?

Calendar year, we like to put into the service in the second half of 2015.

Okay. Perfect. Okay. Okay well, that's great. Just those my question.

Thank you very much. [Operator Instructions]

We'll go next to Matthew Dodson of JWEST LLC.

Can you talk a little bit about the financing for 2017? Are you guys going to tap your [indiscernible] (36:21) or are you going to do a sale leaseback? Can you kind of help us understand your thinking there?

Yeah. Good morning, Matt. We were looking at a number of alternatives at this point. We don't have any pressure from a financing perspective until the end of the first half of calendar 2015. We're in the process of evaluating a number of alternatives. And as soon as we've come to a conclusion, we'll certainly announce that to all our shareholders.

And can you talk about is 2017 fully booked right now?

2017 is fully booked. And, we're quite keen to get it into service as soon as possible in the 2015 calendar year.

And finally, you guys have done a fantastic job of winning new business. Can you help me understand, is there any more business that you can pick from your competitors or is there any more business coming on to the Great Lakes right now that you can bid on?

With the second part of the question, Matt I'm sorry, was there – I think where we could do what to? [indiscernible]

(37:38), so the rail congestion is bringing more people off rail onto the Great Lakes, so is there any more benefit to that going to carry over to 2015?

Matt, Scott here. We continue to evaluate selected pieces of business where they provide a good fit for our trading pattern and augment our trading pattern. But, we are operating at a relative capacity right now, so we're not actively looking for large pieces of new business.

Perfect. Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

We'll go next to Rick D'Auteuil, Columbia Management.

Hi. Good morning.

Good morning, Rick.

Just on that last question, is there opportunity to upgrade the mix even if you're not adding new tonnage? Several of your end markets are better margin than others, isn't there the opportunity to improve that as we look it better demand environment?

Yeah Rick, Scott here just to reiterate my answer. The math, yes, we continue to evaluate where there's better fit to augment our scheduling and that's what drives our efficiencies not so much to commodity. It's the fit within the schedule and that's what where we continue to look for opportunities.

Okay. Thank you.

If we can to discuss point now, Rick, if we can add pieces of business, which allow us to increase our percentage of time and revenue loaded condition or to your point, there is swap out of alternatives where it's not diminishing our efficiencies. We're certainly looking quite at those opportunities. And that's the kind of fine-tuning that we're very focused on right now.

Okay. Thank you.

And I think that to that, Rick, if you look at our numbers over the last 12 months, you could see that we have made significant progress in shipping that commodity mix.

Absolutely, agree.

We were at 53% aggregate this time last year, Rick, we're 48% now. So, that sort of gives you a feel. And then as you're well aware, we had a focus to add some iron ore to our mix and we've got – we've achieved that iron ore. It's going to provide 9.5% of our tonnage last sailing season. It's about 15% this sailing season.

Actually, another follow-up question on the 10% that's up for negotiation contract renewal.

Yeah.

Where do you think the opportunity is on price with those?

I think, we think it's situational specific, Rick, and we want to be mindful as to how the piece of business fits into our trade patterns. And we don't want to be on a situation where we may get too aggressive on price, lose the customer and create efficiencies alternatively to the extent that we feel that the opportunity exist to take price up, we'll certainly be looking quite aggressively at that, this upcoming winter season.

I can't remember if you implemented some technology or was actually just the person and expert person to evaluate these kind of things. Are you seeing a return on that investment on profit optimization and looking at pricing, looking at [ph] shipping lanes (41:44) and maximizing the scheduling? Are you getting something from that yet or not?

We certainly think we are. We certainly think our pricing disciplines and our valuation of the competitive dynamics of the market when it comes to thinking about customer pricing is far improved relative to where it was three years or four years ago. And so, we really kind of look at pricing not just the impact. It has on us but where the rest of the market is competitively given the customer and where it fits into the trade matter.

Okay, thank you, good quarter.

Thanks.

And with no further questions in queue, I'd like to turn the conference back over to Ed Levy for any additional or closing remarks.

Thank you, operator, and thank you for your continued interest in Rand Logistics. As always, please do not hesitate to call any of us with any questions. Thanks very much.

And this does conclude today's conference. We appreciate everyone's participation.