corrected transcript


Rand Logistics, Inc.
 
RLOG
 
Q2 2011 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 10, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning. My name is Laurie and I’ll be your conference operator. At this time, I


would like to welcome everyone to the Rand Logistics Second Quarter Fiscal Year 2011 Earnings


Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the


speakers’ remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session [Operator Instructions]


Thank you. I’ll now turn the call over to Lesley Snyder, Investor Relations Counsel. Please go


ahead.


Lesley Snyder, Investor Relations


Thank you, operator. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to Rand Logistics Fiscal


2011 Second Quarter Conference Call. On the call today from the company are Laurence Levy,


Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Ed Levy, Rand’s President; Scott Bravener, President of


Lower Lakes and Joe McHugh, Rand’s Chief Financial Officer. A live audio webcast and


accompanying slide presentation will be available on the Rand website at


www.randlogisticsinc.com/presentations.html.


Before we begin, we would like to remind everyone that this conference call contains forward-


looking statements. For all forward-looking statements, we claim the protection of the Safe Harbor


for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


Forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which cannot


be predicted with accuracy or are otherwise beyond our control and some of which might not, even


be anticipated.


Future events and actual results affecting our strategic plan as well as our financial position, results


of operations and cash flows, could differ materially from those described in or contemplated by the


forward-looking statements. Important factors that contribute to such risks include, but are not


limited to, the effect of the economic downturn in our markets, the weather conditions on the Great


Lakes and our ability to maintain and replace our vessels as they age.


For a more detailed description of these uncertainties and other factors, please see the Risk


Factors Section in Rand’s Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the Securities and Exchange


Commission on June 16, 2010.


And with that, I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Laurence Levy.


Laurence S. Levy, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Lesley and good morning, everyone. Thank you, for joining us on today’s call. After my


opening remarks, Scott Bravener, President of Lower Lakes will discuss our operating results; Joe


McHugh, our CFO will review the financial results and Ed Levy, Rand’s President will discuss


capital deployment options and our fiscal 2012 earnings opportunities. We will then open the call up


for questions.


During the first half of fiscal year 2011, we experienced a series of mechanical incidents on our


vessels, which resulted in a cumulative financial expense, that management regards as non-


recurring. While we normally experience and plan for ordinary course mechanical incidents on our


vessels, the financial impact of these incidents far exceeded our historic experience and can be


grouped into three distinct categories.
corrected transcript


Rand Logistics, Inc.
 
RLOG
 
Q2 2011 Earnings Call
 
Nov. 10, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
1-8 7 7-F ACT S ET •
 
Co p yr i gh t © 2 0 0 1-2 0 1 0 Ca l l Str e et
 
2


Firstly, approximately $1 million in repair costs, below our insurance deductible limits. Secondly,


approximately 1.3 million of assessments from one of our insurance carriers, due to unusually large


losses experienced in the current policy year. And thirdly, 84 days of downtime, including 58 lost


sailing days, which in conjunction with our inability to utilize certain of our vessels during periods


when the repairs were made, created inefficiencies in our trade patterns, equivalent to lost margin


of $2.1 million.


While we are not prepared to provide specific earnings guidance for the fiscal year ended March


31, 2011, the financial impact of the mechanical incidents experienced in the first half of fiscal year


2011, including repair costs after net insurance reimbursements, the foregone time and revenue,


the insurance assessments and the inefficiencies created in trade patterns will result in a shortfall of


full year fiscal 2011 results compared to the prior year.


Notwithstanding, we continue to believe that the long-term fundamentals of the business and our


end-markets remain strong and as a result, these incidents will not have an impact on our future


earnings potential. As such, we are reaffirming our prior guidance of $0.90 to $1.00 of free cash


flow per share, commencing with a repowered Michipicoten re-entering service in the spring of


2011, assuming no drastic change in economic conditions.


We are on track with plans to covert our last steam powered vessel, the Michipicoten to diesel


power beginning in December 2010 and estimate that this $15 million investment will generate an


annual return on invested funds in the mid teens, which significantly exceeds our marginal cost of


capital and therefore will be accretive to our common stockholders. In addition, we continue to


pursue other long-term contractual business, which will allow us to further increase vessel


utilization and allow for further growth as the economy continues to rebound. Based on current


customer demand and taking into account the magnitude of the mechanical incidents experienced


in the first half of this fiscal year, we remain confident in our ability to operate our fleet closer to our


3,300 sailing days per year, theoretical maximum upon the launch of the repowered Michipicoten in


fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011, which will enable us to continue improving the efficiency of


our vessels and our financial results.


Now, I’d like to turn the call over to Scott for a review of our operations. Scott?


Captain Scott Bravener, President of Lower Lakes Towing and Lower Lakes Transportation


Company


Thanks, Laurence. From an operational incident perspective, we are extremely disappointed with


the performance of the fleet, thus far in fiscal 2011. While we budget for operational incidents, the


number and severity of the incidents that we’ve experienced this year has been unprecedented.


As a management team, we’ve analyzed each of the incidents to understand, what caused them


and how they could have been prevented. Based on our review, we’ve concluded that, we’ve not


had a common deficiency in maintenance, oversight or processes. Including our upcoming winter


investments, we will have spent approximately 60 million on fleet modernization over the last five


years and four of our vessels will have been repowered since the year 2000. We have evaluated


and continue to review, all aspects of our operations, oversight and maintenance procedures to


minimize the risk and cost of future incidents. While we cannot eliminate all incidents, we believe


that we have the processes in place to reduce future occurrences of such mechanical incidents to a


level, more consistent with our historic experience.


As Laurence mentioned, we paid 1.3 million of assessments to one of our insurance carriers. The


assessments were due to unusually large losses experienced by the membership pool in the


current policy year for amounts not covered by reinsurance. We continue to evaluate our risk in