Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Annemarie P. Dobler — Director-Corporate Communications, Rand Logistics, Inc.
Edward Levy — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Rand Logistics, Inc.
Mark S. Hiltwein — Chief Financial Officer, Rand Logistics, Inc.
William W. Horner — Analyst, BB&T Capital Markets
Jon E. Tanwanteng — Analyst, CJS Securities, Inc.
Alex Silverman — Analyst, Special Situations Fund
Tristan Barr — Analyst, MTB Asset Management, L. P.

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good day, and welcome to the Rand Logistics, Incorporated Fourth Quarter Fiscal Year 2016 Earnings Conference Call. Today's conference is being recorded.

At this time, I'd like to turn the conference over to Ms. Annemarie Dobler, Corporate Communications Director. Please go ahead.

Thank you, Taylor. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to Rand Logistics fiscal 2016 yearend conference call. On the call today from the company are Ed Levy, Rand's President and CEO; and Mark Hiltwein, Rand's Chief Financial Officer. A live audio webcast and accompanying slide presentation is available on the Rand website at www.randlogisticsinc.com/presentations.html.

Before we begin, we would like to remind everyone that this conference call contains forward-looking statements which reflect management's current views with respect to certain future events and Rand's operations, performance and financial condition, only as of the date hereof. For all forward-looking statements, we claim the protection of the Safe Harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

All forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which cannot be predicted with accuracy or are otherwise beyond our control and some of which might not even be anticipated. Participants are directed to our SEC filings and the press releases for a more detailed description of certain business issues and risks.

We may refrain from certain non-GAAP measurements such as adjusted EBITDA, which we define as operating income plus depreciation, amortization, loss or gain on foreign exchange, certain one-time equity-based severance costs and lease termination costs. Please see our press release dated June 15, 2016 filed on Form 8-K for a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP measures.

With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Mr. Ed Levy. Go ahead, Ed.

Thank you, Annemarie, and good morning, everyone. For our fiscal year ended March 31, 2016, we reported adjusted EBITDA of $32.4 million, a decrease of 3.7% from fiscal 2015. We were generally pleased with our operating performance in fiscal 2016, which was achieved despite certain factors that were beyond our control including suboptimal weather conditions in April 2015, a 13.2% year-over-year decline in the average value of the Canadian dollar, which negatively impacted adjusted EBITDA by approximately $2.7 million, and the filing for bankruptcy protection of one of our largest customers.

On a constant currency basis, adjusted EBITDA increased by 4.2% in fiscal 2016. Net loss per share was $0.31 for the year ended March 31, 2016, compared to a net loss of $0.59 per share in our prior fiscal year.

We achieved a number of important objectives over the last 12 months. I would like to highlight two in particular. First, safety is one of our company's core values and we recently received our membership in the National Safety Council, expanding our North American operations. Additionally, in June, our Canadian operations successfully achieved its interim certification under the International Safety Management Code.

These achievements speak to our commitment and dedication to protecting our employees, our customers, the environment and the communities in which we operate. This also has the added benefit to lead the decreased workers' compensation expense and insurance based on incidents.

Second, as part of our commitment to meet our customers' needs and improve our market position, we introduced our newest vessel into service in November 2015. This vessel is the first new river class self-unloader to be introduced into Great Lakes service in over 40 years. Has the largest carrying capacity of any existing river class self-unloader and is anticipated to be the most efficient vessel of its class on the Great Lakes. The vessel sailed 58 days in fiscal year 2016, and we have been pleased with its operating performance to date in the 2016 sailing season.

For the sixth consecutive year, we increased marine freight revenue per Sailing Day. In the 2015 sailing season, it equaled $31,601, the highest in the company's history. We achieved this notwithstanding the aforementioned 13.2% year-over-year decrease in the value of the Canadian dollar. Our tonnage carried increased by 5.3% to 23.5 million tons, and we experienced a 10.5% reduction in vessel operating expenses per Sailing Day.

We continue to improve all of the metrics associated with the operating efficiency of the fleet, and we've successfully renewed all of our expiring contracts, achieving on average mid single-digit price increases. We also recently added a meaningful piece of new business which begins this sailing season.

As we have discussed on previous calls, vessel margin per Sailing Day is a key indicator that we monitor to evaluate fleet performance. For the year ended March 31, 2016, vessel margin per day was $11,743, up 2.7% compared to $11,430 in the same year-ago period. On a constant currency basis, vessel margin per day increased by $1,364 or 11.9% year-over-year.

For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016, our total Sailing Days decreased by 195 days or 4.7% to 3,911 Sailing Days from 4,106 Sailing Days during fiscal year 2015. Our vessel utilization decreased from 99.5% in fiscal year 2015 to 93.9% in fiscal year 2016, based on a theoretical 4,164 maximum Sailing Days available to us.

One of our primary objectives in the 2000 (sic) [2016] sailing season was continuing to build on our improvements in operational execution. We were able to offset challenging weather conditions at the beginning of the sailing season and a decline in the Canadian dollar by further improving the operating reliability of the fleet.

In the 2015 sailing season, we experienced three days out of service compared to over 120 days during the 2012 sailing season, and an average of 35 days in each of the 2013 and 2014 sailing seasons. We also measured Delay Days, which we define as the lost time incurred by our vessels while in operation.

Delay Days occurred due to mechanical issues, inclement weather, dock delays and traffic congestion. We experienced 343 Delay Days during the year ended March 31, 2016, compared to 434 days during our fiscal year ended March 31, 2015, which is a 21% improvement. Delay Days as a percentage of total Sailing Days equaled 8.8% in fiscal 2016 compared to 10.6% for fiscal 2015.

We continue to believe that the opportunity exists to realize further improvements in certain of our key operating metrics. To further drive reductions in mechanical delays, for example, we recently increased the number of vessel superintendents managing our ships.

Now, let me turn to our commodity tonnages. In fiscal 2016, tonnage carried increased by 5.3%, including tons carried on third-party vessels. On the vessels that we own, tons carried were down 2.3%, primarily due to the customer liquidity issues in the third quarter leading to trade pattern inefficiencies and capacity constraint as mentioned in our previous investor conference call.

Our aggregates tonnage carried on our own vessels was up 8% on a year-over-year basis to 10.8 million tons from 10 million tons. Aggregates represented approximately 50% of our total tonnage in our fiscal year 2016. Aggregates tonnage including tons carried on third-party vessels increased 12.9% to 11.3 million tons. A portion of this increase is due to growth in our market share with the remainder due to organic growth.

We believe we hauled a majority of the infrastructure aggregates transported on the Great Lakes. Based on preliminary 2016 sailing season nominations, we are optimistic about our future aggregates demand due to the recently approved legislative bill in the State of Michigan, which is aimed at increasing funds for roads and infrastructure. We anticipate that this is likely to have a positive impact on aggregate demand for the foreseeable future.

Iron ore represented approximately 14.7% of our total tonnage in fiscal year 2016. Including iron ore tons moved on third-party vessels, our iron ore tonnage was up from 3.3 million tons last year to 3.5 million tons in the 2015 sailing season or 4.3%.

Coal comprised approximately 10.1% of our total tonnage in fiscal year 2016. Our coal shipments decreased by approximately 15.2% during the year, including tonnage carried on third-party vessels. The decrease in large measure was due to weaker demand.

Salt represented approximately 12.9% of our total tonnage. Salt tonnage was up 10.2% year-over-year from 2.7 million tons to 3 million tons, including tonnage carried on third-party vessels.

Grain represented approximately 9.8% of our total tonnage during the year. The grain tonnage that we carried decreased by approximately 3%. Total tonnage carried, including tonnage on third-party vessels, increased 0.5% from last year.

For the month of April 2016, we sailed for 242 days compared to 318 days in the same period in 2015. The start of the 2000 (sic) [2016] sailing season has been consistent with expectations and weather conditions were much improved in comparison to both 2014 and 2015. In April 2016, Delay Days were reduced by 76.1% compared to April 2015. We did, however, experienced a delayed start to the sailing season which, in part, was the reason for only sailing 242 days in the month of April. The slow start was due to high inventory levels at certain of our customers' locations.

In addition, because of the mild winter in the Great Lakes region, as previously disclosed, our salt tonnage volumes are down versus last year. We expect this trend to continue throughout the entire 2016 sailing season.

As Mark will discuss further in his comments, we remain confident in achieving our goal of reducing expenses by between $2 million and $4 million annually across a number of spend categories. We are also beginning to see tangible benefits from our efforts to reengineer and streamline our internal processes. This effort is beginning to reduce inefficiencies and drive improved profitability.

With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Mark Hiltwein for a review of the fiscal 2016 financial results. Mark?

Thank you, Ed. I would now like to provide a more detailed explanation of our financial results for the year ended March 31, 2016 compared to the prior year.

For fiscal 2016, our net loss decreased from $10.6 million last year to $5.6 million this year, an improvement of over $5 million or 47%. Net loss per share on a diluted basis was $0.31 compared to a net loss per share of $0.59 in fiscal 2015.

Total revenue for the year was $148.4 million, a decrease of 3% compared to $153 million during the year ended March 31, 2015. This decrease was primarily attributable to a weaker Canadian dollar, reduction in fuel surcharges, and 195 day decrease in Sailing Days, which we define as days a vessel is crewed and available for sailing.

These were partially offset by contractual price increases, higher water levels, and an early time charter termination payout, reduced Delay Days related to ice coverage in fiscal year 2015, and a $13.3 million increase in outside vessel charter revenue. The increase in outside vessel charter revenue relates to the previously mentioned customer that experienced liquidity issues in the fiscal third quarter.

On a constant currency basis, our total revenue increased 6.6% or $10 million during the year ended March 31, 2016 compared to the year ago period. Freight and other related revenue generated from the company-operated vessels decreased $5.5 million or 4.3% to $123.6 million during fiscal year 2016 compared to $129.1 million during the prior year. The decline was primarily a result of the aforementioned bankruptcy filing and a change in the supply chain of a significant customer, 195 day decrease in Sailing Days, and a weaker Canadian dollar. On a constant currency basis, freight and other related revenue from company-operated vessels increased 3.7% or $4.7 million during the year ended March 31, 2016 compared to the year ended March 31, 2015.

Marine freight and related revenue per Sailing Day increased $158 or 0.5% to $31,601 per Sailing Day during the fiscal year 2016 compared to $31,443 per Sailing Day during the fiscal year 2015. This revenue increase was primarily due to cargo mix, lower Delay Days, and improved trade patterns, offset by the weaker Canadian dollar. On a constant current basis, freight and related revenue per Sailing Day increased 8.8% or $2,782 per Sailing Day during the year compared to the prior year period.

Vessel operating expenses decreased $14.5 million or 14.8% to $83.4 million during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 compared to $97.8 million during the prior fiscal year. The decrease was primarily due to weaker Canadian dollar, reduced Sailing Days, and reduced fuel prices during the fiscal year 2016 compared to the fiscal year 2015. Vessel operating expenses per Sailing Day decreased $2,509 or 10.5% to $21,315 per Sailing Day during the fiscal year 2016 from $23,824 per Sailing Day during fiscal 2015.

Our general and administrative expenses were $13.9 million during fiscal year 2016 compared to $13.3 million during the fiscal year 2015. We incurred a onetime expense of approximately $600,000 associated with accelerated vesting of equity-based severance cost for two executives. Excluding this onetime charge, compensation and benefit expenses increased modestly, but were offset by weaker Canadian dollar.

Our interest expense equaled approximately $12.3 million in fiscal 2016, this represents a 4.9% decrease from $12.9 million in the prior year. The decrease in interest expense results from the refinancing we completed in 2015. As a result, we lowered our cost of capital to a blended rate of 6.6%.

The Canadian dollar weakened by 13.2% compared to the U.S. during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 as compared to the fiscal year 2015, averaging approximately $0.76 per Canadian dollar during the fiscal year 2016 compared to approximately $0.88 per Canadian dollar during fiscal year 2015. The change in the exchange rate resulted in a reduction of adjusted EBITDA of $2.7 million as compared to the prior year period.

For the year ended March 31, 2016, our effective income tax rate equaled a negative 5.8% versus a negative 4.7% in the previous year. The primary reason the effective income tax rate for fiscal 2016 is lower than the statutory U.S. Federal tax rate is due to the change in the Federal U.S. and foreign valuation allowances.

At March 31, 2016, the company had unused U.S. Federal net operating loss carry-forwards totaling $60.5 million as well as unused Canadian net operating loss carry-forwards totaling CAD 16.136 million that expire in various fiscal years between now and 2036. Adjusted EBITDA decreased $1.3 million or 3.7% to $32.4 million from $33.7 million during the prior-year period.

Turning to the three-month period ended March 31, 2016, adjusted EBITDA loss decreased $4.3 million or 43.5% to a $5.6 million loss for the fourth quarter versus a $9.9 million during the year prior period. Freight and other related revenue generated from company-operated vessels, which excludes fuel and other surcharge, increased $0.4 million or just under 10% to $4.9 million during the three-month period compared to $4.4 million during the year-ago period. The increase in revenues was mainly due to an early time charter termination payout, and improvement in Delay Days partially offset by less Sailing Days.

For the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016, we sailed for 113 Sailing Days compared to 256 days in the prior-year period. Historically, vessel margins from Sailing Days in our fiscal fourth quarter are less profitable relative to the average for the sailing season because of the weather-related delays. Our disciplined approach to the January sailing season and the mild weather we experienced enabled us to perform much more efficiently and profitably in January. We will continue this discipline into the current sailing season, and into January 2017.

In regards to debt, we remain focused on utilizing our free cash flow to pay down debt. Q4 is a challenging quarter to accomplish this as we typically will stop billing on or about January 15, and not start up again until late March, leaving two months to three months of little to no cash receipts. This occurs at a time in the season we are making our largest capital investments into our vessels.

Our debt balance increased from $184.3 million at December 31, 2015 to $194.6 million at March 31, 2016. With the new sailing season underway, we anticipate that we will continue to accomplish a reduction in debt.

Also note that we have made a $40 million-plus investment in our newest vessel, which while impacting debt has not had a meaningful contribution to our EBITDA. Starting in Q1, we will finally begin to recognize earnings for the new vessel.

We are currently projected to operate 13 vessels of our 16 vessels for 3,405 Sailing Days in our fiscal 2017 year. This compares to 3,911 Sailing Days in fiscal 2016. Given that we are continuing our disciplined service model after January 1, we have only budgeted Sailing Days in our fiscal 2016 fourth quarter that we are currently contractually obligated to provide.

Next, I'd like to provide an update on our cost savings initiatives that were announced last year. The spend categories range from maintenance, repairs, and operations, general and administrative, contract services, and other industrial supplies and equipment. We believe that we can save in a range of $2.4 million on an annual basis. The focus thus far has been on the largest dollar categories with the most efficient and least difficult implementations.

We are well on our way to achieving our targets, and we are optimistic that we will achieve the higher goals as we move into our new wave – at the next wave of our spending categories. In general and administrative expenses, we've targeted insurance, legal fees, accounting fees, and consulting services. And in the area of contract services, we are focused on engineering services, waste removal, and electrical services.

The opportunity for savings has led to the hiring of additional purchasing resource that has started within the last month to assist in identifying and executing on existing and potential cost savings. We are in a good position as it relates to achieving our cost savings targets, and we will continue to look for additional opportunity for savings and report progress each quarter.

As a leading provider of bulk freight shipping services throughout the Great Lakes region, our business is not comparable to foreign-flag dry bulk shipping companies. Although, a correlation of our stock chart with the international dry bulk index will lead you to believe that we are similar. We operate under long-term contracts with geographic and legislative barriers to entry. In addition, as rates in the foreign-flag dry bulk industry continue to decline, we have seen stability in our rates due to length of our contracts and restricted dock access. We believe that the stock has been impacted by sector cloud that is not relevant to our business.

As of Wednesday, June 15, the company's common stock had closed above $1 for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days. We anticipate receiving written confirmation from NASDAQ that we are now in compliance, so the matter will be closed.

Now, I will turn the call back over to Ed.

Thanks, Mark. Over the past year, we've been fortunate to attract and retain a number of talented managers to our company to augment the existing team and capitalize on the depth and breadth of their knowledge. Both the Chief Commercial Officer and Chief Human Resources Officer positions are new in our company, and reaffirm our commitment to our customers and our employees. Our new Vice President, Procurement, and the recent promotion of two of our strongest captains supports our goal of operational excellence, and a detailed focus on operational metrics management. Mark Hiltwein, our CFO, has been with us for 13 months, and is improving our commitment towards cost and capital accountability.

We have expanded some of our shore side functions for enhanced services to our employees and our vessels, and earlier this year, we announced that we moved our headquarters office from New York to New Jersey, not only reducing costs, but also providing additional opportunities for collaboration and innovation.

The retooling of our management team has been the catalyst for many of the improvements that we are beginning to see. We remain focused on executing initiatives to maximize return on invested capital and pay down debt. These initiatives are intended to drive operational excellence, capture cost savings opportunities, improve the efficiencies of our capital spending, leverage our market position, and seamlessly integrate our newest vessel into service. We look forward to continuing to report on the progress that we are making in achieving these objectives.

With that, we'd like to open the lines up for questions. Operator?

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Kevin Sterling with BB&T Capital Markets.

Good morning, Ed and Mark. It's actually William Horner on for Kevin.

Hey, Will.

Hey. One thing that jumped out of me was your revenue in Q4. As you said, your freight revenue was up about 10% and your Sailing Days were down considerably. I'm just trying to get a sense of the order of magnitude, the benefit you saw during the quarter from the favorable time charter buyout compared to maybe some of the operating efficiencies and gains that you've seen.

Sure. Will, the impact of that time charter buyout was about $1.7 million. So that was the impact to the quarter. So, certainly had a meaningful impact to the quarter. We had great operating around – our Delay Days were down nicely, as Ed talked about. The weather conditions, obviously, allowed for that in both January and March, but certainly, the biggest impact was that time charter buyout.

Got you. No, that's fair. But all else being considered, I would imagine, Ed, having the new vessel on the fleet is allowing you to have more ratable demand and more optimal fleet efficiencies and patterns – sailing patterns.

Yeah. And it's also, Will, allowing us to pick up all of the volume that we were doing last year on third-party vessels where we were generating very little profitability on that. It was effectively a pass-through, and we had talked about that several times last year as you're aware. We knew we were going to experience that as the timing between the introduction of the new vessel and new contracts that we had signed for the new vessel came together.

Yeah. No, absolutely, I know. We're pleased to see those third-party time charters behind us, so good work on that. Ed, you did mention in your prepared remarks, April Sailing Days being consistent with expectations and there was a little bit slower start to the season, but can you give us any indication on how May performed, and, if you can, June to-date?

Sure. May was right on expectation in terms of Sailing Days. The slowness that we felt coming out of the blocks on April 1, as we have gotten further into the quarter, that has abated. We've got all of our self-unloaders operating today, both the Canadian and the U.S. side. And, as you are aware, those are the high-margin assets for us. So, we're pleased with where demand is, consistent with our expectations right now, Will.

All right. Okay. That's fair. And sticking on the demand front for a moment, obviously, the domestic steel markets appear to be coming back into focus. We're seeing strong capacity utilization levels. Starting to hear of some mines – iron ore mines coming back on line. With that in mind, are you seeing incremental opportunities in the market to either service existing customers or maybe pick up new customers? I know a lot of your budget is pretty much locked in for the year, but just trying to see how the things are trending this year, and if you're getting calls from customers maybe for potential increases in volume nominations?

That's a great question. What we're seeing is that our customers don't have an enormous amount of conviction, yet the demand right now is steady. And we are seeing a consistent level of inbound inquiry from the customers. And now, we're in the process of converting that inquiry into firm orders. But certainly, the inquiry is out there. But you'd love to see more conviction, I would say is, Will, is how we would characterize it right now.

Okay. I mean, so the way to frame it, I would think is, right now, things are – again, demand overall is kind of progressing as expected, things are steady, and hopefully, some of these inquiries will materialize into firm commitments, but to be determined.

Correct. I think that's a good way to characterize it.

Right. Fair enough. One more, then I'll pass it over. Mark, I appreciate the color you gave on the cost savings initiatives. I know you're making a lot of headway there and looking for that $2 million to $4 million long-term goal. Can you maybe – you talked about a lot of the different buckets where you've had success. But can you maybe just give us one or two line items to date where you're seeing the most success, some of that low-hanging fruit where you've been able to come in, and really kind of quickly drive some incremental savings?

Yeah. I think one of the areas we talked about a little bit in G&A, and I think it's a testament to how well the vessels have performed, and how well our captains have performed as well is that we have been able to save almost $0.5 million on our insurance line. And it's basically the result of us not having incidents with our vessels, knock on wood obviously. But we have performed nicely, and that has led to reduction in expenses, and obviously an expense like insurance is a large expenditure for us.

So, we have seen savings there. We've seen savings on the professional services front as well. We've talked to our – and negotiated with legal, with accounting. We have looked at a number of items in our cargo handling areas, conveyor idlers, rollers. We're looking at all of our equipment on vessels, whether it's our generators, our winches. And we are really trying to leave no stone unturned as it relates to all of the expense items.

That's fair. I appreciate it. Go ahead.

And as we mentioned, now we've got 13 vessels out of 16 vessels out there, and this is the year that we're – we're going to do more with less here, and we know that cost is a big part of it, and operational excellence is also a big part of it. So, we are keenly focused every day on expenses, and running our business the best that we can.

Absolutely. That's fair. Well, Mark and Ed, I appreciate it.

Thanks, Will.

Very good, Will. Have a nice day.

Yeah.

And we'll take our next question from Jon Tanwanteng with CJS Securities.

Good morning, guys. Thank you for taking my questions.

Good morning, Jon.

First one, how much excess capacity do you guys gain from Essar going back to the old sailing pattern with Cliffs? And can you sell those extra days contractually on the spot market? And is that budgeted or included in the current outlook for 3,911 Sailing Days?

The projection that we put out there for Sailing Days is reflective of the discussions that we've had and the nominations that we've had from the customer, and reflects the point of origination of pickup of the material for the customer, Jon, so it's already baked into those numbers. And so, potentially, as Essar changes their trade patterns, it could free up incremental days for us, which we would then obviously go after we sell. But that's not something that we have factored into our results at this point.

And, Jon, we've got to take what the market bears, right? So, we're hoping that it leads to additional capacity and hopeful that steel markets continue to improve in that or demand continues to improve. So, we're hopeful, but it's really tough to commit to fill in that additional capacity at this point. But that's certainly the goal for the sales and marketing team for sure.

Okay. Great. Thanks. Second, what are the long-term plans for the vessels that are currently laid up? Is there – which ones are leased versus owned and then what are you thinking over the longer timeframe?

Sure. All of our vessels are owned. We have no direct lease on any specific vessel. We've got three vessels, two bulk carriers and one self-unloader that are not in operation this year, as we've announced. And the sales and marketing team are aggressively speaking with customers in terms of putting those vessels back to work. And to the extent that we're able to generate an appropriate return on invested capital on those assets, Jon, and that customer demand exists for those assets, we're very keen to get them back to work. But, again, it's going to be based on a disciplined return on invested capital approach as opposed to just putting them out there, and not getting the kind of return that we all want to have from our assets.

Okay. If the demand is light for a projected short-to medium-term, would you sell those vessels and what are they worth?

We've not considered selling them, Jon. So, we don't have any answer for you on that. At this point, we don't foresee that to be the case.

Okay. Mark, any update to the free cash flow outlook and the use of cash to pay down debt.

I think we are – we anticipate between cash interest and CapEx probably about a $12.5 million number for each one of those. And based on a low-to-mid 30s EBITDA number, you're probably looking at an $8 million to $10 million free cash flow number. So, that's what we're currently looking to utilize for debt repayment. And if circumstances change and there's more demand then, hopefully, that will improve. But that's what we're – that's what our projection and forecast is today.

Okay. Finally, just going back to the cost savings on that. How much of those have you already realized, I guess as one-time items versus things that progress as you go through the year?

Well, I think there's two answers to that, I think one is – I think we have identified the opportunities, okay. And I think that starting in Q1, we are realizing on those opportunities, so we've got a hit list of 14 items that we track, and track weekly, so we feel very good that the opportunities that we have on earth are certainly executable, which is why we brought the additional resource on. So, up to this point, there's been through the P&L, there's been little to no contribution from that, but I think you'll start to see that certainly as we move forward into fiscal 2017.

Okay. Great. Final question, just the $600,000 you mentioned in equity severance cost, that's going to hit in Q1, right?

No. That hit in Q3 actually.

In Q3? Okay. Got you.

I just mentioned it on a full-year basis.

Got you. I would expect there would be some severance cost in Q1 from the departure of certain executives?

Yeah. We'll carry that for the next 24 months, Jon. Contractually, we have an obligation to carry that in the next 24 months.

Got you. Okay. Any idea what the quarterly impact will be?

I would say, it is – yeah, I think it's about $100,000 a quarter. It's little less than a $100,000 a quarter over the next 24 months.

Okay. Great. Thank you very much.

Thank you, Jon.

And we'll take our next question from Alex Silverman with Special Situations Fund.

Hey, good morning.

Good morning, Alex.

So, most of my questions have been asked and answered. But can I assume that the best chance of putting those two bulk carriers back to work would be a strong Canadian grain harvest?

That's correct.

And any indications at this point?

At this point, we prefer not to make a guess. It's a little too early yet. I think we'll have a better sense in the next 30 days or so, and we'll certainly be communicating that to our shareholders as soon as we know something.

Okay. Just to bounce around here, you mentioned all of your major contracts have been re-signed with price increases for the most part, and you said you added a large piece of new business. Can you give us any detail there?

It's a piece of business that we're very pleased to be handling. It's something that we think fits right into our wheelhouse and we think we'll see the benefit of it in 2016 sailing season. It's not something that we had forecasted originally. And so, beyond that, I'd prefer not to disclose anything more. But I think the key takeaway is that it will have an impact on our 2016 sailing season.

Can you give us a sense of what type of cargo it is?

I prefer not to.

Okay. Fair enough. And then, I apologize I may have – I think I heard you mention, but I may have misheard. Did you actually say how much you hope to pay down debt this year?

Yeah. We talked about a free cash flow number, Alex, of $8 million to $10 million range.

Great. That's all I have. Thanks so much.

Thanks, Alex. [Operator Instructions]

And we'll take our next question from [ph] Gene Garfield (43:59) with Revere Securities.

Hi. Hi. Thanks for the opportunity.

Good morning, [ph] Gene (44:07).

Hi, good morning. Everything that I wanted to ask has already been asked except for one thing which was the April-May EBITDA hurdle under the credit agreements that were amended back in February. I didn't see anything mentioned on that in 10-K that you filed this morning. So, could you just update me on what happened with that?

Sure. So, [ph] Gene (44:40), we're actually still on the close of May, so I don't want to commit to that number. But our April results versus prior year were in a positive tone. So, I think that, although I don't want to – it's certainly – I don't want to not answer the question directly, maybe a little premature, but I think we're cautiously optimistic on the April, May covenant.

Okay. All right. Fair enough. Thanks very much.

Thank you, [ph] Gene (45:22).

And we'll take our next question from Tristan Barr with MTB Asset Management.

Hi, guys. How are you doing?

Good. Good morning.

The free cash flow guidance seems rather conservative. I mean...

Well...

Sorry.

Go ahead.

Well, you just said $32.4 million. That was with the trade pattern inefficiencies without the Manitoulin, and it seems like your 12.5% interest estimate is conservative as well.

Yeah. Well, I think, Tristan, what we're trying to do is balance the – Ed had mentioned the – what we'll call, a lack of conviction as it relates to our customers. So we certainly are trying to take the opinion of under-promising and over-delivering. Perhaps, it's a bit conservative and we will – if we adjust that throughout the year, we'll certainly update on these calls, but certainly we want to take a conservative approach and try to under-promise to investors and over-deliver.

I understand that, but I do think that you gain credibility by setting reasonable targets and exceeding them, not putting the bar on the floor and then walking over it.

Well, I mean I don't know if that's a bar on the floor, but we've got a couple items as it relates to the foreign currency. If you tell me where the foreign currency is going to end up at each quarter, I may give you some more conviction on that, but there are certainly some things that are out of our control. What I will tell you, Tristan, is that the things that are under our control, we are managing on a daily basis. We've got keen focus on the cost, keen focus on the operational excellence, and there's things that are out of our control that we're going to try to manage through as well. So...

But on an apples-to-apples basis, for a couple of years now, we've been hearing somewhere around $5 million in incremental EBITDA from the Manitoulin. And you just guided to low-to-mid EBITDA – sorry, low-to-mid $30 millions in EBITDA, which is essentially flat with the year that you just reported with negative trade variances in Manitoulin.

Yeah, we also have 13 vessels that we're sailing. We issued that press release a couple of months ago that we're going into the year with 13 vessels of the 16 vessels sailing. So, I think that needs certainly to be taken into the calculation as it relates to comps over last year. The Sailing Days are down quite a bit year-over-year, so that also needs to be taken into account. So, I understand, if you think that it's a low ball conservative number, but, again, I think based on conditions and the things that we're controlling, I think we feel comfortable with that number.

I hope so. Thanks, guys. [Operator Instructions]

And we'll take our next question from [ph] Paul Sonz with Sonz Partners (49:03).

Good morning. My question is this...

Good morning, [ph] Paul (49:07)

Go ahead. Good morning. I have two questions. First is, could you go into a little more depth into your description of demand for this year? I had had the opinion that demand was actually building, especially considering the demand for aggregates in the Midwest, but it sounds like your – from what you're saying is that your estimate of demand is – you're not quite as sure of demand as I thought we might be. So could you expand on that, please?

Sure. On the aggregates side, our conviction previously is the same as it is today, [ph] Paul (49:51). Demand is steady on the aggregate side, continues to build, but, again, we want to be cautious. We're not seeing enormous conviction out there, but we are seeing steady demand. We are seeing a high level of inquiry on the aggregate side.

On the salt side, that'll be down tonnage wise about 25% – 25% to 30% this year, exclusively as a result of the mild conditions on the Great Lakes this past winter, and we talked about that. Iron ore business is relatively steady for us. All the other commodities are relatively steady for us at this point, and we're waiting on the grain harvest to see where that falls out. Preliminarily, we're hearing that the Canadian grain harvest could be relatively large, but, again, it's preliminary yet, and we don't want to get too optimistic at this point. We'll know better in the next 30 or so days.

All right. The second question is, I'm sorry if I'm going to put you guys on the spot here, but in the beginning of the call, I think one of you mentioned that you thought that the price of the stock was sort of unusually low which I would agree with, which raises the question of, well, when are we going to see more significant buying by insiders and management.

We've been in a blackout period for better part of the last, I'm going to say, six weeks to eight weeks, just given the way our fiscal year ends, [ph] Paul (51:32).

Okay.

And when we disclose our result. So, the company and senior executives have been unable to purchase the stock in this period.

Okay.

And [ph] Paul (51:46), just historically, if you look at the last few open periods of open market purchases, there have been – I know upper management, myself, Ed, had bought probably in the last three quarters and I know a lot of board has purchased as well. So, I think there's definitely conviction as it relates to management and board. To Ed's point, we have been in the blackout period and because of where the yearend falls here in relation to the first quarter, we may be in a continued blackout period. But I think that if you look at the last three quarters, in open periods, there have been management purchases.

All right. Excellent. And just one last thing. Is there any comment you can make on attempts to sort of renegotiate pieces of the debt?

I think that's a little premature, [ph] Paul (53:00), to talk about that. I think that we can all identify where we think we have some opportunities. But we'd certainly like to get a little further down the road before we have any firm discussions on that, but certainly I appreciate the question.

All right, all right. Thank you very much. Good luck.

Thank you, [ph] Paul (53:25).

And we have no further questions. And at this time, I'd like to turn the call back over to Ed Levy, for any additional or closing remarks.

Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. We very much appreciate you spending time with us on today's conference call. And as always, if you have additional questions, please don't hesitate to reach out to anybody at the company. We look forward to speaking with you at the end of our June quarter.

And that concludes today's conference. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.