Participants
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
OTHER PARTICIPANTS
Annemarie P. Dobler — Director-Corporate Communications, Rand Logistics, Inc.
Edward Levy — President, Chief Executive Officer & Director, Rand Logistics, Inc.
Mark S. Hiltwein — Chief Financial Officer, Rand Logistics, Inc.
Jon E. Tanwanteng — Analyst, CJS Securities, Inc.
Richard Dearnley — Analyst, Longport Partners LP

Management Discussion Section

Question And Answer Section

Good morning, everyone, and welcome to the Rand Logistics Third Quarter Fiscal Year 2017 Earnings Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded.

For opening remarks and introductions, I'll turn the conference over to Annemarie Dobler, Corporate Communications Director. Please go ahead. Annemarie, please go ahead.

Thank you, Debbie. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to Rand Logistics fiscal 2017 third quarter conference call. On the call today from the company are Ed Levy, Rand's President and Chief Executive Officer; and Mark Hiltwein, Rand's Chief Financial Officer. A live audio webcast and accompanying slide presentation is available on the Rand website at www.randlogisticsinc.com/presentations.html.

Before we begin, we would like to remind everyone that this conference call contains forward-looking statements, which reflect management's current views with respect to certain future events and Rand's operations, performance and financial conditions, only as of the date hereof. For all forward-looking statements, we claim the protection of the Safe Harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

All forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which cannot be predicted with accuracy or are otherwise beyond our control and some of which might not even be anticipated. Participants are directed to our SEC filings and press releases for a more detailed description of certain business issues and risks, including our most recent Annual Report filed on Form 10-K on June 16, 2016.

We may refer to certain non-GAAP measures, such as EBITDA, which we define as operating income plus interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. Please see our press release dated February 13, 2017 filed on Form 8-K for a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP measures.

With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Mr. Ed Levy. Go ahead, Ed.

Thank you, Annemarie, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining today's call to discuss our fiscal year 2017 third quarter and year-to-date performance. We were generally pleased with our operating and financial performance in both our fiscal year 2017 third quarter and for the 2016 sailing season. EBITDA for the quarter was $11.4 million versus $9 million last year. Our results reflected improving demand conditions, including several new business wins, which helped to drive a 26.7% increase in EBITDA while sailing 11 fewer days.

Vessel margin per day, which is a key performance metric in our business, equals $12,135 per day in the quarter versus $10,027 last year, a 21% increase. We experienced a 6% increase in tonnage carried on vessels that we operated compared to the three-month period a year ago.

Demand from our grain and iron ore customers was particularly strong in the quarter, offsetting weakness in aggregates and salt. Our results also benefited from a number of operational cost initiatives that we implemented throughout the sailing season. The improving demand conditions that we experienced in the third quarter carried over to January 2017 as we sailed for 125 days in the month compared to 84 days in January 2016. As we have discussed previously, given weather conditions and inefficient trade patterns, our vessel margin per day in January tends to be meaningfully lower than what we otherwise are able to achieve.

For the nine months ended December 31, 2016, EBITDA was $36.4 million, which was consistent with the prior year. We achieved these 2016 sailing season results, while sailing 363 or 9.6% fewer days and carrying 6.7% less tonnage versus the 2015 season. We successfully offset weak demand for certain of the commodities that we transport and the continued weakness in the Canadian dollar through effective operating cost controls, a reduction in controllable vessel delays and aggressive management of our vessel capacity.

These initiatives resulted in a decrease in operating expenses per day of approximately 14% and an increase in vessel margin per day of approximately 8% or $994 on a year-over-year basis. On a local currency basis, vessel margin per day has grown by on average approximately 6% annually in each of the last eight years. Mark Hiltwein will provide further details on our financial results later in the call.

We continued to be satisfied with performance of our newest vessel, the Manitoulin, which was introduced into service in November 2015. Given the vessel's operating characteristics, we are finding that it is creating new opportunities for us in certain of the end markets that we service. For example, in one end market that we serve, we experienced a 25% increase in tonnage growth this past year.

We believe additional such opportunities exist and we look forward to continuing to pursue them. In part, as a result of the Manitoulin's introduction into service for the full 2016 sailing season, we had no outside charter revenue in the nine-month period ended December 31, 2016, compared to $12.6 million in the nine-month period ending December 31, 2015.

Additionally, we continue to realize operating efficiencies as a result of our corporate and operating cost reduction initiatives undertaken over the past nine months. On an annualized basis, we estimate that we have reduced operating expenses by between $4 million and $5 million since the beginning of this fiscal year, which is in line with our original targets. We have set a goal and are in the process of identifying an additional $1 million of annual cost savings in our upcoming fiscal year.

Mark will provide greater details regarding our progress on these initiatives and some of our achievements.

We define Sailing Days as days a vessel is crewed and available for sailing. Total Sailing Days in the quarter were 1,281 Sailing Days compared to 1,292 in the prior year period. The 11 day decrease was a result of our previously disclosed decision to sail two less vessels in the quarter ending December 31, 2016. This was partially offset by sailing our newest vessel for the entire quarter and improved demand conditions, which resulted in a sailing significantly all of our vessels close to their theoretical maximum number of days available in the quarter.

Given our belief that each of our operated vessel should achieve a theoretical maximum of 92 Sailing Days in the third fiscal quarter, our vessels achieved a 99.5% efficiency level compared to 90.8% of the theoretical maximum Sailing Days for the three-month period ended December 31, 2015.

The higher utilization of our operated vessel was necessitated by strong demand, particularly for iron ore and grain. For the nine-month period ended December 31, 2016 total Sailing Days were 3,435 Sailing Days, compared to 3,798 days in prior year period or 363 fewer days.

As discussed in our prior calls, our expectation was to sail 3,500 Sailing Days. We sail an average of 245 Sailing Days per vessel during the nine months ended December 31, 2016, versus a possible 275 days available, compared to an average of 235 Sailing Days in the year ago nine-month period. This performance resulted in fleet utilization of 93.2% compared to 91.1% in the year ago nine-month period.

Vessel reliability remains a top priority for our company. Process improvements that we have implemented are continuing to yield results. For the nine months ended December 31, 2016 we had a total of 41 days out of service or 1.2% of total Sailing Days. This compares to our five-year average of 1.3% of total Sailing Days and close to 150 days out of service as recently as of 2012 sailing season. We also monitor vessel reliability by measuring Delay Days, which we define as the lost time incurred by our vessels while in operation, and includes delays caused by inclement weather, dock delays, traffic congestion, vessel mechanical issues and other varied events.

Delay Days for the nine month period ended December 31, 2016 equaled 268 days or 7.8% of total Sailing Days, compared to 333 days or 8.8% of total Sailing Days during the prior year nine month period. The reduction in Delay Days was primarily due to favorable weather and a continued reduction of vessel mechanical delays.

For the quarter, we had a total of 134 Delay Days, which compared to 156 Delays Days during the comparable quarter last year. Such Delay Days represent a lost time factor calculated as Delay Days as a percent of Sailing Days of 10.4% during the fiscal third quarter just ended, compared to 12% during the year-ago period.

Now, a little bit on our demand. According to the Lake Carriers Association, for the nine month period ended December 31, 2016, U.S. flagged vessels on the Great Lakes experienced a 4.5% decrease in overall customer shipments for the commodities that we carry compared to the 2015 sailing season. During the same time period, U.S. flagged vessels experienced a 26.6% decrease of coal tonnage carried and 8.5% decrease in aggregate tonnage carried. These commodities account for a significant share of the dry bulk commodities that are transported on the Great Lakes.

We were not immune to the decline in demand Lakes-wide during the 2016 sailing season. As discussed in previous calls, demand was particularly lousy in the April through mid-August period. The lack of firm demand resulted in us aggressively managing our capacity throughout the sailing season. We also believe that spotty customer demand particularly at the beginning of the season resulted in scheduling inefficiencies that caused the percentage of our time that our vessels are in balance condition to increase.

Total tons hauled during the nine months period ended December 31, 2016 including tons carried on outside vessel charter equipment decreased by 13.8% compared to the nine months period ended December 31, 2015.

Tonnage carried on vessels we operated during the nine month period ended December 31, 2016 decreased by 6.7% compared to the year ago nine months period. As previously mentioned, we did not haul any tons on outside charter equipment in the nine months period ended December 31, 2016.

We continue to believe that we transport a majority of the infrastructure aggregates moved on the Great Lakes. Our aggregates tonnage decreased by 7.9% to 9.9 million tons in the nine months ended December 31, 2016 versus 10.8 million tons in the same nine months period last year.

Based on conversations with our customers and our own independent analysis, the decline in aggregate demand resulted from a reduction in the number of public infrastructure projects let in the State of Michigan and the completion of a number of projects in and around the Cleveland market, concurrent with the Republic and National Convention in July 2016.

We also experienced a modest reduction in demand for aggregates used in certain industrial applications primarily due to overall economic conditions. We are building our demand model for the 2000 sailing season assuming that there is no improvement in aggregates demand until the second half of the sailing season. We believe that this is when the market will begin to benefit from the recent legislative bill in the State of Michigan which is aimed at increasing funding through roads and infrastructure. We anticipate that this is likely to have a positive impact on aggregates demand for the next several years.

In addition, we are not forecasting an increase in private project demand, however we are observing a number of positive market indicators including a number of expansion projects on the west side of Michigan slated for 2017, bullish commentary by homebuilders regarding prospects for the Suburban Detroit market and the continued renaissance of Downtown Detroit.

While we are not prepared to forecast it at this time, management believes that there is a possibility for a positive upside surprise related to aggregates demands in 2017.

Despite Lakes-wide, iron ore tonnage hauled being down approximately 8.3%, compared to its five-year average and down 1.5% compared to a year ago. Our iron ore tonnage increased to approximately 16.8% of our total tonnage hauled in the 2016 sailing season, an increase from 12.6% of our total tonnage in the prior year. Our iron ore shipments increased by 119.5% compared to the same quarter last year and by 24.6% compared to the same nine-month period last year. The year-over-year increase was due to one of our customers returning to their traditional sourcing pattern and are being awarded several pieces of new business, including transporting ore for export.

We do not believe that our share of the iron ore market will increase beyond its current level. However, we expect that demand will continue to be strong in the 2017 sailing season and at a minimum will consume excess capacity in the market which will derivatively help our business.

Salt, which is used for deicing represented a 11.1% of our total tonnage for the nine months ended December 2016. Our salt tonnage was down 17.7% in the 2016 sailing season compared to the 2015 sailing season. As previously disclosed we expected our salt tonnage to be lower than the levels we experienced in the 2015 sailing season due to the mild winter conditions in the Great Lakes region last winter.

It is too early for us to predict our 2017 sailing season's salt tonnage. December salt consumption was particularly encouraging. However, demand over the last five weeks has been underwhelming, based on what we know today we were expecting salt tonnage to be up in 2017 versus 2016 but not necessarily to the record levels we experienced in the 2015 sailing season.

Coal tonnage accounts for 7.2% of our total tonnage. Our coal shipments decreased by approximately 9.3% for the quarter and 30.3% year-to-date. The decline in coal was primarily timing related, some of which will be reflected in our January results. The remainder of the decline was due to sluggish demand primarily from our steel related end-users.

Grain represented approximately 9.3% of our total tonnage. We carried 6.1% and 14.8% less grain tonnage in the quarter and nine-month period ended December 31, 2016 respectively, versus the comparable period in the prior year. This decline was not unexpected. In June 2016, we wrote off the remaining value of one of our vessels which prior to the 2016 sailing season has been dedicated to moving grain.

Further as discussed previously, we were bought out of the final year of a time charter in March 2016, but successfully reintroduced its vessel back into service for the remainder of the season. Such reintroduction occurred in September of 2016.

With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Mark Hiltwein for a further review of the financial results. Mark?

Thanks, Ed. I would now like to provide a more detailed explanation of our financial results for the quarter ended December 31, 2016, compared to the prior year fiscal quarter. EBITDA increased $2.4 million or 26.7% to $11.4 million from $9 million during the year ago period. Operating income for the quarter was $5.2 million versus $3.1 million in last year, an increase of $2.1 million or 67.7%. Earnings per share on a diluted basis, increased to a loss of $0.03 from a loss of $0.23 in the same quarter last year.

The prior year quarter was impacted by lower vessel margins per day relating to the supply chain issues of a major customer, that customer has since returned to their more traditional trade patterns. Total revenue during the three months period ended December 31, 2016 was $37.8 million, a decrease of 17.4% compared to $45.8 million during the year ago period. $8.2 million of the decrease was due to the elimination of outside voyage charter as we met all of our customer needs with our company-owned operated vessels.

Total revenue during the nine-month period ended December 31, 2016 was $110.9 million, a decrease of 22.2% or $31.7 million during the year ago period. Approximately $12.6 million of the decrease was attributable to the elimination of the outside voyage charter, as we met all of our customer needs with company operated vessels, most specifically our newly introduced vessel. An additional $6.7 million was related to a decline in fuel and other surcharges. The remainder of the decline was primarily a result of the 363 day decrease in Sailing Days due to the company's decision to operate two less vessels for the majority of the sailing season.

For the quarter, marine freight and other related revenue, which excludes fuel and other surcharges, remained flat at $35.9 million during the three-month period compared to the year ago period. The same revenue was achieved with one less vessel and 11 fewer Sailing Days during this three-month period ended December 31, 2016 compared to the prior year period.

Freight and related revenue per Sailing Day increased $190 or 0.7% to $27,998 per Sailing Day compared to $27,808 per Sailing Day in the year ago period. This revenue increase was primarily driven due to the change in the mix of cargoes carried and a decrease in the number of Delay Days.

Marine freight and other related revenue from company operated vessels was down 10.3% year-to-date compared to a year ago period. The decline was primarily result of the 363 day decrease in Sailing Days due to the company's decision to operate two less vessels for the majority of the sailing season. On a per Sailing Day basis, marine freight and related revenue was down less than 1%.

Vessel operating expenses decreased by $2.2 million or 8.8% from $24.4 million in last year's third quarter to $22.2 million in the third quarter this year. This decrease was primarily due to reduced Sailing Days and improvements in our operating performance as a result of cost efficiency initiatives. Vessel operating expenses per Sailing Day decreased by 8% or $1,512 from $18,862 in last year's third quarter to $17,350 in the third quarter of this fiscal 2017.

Depreciation expense was $5.2 million during the three-month period ended December 31, 2016 and $4.8 million for the three-month period ended December 31, 2015. The increase of $400,000 was primarily attributable to winter 2016 capital expenditures and depreciation attributable to our newest vessel.

Our general and administrative expenses remained flat at $3.8 million during the three-month period ended December 31, 2016, compared to the year ago period. Our G&A expenses equaled 10.6% of freight and related revenue for both the three-month period ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015. We will touch upon the cost savings initiative relating to G&A in our cost savings update.

Interest expense, which is net of capitalized interest, and includes $1.4 million of amortization of deferred financing cost increased $2.4 million or 77% to $5.4 million during the three-month period ended December 31, 2016 from $3.1 million during the three-month period ended December 31, 2015. This increase in interest expense was primarily attributable to an increase in accelerated amortization of deferred financing cost of $1.1 million related to our second lien debt, additional paid in kind interest of $600,000 related to our first quarter covenant issue and modestly higher debt balance compared to the three-month period ended December 31, 2015.

Cash interest expense during the three-month period ended December 31, 2016 equaled $3.4 million compared to $3.2 million in the three-month period ended December 31, 2015.

Our income before taxes was a loss of $200,000 during the three-month period ended December 31, 2016 compared to income of $15,000 during the three-month period ended December 31, 2015. As stated earlier, our net loss was reduced by $3.6 million or 85.7% to a net loss of $600,000 from a net loss of $4.2 million in the same three-month period last year.

For the year-to-date period, net loss was $1 million from a net income of $10 million in the prior year period. We still maintain approximately $60 million of U.S. net operating losses and approximately $12 million of Canadian net operating losses.

For the third quarter ended December 31, 2016, the average exchange rate equals $0.75 per CAD 1, this compared to $0.749 for the CAD 1 for the prior year quarter ended December 31, 2015. Over the course of the year, every one penny of change in the value of the CAD 1 versus the $1 impacts EBITDA by approximately $276,000.

Moving on to the balance sheet, we've reduced our debt balance in the quarter by $1.5 million. This $1.5 million reduction take into account approximately $1.5 million of fees and [ph] peak (00:26:38) interest related to our first quarter covenant issue. In addition, we had a $5 million use of working capital related to higher AR balance and a lower AP balance. The additional interest fees and working capital used reduced cash available for debt reduction by almost $7 million.

Our free cash flow, which we calculate by deducting cash interest payment and capital expenditures and EBITDA, for the quarter were $6.8 million. On a year-to-date basis, our free cash flow were $21.6 million.

I would now like to give you an update on our cost savings initiatives. Earlier this year, we increased our cost savings programs to range of $3 million to $5 million. We have achieved our target with $5 million of savings which was driven mainly through reductions in operating expenses. We were able to achieve these savings in all areas of the business, including a reduction in both vessel and shore side cost.

As I had mentioned, we have set a goal and are in the process of identifying an additional $1 million of annual cost savings in our upcoming fiscal year. We have reviewed our general and administrative cost throughout the year and although there is in excess of $600,000 of one-time items relating to our waiver in Q1, we believe that we have some opportunity to drive additional cost savings out of the G&A line.

Travel, technology, consulting, real estate, personnel cost, insurance and legal fees are all focus areas as we finalize our budget for the coming year. In addition, we believe we can drive additional savings related to operating expenses, particularly lubricants and repairs and maintenance through leveraging our vendor base. We discussed last quarter the consolidation of facilities and we're happy to report that much of the heavy lifting is behind us as it relates to the realignment of our management team as we have relocated key parts of the team to our corporate headquarters location in New Jersey. Bringing together our functional experts under one roof is contributing to identifying and addressing opportunities for improvement, collaboration, team building, process consistency and best practice sharing.

Regarding spending and discipline around our capital spending program, we spent a great amount of time reengineering our processes and planning for the current winter work period. Our goal is to improve this area to effectively manage our capital investments and prioritize the initiatives that will achieve the best possible return for the company.

Capital expense management has been a focus as we enter the winter work and dry dock season which is traditionally from early January to late March. We have shifted as much of our work to Canada to take advantage of the weaker Canadian dollar. Capital expenditures are projected to equal approximately $13.5 million this winter, including three vessel dry-dockings and we are maintaining a disciplined approach regarding all capital and winter work spending.

Collectively these initiatives are intended to drive operational excellence, capture cost savings opportunities, improve the efficiencies of our capital spending and leverage our market position. The objective is to obtain the best possible return on invested capital and cash spent.

We look forward to continuing progress on these initiatives given the everyday focus that they are receiving. We continue to focus on generating additional free cash flow and to use this cash to reduce our debt balance. We remain committed to continuous improvement in all aspects of the business with a goal of generating cash flow and paying down debt.

I'd like to return the call back to Ed.

Thanks, Mark. In addition to the cost savings initiatives that Mark mentioned, we prioritize the number of operating initiatives for fiscal 2018. Perhaps the most exciting is our goal of increasing the percentage of time that our vessels are in revenue loaded condition. The marginal profit contribution resulting from converting time and balance to the time and revenue loaded condition is exceptionally high.

We have experienced this, as we have consistently driven down the Delay Days, which is in part why we have been able to consistently grow vessel margin per day in excess of marine, freight and other related revenue growth.

We have dedicated significant resources over the last nine months to improving our vessel scheduling and customer service function including substantially rebuilding our traffic and dispatch teams and enhancing a series of key performance indicators. We will also be going live prior to the 2017 sailing season with new software that is designed to optimize our trade network and provide us with better visibility of future customer demand. We believe this tool will enhance our decision making abilities and provide us with real time analytics regarding the economic ramifications of our scheduling decisions.

We are finalizing our nominations for the upcoming sailing season. Consistent with the last four months, we believe that demand will be firmer this year versus last year at this time. Many of our customers are expressing a higher confidence level in their business and are indicating that their requirements for the upcoming sailing season are based on orders that they have already been awarded rather than their expectation of demand.

Our intention for the 2017 sailing season is to continue to drive the [ph] stack use (00:32:39) of our business that we can control and remain focused on our process improvements, organizational development and operational excellence. This will position us to increase vessel margin per day in excess of our average 6% growth rate over the last eight years as the demand environment continues to improve, which management expects it will.

Operator, we'd now like to open the call up for questions.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions] We will go first today to Jon Tanwanteng with CJS Securities.

Good morning, gentlemen. Thanks for taking my questions.

Good morning, Jon.

Can you update us on your free cash target for fiscal 2017 and how much debt you expect to pay down by year-end?

Yeah. Jon, we stand to the guidance that we've projected before that we believe it will generate somewhere in the area of $8 million to $10 million of free cash flow for the full year which is anywhere from $0.44 to $0.55 per share. So, we're still confident that we can achieve that free cash flow target.

Okay. Great. And then can you talk about free cash and/or EBITDA metrics and how they could improve in the 2018 sailing season, given the improving end demand that you're seeing with your customers and potentially a bigger spending from U.S. infrastructure projects?

Jon, I think that the cost initiatives that we put in place over the nine months, we believe that those are permanent cost initiatives in the business, and so to the extent that we can weather incremental demand into the business, we think that that's going to have a meaningful impact in terms of our growth in vessel margin per day. In excess of that, we increased 8% this year, we certainly feel confident that we can continue to maintain that 6% annual growth in vessel margin per day which we've done on average over the last eight years, and perhaps we can exceed it to the extent that some of the potential growth opportunities or demand opportunities that we're hearing about come to fruition.

Got it. And how much price increase are you factoring into your operating vessel margin increases for next year?

Very little, Jon. Not much more than CPI.

Okay, great. And then, can you guys give us a status update on the potential for a refinancing either March or April? Any color on that and the timing will be appreciated?

Yes, John. I think coming out of the customer renewal period here, we were a bit reluctant to get out and address the issue of the refi, I think, with that largely behind us now and feeling good about our renewals, as well as feeling pretty good about the Q3 that we just recorded, we're going to be aggressive in getting out and addressing our balance sheet. I think it's evident with the financial statements that the financing cost and interest cost associated need to be addressed. And I think that you'll see us make marked progress here in the short-term as we try to fix our balance sheet.

Great. Thank you very much, guys.

Thank you, John. [Operator Instructions]

We'll go next to Richard Durnley with Longport Partners.

Good morning. The comment about your – you're basically expecting modest pricing increases in the coming year. Would you sync that against the improved demand environment you're seeing?

Richard, given that most of our business is done on long-term contracts-

Yes.

-their contractual provisions which speak to what the annual rate increases are and so that represents a significant majority of our revenue component going into the 2017 selling season. And so that's the basis for our statement as it relates to revenue increases.

All right. Are the new contracts for the new business looking like there were price increases in versus the old base?

We are pleased with the outcome, as Mark has mentioned, we're pleased with the outcome of our contract renewal process. We're just about through that right now. We had a significant slug of contracts that came up for renewal this year. In most cases, we were able to increase our market share with those customers. So we're increasing the nominated tons with those customers, and we were very pleased about that. As it relates to price increases, it's really situationally specific on a customer-by-customer basis, and it's function really of what the market – market would and could bear.

Okay. Thank you. And then in the Michigan aggregates contract. What are the variables of the legislature is dealing with?

Sure. Michigan passed a bill in November of 2015, that will result in $1.2 billion of incremental revenue as a result of a increase in the wholesale gasoline tax. And that $1.2 billion has been earmarked for infrastructure spending.

Yes.

We believe that, that will start to come into play as I mentioned in the second half of 2017 and then much more actively in 2018 and beyond. And the indication of this that we are seeing – is that we're seeing our customers, we're seeing the stone quarries, I should say, we are seeing the stone quarries, realign their product mix to take advantage of what they perceive will be a significant increase in demand for infrastructure related aggregates.

Okay. Thank you.

Thank you, Richard.

Thank you. [Operator Instructions]

Mr. Levy with no other questions in queue at this time, I'll turn it back to you for closing remarks.

Thank you, operator. Thank you all for your continued interest in Rand. To the extent you have any questions, please don't hesitate to contact us. We're certainly available to answer any additional questions and we'll try to do so in a timely fashion as possible. Thanks, again, and have a great rest of the day.

Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your participation. This does conclude today's conference. You may now disconnect.