corrected transcript


Rand Logistics, Inc.
 
RLOG
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 9, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
1


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SECTION


Operator: Good morning. My name is Cynthia and I will be your conference operator today. At this


time I would like to welcome everyone to the Third Quarter Fiscal Year 2010 Earnings Conference


Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers’


remarks there will be a question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions]


Thank you. I would now like to turn today’s call over to Lesley Snyder, Investor Relations Counsel.


Please go ahead ma’am.


Lesley Snyder, Investor Relations


Thank you, operator. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to Rand Logistics Fiscal


2010 Third Quarter Conference Call. On the call today from the company are Laurence Levy,


Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Ed Levy, Rand’s President, Scott Bravener, President of


Lower Lakes; and Joe McHugh, Rand’s Chief Financial Officer. A live audio webcast and


accompanying slide presentation will be available on the Rand website at


www.randlogisticsinc.com/presentations.html.


Before we begin, we would like to remind everyone that this conference call contains forward-


looking statements. For all forward-looking statements, we claim the protection of the Safe Harbor


for Forward-Looking Statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.


Forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which cannot


be predicted with accuracy or are otherwise beyond our control and some of which might not even


be anticipated.


Future events and actual results affecting our strategic plan as well as our financial position, results


of operations and cash flows could differ materially from those described in or contemplated by the


forward-looking statements. Important factors that contribute to such risks include, but are not


limited to, the effect of the economic downturn in our markets, the weather conditions on the Great


Lakes and our ability to maintain and replace our vessels as they age.


For a more detailed description of these uncertainties and other factors, please see the Risk


Factors section in Rand’s annual report on Form 10-K as filed with the Securities and Exchange


Commission on June 25, 2009.


And with that I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Laurence Levy.


Laurence Levy, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


Thank you, Lesley, and good morning everyone. Thank you for joining us on today’s call. After my


opening remarks, Scott Bravener, President of Lower Lakes, will discuss our operating results; Joe


McHugh, our Chief Financial Officer, will review the financial results; and Ed Levy, Rand’s


President, will discuss our fiscal 2011 earnings opportunities. We will then open the call up for


questions.


In the context of tonnage demand in the markets that we serve being down as much as 50% for


certain of the commodities that we transport, our results this quarter and year-to-date clearly


illustrate the benefits of our differentiable and sustainable competitive advantages. These include


high barriers to entry and non-duplicatable asset portfolio, long-term contracts with revenue visibility


and an efficient cost structure.
corrected transcript


Rand Logistics, Inc.
 
RLOG
 
Q3 2010 Earnings Call
 
Feb. 9, 2010


Company
▲
 
Ticker
▲
 
Event Type
▲
 
Date
▲


www .Ca ll St r eet . com
 
•
 
21 2- 84 9- 40 7 0 •
 
C op yr i g ht © 20 0 1-2 01 0 C a ll S tr ee t
 
2


The severity of this downturn has tested our operating model and business strategy. Our record


operating performance for the quarter as well as anticipated full year fiscal 2010 financial


performance in the face of the severe economic downturn validates the quality of our business and


our position as one of the most efficient providers of bulk freight shipping services throughout the


Great Lakes region.


Our 2009 shipping season is now complete. As a result of a modest improvement in demand from


certain customers relative to the first half of the sailing season, a continued focus on expense


control, relatively benign weather conditions in the fiscal third quarter and effective vessel


scheduling and utilization, we have increased our full-year earnings guidance.


Based on current exchange rates, we expect our operating income before depreciation,


amortization and a one-time charge for a loan amendment fee for the fiscal year ended March 31,


2010 to be in the range of 20.5 to $21 million, which will be the highest in Rand’s history.


Equally as important barring a further downturn in the economy or a significant change in exchange


rates, we believe that our fiscal 2010 results reflect the floor of the company’s earnings, and Ed will


discuss where we see additional near term earnings opportunities.


As previously disclosed, our capital and dry-dock expenditures are expected to be between 7.5 and


$8 million.


Now I’d like to turn the call over to Scott for a review of our operations. Scott.


Scott Bravener, President of Lower Lakes Towing and Lower Lakes Transportation Company


Thank you, Laurence. Market conditions on the Great Lakes remained extremely challenging during


the fiscal third quarter, highlighted by year-to-date tonnage volume decreases of up to 50% for


certain of the commodities that we carry, versus last year. That said and as highlighted on the Slide


Six and Seven of the presentation available on Rand’s website under Investors: Events &


Presentations, we did see a modest improvement in some of the commodities that we transport.


Consistent with our first two fiscal quarters, the decline in customer demand somewhat limited our


vessel scheduling flexibility and created network inefficiencies. However, demand for our services


stabilized during the fiscal third quarter compared to the same period last year.


Overall, we were very pleased with our operating results for both the three and nine months ended


December 31, 2009. With regard to the three months ended December 31, 2009 we believe that


the quarter’s results are more reflective of our businesses earnings capability, in contrast to last


year’s equivalent period.


As many of you will recall, we were very disappointed in our fiscal third quarter results last year as


many of our customers unexpectedly shut their facilities earlier than usual in response to the


dramatic decline in the economy. This resulted in our trade patterns being materially disrupted and


we incurred significant and unavoidable vessel inefficiencies.


In contrast throughout our entire 2009 sailing season, our vessel scheduling was predicated on our


assumption that some customers would close their facilities early again, which I might add, they


did. As such we were able to maintain acceptable vessel utilization throughout our sailing season.


We’ve clearly exhibited strong discipline in how we managed our business to ensure that we would


overcome the economic challenges without negatively impacting our vessel performance.